 Annual Report 2010
EVERYDAY
ESSENTIALS
EVERYWHERE
York House 
45 Seymour Street 
London W1H 7JT
T 020 7725 5000
F 020 7725 5001
www.bunzl.com
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010   
BUNZL 
WE ARE A g Ro WINg AND 
Succ ESSFu L g Roup WITH 
op ERATIo NS Ac Ro SS THE 
AmERIc AS, Eu Rop E AND 
Au STRALASIA.
We supply a variety of products that are 
everyday essentials for our customers  
to operate their businesses.
By outsourcing the purchasing, consolidation 
and distribution of a broad range of everyday 
items, our customers are able to focus on 
their core businesses, achieve purchasing 
efficiencies and savings, free up working 
capital, improve distribution capabilities  
and simplify their internal administration.
OUR MARKETS
We provide a ‘one stop shop’ distribution and outsourcing 
service supplying a broad range of internationally sourced 
non-food products to a variety of market sectors.
CONTENTS 
01 Financial highlights
02 Our business
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive’s review
16 Financial review
19  Corporate responsibility
23 Board of directors
24 Directors’ report
29 Corporate governance
32 Directors’ remuneration report 
41 Consolidated income statement
42  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
43 Consolidated balance sheet
44  Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
45 Consolidated cash flow statement
46 Notes
74 Company balance sheet
75  Notes to the Company financial  
statements
82  Statement of directors’  
responsibilities
83 Independent auditor’s report
84 Five year review
85 Shareholder information
g ROCERy 31%
FOOdSERvi CE
30%
CLEANiNg & SAFET y 20%
SHAREHOLdER iNFORMATiON
Financial calendar  2011
Annual General Meeting  20 April
Results for the half year to 30 June 2011  30 August
 
  2012
Results for the year to 31 December 2011  February
Annual Report circulated  March
 
Dividend payments are normally made on these dates:
Ordinary shares (final)  1 July
Ordinary shares (interim)  2 January
 
Analysis of ordinary shareholders
At 31 December 2010 the Company had 5,761 (2009: 6,189) 
shareholders who held 352.5 million (2009: 351.5 million) ordinary 
shares (including treasury shares) between them, analysed as follows:
 Number of  % of issued 
Size of holding shareholders  share capital
0 – 10,000 5,166 2
10,001 – 100,000 323 3
100,001 – 500,000 168 11
500,001 – 1,000,000 49 10
1,000,001 and over 55 74
 5,761  100
ShareGift
Sometimes shareholders have only a small holding of shares which 
may be uneconomical to sell. Shareholders who wish to donate these 
shares to charity can do so through ShareGift, an independent charity 
share donation scheme (registered charity no. 1052686). Further 
information about ShareGift may be obtained from ShareGift on  
020 7930 3737 or at www.sharegift.org.
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited  
financial advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free 
company reports. More detailed information about this can be  
found at www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk. Details of any share  
dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in 
Company mailings. 
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc
Stockbrokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove  
Citigroup
Company Secretary
P N Hussey
Registered office
York House 
45 Seymour Street 
London W1H 7JT 
Telephone 020 7725 5000 
Fax 020 7725 5001
Website www.bunzl.com 
Registered in England no. 358948
Forward looking statements
The Annual Report contains certain statements about the future 
outlook for the Group. Although the Company believes that the 
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements 
about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause 
actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions  
Bridgwater Road  
Bristol BS99 6ZY 
Telephone 0870 889 3257  
Fax 0870 703 6101 
Website www.computershare.com
Investor centre
Shareholders can manage their shareholding online at  
www.investorcentre.co.uk. The Investor centre is our Registrar’s  
easy to use website, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,  
where the following services are available:
• change of address;
• view share balance information; and
• view dividend payment and tax information.
In order to register for the Investor centre, shareholders will need 
their shareholder reference number which can be found on either 
their share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Dividend payment by BACS
Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into their bank  
or building society account using the Bankers’ Automated Clearing 
Service (BACS). This means that dividends will be in the account  
on the same day the dividend payment is made. Shareholders will 
receive their tax vouchers by post. To use this method of payment 
please contact our Registrar on 0870 889 3257 or visit the Investor 
centre website. Please note that this option will not override any 
existing dividend scheme mandate, which would need to be revoked 
in writing.
Share dealing
Bunzl plc shares can be traded through most banks and  
stockbrokers. The Company’s Registrar also offers an internet  
and telephone dealing service. Further details can be found at  
www.computershare.com/dealing/uk or by telephoning 0870 703 0084.
This Annual Report is printed on Revive 50:50 Silk, a 50% recycled paper which  
is independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council  
(FSC). The composition of the paper is 25% de-inked post consumer waste, 25% 
unprinted pre-consumer waste and 50% virgin fibre. All pulps used are elemental 
chlorine free and the manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard  
for environmental management.
Designed and produced by
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information 85 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Financial highlights 01
Financial highlights 
Growth
2010 2009
Actual
exchange
rates
Constant
exchange 
rates
Revenue £m 4,829.6 4,648.7 4% 3%
Operating profit £m 255.7 253.9 1% (1)%
Operating profit* £m 306.7 295.7 4% 3%
Profit before tax £m 225.2 216.0 4% 3%
Profit before tax* £m 276.2 257.8 7% 6%
Basic earnings per share p 49.1 46.4 6% 4%
Adjusted earnings per share* p 60.6 55.9 8% 7%
Dividend per share p 23.35 21.55 8%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs
+4%
Revenue
+4%
Operating profit*
+8%
Adjusted earnings per share*
+8%
Dividend per share
healthcare
7%
other
4%
non- Food retail
8% Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 02 our business
o Ur BUsiness
We h Ave f Acilities in 23 c Ount Ries  
Ac ROss f Ou R business AR eAs:  
nOR th Ame Ric A, u K & iRel An D,  
cO ntinent Al eu ROpe An D  
Rest O f the W ORl D.
Managers from  
across the Group  
meet to review 
performance,  
discuss trends 
affecting our 
businesses and  
seek further 
opportunities  
for growth and 
competitive  
advantage.
o Ur management team
north america
50%
of Group operating profit*
£160.2m
Operating profit*
michael r oney
Chief Executive
celia B axter
Director of Group  
Human Resources
Pat larmon
President and CEO  
North America
PaUl BU dge
Managing Director  
UK & Ireland Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 our business 03
Uk & ireland
 1 8%
of Group operating profit*
£59.5m
Operating profit*
continental e UroP e
25%
of Group operating profit*
£79.9m
Operating profit*
rest o F the world
7%
of Group operating profit*
£23.8m
Operating profit*
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related and corporate costs  
PaUl hU ssey
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
Brian may
Finance Director
Frank V an Z anten
Managing Director  
Continental Europe
nancy lester
Director of Corporate  
Development
kim hetherington
Managing Director  
Australasia Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 04 chairman’s statement
chairman’s statement
Ou R success is b Ase D  
On un DeRst An DinG 
cust Ome Rs’ 
Requi Rements An D  
Ou R Ability t O Delive R 
eve Ry DAy essenti Als 
eVerywhere
OPERATING PROFIT* £m
*Before amortisation and acquisition related and corporate costs 
 UK GAAP
 IFRS
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01
01–05 continuing operations
158
164
171
183
218
241
259
297
312
323
REVENUE £bn
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.9
3.3
3.6
4.2
4.6
4.8
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE p
28.6
29.7
31.3
32.1
38.7
41.7
45.1
52.7
60.6
55.9
 UK GAAP
 IFRS
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01
488
547
482
643
710
742
757
777
675   
486
SHARE PRICE RANGE p
10 09 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01
408
368
345
405
443
578
627
542
482
616 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chairman’s statement 05
Against the backdrop of continuing economic 
uncertainty across the international markets  
in which we operate, I am pleased to report 
that the Group has produced another good  
set of results driven both organically and by 
acquisition, announcing nine acquisitions 
during the year. 
Group revenue increased 4% to £4,829.6 
million and operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs also 
rose 4% to £306.7 million. Basic earnings per 
share were 49.1p, an increase of 6%, and 
adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related 
costs, were up 8% to 60.6p. Currency 
translation movements increased Group 
growth rates by approximately 1%.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a 9% increase  
in the final dividend to 16.2p. This brings the 
total dividend for the year to 23.35p, an 8% 
increase. This year we have decided to 
reintroduce the dividend reinvestment plan to 
replace the existing scrip dividend alternative. 
Further information will be included with my 
letter to shareholders relating to the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Strategy
We continue to pursue our well defined 
strategy of developing the business through 
organic growth and targeted acquisitions in 
both existing and new geographies, while 
continuously improving the efficiency of  
our operations. 
Our organic growth is achieved by applying our 
resources and expertise to enable customers, 
by outsourcing to Bunzl, to reduce or eliminate 
the hidden costs of sourcing and distributing 
numerous goods not for resale, thereby allowing 
them to focus on their core business more cost 
effectively and with lower working capital. 
In 2010 we saw a resumption of acquisition 
activity that took us further into some of our 
key markets in the US, Denmark, Benelux, 
Spain and Brazil while substantially increasing 
the size of our business in Switzerland and 
extending our operations into Israel.
Increasingly coordinating our procurement 
internationally and continually refining and 
deepening our commitment to our customers 
and markets, while looking to extend our 
business into new geographies, remain 
important elements of our strategy. Having 
pursued this strategy consistently over many 
years, we have built leading positions in a 
variety of market sectors across the Americas, 
Europe and Australasia.
Investment
We have over time steadily invested to  
support our growth strategy, thereby 
enhancing the infrastructure of the Group.  
We are continuously improving and upgrading 
our IT systems and warehouse facilities as we 
integrate new businesses into the Group, in 
addition to increasing our functionality and 
efficiency in order to improve customer 
service. By doing so we retain the competitive 
advantage which helps us maintain our 
leadership in the market place.
Corporate responsibility
As a responsible company, we realise that 
Bunzl is only sustainable if we maintain 
profitability through business practices which 
positively impact stakeholders, whether 
customers, employees or suppliers. Much  
has changed in the area of Corporate  
Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) since we first 
developed our policies in 2004. During 2010 
we reviewed our approach to CSR issues, 
seeking input from both consultants and 
shareholders. We confirmed that our 
management practices relating to business 
conduct, employees and health and safety, 
environment and community matters, as  
well as our approach to our customers and 
suppliers, remained appropriate. Business 
integrity together with committed, well trained 
employees working in a safe environment with 
an emphasis on reducing our environmental 
impact, contributing to the communities in 
which we operate, encouraging our suppliers  
to adopt a similar ethos to us and helping  
our customers to meet their CSR goals, 
particularly those relating to sustainability,  
are all intrinsic to our everyday business.  
We have therefore decided to adopt the  
term Corporate Responsibility going forward 
rather than CSR to reflect that these policies 
are part of the way Bunzl operates. We have 
also modified our policies to make them more 
concise, clearer and better tailored to Bunzl’s 
specific challenges. 
Employees
Many companies comment that their 
employees are their biggest asset but,  
as Bunzl is not capital intensive, this is 
particularly true for us. During 2010 our 
people have continued to show their 
commitment and dedication to serve our 
customers. We have had numerous examples 
of our employees battling against adverse 
weather conditions in various parts of the 
world to get into work and maintain customer 
service and deliveries. Their efforts and 
dedication are, as always, greatly appreciated.
Credit facilities
The Group remains highly cash generative  
and we continue to have access to diverse 
sources of funding to achieve our strategic 
objectives. In 2010 our net cash inflow was 
£10 million despite cash expenditure of  
£111 million on acquisitions and we agreed to 
raise a further £95 million (sterling equivalent) 
from the US private placement market, with 
maturities ranging from seven to 12 years,  
of which £20 million was drawn in December 
2010 with the balance due to be drawn in  
April 2011. We also renewed some £164 million 
of our banking facilities during the year. Our 
undrawn committed facilities’ headroom at the 
end of the year was £557 million. 
Board
Jeff Harris retired from the Board on  
28 February 2010. A non-executive director 
for more than nine years, during his time  
with us Jeff served as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, Senior Independent Director and, 
most recently, as Interim Chairman following 
Anthony Habgood’s retirement in 2009. We 
thank Jeff for his guidance and wise counsel 
over many years. I was appointed to the Board 
as Chairman designate on 1 January 2010  
and became Chairman on 1 March 2010 and  
Peter Johnson, who has been a non-executive 
director since January 2006, was appointed  
as Senior Independent Director in April 2010.
Charles Banks, who has served as a non-
executive director for almost nine years, latterly 
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 
will be retiring after our Annual General 
Meeting in April. His independent advice and 
significant contribution to our success have 
been greatly appreciated and he leaves the 
Board with our thanks and best wishes. We 
are currently undertaking a search for a new 
non-executive director and will make a further 
announcement in due course.
Philip Rogerson  
Chairman 
28 February 2011
Philip r ogerson
c hairman Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 06 chief executive’s review
chie F exec Uti Ve’s re View
We h Ave Delive ReD 
An Othe R GOOD set  
Of R esults D espite 
c OntinuinG ch AllenG inG  
ec On Omic c OnD iti Ons 
In North America revenue and operating profit 
rose by 7% (4% at constant exchange rates) 
and 3% (1% at constant exchange rates) 
respectively due to strong organic revenue 
growth, principally as a result of increased 
volumes to existing customers, with profit 
growth held back by some mix driven margin 
pressure. Although UK & Ireland saw a decline 
in revenue of 6% (5% at constant exchange 
rates) due to the persisting difficult economic 
conditions and weakness in some businesses, 
especially Ireland, Vending and Healthcare, 
operating profit rose 3% as operating margins 
increased significantly due to the positive 
impact of earlier cost reduction initiatives and 
the absence of a negative transaction impact 
from foreign exchange which adversely 
affected the results in 2009. In Continental 
Europe revenue grew by 3% (7% at constant 
exchange rates) as a result of the impact from 
acquisitions made during 2010, while 
operating profit decreased 2% (up 2% at 
constant exchange rates) due to the positive 
impact from acquisitions being offset by the 
lower contribution from reduced sales volumes 
in France which were partly held back 
following exceptional sales of products related 
to H1N1 prevention during 2009. The Rest of 
the World showed growth of 23% in revenue 
(4% at constant exchange rates) and 40% in 
operating profit (19% at constant exchange 
rates) principally due to strong organic growth 
in Brazil and a significant operating margin 
improvement in Australasia.
Basic earnings per share were 49.1p, up 6% 
(4% at constant exchange rates). Adjusted 
earnings per share, after eliminating the effect 
of intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs, were 60.6p, an increase of 8% 
Operating performance
Revenue and operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs 
each increased 4% to £4,829.6 million and 
£306.7 million respectively. The overall impact 
from currency translation was slightly positive 
with both growth rates 3% at constant 
exchange. Excluding the impact from 
acquisitions and the previously announced 
sales of products related to H1N1 prevention 
in 2009, underlying revenue growth at 
constant exchange rates was 2%. The strong 
cash flow of the Group continued as we 
converted 93% of our operating profit into 
cash. In this review all references to operating 
profit are to operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs.
(7% at constant exchange rates). Return  
on average operating capital continued at  
a consistently high level of 54.4%, similar  
to the return in 2009.
Our operating cash flow continued to be 
strong. Despite an acquisition cash outflow  
of £111 million and net capital expenditure  
of £22 million, our year end net debt of  
£716.8 million was at the same level as the 
end of 2009. Our net debt to EBITDA ratio 
improved to 2.1 times compared to 2.2 times 
at the previous year end.
During 2010 we continued to focus on the 
sustainability of our operations to minimise  
our impact on climate change, as well as 
offering environmentally friendly products  
and consolidated deliveries of consumables  
for our customers to reduce their own impact. 
Although we have been measuring the carbon 
emissions of our operations for a number of 
years, reporting our performance through the 
Carbon Disclosure Project, we have decided 
this year to add our carbon emissions as a key 
performance indicator. I am also pleased to 
report that for 2011 we have for the first time 
set quantitative targets at the Group level to 
continue to improve our health, safety and 
environmental performance.
The business area operations, including  
the relevant growth rates, are reviewed below 
at constant exchange rates to remove the 
translation impact of foreign currency 
movements between 2010 and the previous 
year. Changes in the level of revenue and 
profits at constant exchange rates have been 
calculated by retranslating the results for  
2009 at the average exchange rates for 2010.
michael r oney
c hief executive Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 07
Acquisitions
Acquisition activity picked up significantly  
in 2010 after a much quieter year in 2009. 
During the year we announced nine 
acquisitions and invested £126 million.  
In particular, we entered Israel for the first 
time, significantly increased our presence in 
Switzerland as we entered three new market 
sectors and made our second step into the 
promising Brazilian market.
In January we acquired Clean Care which is 
principally engaged in the supply of cleaning 
and hygiene consumable products and 
equipment to a variety of end users including 
contract cleaners and other industrial and 
institutional customers throughout Denmark. 
Revenue in the year ended 30 September 
2009 was DKK60 million. In February we 
expanded further into Denmark with the 
purchase of Hamo, a supplier of catering 
disposables and light catering equipment to  
a variety of end users in both the public and 
private sectors. Revenue in 2009 was DKK43 
million. Both these businesses are excellent 
additions to our existing cleaning and hygiene 
and catering supplies businesses in Denmark 
and have extended our customer base and 
product offering there.
During March we significantly increased the 
size of our operations in Switzerland. The 
acquisition of Weita, a business based near 
Basel with revenue in 2009 of CHF71 million, 
expanded our business into the cleaning and 
safety, foodservice and healthcare consumables 
sectors for the first time and also increased the 
size of our existing retail supplies business.
In April we announced our first step into  
Israel when we purchased Silco, a supplier  
of foodservice disposables to a number of 
different sectors throughout the country, 
including restaurants, caterers and 
redistributors. Revenue in 2009 was ILS64 
million. The business has a market leading 
position and a strong customer base and will 
provide the opportunity to develop further in 
the Israeli market.
Juba, which we acquired in May and had 
revenue in 2009 of €22 million, is a leading 
supplier of personal protection equipment, 
principally protective gloves and other 
workwear, to redistributors throughout Spain.  
It has expanded our personal protection 
equipment business in Spain and has 
strengthened our position in this market  
which we entered in 2008 with the acquisition 
of Marca.
In July we announced the acquisition of  
Global Net based in Belgium with revenue  
in 2009 of €20 million. It is principally 
engaged in the sale of cleaning and hygiene 
consumables and equipment throughout  
the Walloon region of Belgium to contract 
cleaners, local authorities and other industrial 
and institutional customers. As our existing 
business in Belgium is focused on the 
Flanders region, Global Net has extended  
our geographic coverage across the whole  
of the country.
In August we announced two further 
acquisitions. Cool-Pak, which had revenue  
of $51 million in 2009, is an exciting 
development for us as it has increased our 
presence in a specialist area of the food 
processor market in the US. The acquisition  
of A.M. Supply in Brazil has expanded  
our existing personal protection equipment 
business in Brazil and extended our  
product offering into the developing oil  
and petrochemical sectors there. Revenue  
in 2009 was R$7 million.
In October we took a further step to develop 
our successful business in Benelux with the 
acquisition of Van’t Veer Verpakkingen which 
had revenue of €9 million in 2009. The 
company is based in the Netherlands and is 
principally engaged in the sale of cleaning  
and hygiene and catering disposable products 
predominantly to the healthcare sector.
Prospects
Even though the outlook for economic growth 
remains uncertain, we believe that the 
opportunities for further development of the 
Group across our international markets are 
promising. In North America we anticipate 
good underlying revenue growth, albeit lower 
than the relatively high level of 2010, and 
margins should be stable. In the UK & Ireland, 
in spite of the continuing difficult economic 
conditions, especially in Ireland and in those 
businesses selling to the public sector, we 
expect an improved performance. Continental 
Europe should see better underlying revenue 
growth and the full year impact of acquisitions 
made in 2010 will enhance the overall results. 
The Rest of the World should also benefit from 
good underlying revenue growth and 
continued strong performance.
Acquisition growth is a key element of our 
strategy and we saw an improved environment 
for acquisitions in 2010. The pipeline remains 
promising as we continue our discussions with 
a number of potential targets. 
Although there are a number of uncertainties 
in the economies of the markets where we 
compete, the Board believes that our market 
leading positions and our strong cash flow and 
balance sheet should enable the Group to 
grow further.
Michael Roney  
Chief Executive 
28 February 2011
PROFIT MARGIN EXCLUDING
CURRENCY AND ACQUISITIONS %
10 09
6.3 6.3
Profit margin excluding the 
impact of currency and 
current year acquisitions 
but including a pro rata 
part year in respect of prior 
year acquisitions.
10 09
6.4 6.4
PROFIT MARGIN %
Ratio of operating  
profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition 
related costs to revenue.
ACQUISITION SPEND £m
6
10 09
126
Consideration paid and 
payable, together with net 
debt assumed, in respect of 
businesses acquired during 
the year.
10 09
(1.1)
0.8
ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH %
Increase in revenue for  
the year excluding the 
impact of currency and 
current year acquisitions  
but including a pro rata part 
year in respect of prior year 
acquisitions. Sales of H1N1 
prevention products in 2009 
reduced the underlying 
organic revenue growth in 
2010 by 1.0% from 1.8%.
ANNUALISED REVENUE
FROM ACQUISITIONS £m
10 09
27
154
Estimated revenue  
which would have been 
contributed by acquisitions 
made during the year if  
such acquisitions had been 
completed at the beginning 
of the relevant year. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 08 chief executive’s review
everyday essentials:
> Uniforms 
> Rubber bands 
> paper cups 
> coffee bags 
> labELs
> NAPKINS 
> Polyethylene bags 
> Bag ties 
>  Plastic fruit 
containers
> vinyl Gloves 
> Paper bags 
> Deli containers
> SANDWICH WRAP 
> CLEANING PRODUCTS
Ou R ‘One st Op shOp’ 
se Rvice t O l ARGe 
GROce Ry Ret Ail 
cust Ome Rs helps  
them simplify the 
eve Ry DAy Runnin G  
Of thei R businesses Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 09
north america In North America revenue increased by 4%  
at constant exchange rates to £2,621.0 million 
primarily due to further sales growth with 
current accounts but also as a result of some 
new business wins. Mix driven impact, 
principally arising from the revenue growth 
with existing customers, placed pressure on 
our margins, resulting in a 1% increase in 
operating profit to £160.2 million.
In our largest business sector, grocery, we 
improved our market leading position by 
retaining and expanding business with our 
current customer base through our primary 
programmes; direct store delivery, cross  
dock and warehouse replenishment. We also 
won additional business from our regional 
competition as we continued to promote  
our menu of services in the market place.
Despite market softness and the uncertain 
economy continuing to exert pressure on  
the foodservice industry during the year, our 
redistribution business experienced growth as 
we expanded our relationships with our larger 
customers and positioned ourselves well with 
major buying groups. As an integral part of our 
‘one stop shop’ concept for our customers, our 
import and private label programmes gained 
momentum as we expanded our product 
offering with custom packaging and product 
enhancements. In addition we invested in 
warehouse systems and equipment to improve 
our small order quantity pick and pack 
operational efficiencies.
Our food processor business services a  
broad range of customers from fresh cut 
produce processors, bakeries and specialty 
processors to a variety of protein processors 
that supply the grocery and foodservice 
industries. We experienced growth in this 
sector due to consumers’ continued demand 
for lower cost and take home solutions that  
are more economical than eating out. In order 
to expand our programmes and sales with  
our current customers and win new business,  
we have broadened the array of personal 
protection equipment and maintenance, repair 
and operations (MRO) parts and packaging 
products that we provide our customers 
through our value added outsourcing solutions. 
We also extended our presence in the market 
through our acquisition of Cool-Pak which 
supplies stock and custom designed pulp  
and plastic containers to fruit and vegetable 
growers, shippers, repackers and other food 
suppliers. Cool-Pak also offers inventory 
management, just-in-time delivery, labelling 
and traceability solutions to its customers.  
In support of our expansion into this sector,  
we entered into an exclusive agreement with 
TRUETRAC™ to distribute LabelTrac™, a 
portable labelling system that takes case level 
traceability out to the grower’s field.
Our non-food retail business continued to  
grow organically by winning a major account  
in Canada and gaining incremental business 
with retailers having existing relationships  
with us. We also continued to benefit from  
a trend among retailers to utilise our expertise 
in their sourcing activities. As such, we were 
able to promote products and ideas that 
helped them meet their specific needs and 
attain their green initiatives through the supply 
of environmentally friendly products.
Our convenience store business experienced 
growth as consumers’ spending increased as 
the year progressed. Outlets in this sector still 
face the significant challenges of an uncertain 
economy, increasingly stiff competition from 
cross channel rivals and rising fuel prices.  
We continued to take steps to grow our sales  
in this sector by increasing the breadth  
of products we offer, including imported 
product alternatives, and by expanding our 
customer base. 
Our strategic sourcing initiatives included 
expanding our preferred supplier relationships 
into all channels of distribution and 
redistribution, utilising our purchasing strength 
and scale to increase our profitability. We also 
expanded our private label product offering, 
incorporating continued product segmentation 
and upgrades, to provide our customers with 
more choices to meet a wide variety of needs. 
Additionally, we continued to monitor green 
issues and have relevant products sourced 
which meet all environmental needs, including 
those which are biodegradable, recyclable and 
compostable. Our new private label line for 
environmentally friendly products, Green 
Source, has been very successful.
During the year we reduced our operating 
costs as a percentage of sales despite some 
operating expense categories, such as 
healthcare, fuel costs and freight rates, 
increasing. We continue to offset these 
escalating costs through increased productivity 
and by fine tuning our operational platform 
and consolidating stand alone facilities in 
select markets in order to optimise operating 
costs while maintaining our high level of 
customer service. 
Although the strength of the economic 
recovery remains uncertain, our consistent 
year on year revenue growth in North America 
in difficult macroeconomic conditions 
demonstrates the resilience and strength of 
our value added proposition to our customers. 
Our strong financial position, single IT system 
and extensive coast to coast operating platform 
continues to address the needs of our customers 
and we remain well positioned not only to meet 
our existing customers’ demands but also to 
take advantage of new business opportunities 
that arise within the markets we serve. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 10 chief executive’s review
After a very challenging year in 2009, our  
UK & Ireland business area has improved  
its performance in 2010. Persisting difficult 
economic conditions continued to put 
pressure on sales, resulting in a 5% decrease 
in revenue at constant exchange rates to 
£1,007.1 million. However a reduction in  
costs has contributed to an improvement in 
operating margin with operating profit up 3% 
at constant exchange rates to £59.5 million.
All businesses have closely scrutinised their 
resource levels and business processes.  
This has led to a further reduction in the 
number of people employed and the closure  
of some of our warehouses to optimise the 
branch network of our various businesses.
We have also analysed the ranges and 
products that we sell and have rationalised 
product portfolios to suit the needs of our 
customers better. This has resulted in fewer 
stock keeping units (SKUs) which has enabled 
us to build stronger relations with suppliers, 
improve product availability and also further 
develop our own brands and importing activity 
from Asia.
Within the hospitality sector, the market for 
catering disposables has continued to be  
very competitive whilst the demand for more 
durable catering equipment has been relatively 
strong. We are actively developing our own 
brand programme of catering disposables  
and have reduced the operating platform  
by two branches. W.K. Thomas, which we 
acquired in 2009, has integrated well into our 
existing business. In vending, although the 
business has continued to operate in a very 
competitive and demanding environment,  
the implementation of a new IT system has 
been completed and we now have the 
appropriate tools to optimise operating 
efficiencies, giving us the platform to grow  
this business going forward.
Our food and non-food retail business, whilst 
operating under continuous competitive 
pressure, has been resilient. We have made  
a number of operational improvements, 
including streamlining working processes and 
completing the installation of a sophisticated 
warehouse management system, which have 
allowed us to improve our performance and 
our service to our customers. Assisted by  
a number of non-food retail customer wins,  
we believe that we are well positioned from a 
competitive standpoint and that this business 
should continue to develop well.
Within cleaning and safety, our business that 
supplies cleaning and hygiene products had  
a good year against the backdrop of a difficult 
economy. Six of the branches have been 
consolidated into four facilities and the 
reduced operating platform and cost base 
have helped us to continue to be competitive 
and secure ongoing business with a number  
of our key facilities management customers. 
Industrial Supplies, the acquisition we made in 
2009, has been completely integrated and is 
performing well. Our safety supplies business 
has continued to find the markets it serves in 
construction, industry and the public sector to 
be under pressure which has in turn affected 
volumes. We have reacted accordingly by 
further developing our procurement and 
product category management activities  
and consolidating the cost base.
The healthcare business has seen a reduction 
in volumes with challenging trading conditions 
and restrictions on spending imposed by some 
customers as their purchasing budgets have 
been reduced, both affecting demand. This 
was exacerbated by the non-repeat of orders 
related to the outbreak of the H1N1 virus in 
2009. We have reduced the number of 
operating locations by two and have further 
invested in our own brand range of disposable 
gloves which should help to regain business 
and improve our competitiveness in the 
coming year.
In Ireland the economy has continued to be 
extremely difficult. The convenience retail 
market and hotel sector in particular suffered 
downturns and, even though we have 
maintained gross margins, it was necessary to 
implement further reductions in our cost base 
to realign the business with the reduced levels 
of activity.
UK & i reland We supply eve Ry DAy essenti Als 
t O Ou R f OODse Rvice cust Ome Rs 
t O help thei R businesses  
Run smOO thly Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 11
Sodexo’s everyday  
essentials:
> Coffee cups 
> Sugar sachets 
> Paper plates 
>  Sterilising handwash
> Napkins
> Bag ties 
> Paper bags 
> Aluminum foil 
> Cutlery
> Gloves
> Mops & buckets
> Jugs
> Food trays
> Floor signs  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 12 chief executive’s review
continental e Urope Revenue rose 7% at constant exchange rates 
to £936.4 million and operating profit rose 2% 
to £79.9 million. The impact of the absence of 
the significant sales of H1N1 prevention 
products made in 2009 and gross margin 
pressure as customers continued to focus on 
cost reductions was offset by continued tight 
cost control, increased levels of imports and 
the benefit of acquisitions and the resulting 
synergies achieved during the year.
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business 
had a challenging year. The economic 
environment continued to be difficult with  
the public sector in particular cutting back 
spending. Together with the lack of sales of 
H1N1 prevention products during 2010, this 
resulted in lower sales although the gross 
margin percentage was stable. Costs were 
reduced during the year but the positive 
impact of these reductions will only be felt fully 
in the current year. The new ERP system is 
now fully implemented and will provide further 
operational efficiencies in the future. Our 
personal protection equipment business  
had a successful year with higher sales  
and profits.
In the Netherlands, sales, grew significantly  
in our business supplying the food and 
non-food retail sectors following customer wins 
and the business servicing the horeca (hotel, 
restaurant and catering) sector returned to 
growth after a difficult year in 2009. However, 
our healthcare business continued to face 
pressure from spending cuts imposed by  
our customers. Overall gross margins and 
costs in the Netherlands continued to be 
tightly managed such that the operating 
margin improved. In October we acquired 
Van’t Veer Verpakkingen which operates in the 
cleaning and hygiene and catering disposable 
sectors. The business is trading in line with 
expectations and delivering the anticipated 
synergy benefits.
In Belgium, sales grew as progress in the retail 
business offset continuing weakness in the 
business supplying the cleaning and hygiene 
sector. Gross margins were under pressure but 
costs continued to be tightly controlled. In July 
we acquired Global Net which sells cleaning 
and hygiene consumables and equipment 
throughout the Walloon region of Belgium. The 
acquisition is delivering significant synergies 
with our existing operations.
In Germany, sales grew strongly in the horeca 
sector and revenues from guest amenities rose 
again as the hotel sector recovered. Continued 
tight cost control could not however fully offset 
the impact of gross margin pressure.
In Switzerland, we acquired in March the 
Weita business which operates in the cleaning 
and safety, foodservice, retail and healthcare 
consumables sectors. It is integrating well into 
the Group and has delivered profits ahead of 
our initial expectations.
In Denmark, sales were ahead in our retail 
business and its operating margin improved 
due to cost reductions. Our horeca business 
also delivered good sales growth and 
increased its operating margin principally due 
to the full year benefit of its new, more efficient 
warehouse. Hamo, a supplier of catering 
disposables and light catering equipment 
which was acquired in February 2010, has 
been fully integrated resulting in significant 
savings. Clean Care, a distributor of cleaning 
and hygiene consumables and equipment 
acquired in January 2010, continues to 
operate from its own warehouse and is also 
delivering significant commercial synergies 
with our existing business.
In Spain, our cleaning and hygiene business 
saw a slight decline in sales in a continuing 
challenging economy. Gross margins improved 
and operating costs were reduced, resulting  
in good growth in operating profit. Our  
safety business delivered strong sales and 
profit growth despite ongoing weakness in  
the construction and industrial sectors which  
it serves. The acquisition in May of Juba,  
a specialist in protective gloves, has 
complemented our existing business and  
is providing opportunities both in terms of 
increased sales and improved purchasing. 
In central Europe, a return to stronger sales 
growth and further cost reductions led to a 
significant increase in profit in our cleaning 
and hygiene business. Sales declined, 
however, in the retail business but profit was 
slightly ahead as a result of the positive impact 
of cost reduction measures.
In Israel we acquired the foodservice 
disposables business, Silco, in April as a first 
step into this new market which has exciting 
development prospects. It is integrating well 
into the Group.
NH Hoteles’  
everyday essentials:
> Guest amenities 
> Slippers 
> Take away lunch boxes 
> Napkins 
> Drink stirrers 
> Bin liners 
> Toilet rolls 
> Tea bags and coffee 
> Teaspoons 
> Washing detergent 
> Pens 
> Sponges 
> Washing up brushes 
> Laundry bags 
> Bedside books 
> Coasters  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 13
by pROvi Din G A WiDe RAn Ge  
Of pRODucts f OR h Otel s, 
inclu Din G cle Anin G pRODucts 
An D besp OKe Guest Amenities , 
We c An ensu Re they h Ave 
eveR ythin G they neeD Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 14 chief executive’s review
Ou R RAn Ge Of 
pe RsO n Al pRO tecti On 
equipment helps Ou R 
cust Ome Rs m Aint Ain 
hi Gh st An DARDs Of 
he Alth & s Afety EVERYDAY ESSENTIALS:
> STEEL TOECAP BOOTS 
> LIFE JACKETS 
> SAFETY GLASSES 
> HARD HATS 
> PROTECTIVE GLOVES 
> EAR PLUGS 
> HARNESSES 
> FACE MASKS 
> EAR PROTECTORS 
> SHIRTS AND TROUSERS Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 15
In the Rest of the World revenue increased  
by 4% at constant exchange rates to £265.1 
million. Strong underlying growth in Brazil and 
a substantial improvement in operating margins 
in Australasia resulted in a 19% improvement 
in operating profit to £23.8 million. 
In Australasia our largest business, 
Outsourcing Services, performed strongly, 
benefiting from some solid second half sales 
gains and good gross margin improvements. 
We continue to develop a strong position in  
our key markets, such as healthcare, contract 
catering and cleaning. In addition we are 
developing the business in New Zealand by 
building momentum with regional customers 
there. As a result of our continued investment 
in systems, some 45% of all orders in this 
business are now dealt with electronically.
Our food processor business had another 
challenging year, feeling the effects of 
slowdowns in some of our major customers 
whose own export business contracted due  
to the stronger Australian dollar, although sales 
began to recover as the year progressed. The 
recently completed implementation of the main 
IT system throughout the business will enable 
us to benefit from operational improvements  
in freight and inventory management systems 
as well as facilitate electronic ordering for 
customers and suppliers. 
Our catering equipment business continued to 
be affected by the downturn in the hospitality 
and catering sectors, in particular in New 
South Wales and North Queensland. The 
business benefited from some new business 
wins during the year and ongoing operational 
and service improvements implemented in 
2009. This, combined with lower operating 
costs, enabled us to deliver results which  
were again well up on last year’s improved 
performance. Our goal is to expand our branch 
coverage in this sector to capitalise on national 
customers in this market sector.
Operationally the business in Australasia has 
strengthened its position in the region by 
investing in establishing a consolidation 
warehouse in China. This will fast track future 
sourcing initiatives while reducing the costs 
associated with double handling on freight 
transfers for all business units in the region.
In Brazil we saw strong growth in both revenue 
and operating profit as the economy there 
rebounded from a relatively weak 2009.  
We expanded further into the markets we serve 
as the new branches opened during the last 
two years experienced profitable growth. In 
August we acquired A.M. Supply which is 
based in the northern part of the state of Rio 
de Janeiro and will enable us to benefit from 
the ongoing significant investments being 
made in offshore oil and gas exploration and 
the petrochemical sector.
r est of the world Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 16 Financial review
Financial re View
Acquisiti On spen D Of £126 milli On 
Will ADD m ORe th An £150 milli On 
Of A nnu Alise D Revenue
Group performance
Revenue and operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs 
increased by 4% to £4,829.6 million and 
£306.7 million respectively reflecting organic 
growth, the benefit of acquisitions made in  
the year and a positive impact from currency 
translation. Currency translation had a 1% 
beneficial impact on the results for the year 
principally due to some strengthening of the 
US dollar, Australian dollar and Brazilian real 
largely offset by the weakening of the euro. 
Operating profit margin before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs  
was 6.4%, the same as 2009. 
Following the revision of IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations’ with effect from 1 January 
2010, the Group is now required to recognise 
transaction costs and expenses such as 
professional fees and adjustments to deferred 
consideration and payments which are 
contingent on the continued employment  
of former owners of businesses acquired as 
expenses in the income statement. These 
acquisition related costs do not relate to the 
underlying performance of the entity acquired 
as they are a non-operational expense and, 
consistent with the treatment of intangible 
amortisation, we therefore present additional 
measures of profit excluding these items  
which is consistent with our internal 
measurement of performance.
Intangible amortisation and acquisition related 
costs of £51.0 million were up £9.2 million, 
principally due to £7.5 million of transaction 
costs and expenses and deferred consideration 
payments which are contingent on the 
continued employment of former owners  
of businesses acquired and a £1.7 million 
increase in intangible amortisation largely  
due to the charge relating to acquisitions  
made during 2010. 
The net interest charge decreased from  
£37.9 million in 2009 to £30.5 million in 2010 
due to a lower cost of borrowing, a mark to 
market benefit on cash settled share options,  
a net financial return relating to pensions and 
a lower level of average net debt. Interest cover 
improved to 10.1 times compared to 7.8 times 
in 2009.
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation 
and acquisition related costs was £276.2 
million, up 7% on 2009 due to the 4% growth 
in operating profit before intangible amortisation 
and acquisition related costs and the benefit 
from the lower interest charge.
Tax
A tax charge at a rate of 29.0% (2009: 30.5%) 
has been provided on the profit before tax, 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related 
costs. Including the impact of intangible 
amortisation of £43.5 million, acquisition 
related costs of £7.5 million and the associated 
deferred and current tax of £13.9 million, the 
overall tax rate is 29.4% (2009: 31.1%). The 
tax rate of 29.0% is higher than the nominal 
UK rate of 28.0% for 2010 principally because 
many of the Group’s operations are in countries 
with higher tax rates.
Profit for the year
Profit after tax increased 7% to £159.0 million.
Earnings
The weighted average number of shares 
increased to 323.7 million from 320.5 million 
due to shares issued for the scrip dividend and 
employee option exercises. Earnings per share 
were 49.1p, up 6% on 2009. After adjusting 
for intangible amortisation, acquisition related 
costs and the respective associated tax, 
earnings per share increased 8% to 60.6p. 
The intangible amortisation and associated tax 
are non-cash charges which are not taken into 
RETURN ON AVERAGE 
OPERATING CAPITAL %
10 09
54.4 54.7 Ratio of operating  
profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition 
related costs to the average 
of the month end operating 
capital employed, being 
tangible fixed assets, 
inventories and trade and 
other receivables less trade 
and other payables.
FREE CASH FLOW £m
10 09
175
192
Cash generated from 
operations less net 
capital expenditure, 
interest and tax.
account by management when assessing  
the underlying performance of the business. 
Similarly, the acquisition related costs and 
associated tax do not relate to the underlying 
performance of the entity acquired as they  
are a non-operational expense. 
Dividends
An analysis of dividends per share for the 
years to which they relate is shown below:
2010 2009 Growth
Interim dividend (p) 7.15 6.65 8%
Final dividend (p) 16.20 14.90 9%
Total dividend (p) 23.35 21.55 8%
Dividend cover  
(times)* 2.6 2.6
*Based on adjusted earnings per share
Acquisitions
The principal acquisitions made in 2010 were 
Clean Care, Hamo, Weita, Silco, Juba, Global 
Net, A.M. Supply, Cool-Pak and Van’t Veer 
Verpakkingen. Annualised revenue and 
operating profit before intangible amortisation 
and acquisition related costs of the businesses 
acquired were £153.6 million and £17.8 million 
respectively. A summary of the effect of 
acquisitions is as follows:
£m
Fair value of assets acquired 70.3
Goodwill 34.5
Consideration 104.8
Satisfied by:
 cash consideration 97.2
 deferred consideration 7.6
104.8
Contingent payments to former owners 9.7
Net bank overdrafts acquired 6.2
Transaction costs and expenses 5.5
Total expected spend in respect of 
current year acquisitions 126.2
exchange rates
Average 2010 2009
US$ : £ 1.55 1.57
€ : £ 1.17 1.12
A$ : £ 1.68 1.99
Closing
US$ : £ 1.57 1.61
€ : £ 1.17 1.13
A$ : £ 1.53 1.80 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Financial review 17
The net cash outflow in the year in respect  
of acquisitions comprised:
£m
Cash consideration 97.2
Net bank overdrafts acquired 6.2
Deferred consideration in respect  
of prior year aquisitions 1.6
Net cash outflow in respect  
of acquisitions 105.0
Acquisition related costs 5.6
Total cash outflow in respect  
of acquisitions 110.6
Cash flow
Cash generated from operations was £307.6 
million, a £15.2 million decrease from 2009, 
primarily due to a working capital outflow in 
2010 of £12.7 million, compared to a £17.5 
million inflow in 2009, partly offset by the 
increase in profit before tax, intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs of 
£18.4 million. The working capital movements 
are partly attributable to a return to organic 
revenue growth in 2010 compared with a 
decline in 2009. As a consequence, the 
Group’s free cash flow of £174.6 million was 
down £16.9 million from 2009. After payment 
of dividends in respect of 2009, an acquisition 
cash outflow of £110.6 million and an £11.8 
million inflow on employee share schemes, the 
net cash inflow of £9.7 million was used to 
reduce net debt. The summary cash flow for 
the year was as follows:
£m
Cash generated from operations 307.6
Net capital expenditure (22.1)
Operating cash flow 285.5
Operating cash flow to  
operating profit* 93%
Net interest (31.2)
Tax (79.7)
Free cash flow 174.6
Dividends (66.1)
Acquisitions (110.6)
Employee share schemes 11.8
Net cash inflow 9.7
* Before intangible amortisation and acquisition  
related costs
Balance sheet
Return on average operating capital employed 
before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs of 54.4% was in line with 2009 
due to the operating profit margin remaining 
constant at 6.4% combined with continued 
strong working capital management. Intangible 
assets increased by £48.0 million to £1,244.6 
million reflecting goodwill and customer 
relationships arising on acquisitions in the  
year of £86.0 million and a positive exchange 
impact of £5.5 million net of an amortisation 
charge of £43.5 million. At 31 December 2010 
the Group’s pension deficit was £52.3 million. 
This represents a £7.5 million decrease 
compared to 2009, primarily due to cash 
contributions of £15.2 million partly offset  
by the service cost of £5.5 million and an 
actuarial loss of £2.5 million. The actuarial  
loss results from an increase in the liabilities, 
principally due to lower discount rates and 
changes in the mortality assumptions, partly 
offset by lower inflation rates and an increase 
in the value of pension scheme assets. 
The movements in shareholders’ equity and 
net debt during the year were as follows:
Shareholders’ equity £m
At 1 January 2010 674.1
Profit for the year 159.0
Dividends (66.1)
Share issuance  16.0
Other 13.4
At 31 December 2010 796.4
Net debt £m
At 1 January 2010 (716.8)
Net cash inflow 9.7
Currency (9.7)
At 31 December 2010 (716.8)
Net debt to EBITDA (times) 2.1
Going concern
Based on the expected future profit 
generation, cash conversion and current 
facilities’ headroom over the 12 months to 
March 2012, the 2010 financial statements 
have been prepared on the going concern 
basis as described further in the Directors’ 
report on page 25.
Capital management 
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong 
capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor 
and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. 
The Group monitors the return on average 
operating capital employed as well as the level 
of total shareholders’ equity and the amount of 
dividends paid to ordinary shareholders. The 
Group funds its operations through a mixture  
of shareholders’ equity and bank and capital 
market borrowings. All of the borrowings are 
managed by a central treasury function and 
funds raised are lent onward to operating 
subsidiaries as required. The overall objective is 
to manage the funding to ensure the Group has 
a portfolio of competitively priced borrowing 
facilities to meet the demands of the business 
over time and, in order to do so, the Group 
arranges a mixture of borrowings from different 
sources with a variety of maturity dates. 
The Group’s businesses provide a high and 
consistent level of cash generation which  
helps fund future development and growth. 
The Group seeks to maintain an appropriate 
balance between the higher returns that might 
be possible with higher levels of borrowings 
and the advantages and security afforded by  
a sound capital position.
There were no changes to the Group’s 
approach to capital management during  
the year and the Group is not subject to any 
externally imposed capital requirements.
Treasury policies and controls
The Group has a centralised treasury 
department to control external borrowings  
and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign 
currency risks. Treasury policies have been 
approved by the Board and cover the nature  
of the exposure to be hedged, the types of 
financial instruments that may be employed 
and the criteria for investing and borrowing 
cash. The Group uses derivatives to manage 
its foreign currency and interest rate risks 
arising from underlying business activities.  
No transactions of a speculative nature are 
undertaken. The treasury department is 
subject to periodic independent review by  
the internal audit department. Underlying 
policy assumptions and activities are reviewed 
by the executive directors. Controls over 
exposure changes and transaction authenticity 
are in place.
Hedge accounting
The Group designates derivatives which qualify 
as hedges for accounting purposes as either 
(a) a hedge of the fair value of a recognised 
asset or liability; (b) a hedge of the cash flow 
risk resulting from changes in interest rates  
or foreign exchange rates; or (c) a hedge of  
a net investment in a foreign operation. The 
Group tests the effectiveness of hedges on a 
prospective and retrospective basis to ensure 
compliance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’. Methods for 
testing effectiveness include dollar offset, 
critical terms and regression analysis.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will  
not be able to meet its financial obligations  
as they fall due. The Group continually 
monitors net debt and forecast cash flows  
to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place  
to meet the Group’s requirements in the short, 
medium and long term and, in order to do so, 
arranges borrowings from a variety of sources. 
Additionally, compliance with debt covenants 
is monitored. During 2010 all covenants have 
been complied with. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 18 Financial review
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities 
available to it comprising multi-currency credit 
facilities from the Group’s banks and US dollar 
and sterling bonds. The committed facilities 
maturity profile as at 31 December 2010 is set 
out in the chart below. In addition to these 
committed facilities, a further issue of fixed 
interest rate US dollar and sterling bonds was 
agreed in December 2010 of which £75.2 
million (sterling equivalent) is due to be drawn 
by the Company in April 2011 and is therefore 
not included in the table. Of this US dollar 
bond, £42.1 million matures in April 2021  
and £33.1 million matures in April 2023.
Interest rate risk
The Group is funded by a mixture of floating 
and fixed rate debt. In addition, interest  
rate swaps and interest rate options are  
used to manage the interest rate risk profile.  
At 31 December 2010 fixed rate debt of 
£347.4 million (2009: £322.1 million) related 
to fixed US dollar and sterling bonds stated at 
amortised cost with maturities ranging from 
2014 to 2019.
At 31 December 2010 floating rate debt 
comprised £245.6 million of floating rate  
bank loans (2009: £251.3 million) and  
£214.9 million of fixed rate US dollar bonds 
which have been swapped to floating rates 
using interest rate swaps (2009: £210.6 
million). Bank loans are drawn for various 
periods of up to three months at interest rates 
linked to LIBOR. The interest rate swaps 
reprice every three and six months.
The interest rate risk on the floating rate  
debt is managed using interest rate options. 
Borrowings with a notional principal of  
£301.0 million were capped at 31 December 
2010 (2009: £309.7 million) and borrowings 
with a notional principal of £nil were collared  
at 31 December 2010 (2009: £186.3 million).
Foreign currency risk
The principal underlying currencies of the 
Group’s earnings are sterling, US dollars  
and euros. The Group does not hedge the 
impact of exchange rate movements arising  
on translation of earnings into sterling at 
average exchange rates. For the year ended  
31 December 2010, a movement of one cent 
in the US dollar and euro average exchange 
rates would have changed profit before tax  
by £0.8 million and £0.3 million respectively 
and profit before tax, intangible amortisation 
and acquisition related costs by £0.8 million  
and £0.5 million respectively.
The majority of the Group’s transactions  
are carried out in the respective functional 
currencies of the Group’s operations and so 
transaction exposures are usually relatively 
limited. Where they do occur, the Group’s 
policy is to hedge significant exposures of firm 
commitments for a period of up to one year  
as soon as they are committed using forward 
foreign exchange contracts and these are 
designated as cash flow hedges. However, the 
economic impact of foreign exchange on the 
value of uncommitted future purchases and 
sales is not hedged. As a result, sudden and 
significant movements in foreign exchange 
rates can impact profit margins where there  
is a delay in passing on to customers the 
resulting price increases. 
The majority of the Group’s borrowings are 
effectively denominated in sterling, US dollars 
and euros, aligning them to the respective 
functional currencies of its operating profit 
before depreciation, intangible amortisation 
and acquisition related costs (‘EBITDA’).  
This currency profile, which is set out in the 
chart below as at 31 December 2010, is 
achieved using short term foreign exchange 
contracts, long term cross currency interest 
rate swaps and foreign currency debt. This 
currency composition minimises the impact  
of foreign exchange rates on the ratio of net 
debt to EBITDA.
139
140
120
114
50
163
80
32
84
116
69
36
60
34
54
52
 Bank facilities – undrawn
 Bank facilities – drawn
 US dollar and sterling bonds
COMMITTED FACILITIES MATURITY PROFILE 20 11–2019 £m
19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11
CURRENCY PROFILE OF NET DEBT
 Sterling
 US dollar
 Euro
 Other
49%
29%
20%
2%
Financial re View continued
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to a 
financial asset due to non-payment by the 
counterparty. The Group’s objective is to 
reduce its exposure to counterparty default  
by restricting the type of counterparty it deals 
with and by employing an appropriate policy  
in relation to the collection of financial assets.
The Group’s principal financial assets are  
cash and deposits, derivative financial 
instruments and trade and other receivables 
which represent the Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk in relation to financial 
assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk 
for cash and deposits, derivative financial 
instruments and trade and other receivables  
is their carrying amount.
Dealings are restricted to those banks with the 
relevant combination of geographic presence 
and suitable credit rating. The Group continually 
monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties 
and the credit exposure to each counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, the amounts 
represented in the balance sheet are net of 
allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated 
by the Group’s management based on prior 
experience and their assessment of the 
current economic environment.
At the balance sheet date there were no 
significant concentrations of credit risk. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 corporate responsibility 19
cor Porate res PonsiB ility 
Objective pe Rf ORm Ance 
me Asu Res An D st Ructu ReD 
m Onit ORin G Of envi ROnment Al 
An D he Alth & s Afety issues 
c Ontinue t O be A f Ocus
Strategy 
We believe that Corporate Responsibility  
(‘CR’) is not only about the good management 
of our business but also excellent and 
responsive long term relationships with all our 
stakeholders, whether customers, employees 
or suppliers. We have identified seven CR 
elements relevant to our business model: 
business conduct/code of ethics; employees; 
health & safety; environment; community; 
customers; and suppliers. These are governed 
by a policy framework, which is approved and 
monitored by the Board, with implementation 
at a business area level.
Our approach 
During 2010 we reviewed our approach 
relating to CR issues, seeking input from both 
consultants and shareholders. We confirmed 
that our management practices relating to  
CR remained appropriate and we amended 
our policies to make them more concise, 
clearer and better tailored to Bunzl’s specific 
challenges. We have also decided to adopt the 
term CR going forward rather than Corporate 
Social Responsibility to reflect that these 
policies are part of the way Bunzl operates. 
To transform our strategy into tangible 
activities we undertake the following steps:
Further details of the Group’s CR policies, 
processes and controls and how they are 
monitored are available in the CR section  
of the Company’s website, www.bunzl.com. 
Business conduct/code of ethics 
The Group’s business conduct/code of ethics 
policy, which was updated in 2010 to improve 
the clarity of its provisions and to ensure  
that it continued to reflect best practice, is 
disseminated to every employee as a guide  
to how employees are expected to conduct 
themselves both from a corporate and 
individual perspective. The policy clearly  
states that employees should avoid conflicts  
of interest, provides guidance on the giving 
and receiving of gifts and entertainment, 
prohibits illegal payments as well as political 
donations and reinforces the need to comply 
with laws, rules and regulations, protect 
confidential information and company assets 
and maintain high standards in relationships 
with our customers and suppliers. 
•	 	 D u ri n g 	 t h e 	 y e a r 	 w e 	 r e f r e s h ed 	 a n d	
relaunched our whistle blowing process, 
‘Speak Up’. New, more prominent, posters 
explaining the process were developed  
and an additional contact point, where  
an anonymous telephone message could  
be left, was introduced.
Set policy
Devise and 
maintain systems
Measure and 
monitor 
performance (KPIs)
Seek and act on 
stakeholder 
feedback
Communicate  
and report to 
stakeholders Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 20 corporate responsibility
cor Porate res Ponsi Bility continued
INCIDENCE RATE
10 09 08
157
205
209
SEVERITY RATE
10 09
4,863
5,419
08
6,680
• 	 	 N o 	 m a t e r i a l 	 b r e a c h e s 	 o f 	 o u r 	 b u s i n e s s	
conduct/code of ethics policy were recorded 
in 2010. However, some minor incidents 
relating to employee conduct, such as theft 
or misuse of the Group’s property, did occur 
and were dealt with during the normal 
course of business using Group human 
resource (‘HR’) policies and procedures. 
Nine calls/letters were received through the 
‘Speak Up’ campaign and, where possible, 
investigations were undertaken. The majority 
of the matters raised related to employee 
grievance issues.
•	 	 I n 	 p r e pa r a t ion 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 i n t r od u c t ion 	 o f 	 t h e	
Bribery Act in the UK, a bribery risk 
assessment has been undertaken. For  
each identified risk, mitigating factors have 
been considered as well as the policies, 
controls and processes which are in place. 
As a consequence, the tightening of some 
existing controls and the introduction of 
some additional processes are being 
considered for introduction in 2011. 
2011 objectives 
• 	 	 I f 	 a p p r o p r i a t e , 	 a m e n d 	 t h e 	 p o l i c i e s , 	 c o n t r o l s	
and processes in the light of the Bribery  
Act in the UK.
•	 	 I n t r od u c e 	 a n t i- b ri be r y 	 t r a i n i n g 	 a c r oss	 
the Group.
Employees 
Bunzl currently operates in 23 countries 
worldwide. We are a service provider, not a 
manufacturer and, as such, our business relies 
heavily on the skills and experience of our 
employees. We pride ourselves on the fact  
that we run our businesses locally with local 
managers. We do not unfairly discriminate and 
we respect human rights. We seek to recruit 
the right people who are passionate about our 
business and provide opportunities for people 
to progress within the organisation on the 
basis of their skills, experience and aptitude. 
We believe that to get the best from people  
we need to respect each other and encourage 
honest, straightforward communication.
•	 	 I n 	 M a y 	 20 1 0 , 	 w e 	 b r o u g h t 	 o u r 	 se n io r	
managers together for a three day 
conference to share best practice and 
discuss the key issues presently facing 
Bunzl.
•	 	 T h e 	 r es u l ts 	 o f 	 a n d 	 a c t ion s 	 t a k e n 	 f o l lo w i n g	
the 2009 employee survey were discussed 
at our 2010 European Information and 
Consultation Forum. The Forum welcomed 
the overall satisfaction levels expressed by 
employees and recommended that the next 
employee survey be undertaken in 2012.
•	 	 O u r 	 a c q u i s i t ion 	 pi pe l i n e 	 con t i n u es 	 t o 	 be 	 a	
valuable source of management talent for 
the Group and the completion of nine 
acquisitions during the year has brought 
further highly skilled people into Bunzl.
2011 objectives 
• 	 	 D e v e l o p 	 t h e 	 f o r m a t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 e m p l o y e e 	 s u r v e y	
for 2012.
• 	 	 	 C o n t i n u e 	 t o 	 m o n i t o r 	 k e y 	 H R 	 m e a s u r e s 	 s u c h	
as voluntary turnover, sickness absence, 
training days, workforce gender and age mix 
and, as appropriate, take action to address 
any issues that may arise.
Health & safety 
The health and safety of our employees and 
other stakeholders is a priority. Although we try 
to minimise the risks which occur, particularly 
relating to the operation of our warehouses 
and vehicles, incidents relating to manual 
handling, slipping and tripping remain the 
highest cause of accidents.
•	 	 D u ri n g 	 t h e 	 y e a r 	 a c c i d e n t 	 i n c i d e n ce	 
rates improved by 23% compared to the 
previous year and severity rates improved  
by 10%. This is due to better performance 
throughout the Group, particularly in  
North America. 
• 	 	 W e 	 a r e 	 p l e a s e d 	 t o 	 r e p o r t 	 t h a t 	 i n 	 2 0 1 0 	 t h e r e	
were no fatalities due to work related 
incidents. It is more than seven years since 
we have had a year free of fatalities.
2011 objectives 
• 	 	 R e d u c e 	 G r o u p 	 a c c i d e n t 	 i n c i d e n c e 	 a n d	
severity rates by a further 5%. This is the 
first year that we have set quantitative 
objectives at the Group level and therefore 
we have taken a conservative stance with 
the intention of reviewing our approach 
going forward after the first year.
Environment 
Bunzl seeks to prevent, mitigate and remediate 
the harmful effects of our operations on the 
environment. To ameliorate our impact on  
and exposure to climate change, our facilities 
operate to Group standards, we promote 
environmental awareness throughout the 
business and our branch network mitigates 
against the effects of extreme local climate 
conditions. Our direct water usage is minimal 
as it is principally confined to that required for 
workplace cleaning and hygiene purposes. 
• 	 	 B u n z l 	 h a d 	 n o 	 e n v i r o n m e n t a l 	 i n c i d e n t s	 
in 2010.
• 	 	 D u r i n g 	 t h e 	 y e a r , 	 g e n e r a l 	 w a s t e 	 g e n e r a t e d	
per £1,000 of revenue in the UK & Ireland, 
parts of Continental Europe and Australasia 
decreased year on year by 13% and 
recovered waste per £1,000 of revenue 
increased by 13%. We are continuing to 
expand the collection of waste data to 
include more businesses in the Group.  
The level of fuel consumption per £1,000  
of revenue increased slightly due to the  
cold winter and lower revenues in the UK & 
Ireland and France where some of our 
largest commercial vehicle fleets are based.
Although we have previously reported our 
carbon emissions data through the Carbon 
Disclosure Project, we now include our level  
of carbon emissions as a key performance 
indicator. The level of carbon emissions has 
increased slightly in 2010 due to the improved 
reporting of data combined with an increase  
in energy consumption as a result of the more 
severe weather conditions. Carbon emissions 
data for the UK & Ireland was independently 
audited by the Carbon Trust as part of 
attaining the Carbon Trust Standard.
• 	 	 I S O 	 1 4 0 0 1 	 a c c r e d i t a t i o n 	 w a s 	 a t t a i n e d 	 b y	 
the remaining sites in Bunzl Australasia and 
King Netherlands. To date all sites in UK  
& Ireland and Australasia and many sites  
in Continental Europe are now accredited. 
By revenue this represents more than 30% 
of the Group.
2011 objectives 
• 	 	 R e d u c e 	 S c o p e 	 1 	 a n d 	 2 	 c a r b o n 	 e m i s s i o n s	 
by 2%. This is the first year that we have set 
quantitative objectives at the Group level 
and therefore we have taken a conservative 
stance with the intention of reviewing our 
approach going forward after the first year.
•	 	 Se e k 	 t o 	 i m p r o v e 	 t h e 	 a c c u r a c y 	 a n d 	 c o v e r a g e	
across the Group of the collection of  
waste data.
Average number  
 of incidents 
per month per  
100,000 employees.
Average number  
of days lost  
per month per  
100,000 employees. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 corporate responsibility 21
Community 
Although Bunzl’s operations are international, 
our strength is in the local nature of our 
businesses. In keeping with this ethos, we 
particularly support the fundraising activities 
championed by our employees locally. This is 
supplemented by donations made at Group 
level to charities predominantly in the fields of 
healthcare, disability and the environment  
as well as benevolent societies to support 
projects in communities where our operations 
are based. Where possible and appropriate, 
Bunzl also looks to donate stock free of  
charge (‘in-kind’).
• 	 	 G r o u p 	 w i d e , 	 B u n z l 	 d o n a t e d 	 a 	 t o t a l 	 o f	
£430,000 to charity in 2010. This does not 
include in-kind donations or employee fund 
raising. The largest donation last year was 
made to Ruskin Mill College in the UK for 
the replacement of their woodland kitchen. 
The college educates people aged 16 to 25 
with severe autistic spectrum disorders  
and developmental delay. The curriculum 
focuses on land based practical skills 
centred around a certified biodynamic farm, 
woodlands and horticultural area. 
• 	 	 G r o u p 	 c o m p a n i e s 	 a n d 	 e m p l o y e e s 	 w o r l d w i d e	
have continued to support local charitable 
initiatives. In North America, we sponsored 
a parade in St Louis of the Children’s Charity, 
whose mission is to promote the health and 
well-being of children around the world, as 
well as undertaking fund raising for the relief 
effort in Haiti following the earthquake.  
In Australasia, 126 Bunzl employees took 
part in the 16 week Global Corporate 
Challenge to improve employee health and 
well-being, which involved competitors 
recording their daily step count, bicycle and 
swimming activity to help improve their 
overall health, and many have been fund 
raising for the flood victims in Queensland. 
In Romania, Bunzl donated the use of their 
vehicles to the Romanian Rescue 
Association to assist in an environmental 
clean up operation of a local area. In the 
UK, employee fund raising has taken place 
for Macmillan Nurses, Help for Heroes and 
Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research.
• 	 	 F o r 	 t h e 	 fi f t h 	 c o n s e c u t i v e 	 y e a r 	 B u n z l	 
North America was honoured with a  
Greater St Louis Top 50 Business Shaping 
our Future Award from the St Louis Regional 
Commerce and Growth Association.  
Bunzl was honoured for being among  
the best companies in its field and for 
making significant contributions to the  
St Louis region and the future of its  
business community. 
2011 objectives 
• 	 	 I d e n t i f y 	 f u r t h e r 	 e n v i r o n m e n t a l 	 p r o j e c t s 	 f o r	
Bunzl to support.
•	 	 F u r t h e r 	 r e v i ew 	 i n-k i n d 	 d on a t ion s .
Customers 
As a service business, our ability to both 
anticipate and meet our customers’ needs  
is key to our success. We strive to ensure that 
we provide high levels of service. We achieve 
this by building solid relationships at a local 
level by regularly meeting with and seeking 
feedback from our customers. We also provide 
innovative service and product solutions to 
meet our customers’ needs including 
requirements to meet sustainability goals.
• 	 	 D u r i n g 	 2 0 1 0 	 w e 	 f u r t h e r 	 i n c r e a s e d 	 o u r	
product range to include a broader range  
of sustainable packaging solutions. These 
included plant based compostable trays  
for meat, fish and poultry in North America, 
using recycled polyethylene terephthalate 
(rPET) for meat trays in the Netherlands  
and a new BioWare Fairtrade promotional 
hot paper cup made from sustainably 
sourced paper in the UK.
• 	 	 T h e 	 G r o u p 	 h a s 	 r e c e i v e d 	 a 	 n u m b e r 	 o f 	 a w a r d s	
from our customers including 2010 Heinz 
Supplier of the Year and the Innovative 
Supplier of the Year from Food Services of 
America in North America, while in the UK, 
Keenpac received the 2010 Most Sustainable 
Vendor award from Disney, Lockhart was 
named as Best Equipment Distributor by 
Chefs’ Choice, Bunzl Cleaning and Hygiene 
was named by ISS Best of the Best 2010 
and one of Bunzl Retail’s Account Managers 
was awarded Best Account Manager by 
Asda. In Continental Europe, Bunzl 
Netherland’s customer, Hotel Casa 400, 
gave one of our Account Managers its 
Account Manager of the Year 2010 award 
and Weita in Switzerland has been rated  
by Emmi as its Most Reliable Supplier.
2011 objectives 
• 	 	 C o n t i n u e 	 t o 	 p r o v i d e 	 i n n o v a t i v e 	 p r o d u c t s	 
and improve customer service.
Suppliers 
Bunzl has relationships with many suppliers. 
We want our suppliers to meet the same CR 
standards we set ourselves and to that end  
we have set up our own quality assurance/ 
quality control (‘QA/QC’) department as part of  
our purchasing office in Shanghai. Our QA/QC 
staff perform regular audits of many of our 
suppliers in Asia and work with our suppliers 
to implement appropriate CR standards.
• 	 	 I n 	 2 0 1 0 , 	 w e 	 i n c r e a s e d 	 t h e 	 n u m b e r 	 o f	 
staff within our Shanghai based QA/QC 
department and further refined our  
audit approach.
2011 objectives 
• 	 	 C o n t a c t 	 o u r 	 k e y 	 s u p p l i e r s 	 t o 	 u p d a t e 	 t h e m	 
on our CR aspirations and to encourage 
them to adopt a similar approach.
FUEL USAGE
(Ltrs per £000 revenue)
10 09
7 .55 7 .33
Diesel, petrol and LPG used 
in the Group’s own vehicles.
10 09
GENERAL WASTE
(Kgs per £000 revenue)
0.98
1.12
Waste sent to landfill and  
for incineration.
RECOVERED WASTE 
(Kgs per £000 revenue)
10 09
2.14
1.90
Separated waste which  
is recovered/recycled.
SCOPE 1 AND 2 CARBON EMISSIONS
(Kgs of CO 2 per £000 revenue)
28.2
27 .7
10 09
Measured in accordance 
with the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol applying 2009 
DEFRA conversion factors.
All data for the fuel usage, waste, carbon emissions and 
accident statistics for each year is based on the 12 months 
ended 30 September with comparative measures by 
revenue calculated at constant exchange rates. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 22 corporate responsibility
Risks and opportunities 
The Directors’ report on page 24 details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group’s business, 
financial condition or results of the operations. Although many CR risks are not seen as principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk 
analysis the following CR risks which could impact the Group’s business have been identified together with the steps taken by management  
to mitigate such risks:
RISK MITIGATING FACTORS
CR compliance failures
Lack of adherence to the Group’s CR policies could result in a variety 
of issues including those relating to inappropriate business practices, 
accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of waste or 
carbon emissions. 
 
The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures (including 
those relating to anti-bribery and corruption) in place throughout the 
business as well as an established reporting framework. 
Loss of key employees
The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on  
strong customer and supplier relationships which are built up locally. 
Stability of key relationship roles amongst the Group’s employees is 
therefore important.
 
The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive 
packages, development opportunities and career progression.  
Voluntary staff turnover is measured on a monthly basis, which 
enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities/unavailability of staff
Climate change may result in higher frequency of exteme weather 
conditions. This could result in some of the Group’s facilities being 
affected or employees being unable to attend for work.
 
The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than 
one location as a result of which the Group usually has the ability to 
distribute products from nearby facilities. Business continuity plans 
are in place to minimise the impact of any such issues.
Suppliers’ non-compliance with good CR practices
The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international  
suppliers across the world. The failure of one of the Group’s key 
suppliers to adhere to recognised CR standards could affect the 
Group’s reputation. 
 
The Group’s key suppliers are principally publicly owned multinational 
organisations with high standards of operations. Suppliers are 
monitored by the Group’s purchasing departments and the QA/QC 
department based in China audits many suppliers throughout Asia. 
Key suppliers are made aware of the Group’s CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business 
environment. The principal opportunities include:
OPPORTUNITY RESPONSE
Environment
Throughout the world there is an increased awareness of the need  
to conserve resources and reduce carbon emissions.
 
Bunzl is not a manufacturer and therefore there is complete flexibility 
to offer products that meet customers’ requirements. A full range of 
environmentally friendly products are available.
The Group provides customers with the ability to benefit from a 
consolidated delivery of their consumable products. This reduces 
carbon emissions by eliminating the need for multiple deliveries from 
many different suppliers and streamlining the related administration 
for our customers.
Climate change
Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather 
conditions such as floods, cyclones and heavy snowfall. 
 
There is likely to be an increase in demand for protective clothing  
to cope with climate change as well as the need for other products 
supplied by the Group, such as cleaning and hygiene products.
Employees
Competition for good quality people continues to be strong.
 
A key element of Bunzl’s strategy is the acquisition of high quality 
businesses. This results in a number of motivated, high performing 
people joining the Group each year. It also brings new ideas and  
fresh approaches to the business which can be utilised elsewhere  
in the Group.
Health & safety
Throughout the world there has been an increase in health & safety 
legislation and an emphasis on safe working environments.
 
This leads to an increased demand from both existing and new 
customers for the Group’s personal protection equipment as well  
as providing the potential to introduce new innovative products in  
this area.
cor Porate res Ponsi Bility continued Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Board of directors 23
Board o F directors
1 | 2 3 | 4 
5 | 6 7 | 8
1 Michael Roney
# (Age 56)
Chief Executive since 2005 having been a 
non-executive director since 2003. After 
holding a number of senior general 
management positions within Goodyear 
throughout Latin America and then Asia, he 
became President of their Eastern European, 
African and Middle Eastern businesses and 
subsequently Chief Executive Officer of 
Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe BV. He is a 
non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc. 
2 Philip Rogerson
# (Age 66)
Appointed to the Board in January 2010 and 
became Chairman on 1 March 2010. Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee. He was an 
executive director of BG plc (formerly British 
Gas plc) from 1992 to 1998, latterly as Deputy 
Chairman. He is Chairman of Aggreko plc and 
Carillion plc.
3 Ulrich Wolters
*†#• (Age 68)
Non-executive director since 2004. Formerly 
Managing Director of Aldi Süd in Germany,  
he built the business into one of the world’s 
leading retailers operating principally in 
Germany and Austria, the US, the UK and 
Australia. He is Chairman of Lenze SE and a 
non-executive director of Douglas Holding AG 
and Deichmann SE.
4 Pat Larmon
(Age 58)
Executive director since 2004 and President 
and Chief Executive Officer, North America. 
Having joined Bunzl in 1990 when Packaging 
Products Corporation, of which he was an 
owner, was acquired, he held various senior 
management positions over 13 years before 
becoming President of North America in 
2003. He was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer in 2004.
5 David Sleath
*†#• (Age 49)
Non-executive director since 2007 and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Formerly  
a Partner and Head of Audit and Assurance 
for the Midlands region of Arthur Andersen,  
he subsequently became Finance Director  
of Wagon plc before joining SEGRO plc, the 
European industrial property group, where he 
has been Group Finance Director since 2006 
and will become Chief Executive in April 2011.
6 Brian May
(Age 46)
Finance Director since 2006. A chartered 
accountant, he qualified with KPMG and 
joined Bunzl in 1993 as Internal Audit 
Manager. Subsequently he became Group 
Treasurer before taking up the role of Finance 
Director, Europe & Australasia in 1996 and 
Finance Director designate in 2005. 
7 Peter Johnson
*†#• (Age 63)
Non-executive director since 2006 and Senior 
Independent Director. Having spent most of 
his earlier career in the motor industry, he 
joined Inchcape plc in 1995, became Chief 
Executive in 1999 and was Chairman from 
2006 until 2009. He is Chairman of The Rank 
Group Plc. 
8 Charles Banks
*†#• (Age 70)
Non-executive director since 2002 and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
Previously Chief Executive of Ferguson 
Enterprises, the largest North American 
subsidiary of Wolseley plc, he joined the  
Board of Wolseley in 1992 and was Group 
Chief Executive from 2001 until 2006.  
He was a partner of private equity firm  
Clayton Dubilier & Rice from 2006 until  
2010. He will retire from the Board after  
the Annual General Meeting.
* Member of the Audit Committee 
† Member of the Remuneration Committee 
# Member of the Nomination Committee 
• 	 I n de pe n de nt 	 d i r ec t o r   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 24 Directors’ report
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report which includes this Directors’ report and the audited financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2010. The Directors’ report incorporates by reference, to the extent 
indicated below, certain information included elsewhere in the Annual Report and should be read in conjunction with that information. The 
Corporate governance report on pages 29 to 31 also forms part of the statutory directors’ report.
Principal activity and business review 
The principal activity of the Group is providing value added distribution and outsourcing services in the Americas, Europe and Australasia. 
Details of the Group’s activities, developments and performance for the year, the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development 
and performance and information which fulfils the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the production of a business review are 
set out in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the Financial review and the Corporate responsibility report on pages 4 to 22 
and in the section below entitled ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’. The Company uses a number of key performance indicators to measure 
progress towards its objectives. These are set out in the form of bar graphs on pages 7, 16 and 21.
Principal risks and uncertainties
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group’s business, financial condition or 
results of operations. The Group has specific policies and procedures which are designed to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate business 
risk. The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks and uncertainties include 
the following:
RISK MITIGATING FACTORS
Economic environment
The Group’s business is partially dependent on general economic 
conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.  
A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse 
effect on the Group’s business and results of operations.
 
The Group’s operations and its customer base are diverse, with  
a variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which  
it competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient to 
economic downturns.
Competitive pressures
The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces 
competition from international companies as well as national, 
regional and local companies in the countries in which it operates. 
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors  
or customers could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder 
the Group’s growth potential, either through pressure on margins  
or loss of customers.
 
The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service 
levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their 
needs and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a 
national presence in the markets in which the Group operates and 
maintaining strong relationships with a variety of different suppliers 
thereby enabling the Group to offer a broad range of products to  
its customers. 
Product price changes
The purchase price and availability of products distributed by the 
Group can fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting 
the results of operations. Adverse economic conditions resulting in a 
period of commodity price deflation and increased levels of imported 
products may lead to reductions in the price and value of the Group’s 
products. If this were to occur, the Group’s revenue and, as a result, 
its profits, could be reduced and the value of inventory held in stock 
may not be fully recoverable.
 
The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price 
increases from its suppliers to its customers and to source its 
products from a number of different suppliers so that it is not 
dependent on any one source of supply for any particular product. 
Increased focus on the Group’s own import programmes and brands, 
together with the reinforcement of the Group’s service and product 
offering to customers, helps to minimise the impact of price deflation.
The Group mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued inventory 
in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels efficiently and 
ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
Foreign exchange
The majority of the Group’s sales are made and income is earned  
in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. As a result, 
movements in exchange rates may have a material translation impact 
on the Group’s reported results. The Group may also be subject to 
transaction exposures where products are purchased in one currency 
and sold in another and movements in exchange rates may also 
adversely affect the value of the Group’s net assets.
 
The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical spread 
outweigh the associated risks. 
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the 
functional currency of the Group’s operations. As a result, transaction 
exposures are usually limited and exchange rate fluctuations have 
minimal effect on the quality of earnings unless there is a sudden and 
significant adverse movement of a foreign currency in which products 
are purchased which may lead to a delay in passing on to customers 
the resulting price increases.
Acquisitions
A significant portion of the Group’s historical growth has been 
achieved through the acquisition of businesses and the Group’s 
growth strategy includes additional acquisitions. Although the Group 
operates in a number of fragmented markets which provide future 
acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance that the Group 
will be able to make acquisitions in the future or that any acquisitions 
made will be successful.
In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms 
compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this will 
lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the intangible 
assets attributed to that acquisition.
 
The Group’s acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses 
which operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive 
advantage and which have good growth opportunities. The Group 
continually reviews acquisition targets and has established processes 
and procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence 
and post-acquisition integration.
The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an acquisition 
through the recruitment and retention of high quality management 
combined with effective strategic planning, investment in resources 
and infrastructure and regular reviews of performance by both 
business area and Group management.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors’ report 25
RISK MITIGATING FACTORS
Financial liquidity and debt covenants
The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet its 
trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth and to 
make acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise. There is a risk 
that the Group may be unable to obtain the necessary funds when 
required or that such funds will only be available on unfavourable terms. 
The Group’s borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply with 
certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt and 
interest cover. A breach of these covenants could result in a significant 
proportion of the Group’s borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
 
The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources 
and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure 
that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and 
that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s requirements 
in the short, medium and long term.
Compliance with the Group’s biannual debt covenants is monitored 
on a monthly basis based on the management accounts. Sensitivity 
analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess 
their impact on covenants.
Business continuity
The Group would be affected if there was a significant failure of its 
major distribution facilities or information systems.
 
The Group seeks to reduce the impact of facilities’ failure through the 
use of multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than one 
location and the impact of information systems’ failure through the 
adoption of detailed back up plans which are periodically tested and 
which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations
The international nature of the Group’s operations exposes it to 
potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws  
and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation 
to the supply of defective products or breaches of their contractual 
arrangements. The sourcing of products from lower cost countries 
increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any potential 
losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
 
Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious market 
sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and mitigate 
against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary. 
The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance and 
quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with defective 
products.
The Financial review on pages 16 to 18 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements includes information relating to the Group’s risk 
management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments. The ‘Internal control and risk management’ section of the Corporate 
governance report on page 31 includes further information on the specific procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
Going concern
As indicated in the section above entitled ‘Principal activity and business 
review’, details of the Group’s activities, developments and performance 
are set out on pages 4 to 22. In addition, information relating to the 
financial performance, financial position and cash flows of the Group  
is set out in the Financial review on pages 16 to 18. Note 13 to the 
consolidated financial statements includes the details of the Group’s 
debt profile, capital management policy, treasury policies and controls, 
hedging activities and financial instruments and its policies and 
exposures to liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks.
The Group continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows  
to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s 
requirements in the short, medium and long term and, in order to do 
so, arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources comprising 
multi-currency credit facilities and US dollar and sterling bonds.  
As at 31 December 2010 the Group had net debt of £716.8 million 
and undrawn committed facilities of £557.3 million. During the next  
12 months £245.5 million of the committed facilities mature and 
thereafter the facilities will mature at various times over the period  
up to May 2019. In addition, the Company has agreed a further issue 
of £75.2 million (sterling equilvalent) of US dollar bonds which will  
be drawn in April 2011 and which will mature in April 2021 and April 
2023. The Group is highly cash generative and its cash flows have 
historically been strong, converting 93% of the operating profit before 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs into operating 
cash in 2010. Compliance with the Group’s biannual debt covenants  
is monitored on a monthly basis and sensitivity analyses using various 
scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants 
and net debt. During 2010 all covenants have been complied with and 
based on current forecasts it is expected that such covenants will 
continue to be complied with for the foreseeable future.
The Group has sufficient financial resources, a well established, 
fragmented customer base, strong supplier relationships and a diverse 
geographic presence. As a consequence, the directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite 
the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the 
directors believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 7.15p was paid on 4 January 2011 in respect  
of 2010 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 16.2p, 
making a total for the year of 23.35p per share (2009: 21.55p). 
Dividend details are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial 
statements. Subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting on 20 April 2011, the final dividend will be paid  
on 1 July 2011 to those shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 13 May 2011.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 26 Directors’ report
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided  
into ordinary shares of 32
1
∕7p each which rank pari passu in respect  
of participation and voting rights. The shares are in registered form, 
are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.  
In addition, the Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt programme with the Bank of New York Mellon under which 
the Company’s shares are traded on the over the counter market  
in the form of American Depositary receipts.
Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are set 
out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without 
prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company 
may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights and 
restrictions as set out in such resolution or (if there is no such 
resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision) as the Board 
may decide. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and 
of any resolution of the Company passed pursuant thereto and without 
prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, the Board is duly 
authorised to issue and allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose  
of the Company’s shares on such terms and conditions and at such 
times as it thinks fit. If at any time the share capital of the Company is 
divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class 
may be varied or abrogated by special resolution passed at a separate 
general meeting of such holders. Subject to the rights attached to any 
existing shares, rights attached to shares will be deemed to be varied 
by the reduction of capital paid up on the shares and by the allotment 
of further shares ranking in priority in respect of dividend or capital or 
which confer on the holders more favourable voting rights than the 
first-mentioned shares, but will not otherwise be deemed to be varied 
by the creation or issue of further shares.
Power to issue and allot shares
The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under the 
authorities granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to allot shares 
or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of 
the Company up to i) a maximum nominal amount of £35.2 million; 
and ii) to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert 
any securities into shares in connection with a rights issue to existing 
shareholders in proportion (or as nearly as may be practicable) up to 
an aggregate nominal amount equal to £70.4 million or as reduced by 
the nominal value of any ordinary shares allotted under i) above. At the 
same meeting authority was also granted to the directors to allot the 
Company’s shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of 
approximately £5.7 million, without regard to the pre-emption 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. No such shares were issued  
or allotted under these authorities in 2010, nor is there any current 
intention to do so, other than to satisfy the consideration payable for 
businesses to be acquired. If the directors do exercise the authority 
under ii) above the directors intend to follow ABI recommendations 
concerning its use.
These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. The directors again propose to seek 
equivalent authorities at such Annual General Meeting.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
Dealings in the Company’s ordinary shares by its directors, persons 
discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the 
Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject  
to the Company’s dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the 
Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply  
to transfers of shares in the Company. The Board may refuse to 
register an instrument of transfer of any share which is not a fully paid 
share and of a certificated share at its discretion unless it is:
•	 	 lod g ed , 	 d u l y 	 st a m ped 	 o r 	 d u l y 	 ce r t ified , 	 a t 	 t h e 	 o f fices 	 o f 	 t h e 	
Company’s registrars or such other place as the Board may specify 
and is accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it 
relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably 
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer; 
• 	 i n 	 r e s p e c t 	 o f 	 o n l y 	 o n e 	 c l a s s 	 o f 	 s h a r e s ; 	 a n d	
•	 i n 	 fa v o u r 	 o f 	 n o t 	 m o r e 	 t h a n 	 f o u r 	 t r a n sf e r ee s .
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused  
in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules, and 
where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders 
to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four. 
In addition, no instrument of transfer for certificated shares shall be 
registered if the transferor has been served with a restriction notice (as 
defined in the Company’s Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’)) after 
failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain 
interests in the Company’s shares required to be provided under the 
Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be 
pursuant to an arms’ length sale. The Board has the power to procure 
that uncertificated shares are converted into certificated shares and 
kept in certificated form for as long as the Board requires. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in any restriction of the transfer of shares or voting rights.
Restrictions on voting rights
A member shall not be entitled to vote, unless the Board otherwise 
decides, at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any 
shares held by them if any call or other sums payable remain unpaid. 
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid. In addition, no member shall 
be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice after 
failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain 
interests in the Company’s shares required to be provided under the 
Companies Act 2006. Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy. 
The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms 
of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before a poll is 
taken if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded 
or during the meeting at which the poll was demanded if the poll is  
not taken straight away but is taken not more than 48 hours after it 
was demanded.
Bunzl Group Employee Benefit Trust
Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group General 
Employee Benefit Trust (‘the EBT’) which holds shares in respect of 
employee share options and awards that have not been exercised or 
vested. The current position is that the EBT abstains from voting in 
respect of these shares. The trustee has agreed to receive a nominal 
dividend of 0.001p per share on dividend payments on shares held 
within the EBT. Details of the shares so held are set out in Note 16  
to the consolidated financial statements.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors’ report 27
Purchase of own shares
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company 
authority to purchase a maximum of 32,845,000 ordinary shares. 
During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Company did not 
purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the 
authority granted at the 2009 Annual General Meeting and no shares 
have been purchased between 31 December 2010 and 28 February 
2011. The total number of ordinary shares currently held in treasury  
is 23,325,000. The Company is therefore currently authorised to  
buy back 32,845,000 of its own shares pursuant to the existing 
shareholders’ authority which is due to expire at the conclusion of the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The directors again propose to 
seek the equivalent authority at such Annual General Meeting.
Directors
Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened 
general meeting or appointed by the Board. Under the Articles, the 
minimum number of directors shall be two and the maximum shall be 
15. In accordance with the Articles, each director is required to retire 
at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year in which 
he or she was elected or last elected and any director who has held 
office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, 
for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Annual 
General Meeting is subject to annual re-election. The Board may also 
appoint a person willing to act as a director during the year either to fill 
a vacancy or as an additional director but so that the total number of 
directors shall not at any time exceed 15. However such appointee 
shall only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting of the 
Company. Notwithstanding the retirement by rotation provisions in  
the Articles, each of the directors will be standing for re-election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred by 
company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove a 
director from office before the expiration of his period of office under 
the Articles.
The office of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles if:
•	 	 h e 	 r e s i g n s 	 b y 	 g iv i n g 	 n o t i ce 	 t o 	 t h e 	 C om pa n y 	 o r 	 i s 	 a s k ed 	 t o 	 r e s i g n 	 b y	
all of the other directors who are not less than three in number; or 
• 	 	 h e 	 i s 	 o r 	 h a s 	 b e e n 	 s u f f e r i n g 	 f r o m 	 m e n t a l 	 o r 	 p h y s i c a l 	 i l l 	 h e a l t h 	 a n d 	 t h e	
Board resolves that his office be vacated; or
•	 	 h e 	 i s 	 a bse n t 	 wi t h o u t 	 pe r m i ss ion 	 f r om 	 B oa r d 	 m ee t i n gs 	 f o r 	 s i x	
consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office be 
vacated; or
•	 h e 	 bec om e s 	 ba n k r u p t 	 o r 	 com po u n d s 	 w i t h 	 h i s 	 c r ed i t o rs 	 g e n e r a l l y ; 	 o r
•	 h e 	 i s 	 p r oh i bi t ed 	 b y 	 l a w 	 f r om 	 be i n g 	 a 	 d i r ec t o r ; 	 o r
• 	 	 h e 	 c e a s e s 	 t o 	 b e 	 a 	 d i r e c t o r 	 b y 	 v i r t u e 	 o f 	 a n y 	 p r o v i s i o n s 	 o f 	 c o m p a n y	
law or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Mr J F Harris retired from the Board on 28 February 2010. All of the 
other current directors served throughout the year. Mr C A Banks will 
retire from the Board on 20 April 2011. Biographical details of the 
current directors are set out on page 23.
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements. None of the directors was materially 
interested in any contract of significance with the Company or any of 
its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2010. Information 
relating to the directors’ service agreements and their remuneration  
for the year and details of the directors’ share options under the 
Company’s share option schemes and awards under the Long Term 
Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out 
in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 32 to 40.
Powers of the directors
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions 
given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the 
Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all powers of the 
Company. The Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint 
any person or persons to be the agent or agents of the Company for 
such purposes and on such conditions as the Board determines.
Directors’ indemnities 
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the 
Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company 
Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of 
subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the 
Articles in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the 
execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or 
officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 
Amendment of Articles 
Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution of 
the Company’s shareholders. Following the implementation of the final 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 and the coming into force of the 
Companies Shareholders’ Rights Regulations in 2009, new Articles  
of Association were adopted by shareholders at the 2010 Annual 
General Meeting.
Environmental and social responsibility
The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider 
community and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that respects 
the environment and social and community issues. Further information 
relating to the Company’s approach to these matters is set out in the 
Corporate responsibility report on pages 19 to 22.
Employment policies
The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet 
the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which 
they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity. 
The Group has standards of business conduct with which it expects all 
its employees to comply. Bunzl encourages involvement of its 
employees in the performance of the business in which they are 
employed and aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment. In 
addition to a regular magazine and the Company’s intranet, which 
provide a variety of information on activities and developments within 
the Group and incorporate half year and annual financial reports, 
announcements are periodically circulated to give details of corporate 
and staff matters together with a number of subsidiary or business 
area publications dealing with activities in specific parts of the Group.
It is the Group’s policy that disabled applicants should be considered 
for employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes 
and abilities. Employees who become disabled during their working life 
will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with 
rehabilitation and training.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 28 Directors’ report
DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
Substantial shareholdings
As at 28 February 2011 the directors have been notified by the 
following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more  
of the issued share capital of the Company. The notifications listed 
below are those which have been most recently received for the 
named shareholders.
 Date of  Number  % of issued 
Shareholder notification of shares share capital
INVESCO plc 20.05.10 32,571,686 9.9
Aviva plc 23.04.10 19,007,850 5.8
Newton Investment 
Management Ltd 10.12.10 17,013,190 5.2
Lloyds Banking Group plc 27.05.10 16,425,039 5.0
Legal & General Group Plc 12.11.09 13,069,891 4.0
Significant agreements
The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, has a 
number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different counterparties, 
all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in substantially the 
same form and are prepayable at the option of the lender in the event 
of a change of control of the Company. Similar change of control 
provisions in relation to the Company are included in the syndicated 
bank loan and the US dollar bonds which have been entered into  
by Bunzl Finance plc and the Company and are also guaranteed by 
the Company.
Contractual arrangements 
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties 
in support of its business activities, none of which are considered 
individually to be essential to its business and, accordingly, it has not 
been considered necessary for an understanding of the development, 
performance or position of the Group’s business to disclose information 
about any of those third parties.
Creditor payment policy
Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and 
conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are 
conducted. It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these 
terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with 
them provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and 
conditions. The number of days’ billings from the Company’s suppliers 
outstanding at the end of the year was 30 (2009: 30).
Donations
During 2010, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the 
Group contributed £215,000 to UK charities (2009: £210,000).  
No contributions were made for political purposes.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The 
Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 20 April 
2011 at 11.00 am. The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting 
is set out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which 
explains the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
External auditor
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms 
that:
•	 	 so 	 fa r 	 a s 	 t h e 	 d i r ec t o r 	 i s 	 a wa r e , 	 t h e r e 	 i s 	 n o 	 r e l e v a n t 	 a ud i t 	 i n f o r m a t ion	
of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
•	 	 t h e 	 d i r ec t o r 	 h a s 	 t a k e n 	 a l l 	 st e ps 	 t h a t 	 h e 	 o u g h t 	 t o 	 h a v e 	 t a k e n 	 a s	 
a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is  
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the 
Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
On behalf of the Board 
P N Hussey  
Secretary 
28 February 2011
Pages 24 to 28 inclusive consist of a directors’ report that has been 
drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, 
applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in 
connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by such law.
The Annual Report contains certain statements about the future 
outlook for the Group. Although the Company believes that the 
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements 
about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause 
actual outcomes and results to be materially different.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance 29
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. This report describes how the principles of corporate 
governance set out in the Combined Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council (‘the Code’) have been applied by the Company 
during the year ended 31 December 2010. The Company confirms 
that, with the exception of the short period referred to below when  
the Company had not appointed a senior independent director, it has 
complied throughout 2010 with the provisions of the Code, a copy  
of which is available at www.frc.org.uk. The revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code which was published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in June 2010 (‘the New Code’) will apply to the Company  
for the 2011 financial year.
The Board
The Board currently comprises a Chairman, a Chief Executive, two 
other executive directors and four non-executive directors who have 
wide experience and are, together with the Chairman, considered by 
both the Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent. 
Mr J F Harris, who was the senior independent director and acted as 
Interim Chairman following Mr A J Habgood’s retirement in 2009, 
retired from the board on 28 February 2010. The appointment of a 
senior independent director to succeed Mr J F Harris was considered 
by the Board after Mr P G Rogerson had assumed the role of 
Chairman on 1 March 2010, and accordingly, Mr P W Johnson was 
appointed as senior independent director on 21 April 2010. None of 
the Company’s non-executive directors had any previous connection 
with the Company or its executive directors on appointment to the 
Board. Brief biographical details of the directors are given on page 23. 
Information relating to the conduct of Board meetings and the 
procedures implemented to ensure that the Board retains overall 
control and accountability for all strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance issues are set out in the internal control section below and 
in the Financial review on pages 16 to 18. The Board has Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees which comply with the 
provisions of the Code. The Chief Executive is the designated member 
of the Board responsible for environmental, social and governance 
matters and reports to the Board in relation to such matters. The 
Company has a formal performance evaluation process for the Board, 
its Committees and individual directors overseen by the Chairman. 
This includes completion of self-assessment forms by, and individual 
discussions with, each director. Led by the senior independent 
director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman 
present at least annually to appraise the Chairman’s performance. The 
Chairman periodically holds meetings with the non-executive directors 
without the executive directors present. These processes were carried 
out satisfactorily during the year as a result of which the Board 
concluded that both it and its Committees are operating effectively. 
The Board also oversees the process for reviewing any potential 
conflicts of interest which may arise in relation to each member of the 
Board and this process was carried out satisfactorily during the year. 
Finally, the Chief Executive annually presents a management 
succession plan which is discussed with the Chairman and the 
non-executive directors. Detailed information concerning the directors’ 
remuneration is given in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 
32 to 40.
In accordance with the terms of the New Code, each of the directors will 
be subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive 
directors and is chaired by Mr D J R Sleath who is considered by the 
Board to have recent and relevant financial experience. While the 
Chairman of the Company, the Finance Director and the Chief 
Executive are not members of the Committee, they normally attend 
meetings of the Committee by invitation together with the Head of 
Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor.
The Committee’s principal role is to:
• 	 	 m o n i t o r 	 t h e 	 i n t e g r i t y 	 o f 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 G r o u p 	 a n d	
review significant reporting judgements;
•	 r e v i ew 	 t h e 	 e f f ec t iv e n e s s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C om pa n y ’ s 	 i n t e r n a l 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 c on t r o l s ;
•	 	 r e v i ew 	 t h e 	 p r oce s s 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 m a n a g e m e n t 	 o f 	 ri s k 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 a s s u r a n c e	
procedures over controls designed to manage key risks;
•	 	 m on i t o r 	 a n d 	 r e v i ew 	 t h e 	 e f f ec t iv e n e s s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C om pa n y ’ s 	 i n t e r n a l 	 a ud i t 	
function;
•	 	 m a k e 	 r ecom m e n d a t ion s 	 t o 	 t h e 	 B oa r d 	 i n 	 r e l a t ion 	 t o 	 t h e 	 a p po i n t m e n t	
of the external auditor;
•	 m on i t o r 	 a n d 	 r e v i ew 	 a ud i t o r 	 i n d e pe n d e n c e ; 	 a n d
• 	 	 d e v e l o p 	 a n d 	 i m p l e m e n t 	 a 	 p o l i c y 	 o n 	 t h e 	 e n g a g e m e n t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 e x t e r n a l	
auditor to supply non-audit services.
The Committee Chairman holds preparatory meetings with the 
Company’s senior management and, when appropriate, the Head  
of Internal Audit and the external auditor prior to Committee meetings 
to discuss the items to be considered at the Committee meetings.  
In addition, separate discussions are held between the Committee  
and the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor without 
management present. The Committee Chairman also attends the 
Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that 
might be raised on the Committee’s activities. During the year the 
Committee met on three occasions and its activities included:
• 	 	 r e c e i v i n g 	 a n d 	 c o n s i d e r i n g 	 r e p o r t s 	 f r o m 	 t h e 	 e x t e r n a l 	 a u d i t o r 	 i n	
relation to the half year and annual financial statements;
•	 	 r e v i ewi n g 	 t h e 	 h a l f 	 y e a r 	 a n d 	 a n n u a l 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 r e po r ts 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 f o r m a l 	
announcements relating thereto;
• 	 	 r e c e i v i n g 	 a n d 	 c o n s i d e r i n g 	 r e p o r t s 	 f r o m 	 t h e 	 H e a d 	 o f 	 I n t e r n a l 	 A u d i t	 
in relation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function  
and reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme  
for the year;
• 	 	 r e v i e w i n g 	 t h e 	 e f f e c t i v e n e s s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n y ’ s 	 i n t e r n a l 	 fi n a n c i a l	
controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Company’s 
risk management systems;
• 	 	 r e v i e w i n g 	 t h e 	 a r r a n g e m e n t s 	 b y 	 w h i c h 	 s t a f f 	 m a y , 	 i n 	 c o n fi d e n c e ,	 
raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial 
reporting or other matters;
•	 	 r e v i ewi n g 	 t h e 	 C om m i t t ee ’ s 	 t e r m s 	 o f 	 r e f e r e n ce 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 C om m i t t ee ’ s	
effectiveness;
• 	 	 r e v i e w i n g 	 t h e 	 e f f e c t i v e n e s s 	 o f 	 b o t h 	 t h e 	 e x t e r n a l 	 a u d i t o r 	 a n d	 
the internal audit function following completion of detailed 
questionnaires by both the Board and senior management  
within the Company;
•	 	 m a k i n g 	 r ecom m e n d a t ion s 	 t o 	 t h e 	 B oa r d 	 con ce r n i n g 	 t h e 	 a p po i n t m e n t	
of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the auditor;
•	 	 r e v i ewi n g 	 a n d 	 a p pr o v i n g 	 t h e 	 l e v e l 	 a n d 	 t y pe 	 o f 	 n on-a ud i t 	 w o r k 	 w h i c h	
the external auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work; 
and
•	 	 r e v i ew i n g 	 t h e 	 p r o c ess es 	 a n d 	 p r o c e d u r es 	 a p pl i e d 	 b y 	 t h e 	 Com pa n y 	 i n	
relation to the integration of newly acquired businesses into the Group.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 30 Corporate governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued
The Committee ensures that the external auditor remains independent 
of the Company and receives written confirmation from the external 
auditor as to whether it considers itself independent within the 
meaning of its own internal and the relevant regulatory and professional 
requirements. Key members of the audit team rotate off the Company’s 
audit after a specific period of time.
In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditor is not compromised, the Committee has also pre-
approved the non-audit service categories that can be provided by  
the external auditor and agreed monetary amounts for each service 
category that can be provided by them, subject to a maximum 
individual engagement value. A service requires specific authorisation 
from the Committee or the Committee Chairman where it does not fall 
within the pre-approved categories or where its value exceeds the 
maximum pre-approved individual engagement value. Such non-audit 
service categories which are pre-approved principally comprise tax 
services and further assurance services relating to pre-acquisition due 
diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and 
disposals of businesses. The Committee believes that given the 
external auditor’s detailed knowledge of the Group’s operations, its 
structure and accounting policies and the importance of carrying out 
tax services and detailed due diligence as part of the acquisition 
process, it is often appropriate for this additional work to be carried out 
by the Company’s auditors. However other firms are also used by the 
Company to provide non-audit services and it is the Company’s policy 
to assess the services required on a case by case basis to ensure that 
the best placed adviser is retained. Details of the fees paid to the 
external auditor in 2010 in respect of the audit and for non-audit 
services are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the re-appointment 
of the external auditor, the Committee takes into account the tenure of 
the auditor in addition to the results of its review of the effectiveness of 
the external auditor and considers whether there should be a full 
tender process. There are no contractual obligations restricting the 
Committee’s choice of external auditor.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of its review  
of the external auditor’s activities during the year, the Committee  
has recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the 
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor be put to 
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s 
website, www.bunzl.com.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent 
non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr C A Banks. While neither 
the Chairman of the Company nor the Chief Executive are members 
of the Committee, they normally attend meetings by invitation except 
when the Committee is considering matters concerning themselves. 
Further details of the Remuneration Committee, the Company’s 
remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 32 to 40. The terms of reference of the 
Committee are available on the Company’s website.
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Company, 
who chairs the Committee, the Chief Executive and all of the non-
executive directors. The majority of the members are independent 
non-executive directors. The Committee meets as necessary to enable  
it to make recommendations to the Board on new appointments of 
executive and non-executive directors. An external search consultancy is 
retained by the Company to assess potential candidates to be considered 
as prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate, executive 
directors. Candidates are then interviewed by members of the Committee 
before an appropriate recommendation is made to the Board. On joining 
the Board, new directors are given an induction into the business of the 
Company and training as necessary. The terms of reference of the 
Committee are set out on the Company’s website.
Meetings attendance
The following table shows the attendance in 2010 of directors at Board 
meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which they are 
members:
   Audit Remuneration Nomination 
  Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings  8 3 4 2
P G Rogerson  8   2
M J Roney   8   2
J F Harris*  2   
C A Banks   7 3 4 1
U Wolters  7 3 3 2
P L Larmon  8
B M May  8
P W Johnson  8 3 4 2
D J R Sleath  8 3 4 2
* Mr J F Harris retired as a director on 28 February 2010 having 
attended both of the Board meetings held between 1 January 2010 
and that date. There were no Nomination Committee meetings during 
this period. 
Relations with shareholders
The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with the 
half year results announced normally at the end of August and the 
annual results announced normally at the end of February. In addition 
the Company publishes two interim management statements a year as 
required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with 
representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board 
the views of major shareholders. Additional forms of communication 
include presentations of the half year and annual results. The 
Chairman and the senior independent director and the other non-
executive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on 
request. The Board also periodically reviews and discusses analysts’ 
and brokers’ reports and surveys of shareholder opinions conducted 
by the Company’s own brokers. Notice of the Annual General Meeting 
is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.  
All shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Annual General 
Meeting, are invited to ask questions at the Meeting and are given  
the opportunity to meet all of the directors informally. Shareholders  
are given the option to withhold their vote on the proxy form. At the 
Annual General Meeting held in 2010, the Board decided that each  
of the resolutions put to the meeting would be taken on a poll rather 
than on a show of hands. The same procedure will be followed at  
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as directors believe that a 
poll is more representative of shareholders’ voting intentions because 
shareholder votes are counted according to the number of shares held 
and all votes tendered are taken into account. The results of the poll 
will be publicly announced and made available on the Company’s 
website as soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance 31
Internal control and risk management
The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for 
identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the 
Group’s system of internal control relating to those risks. However, such 
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. In accordance 
with the Turnbull guidance the Company has established the procedures 
necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating, managing and mitigating significant risks to the Group. The 
directors confirm that such procedures have been in place for the year 
ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date of approval of these 
financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
To ensure that the directors maintain overall control over all significant 
strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, the Board 
meets regularly throughout the year and has formally adopted a 
schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision. 
These include the approval of the annual and half year results of the 
Group, the Group’s strategic plans, annual budget, larger capital 
expenditure and acquisition/divestment proposals, material increases 
to borrowing and loan facilities, treasury policies and the terms of 
reference for the Board Committees. 
The Board has delegated to management the responsibility for 
establishing a system of internal control appropriate to the business 
environments in which the Group operates. The principal features of 
this system include:
• 	 	 a 	 p r o c e d u r e 	 f o r 	 m o n i t o r i n g 	 t h e 	 e f f e c t i v e n e s s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 i n t e r n a l 	 c o n t r o l	
system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined 
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
• 	 	 c l e a r l y 	 d e fi n e d 	 a u t h o r i s a t i o n 	 p r o c e d u r e s 	 f o r 	 c a p i t a l 	 i n v e s t m e n t	 
and acquisitions;
• 	 	 s t r a t e g i c 	 p l a n s 	 a n d 	 c o m p r e h e n s i v e 	 b u d g e t s 	 w h i c h 	 a r e 	 p r e p a r e d	
annually by the business areas and approved by the Board;
• 	 	 f o rma l 	 sta nd a r d s 	 of 	 b u s i n ess 	 c o nd uc t 	 ( i n c l u d i n g 	 a 	 c od e 	 of 	 e th ics 	 a nd	
whistle blowing procedure) based on honesty, integrity and fair dealing;
• 	 	 a 	 w e l l 	 e s t a b l i s h e d 	 c o n s o l i d a t i o n 	 a n d 	 r e p o r t i n g 	 s y s t e m 	 f o r 	 t h e	
statutory accounts and monthly management accounts;
• 	 	 c o n t i n u a l 	 i n v e s t m e n t 	 i n 	 I T 	 s y s t e m s 	 t o 	 e n s u r e 	 t h e 	 p r o d u c t i o n 	 o f	
timely and accurate management information relating to the 
operation of the Group’s businesses; and
•	 	 d e t a i l ed 	 m a n u a l s 	 co v e ri n g 	 G r o u p 	 a c co u n t i n g 	 po l i c i es 	 a n d 	 po l i c i e s	
and procedures for the Group’s treasury operations.
Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the 
effectiveness of the internal control system and to identify, manage 
and mitigate business risk are listed below:
• 	 	 c e n t r a l 	 m a n a g e m e n t 	 h o l d s 	 r e g u l a r 	 m e e t i n g s 	 w i t h 	 b u s i n e s s 	 a r e a	
management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues 
including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the 
business areas and the policies and procedures by which these 
risks are managed;
•	 	 a n 	 E x ec u t iv e 	 C om m i t t ee , 	 con s i st i n g 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C h i e f 	 E x ec u t iv e , 	 F i n a n ce	
Director and other functional managers, meets twice per month and 
also reviews the outcome of the discussions held at business area 
meetings on internal control and risk management issues;
•	 	 t h e 	 B oa r d 	 i n 	 t u r n 	 r e v i ews 	 t h e 	 o u t com e 	 o f 	 t h e 	 E x ec u t iv e 	 C om m i t t ee	
discussions on internal control and risk management issues which 
ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability;
• 	 	 b o t h 	 t h e 	 E x e c u t i v e 	 C o m m i t t e e 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 B o a r d 	 c a r r y 	 o u t 	 a n 	 a n n u a l	
fraud risk assessment;
• 	 	 a c t u a l 	 r e s u l t s 	 a r e 	 r e v i e w e d 	 m o n t h l y 	 a g a i n s t 	 b u d g e t , 	 f o r e c a s t s 	 a n d 	 t h e	
previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances;
• 	 	 t h e 	 G r o u p ’ s 	 b a n k 	 b a l a n c e s 	 a r o u n d 	 t h e 	 w o r l d 	 a r e 	 m o n i t o r e d 	 o n 	 a	
weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally;
• 	 	 t h e 	 i n t e r n a l 	 a u d i t 	 d e p a r t m e n t 	 p e r i o d i c a l l y 	 r e v i e w s 	 i n d i v i d u a l	
businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve 
controls and follows up to ensure that management implement  
the recommendations made. The internal audit department’s work  
is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are 
reported to Group and business area management as well as  
to the Audit Committee;
•	 	 t h e 	 A ud i t 	 C om m i t t ee , 	 w h i c h 	 com p ri se s 	 a l l 	 o f 	 t h e 	 i n d e pe n d e n t	
non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly throughout 
the year. Further details of the work of the Committee are set out on 
pages 29 and 30;
•	 	 r eg u l a r 	 m ee t i n gs 	 a r e 	 h e l d 	 wi t h 	 i n s u r a n ce 	 a n d 	 ri s k 	 a d v i se rs 	 t o 	 a s ses s	
the risks throughout the Group;
•	 	 t h e 	 m a n a g e m e n t 	 com m i t t ee , 	 w h i c h 	 o v e rsee s 	 i s s u es 	 p ri n c i pa l l y	
relating to environment, health and safety, insurance and business 
continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices and 
monitors their implementation; 
• 	 	 r i s k 	 a s s e s s m e n t s , 	 s a f e t y 	 a u d i t s 	 a n d 	 a 	 r e g u l a r 	 r e v i e w 	 o f 	 p r o g r e s s	
against objectives established by each business area are periodically 
carried out; and
• 	 	 d e v e l o p m e n t s 	 i n 	 t a x , 	 t r e a s u r y 	 a n d 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 a r e 	 c o n t i n u a l l y 	 m o n i t o r e d	
by Group management in association with external advisers.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control and risk management in operation during 2010. 
The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial 
statements. The audit includes the review and test of the system of 
internal financial control and the data contained in the financial 
statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion  
on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
On behalf of the Board 
P N Hussey 
Secretary 
28 February 2011   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 32 Directors’ remuneration report
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee 
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’), as approved by the Board, embody the purpose of the Committee  
as ensuring that the Company’s executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual 
contributions to the Group’s overall performance having due regard to the interests of shareholders and to the financial and commercial health  
of the Group.
Membership
All members of the Committee, who are identified on page 23, are independent non-executive directors. The Committee is chaired by Mr C A Banks. 
Members of the Committee do not have any personal financial interest (other than as shareholders) in matters decided by the Committee, nor  
do they have any potential conflict of interest arising from cross directorships or day to day involvement in running the Group’s business. The 
Committee meets at least three times during the year and at other times as may be required. While neither the Chairman of the Company nor the 
Chief Executive are members of the Committee, they normally attend meetings by invitation except when the Committee is considering matters 
concerning themselves. The Director of Group Human Resources acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Audit
The directors’ remuneration in 2010 and the details of the directors’ interests in the Company’s ordinary shares disclosed on pages 32 to 40 have 
been audited by the Company’s independent external auditor.
Remuneration policy
The Company’s remuneration policy is designed to help ensure the recruitment, retention and motivation of the executive directors by providing 
fair reward for the responsibilities they undertake and the performance they achieve on behalf of shareholders. In this context, the Committee’s 
policy is to set the overall remuneration package at a competitive level and in a form that permits significant additional remuneration to be earned 
for high performance over a sustained period. This is normally achieved by benchmarking base pay against comparator companies taking into 
account a range of factors and by providing, in addition, short and long term incentives geared to performance.
In assessing the balance of performance related and non-performance related elements of remuneration, base pay and benefits are treated as 
non-performance related, whereas annual bonus (including awards under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme (the ‘DASBS’)) and long 
term incentives are treated as performance related. For this purpose, share options and performance shares are valued at an appropriate 
proportion of their face value on grant or award. On this basis, the Committee sets the remuneration package such that about half the total  
target remuneration package is derived from the performance related elements. 
The performance related elements of the package are designed to incentivise executives to meet key performance metrics which align their 
interests and remuneration with those of shareholders, for example targets relating to earnings per share and total shareholder return. In setting 
such targets the Committee takes due account of the potential effect such targets could have on the attitude and behaviour of executives to risk 
within the business.
Both the overall competitiveness of the remuneration package and the balance between performance and non-performance related elements are 
kept under regular review in the light of market practice and the needs of the Company. The Committee commissions reports and receives advice 
on directors’ remuneration from independent remuneration and benefits consultants, namely PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) and Hewitt 
New Bridge Street, who may from time to time also provide other services to the Company on remuneration and benefit related matters that are 
not the subject of review by the Committee. During 2010, PwC provided external survey data on directors’ remuneration and benefit levels and 
Hewitt New Bridge Street provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to share 
options and performance share awards had been satisfied. In addition PwC provides the Company with some accounting, tax and pre-acquisition 
due diligence services. Further details of the remuneration policy and how it is currently applied to the various aspects of remuneration are 
provided in the relevant sections below.
With regard to external pay survey data, the Committee reviews each year, prior to the annual review of base pay in January, information on 
remuneration and benefit levels based on external survey data produced by PwC. The Committee seeks to maintain, wherever possible, a 
consistent and appropriate basis for comparison year on year in terms of the survey methodology and, in particular, the use of comparator groups 
from which the survey data is produced. There are three comparator groups that the Committee uses. These are related to revenue, profit before 
tax and market capitalisation. In each case the comparator group consists of at least 20 non-financial UK based companies that have substantial 
operations overseas. Half of the companies in each comparator group are the next highest and half are the next lowest compared to Bunzl.  
The total number of companies included in this survey will depend on the overlap of the companies within each of the three comparator groups 
but the aim is for the total number of companies to be at least 40. The results from each of the comparator groups are blended by PwC to provide 
an overall assessed market position as at 1 January of the year of the review. Neither PwC nor Hewitt New Bridge Street provide specific 
recommendations to the Committee on remuneration or benefit levels for the executive directors. The Committee does, however, review survey 
information provided by them in the light of its established remuneration policy before making its decisions. All decisions of the Committee were 
implemented in full.
    
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors’ remuneration report 33
Base pay
The base pay of each executive director is set to reflect the size and scope of that director’s responsibilities, the level of overall performance 
achieved, including that related to environmental, social and governance issues, and experience in the post. As stated above, it is benchmarked 
against comparator companies and the actual pay level is set after taking account of performance, relevant external survey data and the average 
salary increases implemented for other employees within the Group. The Committee has recently reviewed the level of base pay for 2011.  
After taking account of the ongoing performance of the Group, the Committee has from 1 January 2011 increased the annual base pay for  
Mr M J Roney to £825,000, Mr B M May to £456,000 and Mr P L Larmon to US$935,000. Mr P L Larmon’s 2010 base pay as shown in the 
table on page 40 has been converted into sterling at the applicable average exchange rate for the year.
Annual bonus plan 
The executive directors participate in an annual bonus plan intended to support the Company’s overall remuneration policy. The bonus plan  
for each executive director contains meaningful targets that seek to focus attention on one or two key measures of short to medium term 
achievement. Bonus awards are not pensionable. In 2010 the target for the annual bonus for Mr M J Roney and Mr B M May was linked to  
the Group’s achievement of earnings per share after certain specified adjustments (‘eps’). Detailed terms of the plan were determined by the 
Committee and provided for a bonus to be awarded if the Group achieved, in 2010, a target eps level based on the budgeted performance for the 
year. The bonus plan provided for an increase in the bonus award pro rata for eps achievement above the target level of eps up to the maximum 
bonus referred to below and a reduced payment for performance below the target subject to the achievement of a minimum threshold eps below 
which no bonus would be payable. Half of this annual bonus is paid in cash to a maximum level of 57.5% of annual base pay and the other half 
(but with the total aggregate amount capped at 115% of base pay) is deferred under the rules of the DASBS, details of which are set out below.
Mr P L Larmon’s bonus plan for 2010 was partly based on the profit of and capital employed in the business for which he was directly 
responsible. In addition a portion of his bonus was based on Group performance. Part of Mr P L Larmon’s annual bonus is normally paid in cash 
to a maximum level of 65% of annual base pay and the balance (but with the total aggregate amount capped at 110% of base pay) is deferred 
under the rules of the DASBS.
Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including the executive directors, receive the deferred element of their annual bonus as an award of 
ordinary shares. The awards are satisfied by ordinary shares that are purchased in the market and deposited with the Bunzl Group General 
Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘Trust’) until 1 March in the third year after the year in which the award is made, following which they are transferred 
to the executive provided normally that the executive has remained in the employment of the Group throughout that period or until their normal 
retirement date. The DASBS forms a part of the annual bonus plan so as to provide, in total, an annual bonus opportunity linked to the 
performance of the Group, with a significant portion of any bonus award held in shares for a three year period. The Committee believes this 
supports the overall remuneration policy and contributes to the alignment of executives’ and shareholders’ interests.
The rules of the DASBS provide that executives who leave the Group prior to the vesting of their awards lose their rights to any deferred shares 
although the Committee has discretion to allow such shares to vest if deemed appropriate to do so. After consideration of potential risks relating  
to executive remuneration, the Committee has approved an amendment to the rules of the DASBS to introduce clawback terms to apply to awards 
made in 2011 and in subsequent years. The clawback terms provide scope for the Committee to reduce or cancel such DASBS awards to the 
extent that the value of the bonus originally awarded is subsequently deemed to have been overstated as a result of a material mis-statement of 
the relevant financial statements by which the bonus was originally determined.
The overall structure of the annual bonus plans for the executive directors remains unchanged for 2011.
The table below shows the number of shares under the DASBS held by the executive directors. 
    Shares held at Shares awarded Shares transferred Shares held at 
    1 January 2010 during 2010 during 2010 31 December 2010
M J Roney  118,318 29,724 (37,250) 110,792
P L Larmon  71,448 23,268 (23,504) 71,212
B M May  65,132 16,300 (20,542) 60,890
 
Notes
a)  All awards of shares are made in respect of bonus performance in the previous year. The awards made during the year were made on 1 March 
2010 at a value of 680.5p per share.
b)  The market values of the shares at the date of transfer in 2010, in each case which related to awards made in 2007 in respect of the 2006 
financial year, were as follows: Mr M J Roney £257,437, Mr P L Larmon £162,438 and Mr B M May £141,967.
The Committee also reviews and authorises the outline structure of annual bonus plans for other senior executives within the Group. These plans 
are based on performance targets relevant to individual businesses or areas of responsibility and are compatible with the principles of the bonus 
plans approved for the executive directors. All bonus plans in place within the Group are capped.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 34 Directors’ remuneration report
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Share based incentives
The Committee believes that the long term performance of the Group is an important consideration for shareholders and that share based 
incentives are an important part of helping to align the interests of shareholders and those employed by the Group. A formal share ownership 
guideline is in place under which executive directors are expected to retain shareholdings worth at least equal to their base salaries. A period  
of three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to achieve this shareholding with an additional two years 
permitted in the case of external appointments. Details of the interests of the directors and their connected persons in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in Note 19 to the financial statements. 
The Long Term Incentive Plan (the ‘LTIP’) was approved by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting in May 2004 under which 
the executive directors and other senior executives in the Group may be granted share options and awards in respect of performance shares. 
Participation in the LTIP is at the discretion of the Committee. The Committee periodically reviews the level of grants, taking account of each 
executive’s performance and job responsibilities. Options were granted and performance shares awarded under the LTIP to the executive 
directors in 2010 in respect of both new issue shares and market purchased shares, some of which are held through the Trust. 
The LTIP is divided into two parts. Part A allows the Committee to grant share options. Annual grants may not exceed an amount equal to three 
times base salary. In normal circumstances options granted are exercisable, subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance condition as 
referred to below, not earlier than three years and not later than 10 years after the date of grant. Share options granted to date have a 
performance condition attached based on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying 
financial performance) relative to UK inflation (RPI) over three years. The performance condition for options granted operates on the following 
sliding scale:
Face value of annual       Total margin 
share options granted       over UK inflation 
as a proportion of salary       after 3 years
First 150% of salary       9%
Next 75% of salary       12%
Next 75% of salary       19%
The performance condition is tested after three years, with no provision for retesting. Accordingly, to the extent the performance condition has  
not been met after three financial years, the relevant share options will lapse. The performance condition has been satisfied in relation to the 
options granted prior to 2009 under Part A of the LTIP . The Committee can set different performance conditions from those described above  
for future options, provided that the new conditions are no less challenging. Similarly the Committee can adjust the performance conditions  
of existing options to take account of technical changes, for example changes in accounting standards or in the event of a rights issue. The 
amended condition must be no less challenging as a result of the change. The Committee considers that the current performance condition 
remains appropriate after taking into consideration the current economic conditions and the performance of the business.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors’ remuneration report 35
The table below shows the number of share options under the executive share option schemes held by the executive directors.
    Exercise  Options Options at Options at 
    price exercisable 31 December 1 January 
   Grant date (p) between 2010 2010
M J Roney 01.11.05 565 01.11.08 –  31.10.15 180,530 180,530
   06.03.06 648.5 06.03.09 – 05.03.16 78,643 78,643
   01.09.06 652.5 01.09.09 – 31.08.16 78,500 78,500
   01.03.07 659 01.03.10 – 28.02.17 83,000 83,000
   31.08.07 684.5 31.08.10 – 30.08.17 79,500 79,500
   28.02.08 721.5 28.02.11 – 27.02.18 81,000 81,000
   29.08.08 700.5 29.08.11 – 28.08.18 83,000 83,000
   26.02.09 564 26.02.12 – 25.02.19 103,500 103,500
   27.08.09 585 27.08.12 – 26.08.19 99,500 99,500
   25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13 – 24.02.20 89,500 –
   03.09.10 746 03.09.13 – 02.09.20 81,000 –
P L Larmon 27.08.03 446.25 27.08.06 – 26.08.13 – 30,000
   03.03.04 451.5 03.03.07 – 02.03.14 – 60,000
   01.03.05 500.25 01.03.08 – 28.02.15 53,200 53,200
   09.09.05 568 09.09.08 – 08.09.15 48,411 48,411
   06.03.06 648.5 06.03.09 – 05.03.16 38,458 38,458
   01.09.06 652.5 01.09.09 – 31.08.16 43,000 43,000
   01.03.07 659 01.03.10 – 28.02.17 47,000 47,000
   31.08.07 684.5 31.08.10 – 30.08.17 45,000 45,000
   28.02.08 721.5 28.02.11 – 27.02.18 44,500 44,500
   29.08.08 700.5 29.08.11 – 28.08.18 45,500 45,500
   26.02.09 564 26.02.12 – 25.02.19 56,500 56,500
   27.08.09 585 27.08.12 – 26.08.19 54,500 54,500
   25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13 – 24.02.20 48,500 –
   03.09.10 746 03.09.13 – 02.09.20 44,000 –
B M May 27.08.03 446.25 27.08.06 – 26.08.13 – 13,278
   03.03.04 451.5 03.03.07 – 02.03.14 – 20,000
   01.03.05 500.25 01.03.08 – 28.02.15 – 10,000
   09.09.05 568 09.09.08 – 08.09.15 20,000 20,000
   06.03.06 648.5 06.03.09 – 05.03.16 32,382 32,382
   01.09.06 652.5 01.09.09 – 31.08.16 32,500 32,500
   01.03.07 659 01.03.10 – 28.02.17 34,000 34,000
   31.08.07 684.5 31.08.10 – 30.08.17 33,000 33,000
   28.02.08 721.5 28.02.11 – 27.02.18 33,000 33,000
   29.08.08 700.5 29.08.11 – 28.08.18 42,500 42,500
   26.02.09 564 26.02.12 – 25.02.19 53,000 53,000
   27.08.09 585 27.08.12 – 26.08.19 51,000 51,000
   25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13 – 24.02.20 46,000 –
   03.09.10 746 03.09.13 – 02.09.20 41,500 –
Notes
a)  The following executive share options were exercised during 2010 by:
 (i)  Mr P L Larmon on 25 March 2010 in respect of 30,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 446.25p (market price 740p) and  
on 8 October 2010 in respect of 60,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 451.5p (market price 756p); and
 (ii)  Mr B M May on 31 March 2010 in respect of 13,278 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 446.25p, 20,000 ordinary shares  
at an exercise price of 451.5p and 10,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 500.25p (market price 722p).
b) The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2010 was 719p and the range during 2010 was 616.5p to 777p.
c)  The performance condition has been satisfied in relation to options granted prior to 2009 under Part A of the LTIP .   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 36 Directors’ remuneration report
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Part B of the LTIP allows the Committee to make an award of performance shares which is a conditional right to receive shares in the Company 
for nil consideration. Annual awards may not exceed an amount equal to two times base salary. A performance share award will normally vest  
(i.e. become exercisable) on the third anniversary of its grant to the extent that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied and  
will remain capable of being exercised for the three year period following the date on which it vests.
The extent to which one half of the awards may vest is subject to the Company’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) performance over a three year 
period relative to the TSR performance of a specified group of companies (the ‘Peer Group’). The process for identifying the Peer Group is the 
same as that used for identifying the comparator group for the setting of base pay as described under ‘Remuneration policy’ on page 32. These 
performance share awards vest in full only if the Company’s TSR performance is ranked at upper quartile within the Peer Group and the following 
vesting schedule is applied:
        Proportion of performance 
TSR       share awards exercisable
Below median      Nil
Median      25%
Median to upper quartile      Pro rata between 25% – 100%
Upper quartile       100%
The companies currently within the Peer Group are:
Aegis Group Inchcape Reed Elsevier
Aggreko Informa Rentokil Initial
AMEC Inmarsat Rexam
Autonomy Corp Intertek Sage Group
BAE Systems Invensys SIG
Burberry Johnson Matthey Smith & Nephew
Cable & Wireless Communications Kesa Electricals Smiths Group
Cobham Logica Tate & Lyle
Computacenter Meggitt Thomas Cook Group
Croda International Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Tui Travel
Experian Mondi United Business Media
GKN Misys Weir Group
G4S Pearson WPP
IMI Reckitt Benckiser
The performance condition relating to TSR for all awards under Part B of the LTIP provides for the exclusion from the comparator group of  
those companies that cease to be listed and the exclusion of those companies that have been subject to a recommended takeover offer and  
are therefore in the process of delisting. Where companies are excluded from the comparator group, the median/upper quartile rankings are 
recalculated using the reduced number of companies in the comparator group.
The extent to which the other half of awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted  
to exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance) relative to UK inflation (RPI) over three years. This 
performance condition operates on the following sliding scale:
Total margin over       Proportion of performance  
UK inflation after 3 years      share awards exercisable
Below 12%      Nil
12%      25%
Between 12% and 33%      Pro rata between 25% – 100%
Over 33%       100%
The performance conditions are tested after three years, with no provision for retesting. Accordingly, to the extent the performance conditions 
have not been met after three years, the relevant performance share awards lapse. As with share option grants, the Committee reviews the 
performance conditions each time performance share awards are made in order to ensure that they remain challenging and may impose different 
conditions on performance share awards made in subsequent years provided that any new conditions are no less challenging. The Committee 
considers that the current performance conditions remain appropriate after taking into consideration the current economic conditions and the 
performance of the business.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors’ remuneration report 37
The table below shows the number of performance share awards under the LTIP , all for nil consideration, allocated to the executive directors. 
     Awards    Awards 
     (shares) Conditional Awards Awards (shares) 
     held at shares (shares) (shares) held at 
     1 January awarded vested lapsed 31 December 
    Award date 2010 during 2010 during 2010 during 2010  2010
M J Roney  02.04.07 50,500 – 30,726 19,774 –
    19.10.07 51,000 – 35,562 15,438 –
    17.04.08 56,000 – – – 56,000
    07.10.08 67,500 – – – 67,500
    23.04.09 90,000 – – – 90,000
    02.10.09 69,500 – – – 69,500
    01.04.10 – 63,000 – – 63,000
    08.10.10 – 60,000 – – 60,000
P L Larmon  02.04.07 32,500 – 19,774 12,726 –
    19.10.07 32,500 – 22,662 9,838 –
    17.04.08 34,500 – – – 34,500
    07.10.08 37,000 – – – 37,000
    23.04.09 49,500 – – – 49,500
    02.10.09 38,500 – – – 38,500
    01.04.10 – 34,500 – – 34,500
    08.10.10 – 32,500 – – 32,500
B M May  02.04.07 23,500 – 14,298 9,202 –
    19.10.07 24,000 – 16,735 7,265 –
    17.04.08 26,000 – – – 26,000
    07.10.08 34,500 – – – 34,500
    23.04.09 46,000 – – – 46,000
    02.10.09 36,000 – – – 36,000
    01.04.10 – 32,500 – – 32,500
    08.10.10 – 31,000 – – 31,000
Notes
a)  Performance share awards were made on 1 April 2010 to Mr M J Roney of 63,000 shares, Mr P L Larmon of 34,500 shares and Mr B M May 
of 32,500 shares at a value of 721p per share and on 8 October 2010 to Mr M J Roney of 60,000 shares, Mr P L Larmon of 32,500 shares 
and Mr B M May of 31,000 shares at a value of 759p per share.
b)  During the year the Committee approved the acceleration of the vesting of the awards granted under Part B of the LTIP on 2 April 2007 by  
one day to 1 April 2010. No changes were made to the performance conditions and the periods over which they were measured.
c)  On 1 April 2010 the Committee determined that the TSR performance condition attaching to half of the performance share awards made  
on 2 April 2007 had been satisfied to the extent that 46% of the original awards (23% of the total awards) had vested and that the eps 
performance condition attaching to the other half of the performance share awards had also been satisfied to the extent that 76% of such 
awards (38% of the total awards) had vested with the remainder of such awards lapsing. The closing mid-market price of the Company’s 
shares as at the date of vesting was 740p per share. The following awards were subsequently exercised by:
 (i)  Mr M J Roney on 1 April 2010 in respect of 30,726 shares at a market price of 738p;
 (ii) Mr P L Larmon on 1 April 2010 in respect of 19,774 shares at a market price of 738p; and
 (iii) Mr B M May on 1 April 2010 in respect of 14,298 shares at a market price of 738p. 
d)  On 19 October 2010 the Committee determined that the TSR performance condition attaching to half of the performance share awards made 
on 19 October 2007 had been satisfied to the extent that 64% of the original awards (32% of the total awards) had vested and that the eps 
performance condition attaching to the other half of the performance share awards had been satisfied to the extent that 76% of such awards 
(38% of the total awards) had vested with the remainder of such awards lapsing. The closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares as at 
the date of vesting was 760.5p per share. The following awards were subsequently exercised by:
 (i) Mr M J Roney on 19 October 2010 in respect of 35,562 ordinary shares at a market price of 765p;
 (ii) Mr P L Larmon on 19 October 2010 in respect of 22,662 ordinary shares at a market price of 765p; and
 (iii) Mr B M May on 19 October 2010 in respect of 16,735 ordinary shares at a market price of 765p.    
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 38 Directors’ remuneration report
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Any shares required to fulfil entitlements under the share based incentive schemes in respect of options and awards over market purchased 
shares will be provided by the Trust. The Company’s TSR over the last five years compared to that of the FTSE Support Services Sector is  
shown below.
Bunzl 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
FTSE Support Services
Source: Datastream
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
The UK based executive directors may also participate in a Sharesave Scheme which was approved by shareholders in 2001, is approved by  
HM Revenue & Customs and is open to all UK employees who have completed at least three months of continuous service. It is linked to a 
contract for monthly savings of up to £250 per month over a period of either three or five years. Under the Sharesave Scheme options are 
granted to participating employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of 
invitation to apply for the option. Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted. The following table sets 
out the number of share options under the Sharesave Scheme held by the UK based executive directors. 
     Exercise  Options Options at Options at 
     price exercisable 31 December 1 January 
     (p) between 2010 2010
M J Roney   522 01.11.11 – 30.04.12 3,136 3,136
B M May   452 01.05.14 – 31.10.14 3,462 3,462
 
The current Sharesave Scheme will expire in May 2011. A resolution is to be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting  
to approve the adoption of a new Sharesave Scheme which will operate on a similar basis.
Based on the authority obtained at the 2001 Annual General Meeting, the Company introduced the International Sharesave Plan during 2002 
and the Irish Sharesave Plan in 2006. These operate on a similar basis to the Sharesave Scheme except that options are normally exercisable 
three years after they have been granted. None of the executive directors are eligible to participate in these Plans. Since both these Plans are 
linked to the Sharesave Scheme in the UK they will also expire in May 2011. Subject to shareholders approving the adoption of a new Sharesave 
Scheme at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company proposes to renew the International Sharesave Plan and the Irish Sharesave 
Plan on similar bases to the existing Plans.
US based executive directors may participate in the Bunzl Employee Stock Purchase Plan (US) (‘ESPP’). The ESPP provides an opportunity  
for employees in the US to purchase the Company’s shares at a 15% discount to the market price, up to an annual maximum of 10% of 
remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower. The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the 
employee with the employing company contributing the 15% discount. Shares held by Mr P L Larmon under the ESPP are included in his 
ordinary share interests set out in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Although not required under the Financial Services Authority’s 
Listing Rules (since the ESPP only operates over market purchased shares and not new issue shares), a resolution is to be put to shareholders at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to approve the adoption of a new ESPP for the purposes of s.423 of the United States Internal Revenue 
Code which will operate on a similar basis to the previous ESPP which has now expired.
Retirement benefits 
As stated in the Accounting policies section of the consolidated financial statements and elaborated upon in Note 20, the Group utilises both 
defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes throughout the world. All defined benefit schemes have been closed since 2003  
to new entrants who are offered a defined contribution arrangement.   
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors’ remuneration report 39
In the UK the Group has historically operated the Bunzl Senior Pension Scheme section of the Bunzl Pension Plan (‘BSPS’) as its main 
contributory scheme for senior executives. BSPS provides for members’ contributions currently at the rate of 9% of pensionable salary (which  
is base salary) with the Group being responsible for the balance of the cost of providing the benefit as determined from time to time by the 
consulting actuaries to BSPS. Subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits, BSPS members are eligible for a pension which accrues at a maximum 
rate of 3% per annum up to two thirds of pensionable salary, with a normal retirement age of 60 years. BSPS also provides for payment of certain 
benefits in the event of death or disability. Due to the cap on pensionable salary introduced in the Finance Act 1989, which has been maintained 
by the Company notwithstanding the changes introduced to the legislation with effect from April 2006, the amount of direct contribution by the 
Company to defined benefit pension schemes for the UK executive director who is a member of BSPS is limited. Arrangements have therefore 
been made to provide that executive director with an allowance of 30% of base salary above the cap which permits him to make provision, of his 
choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap. The other UK executive director and any UK executive director newly 
appointed to the Group is offered a pension allowance of 30% of base salary and has the choice of joining the Defined Contribution Section of the 
Bunzl Pension Plan (‘DC Section’) or to opt for a private pension scheme or other investment vehicle. Company contributions to the DC Section 
match employee contributions but are limited to a maximum of 5% of base salary up to the pensionable salary cap. The Company also provides 
lump sum life assurance cover of four times base salary.
In the US the main scheme for employees is the non-contributory Bunzl USA, Inc Retirement Plan (the ‘US Plan’). Subject to IRS limits, members 
of the US Plan earn a lifetime pension which accrues at a rate of 1.67% per annum, up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less 
the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years. Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000. The 
US Plan also provides for certain benefits in the event of death or disability. On closure of the US Plan to new entrants all existing participating 
employees had the choice to continue in the existing scheme or freeze their benefit and join a defined contribution plan, the Retirement Saving 
Benefit (the ‘RSB’). Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related. The contributions are a 
percentage of base salary (maximum 5%) which is capped at US$200,000 per annum. Because of the cap on pensionable salary under the US 
Plan and the RSB, the pensions of senior US executives are limited and arrangements have been made to provide certain executives with 
supplementary pensions through a Senior Executive Retirement Agreement (‘SERA’). Mr P L Larmon’s SERA provides for a lifetime pension of 
US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement. In 2007, the SERA arrangement was closed to new entrants and a new defined contribution 
SERA (‘DC SERA’) was put in place.
Directors’ service contracts and terms of appointment
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months’ notice from the Company and 
six months’ notice from the executive. For the UK executive directors there is no predetermined compensation for termination of these contracts. 
Mr P L Larmon’s contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months’ base salary 
plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings. There are no provisions for any of the directors for predetermined compensation 
in excess of one year’s remuneration and benefits in-kind. The date of each service contract is noted in the table below.
        Date of service contract
M J Roney      1 September 2005
P L Larmon      1 January 2005
B M May      9 December 2005
 
With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other 
companies and retain any related fees paid to them. Mr M J Roney served as a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc throughout 2010 
and retained fees of £48,750. Neither of the other executive directors hold any such appointments.
In common with many senior executives in the Group, the executive directors are eligible for certain benefits which include the provision of a 
company car and payment of its operating expenses, or a cash allowance in lieu thereof, in line with prevailing Group policies and, in the case of 
Mr M J Roney and Mr B M May, private medical plan coverage under the Company’s prevailing UK healthcare plan. Mr P L Larmon participates 
in welfare benefit plans made available to all US employees of the Group covering life, medical, dental and disability insurance.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are paid annual fees for their services. In addition, where relevant, the non-executive directors are 
paid a fee for chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees of the Board. Neither the Chairman nor the non-executive directors have service 
contracts and they are not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the Group’s bonus, share option, long term 
incentive or benefit plans. The Chairman’s fee is reviewed biennially and is next due for review in January 2012. The non-executive directors’ fees 
are reviewed annually. The non-executive directors’ fees were reviewed in January 2011 and were not increased. The fee for the Chairman is 
determined by the Remuneration Committee and the fees for the non-executive directors are determined by the Board.  
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 40 Directors’ remuneration report
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
Directors’ remuneration
The following table gives details of each director’s remuneration for the year.
     Annual  Pension 
    Salary/fees cash bonus  allowance Benefits Total Total 
    2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive
M J Roney  805.0 328.4 235.3 16.6 1,385.3 1,228.6
P L Larmon  590.3 226.3 – 14.6 831.2 735.6
B M May  442.0 180.3 95.5 16.4 734.2 643.2
Non-executive
P G Rogerson  300.0 – – – 300.0 
C A Banks  71.0 – – – 71.0 68.0
U Wolters  60.0 – – – 60.0 58.0
P W Johnson  70.7 – – – 70.7 58.0
D J R Sleath  71.0 – – – 71.0 68.0
Former non-executive
J F Harris  45.0 – – – 45.0 172.0
    2,455.0 735.0 330.8 47.6 3,568.4 3,031.4
Notes
a)  The figures above represent remuneration earned as directors during the relevant financial year including, in the case of the executive 
directors, the cash element of the bonus, which is paid in the year following that in which it is earned. The deferred element of the bonus  
is conditionally allocated as shares as described on page 33 and is not included in the table above. Shares relating to the 2009 bonus were 
allocated in 2010 as shown in the table on page 33 and for the 2010 bonus will be allocated in 2011.
b)  The remuneration for Mr P L Larmon is paid or determined in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year  
of £1: US$1.55 in respect of 2010 and £1: US$1.57 in respect of 2009.
c)   The 2010 fees paid to Mr J F Harris in his capacity as Interim Chairman and senior independent director relate to the period 1 January 2010 
to 28 February 2010 (the date of his retirement from the Board). 
d)  Mr P G Rogerson joined the Board on 1 January 2010 as Chairman designate and assumed the role of Chairman on 1 March 2010. 
e)  Mr M J Roney is a member of the DC Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan. The Company makes matching contributions to the DC Section. 
During 2010 such contributions for Mr M J Roney amounted to £6,180 (2009: £6,105). In addition he received a pension allowance of 30%  
of base salary less the Company’s contribution to the DC Section, as shown in the above table. The values of the pension benefits for the other 
executive directors are shown in the following table and are not included in the directors’ remuneration table above. In addition in 2010 in 
respect of Mr P L Larmon the Company paid all necessary contributions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA which amounted to £79,913 (2009: 
£71,271). This increase is solely attributable to inflation and foreign exchange translation. The Company also paid £187,097 (2009: £184,713) 
into the DC SERA. Mr B M May receives a pension allowance of 30% of that part of his base salary which is not pensionable under BSPS.
f)  In addition to the remuneration paid to the directors in 2009 shown above, Mr A J Habgood, who retired as Chairman on 30 June 2009, 
received remuneration of £204,993 in respect of the period from 1 January 2009 to 30 June 2009.
       Change in 
   Accrued benefits Accrued benefits  Transfer value of transfer value of  Transfer value of 
   at 31.12.09 at 31.12.10 accrued benefits  accrued benefits  accrued benefits 
   per annum per annum at 31.12.09 during the year at 31.12.10 
   £ £ £ £ £
P L Larmon* 16,227 16,641 104,285 16,904 121,189
B M May 39,435 42,390 526,742 89,866 627,732
*Excluding SERA entitlements.
Notes
a)  Of the additional benefits accrued since 1 January 2010, the increases attributable to factors other than inflation or foreign exchange 
translation were £1,732 for Mr B M May and £nil for Mr P L Larmon.
b) Pension accruals shown are the amounts accrued based on service with Bunzl plc or its subsidiaries. 
c)  The changes in the transfer values of accrued benefits have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant 
actuarial legislation and, in the case of Mr B M May, are net of his contributions. The change in the transfer value of accrued benefits for  
Mr B M May includes the effect of fluctuation in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and the directors,  
such as changes in market conditions.
d)  Mr P L Larmon’s benefits under the US Plan are frozen. Mr P L Larmon is now a member of the RSB to which the Company has made 
contributions in 2010 of £6,452 (2009: £6,369).
e)  In addition Mr P L Larmon participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings (401k) Plan. The Company makes matching contributions  
to this Plan. During 2010 such contributions for Mr P L Larmon amounted to £7,113 (2009: £7,022).
On behalf of the Board 
C A Banks 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
28 February 2011 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Consolidated income statement 41
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 2010
        2010 2009 
       Notes £m £m
Revenue     3 4,829.6 4,648.7
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs   3 306.7 295.7
Intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs     3 (51.0) (41.8)
Operating profit      3 255.7 253.9
Finance income     5 20.3 16.8
Finance cost     5 (50.8) (54.7)
Profit before income tax      225.2 216.0
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs    276.2 257.8
UK income tax      1.6 (12.1)
Overseas income tax      (67.8) (55.0)
Total income tax     6 (66.2) (67.1)
Profit for the year attributable to the Company’s equity holders     159.0 148.9
Earnings per share attributable to the Company’s equity holders
Basic     7 49.1p 46.4p
Diluted     7 48.8p 46.3p
The Accounting policies and Notes on pages 46 to 73 form part of these consolidated financial statements. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 42 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 December 2010
        2010 2009 
       Notes £m £m
Profit for the year       159.0 148.9
Other comprehensive income
Actuarial loss on pension schemes     20 (2.5) (19.3)
Movement in pension schemes’ minimum funding liabilities    20  5.5
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations     1.1 (55.4)
Gain taken to equity as a result of designated effective net investment hedges    2.3 8.9
Gain/(loss) recognised in cash flow hedge reserve      0.4 (6.3)
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve to income statement     1.4 7.5
Income tax credit on other comprehensive income     6 2.0 7.8
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year      4.7 (51.3)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the Company’s equity holders   163.7 97.6 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Consolidated balance sheet 43
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at 31 December 2010
        2010 2009 
        Notes £m £m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment     8 118.1 102.8
Intangible assets     9 1,244.6 1,196.6
Investment in associates      0.5 0.5
Derivative assets     13 25.1 28.8
Deferred tax assets     15 5.9 6.9
Total non-current assets      1,394.2 1,335.6
Inventories     10 482.0 429.3
Income tax receivable      6.2 6.5
Trade and other receivables     11 690.8 677.9
Derivative assets     13 1.3 0.9
Cash and deposits     23 83.9 57.9
Total current assets      1,264.2 1,172.5
Total assets      2,658.4 2,508.1
Equity
Share capital     16 113.3 113.0
Share premium      133.9 131.7
Translation reserve      57.5 52.7
Other reserves      9.8 8.5
Retained earnings      481.9 368.2
Total equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders      796.4 674.1
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings     23 691.5 780.3
Retirement benefit obligations     20 52.3 59.8
Other payables      7.9 8.0
Derivative liabilities     13 2.2 2.6
Provisions     14 35.5 40.7
Deferred tax liabilities     15 115.4 104.0
Total non-current liabilities      904.8 995.4
Bank overdrafts     23 9.0 14.9
Interest bearing loans and borrowings     23 126.2 7.7
Income tax payable      46.4 59.4
Trade and other payables     12 766.3 744.4
Derivative liabilities     13 0.7 1.9
Provisions     14 8.6 10.3
Total current liabilities      957.2 838.6
Total liabilities      1,862.0 1,834.0
Total equity and liabilities      2,658.4 2,508.1
Approved by the Board of Directors of Bunzl plc (Company registration number 358948) on 28 February 2011 and signed on its behalf by  
Mr M J Roney, Chief Executive and Mr B M May, Finance Director. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 44 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF  
CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2010
     Other reserves Retained earnings
   Share  Share Translation  Capital Cash flow Own  Total 
   capital premium reserve Merger redemption hedge shares Earnings equity 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 113.0 131.7 52.7 2.5 8.6 (2.6) (213.0) 581.2 674.1
Profit for the year        159.0 159.0
Actuarial loss on pension schemes        (2.5) (2.5)
Foreign currency translation                                                       
 differences for foreign operations   1.1      1.1
Gain taken to equity as a result of  
 designated effective net investment hedges   2.3      2.3
Gain recognised in cash flow  
 hedge reserve       0.4   0.4
Movement from cash flow hedge  
 reserve to income statement      1.4   1.4
Income tax credit/(charge) on other  
 comprehensive income    1.4   (0.5)  1.1 2.0
Total comprehensive income   4.8   1.3  157.6 163.7
2009 interim dividend        (20.2) (20.2)
2009 final dividend        (45.9) (45.9)
Issue of share capital 0.3 2.2       2.5
Employee trust shares       13.5  13.5
Share based payments        8.7 8.7
At 31 December 2010 113.3 133.9 57.5 2.5 8.6 (1.3) (199.5) 681.4 796.4
  
At 1 January 2009 112.6 126.6 96.0 2.5 8.6  (4.9)  (215.8) 503.6 629.2
Profit for the year        148.9 148.9
Actuarial loss on pension schemes        (19.3) (19.3)
Movement in pension schemes’  
 minimum funding liabilities        5.5 5.5
Foreign currency translation  
 differences for foreign operations   (55.4)      (55.4)
Gain taken to equity as a result of  
 designated effective net investment hedges   8.9      8.9
Loss recognised in cash flow  
 hedge reserve       (6.3)   (6.3)
Movement from cash flow hedge  
 reserve to income statement      7.5   7.5
Income tax credit on other  
 comprehensive income    3.2   1.1  3.5 7.8
Total comprehensive (expense)/income   (43.3)   2.3  138.6 97.6
2008 interim dividend        (20.6) (20.6)
2008 final dividend        (45.3) (45.3)
Issue of share capital 0.4 5.1       5.5
Employee trust shares       2.8  2.8
Share based payments        4.9 4.9
At 31 December 2009 113.0 131.7 52.7 2.5 8.6 (2.6) (213.0) 581.2 674.1 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Consolidated cash flow statement 45
        2010 2009 
       Notes £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before income tax       225.2 216.0
Adjustments:
 depreciation      25.5 23.5
 intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs     51.0 41.8
 share based payments      4.7 4.6
Working capital movement      (12.7) 17.5
Finance income      (20.3) (16.8)
Finance cost      50.8 54.7
Provisions and pensions      (19.1) (17.4)
Other      2.5 (1.1)
Cash generated from operations      307.6 322.8
Cash outflow from acquisition related costs      (5.6) 
Income tax paid      (79.7) (75.0)
Cash inflow from operating activities      222.3 247.8
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest received      2.6 1.6
Purchase of property, plant and equipment      (23.4) (23.9)
Sale of property, plant and equipment      1.3 3.0
Purchase of businesses     24 (105.0) (6.4)
Cash outflow from investing activities      (124.5) (25.7)
Cash flow from financing activities
Interest paid      (33.8) (37 .0)
Dividends paid      (66.1) (62.3)
Increase/(decrease) in loans      15.1 (131.5)
Realised gains/(losses) on foreign exchange contracts      5.3 (7.3)
Net proceeds from employee shares       11.8 3.5
Cash outflow from financing activities      (67.7) (234.6)
Exchange gain/(loss) on cash and cash equivalents      1.8 (2.0)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents       31.9 (14.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year      43.0 57.5
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents      31.9 (14.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year     23 74.9 43.0
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 December 2010 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 46 Notes
NOTES
1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been approved by the directors and prepared in accordance  
with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (‘IFRIC’). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis (as referred to in the Directors’ report 
on page 25) and under the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the 
accounting policies below. The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’).
IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ was revised with effect from 1 January 2010, the principal effect of which for the Group has been to change  
the accounting treatment of certain acquisition related costs. IFRS 3 now requires that transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees 
are expensed and charged to the income statement and that adjustments to deferred consideration and payments which are contingent on the 
continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired are also recognised in the income statement. Prior to 1 January 2010 these  
items were treated as part of the cost of investment and, as a result, were capitalised with any subsequent changes being accounted for as an 
adjustment to goodwill. In accordance with the revised requirements of IFRS 3, the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2009 
have not been restated.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
2 Accounting policies
a Basis of consolidation 
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from  
the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date. The consideration paid or 
payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion, deferred consideration and payments which are contingent on the 
continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired. The excess of the consideration (excluding payments contingent on future 
employment) over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. IFRS 3 (revised) requires that any payments that 
are contingent on future employment and transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement.
(ii) Associates
Associates are entities over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence. Associates are accounted for using the equity method 
and are recognised initially at cost. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the income and expenses of associates.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing 
the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on translation are recognised in the income statement, unless they qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge accounting treatment, in which 
case the effective portion is recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expenses of foreign 
operations are translated at average exchange rates. All resulting exchange differences, including exchange differences arising from the translation 
of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised directly in a separate component of 
equity. Differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity.
c Financial instruments 
Under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with subsequent 
measurement depending upon the classification of the instrument. Other financial assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost unless they are 
in a fair value hedging relationship. Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
(i) Fair value hedge
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated and qualifies as a hedge of a recognised asset or liability, all changes in the fair value of the 
derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement. The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that  
is attributable to the risk being hedged with changes recognised in the income statement.  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 47
2 Accounting policies continued
(ii) Cash flow hedge
Where a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a hedge is used to hedge forecast transactions, any effective portion of the change in fair 
value is recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts 
accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
(iii) Hedge of a net investment in foreign operations
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in foreign operations are 
recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective such differences are recognised in the 
income statement.
d Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. 
e Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost less estimated residual value over the assets’ estimated remaining useful lives.  
This is applied at the following annual rates: 
Buildings 2% (or depreciated over life of lease if shorter than 50 years)
Plant and machinery 10 – 20%
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 – 33%
Freehold land Not depreciated
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method. As permitted by IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting 
Standards’, the Group has chosen to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ from 1 January 2004 and has elected not to restate previous business 
combinations. For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP . For 
acquisitions that occurred between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination in excess 
of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. For acquisitions that have occurred on or after 1 January 
2010, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination (excluding payments contingent on future employment and acquisition related 
costs) in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating 
units and is tested annually for impairment. Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
(ii) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised on acquisition and recorded at fair value. These principally relate to 
customer relationships and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Amortisation is charged to the income 
statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives (which range from 10 to 19 years). 
g Leases
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant 
lease. Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classified as finance 
leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings 
due to the indefinite life of land. 
h Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed annually to determine if there is any 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated. The recoverable amounts of assets  
carried at amortised cost are calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at appropriate pre-tax discount rates. 
Receivables with a short term duration are not discounted. The recoverable amounts of other assets are the greater of their fair value less the 
costs to sell and the value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values using 
appropriate pre-tax discount rates. Impairment losses are recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds  
its recoverable amount, with impairment losses being recognised in the income statement. 
i Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
j Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, bank overdrafts and short term deposits with maturities of three months or less from  
the date the deposit is made.  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 48 Notes
NOTES continued
2 Accounting policies continued
k Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at cost less any impairment losses. A provision for impairment is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables or uncertainty as to whether 
the Group will be able to collect all such amounts. Receivables with a short term duration are not discounted.
l Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at cost. Payables with a short term duration are not discounted.
m Income tax
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except when it relates  
to items reflected in equity when it is recognised in equity.
Current tax reflects tax payable on taxable income for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any 
adjustments in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method providing for temporary differences arising between tax bases and carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary 
differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets 
and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profits and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will 
probably not reverse in the forseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be 
available against which any asset can be utilised. 
n Revenue
The Group is engaged in the delivery of goods to customers. Revenue from a sale is recognised in the income statement upon delivery of the 
relevant goods, which is the point in time at which the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are transferred.
Revenue is valued at invoiced amount, excluding sales taxes, less estimated provisions for returns and trade discounts where relevant.
Revenue is not recognised if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the consideration due.
o Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution pension schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense to the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit pension schemes
Pension liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and represent the difference between the fair value of scheme assets and the 
present value of scheme liabilities. Scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted using  
the rate applicable to AA rated corporate bonds that have a similar maturity to the scheme liabilities.
Current service cost, past service cost/credit and gains and losses on any settlements and curtailments are credited or charged to the income 
statement. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent benefits are already vested or is otherwise amortised on a straight line basis 
over the average period until the benefits are vested. The unwinding of the discount on scheme liabilities is recognised within finance cost and  
the expected return on scheme assets generated during the year is included within finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
p Investment in own shares
The cost of shares held either directly (treasury shares) or indirectly (employee benefit trust shares) is deducted from equity. Repurchased shares 
are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the 
amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised in retained earnings. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 49
2 Accounting policies continued
q Share based payments
The Group operates equity settled and cash settled share based compensation plans. Details of these plans are outlined in Note 16 and the 
Directors’ remuneration report. As permitted by IFRS 1, on transition to IFRS the Group elected not to apply IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’  
to equity instruments granted on or before 7 November 2002. For equity settled plans the total expected expense is based on the fair value of 
options and other share based incentives on the grant date calculated using a valuation model and is spread over the expected vesting period 
with a corresponding credit to equity. For cash settled plans the total expected expense is based on the fair value of options, determined at the 
appropriate balance sheet date, and is remeasured at each balance sheet date thereafter with a corresponding credit recognised as a liability. The 
amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to not achieving 
the non-market conditions for vesting. On 25 August 2010 the Group converted its cash settled share options to equity settled share options.  
r Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and  
where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are 
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of  
money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the 
unavoidable costs of meeting the Group’s obligations under the contract.
s Net debt
Net debt is defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings and the fair value of interest rate swaps on fixed interest rate borrowings, less cash  
and cash equivalents.
t Dividends
The interim dividend is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity in the period in which it is paid and the final dividend in 
the period in which it is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates 
The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation 
required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The directors review the judgements 
and estimates on an ongoing basis with revisions to accounting estimates recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any 
future periods affected. The directors believe that the consolidated financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide 
a true and fair view of the Group’s performance and financial position. 
a Pension benefits
The cost of defined benefit pension schemes and the present value of the obligations relating thereto are determined using actuarial valuations 
appropriate for each country where defined benefit pension schemes are provided. The actuarial valuations involve making assumptions about 
discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, future pension increases and mortality rates. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each reporting date. In determining the appropriate discount rates, management considers the interest rates of corporate bonds  
with an AA rating in the relevant country. Future salary increases and future pension increases are based on expected future inflation rates  
for each country. Mortality rates are based on the relevant mortality tables for each country. Further details about the assumptions used are  
set out in Note 20. 
b Intangible assets
IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination. The methods used to value such intangible 
assets require the use of estimates including forecast performance and customer attrition rates. Future results are impacted by the amortisation 
periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions (including discount rates, 
timing and growth prospects) which are inherently subjective. Further details about the assumptions used are set out in Note 9.
c Revenue recognition
Revenue represents sales to third parties for goods sold and is valued at invoiced amount, excluding sales taxes, less estimated provisions for 
returns and trade discounts where relevant. Returns’ provisions are based on experience over an appropriate period whereas volume and early 
settlement discounts are based on agreements with customers. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 50 Notes
NOTES continued
2 Accounting policies continued
d Acquisitions
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method based on the fair value of the consideration paid. Assets and liabilities are measured  
at fair value and the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities based on these fair values.
Determining the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions (including discount rates, 
asset lives and recoverability). Assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and the value of freehold properties is typically determined by 
qualified valuers on an open market basis.
Management believes that estimates made in previous years have been materially accurate as any changes made in the allocation period 
following acquisition to finalise provisional fair value adjustments made in the year of acquisition have not been material.
e Tax
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions. Management is required to make judgements and estimates in determining  
the provisions for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements. Tax benefits are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will be available in the future against which temporary differences and unused tax 
losses can be utilised.
New accounting standards and interpretations
The Group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) but  
not yet applicable will have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 51
3 Segment analysis
    North UK & Continental Rest of the 
    America Ireland Europe World Corporate Total 
Year ended 31 December 2010  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  2,621.0 1,007.1 936.4 265.1  4,829.6
Operating profit/(loss) before intangible amortisation  
 and acquisition related costs  160.2 59.5 79.9 23.8 (16.7) 306.7
Intangible amortisation   (7.5) (7.8) (24.2) (4.0) – (43.5)
Acquisition related costs  (1.0) – (6.2) (0.3) – (7.5)
Operating profit/(loss)  151.7 51.7 49.5 19.5 (16.7) 255.7 
Finance income       20.3
Finance cost       (50.8)
Profit before income tax       225.2
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation  
 and acquisition related costs       276.2
Income tax       (66.2)
Profit for the year       159.0
 
Capital expenditure  4.6 7.2 10.2 1.3 0.1 23.4
Depreciation  6.2 8.2 9.3 1.6 0.2 25.5
    North UK & Continental Rest of the 
    America Ireland Europe World Corporate Total 
Year ended 31 December 2009  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  2,454.1 1,068.4 910.2 216.0  4,648.7
Operating profit/(loss) before intangible amortisation  155.3 57.8 81.7 17.0 (16.1) 295.7
Intangible amortisation  (7.3) (7.9) (23.2) (3.4) – (41.8)
Operating profit/(loss)  148.0 49.9 58.5 13.6 (16.1) 253.9
Finance income       16.8
Finance cost       (54.7)
Profit before income tax       216.0
Profit before income tax and intangible amortisation       257.8
Income tax       (67.1)
Profit for the year       148.9
 
Capital expenditure  6.1 7.1 9.2 1.4 0.1 23.9
Depreciation  6.4 8.6 6.8 1.5 0.2 23.5
Acquisition related costs for the year ended 31 December 2010 include transaction costs and expenses of £5.5m and deferred consideration 
payments of £2.0m which are contingent on the continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired.
The Group is managed through four business areas based on geographic regions which represent the reporting segments under IFRS 8.  
The revenue presented relates to external customers. Sales between the business areas are not material. Each of the business areas supplies  
a range of products to customers operating primarily in the foodservice, grocery, cleaning & safety, non-food retail and healthcare market sectors. 
The performance of the four business areas is assessed by reference to operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related 
costs and this measure also represents the segment results for the purposes of reporting in accordance with IFRS 8. Debt and associated interest 
is managed at a Group level and therefore has not been allocated across the business areas. In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 8, the 
Company’s chief operating decision maker is the Board of Directors.
There are no customers who account for more than 10% of Group revenue. Customer dependencies are regularly monitored.
        2010 2009 
Revenue by market sector      £m £m
Grocery      1,475.8 1,358.7
Foodservice      1,439.7 1,383.2
Cleaning & safety      970.8 982.9
Non-food retail      396.0 369.6
Healthcare      326.6 328.7
Other      220.7 225.6
        4,829.6 4,648.7
The ‘Other’ category covers a wide range of market sectors, none of which is sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 52 Notes
NOTES continued
3 Segment analysis continued
    North UK & Continental Rest of the 
    America Ireland Europe World Unallocated Total 
At 31 December 2010  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment assets  781.3 669.3 880.0 188.2  2,518.8
Unallocated assets      139.6 139.6
Total assets  781.3 669.3 880.0 188.2 139.6 2,658.4
Segment liabilities  278.3 239.3 216.2 49.1  782.9
Unallocated liabilities      1,079.1 1,079.1
Total liabilities  278.3 239.3 216.2 49.1 1,079.1 1,862.0
    North UK & Continental Rest of the 
    America Ireland Europe World Unallocated Total 
At 31 December 2009  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment assets  722.9 700.3 812.3 157.1  2,392.6
Unallocated assets      115.5 115.5
Total assets  722.9 700.3 812.3 157.1 115.5 2,508.1
Segment liabilities  271.1 243.5 218.5 35.1  768.2
Unallocated liabilities      1,065.8 1,065.8
Total liabilities  271.1 243.5 218.5 35.1 1,065.8 1,834.0
Unallocated assets and liabilities include Corporate assets and liabilities, tax assets and liabilities, cash and deposits, borrowings, derivative assets 
and liabilities and pension scheme assets and liabilities.
4 Analysis of operating income and expenses 
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Purchase of goods and changes in inventories      3,686.8 3,525.4
Employee costs (see Note 21)      464.6 458.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment      25.5 23.5
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets      43.5 41.8
Acquisition related costs      7.5 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment      0.7 0.3
Net foreign exchange losses      0.2 0.2
Rentals payable under operating leases and subleases     85.1 84.3
Lease and sublease income       (1.5) (1.4)
Other operating expenses      261.5 262.1
Net operating expenses      4,573.9 4,394.8
      2010   2009
    UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total 
Analysis of auditor’s remuneration  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Audit of the Company’s financial statements  0.3 – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  0.4 1.4 1.8 0.4 1.3 1.7
Other services supplied pursuant to legislation  0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Tax services  0.2 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.2 0.7
Pre-acquisition due diligence   – 0.6 0.6 – 0.3 0.3
Total remuneration  1.0 2.2 3.2 1.3 1.8 3.1
Management believes that given the Group’s auditor’s detailed knowledge of the Group’s operations, its structure and accounting policies  
and the importance of carrying out tax services and detailed pre-acquisition due diligence, it is often appropriate for this additional work to  
be undertaken by the Group’s auditor rather than another firm of accountants.
The Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent non-executive directors, reviews and approves the level and type of non-audit  
work which the auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work, to ensure that the auditor’s objectivity and independence are not 
compromised. Further information is set out in the Audit Committee section of the Corporate governance report on pages 29 and 30. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 53
5 Finance income/(cost)
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Interest on deposits      1.3 0.9
Interest income from foreign exchange contracts       1.1 0.8
Expected return on pension scheme assets      16.8 14.7
Other finance income      1.1 0.4
Finance income      20.3 16.8
  
Interest on loans and overdrafts      (31.9) (36.1)
Interest expense from foreign exchange contracts      (2.0) (2.4)
Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities      (16.3) (15.2)
Fair value gain on US dollar bonds in a hedge relationship      0.8 8.7
Fair value loss on interest rate swaps in a hedge relationship      (0.8) (8.7)
Foreign exchange gain/(loss) on intercompany funding     17.9 (31.9)
Foreign exchange (loss)/gain on external debt not in a hedge relationship     (18.0) 32.7
Other finance expense       (0.5) (1.8)
Finance cost      (50.8) (54.7)
The foreign exchange gain/(loss) on intercompany funding arises as a result of foreign currency intercompany loans and deposits. This is 
substantially matched by external debt to minimise this foreign currency exposure in the income statement.
6 Income tax 
A tax charge of 29.0% (2009: 30.5%) on the profit on underlying operations (excluding the impact of intangible amortisation of £43.5m  
(2009: £41.8m), acquisition related costs of £7.5m and associated deferred and current tax of £13.9m (2009: £11.6m)) has been provided. 
Including the impact of intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and the respective associated tax, the overall rate is 29.4%  
(2009: 31.1%). 
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Current tax on profit
 current year      68.5 164.3
 prior years      (3.9) (0.9)
 double tax relief      (0.2) (76.4)
        64.4 87.0
Deferred tax on profit  
 current year      6.7 (10.5) 
 prior years      (4.9) (9.4)
        1.8 (19.9)
Income tax on profit       66.2 67.1
     Tax credit/   Tax credit/ 
    Gross (charge) Net Gross (charge) Net 
    2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
Tax on other comprehensive income and equity  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Actuarial loss on pension schemes  (2.5) 1.1 (1.4) (19.3) 5.0 (14.3) 
Movement in pension schemes’ minimum funding liabilities    5.5 (1.5) 4.0
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 1.1 – 1.1 (55.4) – (55.4) 
Gain taken to equity as a result of designated effective  
 net investment hedges  2.3 1.4 3.7 8.9 3.2 12.1
Gain/(loss) recognised in cash flow hedge reserve  0.4 (0.1) 0.3 (6.3) 1.1 (5.2)
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve to income statement 1.4 (0.4) 1.0 7.5 – 7.5 
Other comprehensive income/(expense)   2.7 2.0 4.7 (59.1) 7 .8 (51.3) 
Dividends  (66.1) – (66.1) (65.9) – (65.9) 
Issue of share capital  2.5 – 2.5 5.5 – 5.5 
Employee trust shares  13.5 – 13.5 2.8 – 2.8
Share based payments  7 .7 1.0 8.7 3.2 1.7 4.9 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) and equity   (39.7) 3.0 (36.7) (113.5) 9.5 (104.0) Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 54 Notes
NOTES continued
6 Income tax continued
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The Group operates in many countries and is subject to income tax in many different jurisdictions. The expected tax rate is calculated as a 
weighted average of the tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which it operates. The adjustments to the tax charge at the weighted average rate  
to determine the income tax on profit are as follows:
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Profit before income tax      225.2 216.0
Tax charge at weighted average rate (2010: 34.0%; 2009: 35.1%)     76.5 75.8
Effects of:       
 adjustment in respect of prior years      (8.8) (10.3)
 (non-taxable)/non-deductible items      (2.0) 1.2
 other      0.5 0.4
Income tax on profit      66.2 67.1
        2010 2009 
Deferred tax in the income statement      £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances      0.2 (0.9)
Pension liabilities      3.0 1.8
Intangible assets      (13.4) (11.6)
Share based payments      (0.2) (0.1)
Provisions      0.7 (7.4)
Other      11.5 (1.7)
Deferred tax on profit      1.8 (19.9)
7 Earnings per share 
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Profit for the year      159.0 148.9
Adjustment      37.1 30.2
Adjusted profit*      196.1 179.1
Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue (million)     323.7 320.5
Dilutive effect of employee share plans (million)      2.2 0.9
Diluted weighted average ordinary shares (million)      325.9 321.4
Basic earnings per share      49.1p 46.4p
Adjustment      11.5p 9.5p
Adjusted earnings per share*      60.6p 55.9p
 
Diluted basic earnings per share       48.8p 46.3p
Adjustment      11.4p 9.4p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share*      60.2p 55.7p
* Adjusted profit, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude the charge for intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs and the respective associated tax. The intangible amortisation and associated tax are non-cash charges which are not taken into 
account by management when assessing the underlying performance of the business. Similarly, the acquisition related costs and associated  
tax do not relate to the underlying performance of the entity acquired as they are a non-operational expense. Accordingly, such charges are 
removed in calculating the adjusted earnings per share on which management assesses the performance of the Group.  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 55
8 Property, plant and equipment
        Fixtures,  
      Land and Plant and fittings and  
      buildings machinery equipment Total 
2010    £m £m £m £m
Cost 
Beginning of year    61.7 91.4 85.6 238.7
Acquisitions     12.0 4.5 1.4 17.9
Additions    1.3 11.4 10.7 23.4
Disposals    (0.4) (6.3) (2.7) (9.4)
Currency translation    0.1 1.8 0.9 2.8
End of year    74.7 102.8 95.9 273.4
Depreciation
Beginning of year    20.2 56.1 59.6 135.9
Charge in year    3.0 10.8 11.7 25.5
Disposals    (0.1) (4.6) (2.7) (7.4)
Currency translation    – 0.2 1.1 1.3
End of year    23.1 62.5 69.7 155.3
Net book value at 31 December 2010    51.6 40.3 26.2 118.1
        Fixtures, 
      Land and Plant and fittings and   
      buildings machinery equipment Total 
2009    £m £m £m £m
Cost 
Beginning of year    64.7 89.2 83.0 236.9
Acquisitions     – 0.1 0.1 0.2
Additions    1.9 11.3 10.7 23.9
Disposals    (1.6) (5.3) (4.5) (11.4)
Currency translation    (3.3) (3.9) (3.7) (10.9)
End of year    61.7 91.4 85.6 238.7
Depreciation
Beginning of year    20.2 50.8 54.6 125.6
Charge in year    2.3 11.5 9.7 23.5
Disposals    (1.0) (4.6) (2.5) (8.1)
Currency translation    (1.3) (1.6) (2.2) (5.1)
End of year    20.2 56.1 59.6 135.9
Net book value at 31 December 2009    41.5 35.3 26.0 102.8
Net book value at 1 January 2009    44.5 38.4 28.4 111.3
The net book value of property, plant and equipment includes assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts totalling £9.9m  
(2009: £11.0m). Accumulated depreciation of these assets was £5.1m (2009: £3.8m). Future capital expenditure at 31 December 2010 
consisted of commitments not provided for of £0.9m (2009: £0.3m). Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 56 Notes
NOTES continued
9 Intangible assets
        2010 2009 
Goodwill      £m £m
Beginning of year      749.4 785.9
Acquisitions      34.5 0.4
Deferred consideration      – (2.1)
Currency translation       5.1 (34.8)
End of year      789.0 749.4
        2010 2009 
Customer relationships      £m £m
Cost
Beginning of year      610.9 646.7
Acquisitions      51.5 3.3
Currency translation       (1.4) (39.1)
End of year      661.0 610.9
Amortisation
Beginning of year      163.7 131.3
Charge in year       43.5 41.8
Currency translation      (1.8) (9.4)
End of year      205.4 163.7
Net book value at 31 December      455.6 447.2
Total net book value of intangible assets at 31 December     1,244.6 1,196.6
Both goodwill and customer relationships have been acquired as part of business combinations. Customer relationships are amortised over their 
estimated useful lives which range from 10 to 19 years.
Impairment tests
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across cash generating units (‘CGUs’). 
A description of the Group’s principal activities is set out in the Directors’ report on page 24. There is no significant difference in the nature of 
activities across different geographies. The identification of CGUs reflects the way in which the business is managed on a geographical basis. 
Given the similar nature of the activities of each CGU, a consistent methodology is applied across the Group in assessing CGU recoverable 
amounts. The recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less the costs to sell. The value in use is the present value  
of the cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU over a projection period together with a terminal value. The projection period is the time 
period over which future cash flows are predicted. The Group’s methodology is to use a projection period of five years being the maximum period 
over which detailed future cash flows for each CGU are prepared. For periods after this five year period, the methodology applies a long term 
growth rate to derive a terminal value. Cash flow expectations exclude any future cash flows that may arise from restructuring or other 
enhancements to the cash generating activities of the CGU and reflect management’s expectations of the range of economic conditions that  
may exist over the projection period. 
The value in use calculations are principally sensitive to revenue growth, achievability of future margins, any significant changes to the customer  
base and the discount rate used in the present value calculation. The information used for valuation purposes takes into consideration past 
experience and the current economic environment with regard to customer attrition rates and additions to the customer base, the ability to 
introduce price increases and new products and experience in controlling the underlying cost base. This provides a long term growth rate 
consistent with the geographic segments in which the Group operates, together with management’s assessment of future operating performance 
and market share movements. The growth rate has been calculated based principally on current inflation rates of the relevant economies.
At 31 December 2010 North America, UK Hospitality and France Hygiene carried a significant amount of goodwill in comparison  
with the total value of the Group’s goodwill. The carrying value of goodwill in respect of North America at 31 December 2010 was £186.7m 
(2009: £176.6m). The carrying value of goodwill in respect of UK Hospitality at 31 December 2010 was £104.9m (2009: £104.9m). The carrying 
value of goodwill in respect of France Hygiene at 31 December 2010 was £84.3m (2009: £84.2m). At 31 December 2010 the aggregate amount 
of goodwill attributable to the Group’s CGUs, excluding North America, UK Hospitality and France Hygiene, was £413.1m (2009: £383.7m).
For North America, UK Hospitality and France Hygiene the weighted average growth rate used in 2010 was 2.5% (2009: 2.5%). A discount rate 
of 8% (2009: 8%) has been applied to the value in use calculations representing a pre-tax rate reflecting market assessments of the time value of 
money at the balance sheet date. Similar assumptions have been applied to the other CGUs but where appropriate the directors have considered 
alternative market risk assumptions to reflect the specific conditions arising in individual countries (with discount rates ranging from 8%–16%).  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 57
9 Intangible assets continued
Management has also considered the key assumptions that impact future cash flows. The key assumption on which value in use calculations  
are dependent relates to the underlying customer base. In particular the assumptions are sensitive to customer attrition and the rate at which  
new customer relationships are introduced and established. Based on past experience and taking into account current market conditions, 
management considers that it is unlikely that a change in key assumptions would result in impairment as it is reasonable to assume that there  
will be no material deterioration in the customer base over the projection period which will significantly impact future cash flows. Should such  
a change occur, this would represent a triggering event to indicate that an impairment review may be necessary. In accordance with IAS 36 
‘Impairment of Assets’, a full impairment review would then be undertaken on the relevant assets within the CGU. Any such changes are 
monitored through normal monthly procedures.
10 Inventories
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Goods for resale      482.0 429.3
£1.8m was written off inventories during the year (2009: £3.2m) due to obsolescence or damage. The inventories provision at 31 December 
2010 was £49.8m (2009: £49.5m).
11 Trade and other receivables
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Trade receivables      572.2 553.3
Prepayments and other receivables      118.6 124.6
        690.8 677.9
The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December was:
      Gross Provision Gross Provision 
      2010 2010 2009 2009 
      £m £m £m £m
Current    440.4 1.6 424.0 1.9
0–30 days overdue    110.8 0.2 108.6 0.8
31–90 days overdue     24.0 1.2 25.0 1.6
Over 90 days overdue     12.6 12.6 14.1 14.1
      587.8 15.6 571.7 18.4
The movement in the provision for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Beginning of year      18.4 22.0
Acquisitions      0.7 –
Charge      2.3 2.1
Utilised and unused      (5.5) (4.6)
Currency translation       (0.3) (1.1)
End of year      15.6 18.4
Based on historic experience and the current economic environment, management believes that no additional provisions for doubtful debts  
in respect of trade receivables either current or overdue are required.
12 Trade and other payables – current
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Trade payables      551.0 558.2
Other tax and social security contributions      21.9 19.7
Other payables      81.0 71.8
Accruals and deferred income      112.4 94.7
        766.3 744.4 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 58 Notes
NOTES continued
13 Risk management and financial instruments
Capital management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Group monitors the return on average operating capital employed as well as the level of total shareholders’ 
equity and the amount of dividends paid to ordinary shareholders. For the year ended 31 December 2010, the return on average operating  
capital employed was 54.4% (2009: 54.7%), the level of total shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2010 was £796.4m (2009: £674.1m) and  
the amount of dividends paid in the year ended 31 December 2010 was £66.1m (2009: £62.3m).
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of shareholders’ equity and bank and capital market borrowings. All of the borrowings are 
managed by a central treasury function and funds raised are lent onward to operating subsidiaries as required. The overall objective is to manage 
the funding to ensure the Group has a portfolio of competitively priced borrowing facilities to meet the demands of the business over time and,  
in order to do so, the Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources with a variety of maturity dates.
The Group’s businesses provide a high and consistent level of cash generation which helps fund future development and growth. The Group 
seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages 
and security afforded by a sound capital position.
There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital management during the year and the Group is not subject to any externally imposed 
capital requirements.
Treasury policies and controls
The Group has a centralised treasury department to control external borrowings and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency risks. 
Treasury policies have been approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of financial instruments that 
may be employed and the criteria for investing and borrowing cash. The Group uses derivatives to manage its foreign currency and interest rate 
risks arising from underlying business activities. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. The treasury department is subject to 
periodic independent review by the internal audit department. Underlying policy assumptions and activities are reviewed by the executive 
directors. Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity are in place.
Hedge accounting
The Group designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes as either (a) a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset  
or liability; (b) a hedge of the cash flow risk resulting from changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates; or (c) a hedge of a net investment  
in a foreign operation. The accounting treatment for hedges is set out in the financial instruments accounting policy in Note 2.
The Group tests the effectiveness of hedges on a prospective and retrospective basis to ensure compliance with IAS 39. Methods for testing 
effectiveness include dollar offset, critical terms and regression analysis.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group continually monitors net debt 
and forecast cash flows to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s requirements in the short, medium and long term and, 
in order to do so, arranges borrowings from a variety of sources. Additionally, compliance with debt covenants is monitored. During 2010 all 
covenants have been complied with.
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it comprising multi-currency credit facilities from the Group’s banks and US dollar and 
sterling bonds. At 31 December 2010, the total bonds outstanding were £562.3m (2009: £532.7m) with maturities ranging from 2011 to 2019. 
In addition a further issue of fixed interest rate US dollar and sterling bonds was agreed in December 2010 for a total value of £95.2m of which 
£75.2m is due to be drawn by the Company in April 2011 and is included in the contractual cash flow table in this Note 13 as an inflow within 
one year and as an outflow after more than five years. The bank facilities mature between 2011 and 2015. At 31 December 2010 the available 
bank facilities totalled £781.5m of which £224.2m was drawn down. 
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December are as follows:
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Expiring within one year      139.0 160.0
Expiring after one year but within two years      140.0 134.7
Expiring after two years      278.3 246.4
        557.3 541.1
In addition the Group maintains overdraft and uncommitted facilities to provide short term flexibility.
The contractual maturity profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 December is set out below. The amounts disclosed are the 
contractual undiscounted cash flows and therefore include interest cash flows (forecast using LIBOR interest rates at 31 December in the case of 
floating rate financial assets and liabilities). Derivative assets and liabilities totalling £23.5m (2009: £25.2m) have been included within the tables 
since they predominantly relate to derivatives which are used to manage the interest cash flows on the Group’s debt. Bank loans have been 
drawn under committed facilities and can be refinanced on maturity from these same facilities. Accordingly they have been aged based on the 
maturity dates of the underlying facilities. At 31 December 2010 loans totalling £5.4m were secured by fixed charges on property (2009: £nil) as 
a result of an acquisition made during the year. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 59
13 Risk management and financial instruments continued
The table below also compares the fair value and carrying amounts for financial assets and liabilities:
     Contractual cash outflows/(inflows)
       After After 
     Total    one year  two years After 
    Carrying contractual Within one but within but within more than 
   Fair value amount cash flows year  two years five years five years 
2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial (assets)/liabilities at amortised cost:       
Trade receivables (572.2) (572.2) (572.2) (572.2) – – –
Cash and deposits (83.9) (83.9) (83.9) (83.9) – – –
Bank loans  245.5 245.6 249.7 73.0 125.8 50.9 –
US dollar and sterling bonds 385.7 347.4 517.5 (50.0) 26.8 141.4 399.3
Bank overdrafts 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0 – – –
Other interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.4 0.4 0.4 – – 0.4 –
Finance lease creditors 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.2 0.1 –
Trade payables 551.0 551.0 551.0 551.0 – – –
Other current payables 95.7 95.7 95.7 95.7 – – –
Non-current payables 4.7 4.7 4.7 – 4.7 – –
   636.5 598.3 772.5 22.9 157.5 192.8 399.3
Financial liabilities/(assets) stated at fair value:        
US dollar bonds 210.7 214.9 223.6 61.6 7.8 154.2 –
Fo reign exchange contracts for net  
investment hedging 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 – – –
Fo reign exchange contracts for cash  
flow hedging 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 – – –
Interest rate swaps (26.0) (26.0) (32.0) (11.1) (8.7) (9.9) (2.3)
Cross currency interest rate swaps 8.0 8.0 8.7 (0.5) 0.7 8.5 –
Interest rate caps (0.2) (0.2) – – – – –
   196.0 200.2 203.8 53.5 (0.2) 152.8 (2.3)
  
     Contractual cash outflows/(inflows)
       After After 
     Total    one year  two years After 
    Carrying contractual Within one but within but within more than 
   Fair value amount cash flows year  two years five years five years 
2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial (assets)/liabilities at amortised cost:       
Trade receivables (553.3) (553.3) (553.3) (553.3) – – –
Cash and deposits (57.9) (57.9) (57.9) (57.9) – – –
Bank loans  250.9 251.3 255.3 13.4 60.9 181.0 –
US dollar and sterling bonds 339.0 322.1 466.7 22.1 22.1 96.3 326.2
Bank overdrafts 14.9 14.9 14.9 14.9 – – –
Other interest bearing loans and borrowings 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.0 – 0.1 0.3
Finance lease creditors 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.2 – –
Trade payables 558.2 558.2 558.2 558.2 – – –
Other current payables 91.5 91.5 91.5 91.5 – – –
Non-current payables 8.0 8.0 8.0 – 8.0 – –
   653.7 637.2 785.8 90.7 91.2 277.4 326.5
Financial liabilities/(assets) stated at fair value:        
US dollar bonds 204.9 210.6 228.9 10.9 60.0 158.0 –
Fo reign exchange contracts for net  
investment hedging (5.8) (5.8) (5.8) (5.8) – – –
Fo reign exchange contracts for cash  
flow hedging (0.8) (0.8) (0.8) (0.8) – – –
Interest rate swaps (28.2) (28.2) (42.6) (11.3) (10.9) (16.0) (4.4)
Cross currency interest rate swaps 10.0 10.0 11.6 0.8 0.8 6.3 3.7
Interest rate caps (0.7) (0.7) – – – – –
Interest rate collars 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.9 – – –
   181.3 187.0 193.2 (4.3) 49.9 148.3 (0.7) Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 60 Notes
NOTES continued
13 Risk management and financial instruments continued
All financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value in the table above have carrying amounts where the fair value component is a level two fair 
value measurement. Level two fair value measurements use inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the relevant asset or liability, 
either directly or indirectly. The US dollar bonds, included within financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value, have a carrying amount of  
£214.9m (2009: £210.6m) which includes a fair value measurement related to the risk being hedged. The table above also discloses the fair 
value of these bonds including all other components of £210.7m (2009: £204.9m).
Fair value gains and losses on interest rate caps and the time value of interest rate collars impact the income statement immediately while all 
other financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value are in hedging relationships.
Interest rate risk
The Group is funded by a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt. In addition, interest rate swaps and interest rate options are used to manage the 
interest rate risk profile. At 31 December 2010 fixed rate debt of £347.4m (2009: £322.1m) related to fixed US dollar and sterling bonds stated at 
amortised cost with maturities ranging from 2014 to 2019.
At 31 December 2010 floating rate debt comprised £245.6m of floating rate bank loans (2009: £251.3m) and £214.9m of fixed rate US dollar 
bonds which have been swapped to floating rates using interest rate swaps (2009: £210.6m). Bank loans are drawn for various periods of up to 
three months at interest rates linked to LIBOR. The interest rate swaps reprice every three and six months. These interest rate swaps are in fair 
value hedge relationships with the market risk of the US dollar bonds. These hedges were effective during the year and have therefore had no  
net impact on the income statement.
The interest rate risk on the floating rate debt is managed using interest rate options. Borrowings with a notional principal of £301.0m were capped  
at 31 December 2010 (2009: £309.7m) and borrowings with a notional principal of £nil were collared at 31 December 2010 (2009: £186.3m). Cash 
flow hedge accounting is applied to the intrinsic value of interest rate collars. Hedge accounting is not applied to the interest rate caps or to the time 
value of the interest rate collars. The strike rates of these options are based on sterling, US dollar and euro LIBOR repricing every three months.
After taking account of hedge relationships, a change of 1% in the interest rate forward curves on 31 December would have increased profit before 
tax and equity for the year by the amounts shown below as a result of changes in the fair values of derivative assets and liabilities at that date:
    Impact on profit before tax  Impact on equity
      +1% –1% +1% –1% 
      £m £m £m £m
2010    0.4 0.2 0.4 0.2
2009    1.0 0.3 1.0 0.3
Foreign currency risk
The principal underlying currencies of the Group’s earnings are sterling, US dollars and euros. The Group does not hedge the impact of exchange 
rate movements arising on translation of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
     Average rate Closing rate
      2010 2009 2010 2009
US dollar    1.55 1.57 1.57 1.61
Euro    1.17 1.12 1.17 1.13
For the year ended 31 December 2010, a movement of one cent in the US dollar and euro average exchange rates would have changed  
profit before tax by £0.8m and £0.3m respectively and profit before tax, intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs by £0.8m  
and £0.5m respectively.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the respective functional currencies of the Group’s operations and so transaction 
exposures are usually relatively limited. Where they do occur the Group’s policy is to hedge significant exposures of firm commitments for a  
period of up to one year as soon as they are committed using forward foreign exchange contracts and these are designated as cash flow hedges. 
However, the economic impact of foreign exchange on the value of uncommitted future purchases and sales is not hedged. As a result, sudden 
and significant movements in foreign exchange rates can impact profit margins where there is a delay in passing on to customers the resulting 
price increases. For the year ended 31 December 2010 all foreign exchange cash flow hedges were effective with a £0.6m loss recognised in 
equity (2009: gain of £0.8m) which will affect the income statement during 2011.
The majority of the Group’s borrowings are effectively denominated in sterling, US dollars and euros, aligning them to the respective functional 
currencies of its operating profit before depreciation, intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs (‘EBITDA’). This currency profile is 
achieved using short term foreign exchange contracts, long term cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign currency debt. This currency 
composition minimises the impact of foreign exchange rates on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Cross currency interest rate swaps in a cash flow hedge relationship were effective during the year, with a loss of £1.2m (2009: £2.6m) being 
recognised in equity which will affect the income statement from 2011 to 2015. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 61
13 Risk management and financial instruments continued
The currency profile of the Group’s net debt as at 31 December is set out in the table below:
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Sterling      209.9 220.0
US dollar      350.3 307.7
Euro      140.8 167.4
Other      15.8 21.7
        716.8 716.8
If a 10% strengthening or weakening of sterling had taken place on 31 December it would have increased/(decreased) profit before tax and 
equity for the year by the amounts shown below. The impact of this translation is much greater on equity than it is on profit before tax since 
equity is translated using the closing exchange rates and profit before tax is translated using the average exchange rates for the year. As a result 
the value of equity is more sensitive than the value of profit before tax to a movement in exchange rates on 31 December and the resulting 
movement in profit before tax is due solely to the translation effect on monetary items. This analysis assumes that all other variables, and in 
particular interest rates, remain constant.
    Impact on profit before tax  Impact on equity
      +10% –10% +10% –10% 
      £m £m £m £m
2010    0.3 (0.3) (51.8) 57.0 
2009    0.1 (0.2) (37.5) 41.3
 
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to a financial asset due to non-payment by the counterparty. The Group’s objective is to reduce its 
exposure to counterparty default by restricting the type of counterparty it deals with and by employing an appropriate policy in relation to the 
collection of financial assets.
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and deposits, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables which represent  
the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and deposits (Note 23), 
derivative financial instruments (see above) and trade and other receivables (Note 11) is their carrying amount. 
Dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant combination of geographic presence and suitable credit rating. The Group continually 
monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties and the credit exposure to each counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, the amounts represented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the 
Group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. Note 11 sets out an analysis of 
trade and other receivables and the provision for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
14 Provisions
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Current      8.6 10.3
Non-current      35.5 40.7
        44.1 51.0
    Properties Claims Total Properties Claims Total 
    2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Beginning of year  26.3 24.7 51.0 28.4 35.4 63.8
Charge  0.8 1.2 2.0 2.2 3.0 5.2
Acquisitions  0.5 2.6 3.1 – 0.4 0.4
Utilised and unused  (6.0) (5.4) (11.4) (4.0) (11.5) (15.5)
Currency translation   – (0.6) (0.6) (0.3) (2.6) (2.9)
End of year  21.6 22.5 44.1 26.3 24.7 51.0
The properties provision includes vacant properties where amounts are held against liabilities for onerous lease commitments, repairs and 
dilapidations. These provisions cover the relevant periods of the lease agreements, up to the earliest possible termination date, which typically  
extend from one to 10 years.  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 62 Notes
NOTES continued
14 Provisions continued
The Group has provisions for expected legal, environmental and other claims based on management’s best estimate at the balance sheet date of 
the probable loss likely to be incurred. It expects that these amounts, which are based on detailed plans or other known factors and take account 
of past experience for similar items, will be settled within the next one to five years.
The Group is a defendant in a number of legal proceedings incidental to its operations. While any litigation has an element of uncertainty, 
management does not expect that the outcome of such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect  
on the Group’s financial condition or results of operations.
15 Deferred tax 
      2010   2009
    Asset Liability Net Asset Liability Net 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances  4.2 (5.9) (1.7) 4.2 (5.0) (0.8)
Pension liabilities  16.2 – 16.2 18.3 – 18.3
Intangible assets  – (135.4) (135.4) – (136.3) (136.3)
Revalued properties  0.8 (1.9) (1.1) – (0.9) (0.9)
Share based payments  5.0 – 5.0 4.3 – 4.3
Provisions  9.4 – 9.4 10.7 – 10.7
Inventories  5.1 (10.0) (4.9) 5.5 (8.6) (3.1)
Other  12.0 (9.0) 3.0 15.4 (4.7) 10.7
Deferred tax asset/(liability)  52.7 (162.2) (109.5) 58.4 (155.5) (97 .1)
Set-off of tax  (46.8) 46.8 – (51.5) 51.5 –
Net deferred tax asset/(liability)  5.9 (115.4) (109.5) 6.9 (104.0) (97 .1)
Except as noted below, deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate of the country  
of operation.
The Company is able to control the dividend policy of its subsidiaries and, therefore, the timing of the remittance of the undistributed earnings  
of overseas subsidiaries. In general, the Company has determined either that such earnings will not be distributed in the foreseeable future or, 
where there are plans to remit those earnings, no tax liability is expected to arise. Deferred tax of £1.4m has been recognised in the exceptional 
case where distribution of earnings is both planned and expected to result in a tax liability. 
Deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences have only been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences  
where it is probable that these assets will be realised. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of unutilised tax losses of £7.0m  
(2009: £10.6m). The unutilised tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of unutilised capital losses of £95.9m (2009: £96.1m) as it is not considered probable that  
there will be suitable future taxable profits against which they can be utilised.
The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below:
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Beginning of year      97.1 129.8
Acquisitions      11.9 (0.5)
Charge/(credit) to income statement      1.8 (19.9)
Credit to equity      (3.0) (5.8)
Other      (0.4) 2.2
Currency translation      2.1 (8.7)
End of year      109.5 97.1 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 63
16 Share capital and share based payments
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 32
1
⁄7p each      113.3 113.0
Number of ordinary shares in issue and fully paid
Beginning of year      351,509,328 350,397,756
Issued – scrip dividend      498,486 705,554
   – option exercises      512,344 406,018
End of year      352,520,158 351,509,328
The Company operates the following share plans for the benefit of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries relating to the acquisition  
of shares in the Company. Further details of the share plans operated by the Company are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report.
Sharesave Scheme (2001) (‘Sharesave Scheme’)
The Sharesave Scheme, approved by shareholders at the 2001 Annual General Meeting, is approved by HM Revenue & Customs in the UK  
and is open to all UK employees, including the UK based executive directors, who have completed at least three months of continuous service.  
It is linked to a contract for monthly savings of up to £250 per month over a period of either three or five years. Under the Sharesave Scheme 
options are granted to participating employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the  
date of invitation to apply for the option. Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted. The Sharesave 
Scheme is due to expire in May 2011. The Company intends to seek shareholder approval for a replacement Scheme at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting in April 2011.
International Sharesave Plan 
The International Sharesave Plan was introduced following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme by shareholders. It operates on a similar  
basis to the Sharesave Scheme save that it is linked to a contract for monthly savings of approximately £250 per month (or equivalent in other 
currencies) over a period of three years and options are granted to participating employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price 
prevailing shortly before the date of invitation to apply for the option. The International Sharesave Plan is due to expire in May 2011. If the new 
Sharesave Scheme is approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, the Company intends to introduce a replacement Plan 
which will operate on a similar basis to the existing International Sharesave Plan.
Irish Sharesave Plan 
The Irish Sharesave Plan was also introduced following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme by shareholders. It is approved by the Irish 
Revenue Commissioners and operates on a similar basis to the Sharesave Scheme as described above except that it is linked to a contract for 
monthly savings of the euro equivalent of approximately £250 per month over a period of three years and options are granted to participating 
employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing shortly before the date of invitation to apply for the option. The Irish 
Sharesave Plan is due to expire in May 2011. If the new Sharesave Scheme is approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting,  
the Company intends to introduce a replacement Plan which will operate on a similar basis to the existing Irish Sharesave Plan.
1994 Executive Share Option Scheme (‘1994 Scheme’)
The 1994 Scheme was approved by shareholders at the 1994 Annual General Meeting. No further options have been granted under the 1994 
Scheme since it expired in May 2004. A performance condition, based on the Company’s adjusted earnings per share growth relative to 
UK inflation over three years, had to be satisfied before options would normally be exercisable. All such performance conditions relating to  
options granted under the 1994 Scheme have been satisified. Prior to 25 August 2010 all options granted under the 1994 Scheme to US resident 
participants (with the exception of Mr P L Larmon) were settled in cash (rather than through the delivery of shares) based upon the market value 
of the Company’s ordinary shares at the time the relevant options were exercised. With effect from such date, all such cash settled options were 
converted to equity settled options. 
Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
The LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and replaced the 1994 Scheme. The LTIP is divided into two parts.
Part A allows the Board to grant share options. In normal circumstances options granted are only exercisable if the relevant performance 
condition has been satisfied. Share options granted to date have a performance condition attached based on the Company’s adjusted earnings 
per share growth relative to UK inflation over three years. Prior to 25 August 2010 all options granted under Part A of the LTIP to US resident 
participants (with the exception of Mr P L Larmon) were settled in cash (rather than through the delivery of shares) based upon the market value 
of the Company’s ordinary shares at the time the relevant options were exercised. With effect from such date, all such cash settled options were 
converted to equity settled options.
Part B of the LTIP allows the Board to award performance shares which is a conditional right to receive shares in the Company for nil 
consideration. A performance share award will normally vest (i.e. become exercisable) on the third anniversary of its grant to the extent that the 
applicable performance condition has been satisfied. The extent to which performance share awards granted prior to 2007 vested was subject to 
the Company’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) performance over a three year period relative to the TSR performance of a specified peer group of 
companies. The extent to which performance share awards granted thereafter have vested or will in future vest is normally partly subject to the 
Company’s TSR performance and partly subject to the Company’s adjusted earnings per share growth relative to UK inflation over three years. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 64 Notes
NOTES continued
16 Share capital and share based payments continued
Investment in own shares
The Company holds a number of its ordinary shares in an employee benefit trust. The principal purpose of this trust is to hold shares in the 
Company for subsequent transfer to certain senior employees and executive directors relating to options granted and awards made in respect  
of market purchase shares under the 1994 Scheme, the LTIP and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme (‘DASBS’). Details of such plans  
are set out above and in the Directors’ remuneration report. The assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been incorporated in  
the consolidated financial statements. Finance costs and administration charges are included in the income statement on an accruals basis.  
At 31 December 2010 the trust held 3,995,293 (2009: 6,502,865) shares, upon which dividends have been waived, with an aggregate nominal 
value of £1.3m (2009: £2.1m) and market value of £28.7m (2009: £43.9m). At 31 December 2010, 23,325,000 (2009: 23,325,000) shares 
with an aggregate nominal value of £7.5m (2009: £7.5m) and market value of £167.7m (2009: £157.4m) were held in treasury.
IFRS 2 disclosures
Options granted during the year have been valued using a stochastic model. The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions 
used in the calculations are as follows:
       2010  2009
Grant date     25.02.2010–08.10.10 26.02.09–02.10.09
Share price at grant date (£)    6.69–7.61 4.92–6.52
Exercise price (£)    nil–7.57 nil–5.86
Options granted during the year (shares)    4,273,366 4,702,399
Vesting period (years)    3–5 3–5
Expected volatility (%)    21–25 21–25
Option life (years)    3–10 3–10
Expected life (years)    3.0–6.5 3.0–6.4
Risk free rate of return (%)    0.9–3.1 1.8–3.0
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield (%)   2.8–3.2 3.2–4.2
Fair value per option (£)    0.59–2.78 0.37–2.21
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three to five years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. 
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. 
The weighted average share price for options exercised by employees of the Company and its subsidiaries during the year was £7 .42 (2009: £5.99). 
The total charge for the year relating to share based payments was £4.1m (2009: £6.0m), comprising a charge of £3.4m relating to equity  
settled options (2009: £3.2m) and a charge of £0.7m relating to cash settled options (2009: £2.8m). After tax the total charge was £2.0m  
(2009: £4.7m). On 25 August 2010 the cash settled options were converted to equity settled options thereby harmonising all of the relevant 
option plans. The outstanding liability in relation to the cash settled options of £4.3m at that date (31 December 2009: £5.3m) was transferred  
to equity.
Details of share options and awards which have been granted and exercised, those which have lapsed during 2010 and those outstanding and 
available to exercise at 31 December 2010, in each case in respect of all options and awards, whether over new issue or market purchase shares, 
under the Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan, Irish Sharesave Plan, 1994 Scheme and LTIP Part A and Part B are set out in the 
following table:
             Options 
     Options       Options available 
     outstanding Grants/awards   Exercises Lapses*  outstanding to exercise
     at 01.01.10  2010   2010 2010  at 31.12.10 at 31.12.10
     Number Number Price (p) Number Price (p) Number Number Price (p) Number
Sharesave Scheme   1,105,872 367,345 542 183,909 347–578 179,004 1,110,304 437–578 23,285
International  
Sharesave Plan    155,195 53,341 542 30,997 529 35,207 142,332 452–578 –
Irish Sharesave Plan   43,740 9,752 542 2,414 529 13,444 37,634 452–578 –
1994 Scheme   1,496,302 – – 856,302 372–482 – 640,000 372–482 640,000
LTIP Part A   13,529,006 3,187,950 676–757 1,990,125 429–701 368,049 14,358,782 429–757 5,213,655
LTIP Part B   1,965,349 654,978 nil 370,624 nil 217,434 2,032,269 nil – 
     18,295,464 4,273,366  3,434,371  813,138 18,321,321  5,876,940 
*Share option lapses relate to those which have either been forfeited or have expired during the year. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 65
16 Share capital and share based payments continued
        Weighted Weighted 
        average average 
        fair value remaining 
        of options contractual 
        granted (£) life (years)
Sharesave Scheme      1.01 2.62
International Sharesave Plan      0.74 2.26
Irish Sharesave Plan      0.74 2.23
LTIP Part A      0.71 2.65
LTIP Part B      2.61 2.51
The outstanding options and awards are exercis able at various dates up to September 2020.
17 Dividends 
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
2008 interim       20.6
2008 fi nal        45.3
2009 interim      21.4
2009 final      48.2 
Total      69.6 65.9
Total dividends per share for the year to which they relate are:
      Per share
        2010 2009
Interim      7.15p 6.65p
Final      16.20p 14.90p
Total      23.35p 21.55p
The 2010 interim dividend of 7.15p per share was paid on 4 January 2011 and comprised £16.6m of cash and 0.9m of scrip shares. The 2010 
final dividend of 16.2p per share will be paid on 1 July 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 May 2011.
18 Contingent liabilities
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Bank guarantees      0.2 0.7
19 Directors’ ordinary share interests
The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the share capital of the Company at 31 December were:
        2010 2009
P G Rogerson      10,000 
M J Roney      238,888 225,660
C A Banks      7,945 7,707
U Wolters      5,000 5,000
P L Larmon      95,528 90,388
P W Johnson      5,188 3,708
B M May      100,610 88,195
D J R Sleath      4,000 4,000
        467,159 424,658
Details of directors’ options over ordinary shares and awards made under the 1994 Scheme, the LTIP and the DASBS are set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report. Since 31 December 2010 Mr C A Banks, Mr P L Larmon and Mr P W Johnson have acquired interests in 78, 802 and 34 
ordinary shares respectively as a result of their electing to participate in the scrip dividend scheme in respect of the interim dividend which was 
paid on 4 January 2011 and Mr P L Larmon has acquired interests in 440 ordinary shares pursuant to the Company’s US Stock Purchase Plan. 
No other changes to the directors’ ordinary share interests shown in this Note and the Directors’ remuneration report have taken place between 
31 December 2010 and 28 February 2011. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 66 Notes
NOTES continued NOTES continued
20 Pensions 
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes. The funds of the principal schemes are administered  
by trustees and are held independently from the Group. Pension costs of defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice  
of independent professionally qualified actuaries. Full triennial actuarial valuations were carried out on the UK defined benefit schemes in April 
2009 and annual actuarial valuations are performed on the principal US defined benefit schemes. The valuation of the UK defined benefit 
schemes has been updated to 31 December 2010 by the Group’s actuaries. Contributions to all schemes are determined in line with actuarial 
advice and local conditions and practices. Scheme assets for the purpose of IAS 19 are stated at their bid value.
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements in respect of the Group were as follows:
        2010 2009 
Amounts included in net operating expenses      £m £m
Defined contribution schemes       9.5 8.5
Defined benefit schemes 
 current service cost      5.4 4.8
 past service cost      0.1 0.1
Total operating charge      15.0 13.4
Amounts included in finance (income)/cost
Expected return on scheme assets      (16.8) (14.7)
Interest charge on scheme liabilities      16.3 15.2
Net financial (return)/charge      (0.5) 0.5
Total charge       14.5 13.9
        2010 2009 
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income     £m £m
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets      10.8 9.2
Experience gain on scheme liabilities      1.2 1.2
Impact of changes in assumptions relating to the present value of scheme liabilities    (14.5) (29.7)
Actuarial loss on pension schemes      (2.5) (19.3)
Movement in pension schemes’ minimum funding liabilities      5.5
        (2.5) (13.8)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses arising since 1 January 2004 recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at 31 December 
2010 was £67.4m (2009: £64.9m). Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 67
20 Pensions continued
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries for the purposes of IAS 19 were:
Europe      2010 2009
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners (years)      21.0 20.7
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners (years)      22.9 21.8
US
Longevity at age 65 for current and future pensioners (years)     19.7 19.5
     Europe  US
    2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Rate of increase in salaries  4.2% 4.3% 3.8% 3.0% 3.0% 4.0%
Rate of increase in pensions  3.4% 3.3% 2.8% – – –
Discount rate  5.4% 5.7% 6.4% 5.7% 6.1% 6.3%
Inflation rate  2.8% 3.3% 2.8% 2.5% 2.5% 3.0%
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the 
timescales covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considers the current level of expected returns on risk free 
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio  
is invested and the expectations for the future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class is then weighted based on 
the actual asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio. The market value of scheme 
assets and the present value of pensions obligations were:
     Europe  US Total 
     2010  2010 2010
     Long term Value Long term Value Value 
     rate of return† £m rate of return £m £m
Equities   7.7% 121.8 8.2% 40.5 162.3
Bonds   5.3% 64.9 5.1% 26.1 91.0
Other   4.1% 0.4 8.0% 4.3 4.7
Blended rate of return on scheme assets   6.8%  7.4%  
Total market value of scheme assets    187.1  70.9 258.0 
Present value of funded obligations    (209.8)  (86.5) (296.3)
Present value of unfunded obligations    (4.7)  (9.5) (14.2)
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations    (214.5)  (96.0) (310.5)
Unrecognised past service cost    –  0.2 0.2 
Deficit    (27.4)  (24.9) (52.3)
Deferred tax     7.5  8.7 16.2 
Net deficit    (19.9)  (16.2) (36.1)
†Long term rate of return is based on the weighted average across all European defined benefit pension schemes. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 68 Notes
NOTES continued NOTES continued
20 Pensions continued 
      Europe  US Total 
      2009  2009 2009
     Long term Value Long term Value Value 
     rate of return† £m rate of return £m £m
Equities   8.2% 106.5 7.8% 32.4 138.9
Bonds   5.4% 58.3 5.1% 22.3 80.6
Other   3.0% 0.6 8.5% 3.0 3.6
Blended rate of return on scheme assets   7.2%  7.2%  
Total market value of scheme assets    165.4  57.7 223.1
Present value of funded obligations    (197.0)  (72.8) (269.8)
Present value of unfunded obligations    (4.4)  (8.9) (13.3)
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations    (201.4)  (81.7) (283.1)
Unrecognised past service cost    –  0.2 0.2
Deficit    (36.0)  (23.8) (59.8)
Deferred tax     10.0  8.3 18.3
Net deficit    (26.0)  (15.5) (41.5)
†Long term rate of return is based on the weighted average across all European defined benefit pension schemes.
     2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
     £m £m £m £m £m
Total market value of scheme assets   258.0 223.1 202.3 229.9 200.4
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations   (310.5) (283.1) (253.0) (243.4) (237.9)
Unrecognised past service cost   0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 –
Pension schemes’ minimum funding liabilities     (5.5) (18.1)
Deficit   (52.3) (59.8) (55.9) (31.3) (37 .5)
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets   10.8 9.2 (62.8) (0.6) 7.3
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities   1.2 1.2 2.2 0.4 7.5
        2010 2009 
Movement in deficit      £m £m
Beginning of year      (59.8) (55.9)
Current service cost      (5.4) (4.8)
Past service cost      (0.1) (0.1)
Contributions      15.2 11.2
Net financial return/(charge)      0.5 (0.5)
Movement in pension schemes’ minimum funding liabilities      5.5
Actuarial loss      (2.5) (19.3)
Currency translation      (0.2) 4.1
End of year      (52.3) (59.8)
        Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 69
20 Pensions continued 
        2010 2009 
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations     £m £m
Beginning of year      283.1 253.0
Current service cost      5.4 4.8
Past service cost      0.1 –
Interest charge on scheme liabilities      16.3 15.2
Contributions by employees      1.0 1.1
Actuarial loss      13.3 28.5
Benefits paid      (9.8) (9.1)
Currency translation      1.1 (10.4)
End of year      310.5 283.1
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets      £m £m
Beginning of year      223.1 202.3
Expected return on scheme assets      16.8 14.7
Actuarial gain      10.8 9.2
Contributions by employer       15.2 11.2
Contributions by employees       1.0 1.1
Benefits paid       (9.8) (9.1)
Currency translation        0.9 (6.3)
End of year      258.0 223.1
The calculation of expected return on scheme assets is determined with reference to market expectations in conjunction with the relevant  
scheme’s actuaries.
The actual return on scheme assets was £27.6m (2009: £23.9m). 
The Group expects to pay approximately £16m in contributions to the defined benefit pension schemes in the year ending 31 December 2011.
21 Directors and employees 
Average number of employees      2010 2009
North America      3,468 3,438
UK & Ireland      4,742 5,598
Continental Europe      3,252 3,248
Rest of the World      854 878
        12,316 13,162
Corporate       52 52
        12,368 13,214
        2010 2009 
Employee costs       £m £m
Wages and salaries      396.4 392.2
Social security costs      48.5 48.4
Share based payments      4.7 4.6
Pension costs       15.0 13.4
        464.6 458.6 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 70 Notes
NOTES continued
21 Directors and employees continued
        2010 2009 
Key management remuneration      £m £m
Salaries and short term employee benefits      5.1 4.6
Share based payments      1.4 0.9
Post employment benefits      0.9 1.1
        7.4 6.6
The Group considers key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to be the directors of the Company and  
those members of the Executive Committee and the Managing Directors of the major geographic regions who are not directors of the Company.  
The amounts disclosed are calculated on the same bases as those used to determine the relevant amounts disclosed in the Directors’ 
remuneration report.
        2010 2009 
Directors’ emoluments      £m £m
Non-executive directors      0.6 0.6
Executive directors:
 remuneration excluding performance related elements     2.2 2.1
 annual cash bonus       0.7 0.5
        3.5 3.2
More detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments and long term incentives is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. The 
aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of share options during the year was £0.4m (2009: £nil). The aggregate market 
value of performance share awards exercised by directors under long term incentive schemes during the year was £1.1m (2009: £0.9m).  
The aggregate market value of shares exercised by directors under the DASBS was £0.6m (2009: £0.7m).
22 Lease commitments
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. These leases have varying terms  
and renewal rights. At 31 December the total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following 
periods were:
      Land &  Land & 
      buildings Other buildings Other 
      2010 2010 2009 2009 
      £m £m £m £m
Within one year    48.6 25.5 47.1 21.3
Between one and five years    133.0 34.1 127.6 36.3
After five years    68.8 3.2 77.6 1.5
      250.4 62.8 252.3 59.1
 
Total of future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases  (0.8) – (0.3) –
  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 71
23 Cash and cash equivalents and net debt
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand      57.4 47.2
Short term deposits repayable in less than three months     26.5 10.7
Cash and deposits      83.9 57.9
Bank overdrafts       (9.0) (14.9)
Cash and cash equivalents      74.9 43.0
Current liabilities      (126.2) (7.7)
Non-current liabilities      (691.5) (780.3)
Derivative assets – fair value of interest rate swaps on fixed interest rate borrowings    26.0 28.2
Interest bearing loans and borrowings      (791.7) (759.8)
Net debt      (716.8) (716.8)
        2010 2009 
Movement in net debt      £m £m
Beginning of year      (716.8) (870.7)
Net cash inflow      9.7 126.3
Realised gains/(losses) on foreign exchange contracts      5.3 (7.3)
Currency translation      (15.0) 34.9
End of year      (716.8) (716.8)
24 Acquisitions 
2010
The principal acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2010 were Clean Care, Hamo, Weita, Silco, Juba, Global Net, A.M. Supply, 
Cool-Pak and Van’t Veer Verpakkingen.
Clean Care, a business principally engaged in the supply of cleaning and hygiene consumable products in Denmark, was acquired on 15 January 
2010. Hamo, a distributor of catering disposables and light catering equipment to customers in both the public and private sectors, was acquired 
on 12 February 2010. Weita, a supplier of cleaning and hygiene, foodservice, retail, healthcare and safety consumables products to both end 
users and redistributors in Switzerland, was acquired on 12 March 2010. Silco, a supplier of foodservice disposables in Israel, was acquired on  
21 April 2010. Juba, a supplier of personal protection equipment to redistributors throughout Spain, was acquired on 27 May 2010. Global Net, 
which sells cleaning and hygiene consumables and equipment to contract cleaners, local authorities and other industrial customers throughout 
the Walloon region of Belgium, was acquired on 1 July 2010. A.M. Supply, which supplies personal protection equipment to the oil and 
petrochemical sector in the state of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil, was acquired on 26 August 2010. Cool-Pak, a leading distributor of plastic and pulp 
packaging to fruit and vegetable growers in the US, was acquired on 30 August 2010. Van’t Veer Verpakkingen, a business supplying cleaning 
and hygiene and catering disposable products in the Netherlands predominantly to the healthcare sector, was acquired on 1 October 2010.
Acquisitions have been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, involving the purchase of 100% of the acquiree’s share capital or,  
as the case may be, all of the relevant assets of the businesses acquired. Part of the Group’s strategy is to grow through acquisition. The Group has 
developed a process to assist with the identification of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the separate identification 
of intangible assets in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. This formal process is applied to each acquisition and involves an assessment 
of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with assistance provided by external valuation specialists where appropriate. Until this assessment is 
complete, the allocation period remains open up to a maximum of 12 months from the relevant acquisition date. As at 31 December 2010, the 
allocation period for all acquisitions completed since 1 January 2010 remained open and accordingly the fair values presented are provisional. 
Adjustments are made to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the allocation period to the extent that further information and 
knowledge come to light that more accurately reflect conditions at the acquisition date. To date the adjustments made have impacted assets 
acquired to reflect more accurately the estimated realisable or settlement value. Similarly adjustments have been made to acquired liabilities to 
record onerous commitments or other commitments existing at the acquisition date but not recognised by the acquiree. Adjustments have also 
been made to reflect the associated tax effects. The net impact from these adjustments on acquired net assets reported in the Group’s 2010 
statutory accounts was £nil. 
The consideration paid or payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion, deferred consideration and payments  
which are contingent on the continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired. IFRS 3 requires that any such payments that are 
contingent on future employment are charged to the income statement. All other consideration has been allocated against the identified net 
assets, with the balance recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement. 
The acquisitions provide opportunities for further development of the Group’s activities and create enhanced returns. Such opportunities and the 
workforces inherent in each of the acquired businesses do not translate to separately identifiable intangible assets but do represent much of the 
assessed value that supports the recognised goodwill.  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 72 Notes
NOTES continued
24 Acquisitions continued
A summary of the effect of acquisitions is detailed below:
        Provisional  Fair value  
       Book value at fair value of assets 
       acquisition adjustments acquired 
       £m £m £m
Intangible assets      51.5 51.5
Property, plant and equipment     18.3 (0.4) 17.9
Inventories     23.3 (4.4) 18.9
Trade and other receivables     26.1 (0.7) 25.4
Trade and other payables     (16.4) (1.6) (18.0)
Net bank overdrafts     (6.2)  (6.2)
Provisions for liabilities and charges      (3.1) (3.1)
Tax and deferred tax     (3.0) (13.1) (16.1)
       42.1 28.2 70.3
Goodwill        34.5
Consideration       104.8
Satisfied by:
 cash consideration       97.2
 deferred consideration       7.6
         104.8
Contingent payments to former owners       9.7
Net bank overdrafts acquired       6.2
Transaction costs and expenses       5.5
Total expected spend in respect of current year acquisitions      126.2
The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisitions comprised:
Cash consideration       97.2
Net bank overdrafts acquired       6.2
Deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions      1.6
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions       105.0
Acquisition related costs        5.6
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions       110.6
Acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2010 contributed £84.4m to the Group’s revenue and £9.9m to the Group’s operating profit 
before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. 
The estimated contributions of acquired businesses to the results of the Group, as if the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, 
are as follows:
         £m
Revenue       153.6
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs     17.8
 
2009
The principal acquisitions made during the year ended 31 December 2009 were Industrial Supplies, a distributor of cleaning and hygiene 
products throughout the east of England, and W.K. Thomas, a distributor of foodservice products to the catering and airline sectors within  
the UK, both acquired on 19 March 2009. The net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions made in 2009 was £6.4m. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes 73
25 Related party disclosures 
The Group has identified the directors of the Company, the Group pension schemes and its key management as related parties for the purpose  
of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Details of the relevant relationships with these related parties are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration 
report, Note 20 and Note 21 respectively.
26 Principal subsidiary undertakings
        Country of incorporation
Bunzl Australasia Ltd       Australia
Bunzl Do Brasil Participacoes Ltda      Brazil
Bunzl Finance plc*      England & Wales
Bunzl Holding Danmark A/S      Denmark
Bunzl Holding GmbH      Germany
Bunzl Holdings France SAS      France
Bunzl Outsourcing Services BV      Netherlands
Bunzl UK Ltd      England & Wales
Bunzl USA Holdings Corporation      USA
*Direct subsidiary undertaking of Bunzl plc.
The companies named above are the principal subsidiary undertakings of Bunzl plc at 31 December 2010, which are wholly owned, and are 
included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group. The investments in these companies, as shown above, relate to ordinary shares, 
quotas or common stock. The principal country in which each company operates is the country of incorporation. The principal activities of the 
Group are reviewed in the Chief Executive’s review. A full list of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return  
filed at Companies House. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 74 Company balance sheet
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
at 31 December 2010
        2010 2009 
       Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets     3 0.7 0.7
Investments     4 657.7 655.4
        658.4 656.1
Current assets
Debtors     5 451.0 287.7
Cash at bank and in hand      0.1 0.1
        451.1 287.8
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year     6 (105.3) (103.4)
Net current assets      345.8 184.4
Total assets less current liabilities      1,004.2 840.5
Provisions      7 (4.6) (6.6)
Net assets      999.6 833.9
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital     8 113.3 113.0
Share premium account     10 133.9 131.7
Other reserves     10 5.6 5.6
Capital redemption reserve     10 8.6 8.6
Profit and loss account     10 738.2 575.0
Shareholders’ funds      999.6 833.9
Approved by the Board of Directors of Bunzl plc (Company registration number 358948) on 28 February 2011 and signed on its behalf by  
Mr M J Roney, Chief Executive and Mr B M May, Finance Director. 
The Accounting policies and Notes on pages 75 to 81 form part of these financial statements. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Company financial statements 75
1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements of Bunzl plc (‘the Company’) have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention  
and have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP . 
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.  
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Financial Reporting Standard (‘FRS’) 29 (IFRS 7) ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’  
because the published consolidated financial statements of the Group include disclosures that comply with the Standard.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company 
financial statements.
2 Accounting policies
a Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
b Investment in own shares
The cost of shares held either directly (treasury shares) or indirectly (employee benefit trust shares) is deducted from equity. Repurchased  
shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are subsequently sold or 
reissued, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised in 
retained earnings.
c Share based payments
The Company operates equity settled share based compensation plans for which the total expected expense is based on the fair value of options 
and other share based incentives on the grant date, calculated using a valuation model, and is spread over the expected vesting period with a 
corresponding credit to equity. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options that are expected to 
vest. Details of the relevant plans are outlined in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Where the Company grants options over its own 
shares to the employees of its subsidiaries these awards are accounted for by the Company as an additional investment in the relevant subsidiary 
equivalent to the equity settled share based payment charge recognised in the consolidated financial statements with the corresponding credit 
recognised directly in equity. Any payment made by the subsidiaries in respect of these arrangements is treated as a return of this investment. 
These costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’.
d Tangible fixed assets
Until 31 December 1999 land and buildings were revalued periodically. As permitted under FRS 15 ‘Tangible Fixed Assets’, the valuations  
of land and buildings have not been and will not be updated. All other tangible fixed assets are included at historical cost, less accumulated 
depreciation. The profit or loss on sale of tangible fixed assets is calculated by reference to the carrying values of the assets. The carrying values 
of tangible fixed assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may 
not be recoverable.
e Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost less estimated residual value over the assets’ estimated remaining useful lives. 
This is applied at the following annual rates:
Buildings  2% (or depreciated over life of lease if shorter than 50 years) 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment  10 – 33%
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Leases
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant 
lease. Leases in which the Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classified as finance 
leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings 
due to the indefinite life of land.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
76 Notes to the Company financial statements
2 Accounting policies continued 
g Tax
The charge for tax is based on the profit or loss for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment 
of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain 
items for tax and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 
‘Deferred Tax’. 
h Pensions
The Company participates in a Group UK defined benefit scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. As the Company is unable  
to identify its share of scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, the Company treats contributions to defined benefit 
schemes as if they were contributions to a defined contribution scheme in accordance with the exemptions permitted by FRS 17 ‘Retirement 
Benefits’. As a result the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the 
relevant accounting period.
i Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company 
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as  
a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 
j Dividends
The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period in which it is paid and the final dividend in the period in which it is 
approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
3 Tangible fixed assets 
        Fixtures,  
       Short fittings and  
       leasehold equipment Total 
       £m £m £m
Cost 
Beginning of year     0.4 2.5 2.9
Additions     – 0.1 0.1
End of year     0.4 2.6 3.0
Depreciation
Beginning of year     0.3 1.9 2.2
Charge in year     – 0.1 0.1
End of year     0.3 2.0 2.3
Net book value at 31 December 2010     0.1 0.6 0.7
Net book value at 31 December 2009     0.1 0.6 0.7
  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Company financial statements 77
4 Investments held as fixed assets
         Investments in 
         subsidiary 
         undertakings 
         £m
Cost        
Beginning of year       701.0
Additions       2.3
End of year        703.3
Impairment provisions       
Beginning and end of year       45.6
Net book value at 31 December 2010       657.7
Net book value at 31 December 2009       655.4
The principal companies in which the Company’s interest at 31 December 2010 is more than 20% are as follows:
       Country of incorporation
Bunzl Australasia Ltd        Australia
Bunzl Do Brasil Participacoes Ltda       Brazil
Bunzl Finance plc*      England & Wales
Bunzl Holding Danmark A/S       Denmark
Bunzl Holding GmbH       Germany
Bunzl Holdings France SAS       France
Bunzl Outsourcing Services BV       Netherlands
Bunzl UK Ltd      England & Wales
Bunzl USA Holdings Corporation       USA
*Direct subsidiary undertaking of Bunzl plc.
5 Debtors
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings      429.9 268.0
Prepayments and other debtors      7.4 7.3
Corporation tax      9.6 7.9
Deferred tax      4.1 4.5
        451.0 287.7 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
78 Notes to the Company financial statements
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Trade creditors      0.4 0.4
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings      100.0 99.4
Accruals and deferred income      4.9 3.6
        105.3 103.4
7 Provisions
        2010 2009 
Movements      £m £m
Beginning of year      6.6 6.4
Charge      – 0.4
Utilised      (2.0) (0.2)
End of year      4.6 6.6
The provisions relate to properties and include vacant properties where amounts are held against liabilities for onerous lease commitments, 
repairs and dilapidations. These provisions cover the relevant period of the lease agreements, up to the earliest possible termination date, which 
typically extend from one to 10 years.
8 Share capital and share based payments
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 32
1
⁄7p each      113.3 113.0
Number of ordinary shares in issue and fully paid
Beginning of year      351,509,328 350,397,756
Issued – scrip dividend      498,486 705,554
   – option exercises      512,344 406,018
End of year      352,520,158 351,509,328
The Company operates a number of share plans, for the benefit of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries relating to the acquisition of 
shares in the Company, which are described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Company financial statements 79
8 Share capital and share based payments continued 
FRS 20 disclosures
Options granted to employees of the Company during the year have been valued using a stochastic model. The fair value per option granted 
during the year and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows:
       2010  2009
Grant date     25.02.10–08.10.10 26.02.09–02.10.09
Share price at grant date (£)    6.69–7.61 4.92–6.22
Exercise price (£)    nil–7.46 nil–5.85
Options granted during the year (shares)    777,465 917 ,160
Vesting period (years)    3–5 3–5
Expected volatility (%)    21–25 21–25
Option life (years)    3–10 3–10
Expected life (years)    3.0–6.0 3.0–6.0
Risk free rate of return (%)    0.9–3.0 1.8–2.7
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield (%)   2.9–3.2 3.4–4.2
Fair value per option (£)     0.59–2.78  0.37–2.21
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three to five years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. 
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The weighted average share price for options exercised by employees of the Company during the year was £7.34 (2009: £5.76). The total 
Company charge for the year relating to share based payments was £1.0m (2009: £1.4m). 
Details of share options and awards to employees of the Company which have been granted and exercised, those which have lapsed during 2010 
and those outstanding and available to exercise at 31 December 2010, in each case in respect of all options and awards, whether over new issue 
or market purchase shares, under the Sharesave Scheme, 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan Part A and 
Part B are set out in the following table:
           Options 
   Options       Options available 
   outstanding  Grants/awards  Exercises Lapses*  outstanding to exercise 
   at 01.01.10  2010  2010 2010  at 31.12.10 at 31.12.10
   Number Number Price (p) Number Price (p) Number Number Price (p) Number
Sharesave Scheme 70,599 16,589 542 14,902 437–529 14,034 58,252 452–578 –
1994 Scheme 202,278 – – 194,278 446–482 – 8,000 446 8,000
LTIP Part A 2,226,545 479,500 677–746 127,393 500–700 60,000 2,518,652 429–746 1,053,652
LTIP Part B 936,165 281,376 nil 161,185 nil 68,354 988,002 nil – 
   3,435,587 777,465  497,758  142,388 3,572,906  1,061,652
*Share option lapses relate to those which have either been forfeited or have expired during the year.
        Weighted Weighted 
        average average 
        fair value remaining 
        of options contractual 
        granted (£) life (years)
Sharesave Scheme      0.97 3.05
LTIP Part A      0.66 2.46
LTIP Part B      2.61 2.51
The outstanding options and awards are exercis able at various dates up to September 2020. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
80 Notes to the Company financial statements
9 Dividends 
        2010 2009   
        £m £m
2008 interim       20.6
2008 fi nal        45.3
2009 interim      21.4
2009 fi nal      48.2  
Total      69.6 65.9
Total dividends per share for the year to which they relate are:
      Per share
        2010 2009
Interim      7.15p 6.65p
Final      16.20p 14.90p
Total      23.35p 21.55p
The 2010 interim dividend of 7.15p per share was paid on 4 January 2011 and comprised £16.6m of cash and 0.9m of scrip shares. The 2010 
final dividend of 16.2p per share will be paid on 1 July 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 May 2011.
10 Capital and reserves 
    
Share  Capital
 Profit and loss account
   Share premium Other redemption Own Retained  
   capital account reserves reserve shares earnings Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 113.0 131.7 5.6 8.6 (213.0) 788.0 833.9
Issue of share capital 0.3 2.2     2.5
Employee trust shares     13.5  13.5
Share based payments      3.3 3.3
Profit for the year      212.5 212.5
2009 interim dividend      (20.2) (20.2)
2009 final dividend      (45.9) (45.9)
At 31 December 2010 113.3 133.9 5.6 8.6 (199.5) 937.7 999.6
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented in these 
financial statements.
Included within own shares are ordinary shares of the Company held by the Group in an employee benefit trust. The principal purpose of this  
trust is to hold shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to certain senior employees and executive directors relating to options granted  
and awards made in respect of market purchase shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan, the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme and  
the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme. Details of such plans are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements and the Directors’ 
remuneration report. The assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been incorporated in the consolidated financial statements. Finance 
costs and administration charges are included in the income statement on an accruals basis. At 31 December 2010 the trust held 3,995,293 
(2009: 6,502,865) shares, upon which dividends have been waived, with an aggregate nominal value of £1.3m (2009: £2.1m) and market value  
of £28.7m (2009: £43.9m). At 31 December 2010, 23,325,000 (2009: 23,325,000) shares with an aggregate nominal value of £7.5m (2009: 
£7.5m) and market value of £167.7m (2009: £157.4m) were held in treasury. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Notes to the Company financial statements 81
11 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Profit for the year      212.5 189.0
Dividends       (66.1) (65.9)
        146.4 123.1
Issue of share capital       2.5 5.5
Employee trust shares      13.5 2.8 
Share based payments      3.3 4.9
Net increase in shareholders’ funds      165.7 136.3
Opening shareholders’ funds       833.9 697.6
Closing shareholders’ funds      999.6 833.9
The Company had no recognised gains or losses in the year ended 31 December 2010 or the year ended 31 December 2009 other than its  
profit for the relevant year.
12 Contingent liabilities
Borrowings by subsidiary undertakings totalling £760.2m (2009: £743.5m) which are included in the Group’s borrowings have been guaranteed 
by the Company. 
13 Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the directors of the Company is disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements and the Directors’ 
remuneration report.
14 Employee numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including directors) during the year was 42 (2009: 43).
The aggregate employee costs relating to these persons were:
        2010 2009 
        £m £m
Wages and salaries      7.0 6.6
Social security costs      1.1 1.0
Share based payments      1.0 1.4
Pension costs      0.7 0.6
        9.8 9.6
15 Related party disclosures
The Company has identified the directors of the Company, the UK pension scheme and its key management as related parties for the purpose  
of FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Details of the relevant relationships with these related parties are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration 
report, Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements and Note 21 of the consolidated financial statements respectively. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 82 Statement of directors’ responsibilites
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the  
Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Annual Report and financial statements comply with the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom’s Financial 
Services Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an annual  
financial report.
We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge:
• 	 	 t h e 	 G r o u p 	 a n d 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n	
prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting 
standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• 	 	 t h e 	 A n n u a l 	 R e p o r t 	 a n d 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 i n c l u d e 	 a 	 f a i r 	 r e v i e w 	 o f	
the development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board 
M J Roney   B M May 
Chief Executive   Finance Director 
28 February 2011
The directors are responsible for preparing the Group and parent 
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements  
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law  
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with UK GAAP and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period.
In preparing both the Group and parent company financial statements, 
the directors are required to:
•	 se l ec t 	 s u i t a bl e 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 po l i c i es 	 a n d 	 t h e n 	 a p pl y 	 t h e m 	 con s i st e n t l y ;
•	 m a k e 	 j ud g e m e n ts 	 a n d 	 est i m a t es 	 t h a t 	 a r e 	 r e a son a bl e 	 a n d 	 p r ud e n t ;
•	 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 G r o u p 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e n ts , 	 st a t e 	 w h e t h e r 	 t h e y 	 h a v e 	 bee n 	
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
• 	 	 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s , 	 s t a t e 	 w h e t h e r	
applicable UK GAAP has been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial 
statements; and
•	 	 p r e pa r e 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e n ts 	 on 	 t h e 	 g o i n g 	 con ce r n 	 ba s i s 	 u n l e s s 	
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting  
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and  
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration 
report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law 
and those regulations. As explained in the Directors’ report, certain 
information included in the Annual Report and financial statements  
is incorporated by reference into the Directors’ report. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Bunzl plc 83
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion: 
• 	 	 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 r e p o r t 	 t o 	 b e 	 a u d i t e d 	 h a s	
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• 	 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 g i v e n 	 i n 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e p o r t 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 y e a r	 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
• 	 	 a d e q u a t e 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 r e c o r d s 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 b e e n 	 k e p t 	 b y 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t	
company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• 	 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e	
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 	 ce r t a i n 	 d i sc los u r e s 	 o f 	 d i r ec t o rs ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t ion 	 s pec ified 	 b y 	 l a w 	 a r e 	
not made; or
• 	 	 w e 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 r e c e i v e d 	 a l l 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 a n d 	 e x p l a n a t i o n s 	 w e 	 r e q u i r e	
for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• 	 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 s t a t e m e n t , 	 s e t 	 o u t 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 2 5 , 	 i n 	 r e l a t i o n 	 t o 	 g o i n g	
concern;
• 	 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o r p o r a t e 	 g o v e r n a n c e 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 o n 	 p a g e s 	 2 9 	 t o 	 3 1	
relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
•	 	 ce r t a i n 	 e l e m e n ts 	 o f 	 t h e 	 Di r ec t o rs ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t ion 	 r e po r t .
D V Matthews (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square, London  
28 February 2011
We have audited the financial statements of Bunzl plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the 
Group and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow 
statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and related 
notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by  
the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in  
the preparation of the parent company financial statements is 
applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them  
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities  
set out on page 82, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion  
on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s)  
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided 
on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion: 
•	 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e n ts 	 g iv e 	 a 	 t r u e 	 a n d 	 fa i r 	 v i ew 	 o f 	 t h e 	 st a t e 	 o f 	 t h e 	
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• 	 	 t h e 	 G r o u p 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n	
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
• 	 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y	
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice; and
•	 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 st a t e m e n ts 	 h a v e 	 bee n 	 p r e pa r ed 	 i n 	 a c co r d a n ce 	 wi t h 	 t h e 	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 84 Five year review
FIVE YEAR REVIEW
     2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
     £m  £m £m £m £m
Revenue   4,829.6 4,648.7 4,177.3 3,581.9 3,333.2
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and  
acquisition related costs   306.7  295.7 280.5 242.9 226.3
Intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs
 
  (51.0) (41.8) (36.0) (24.4) (19.9)
Operating profit   255.7 253.9 244.5 218.5 206.4
Finance income   20.3 16.8 27.6 21.1 19.6
Finance cost   (50.8) (54.7) (65.2) (48.5) (36.3)
Profit before income tax   225.2 216.0 206.9 191.1 189.7
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation and 
acquisition related costs   276.2 257.8 242.9 215.5 209.6
Income tax   (66.2) (67 .1) (64.7) (61.0) (60.3)
Profit for the year    159.0 148.9 142.2 130.1 129.4
Basic earnings per share   49.1p 46.4p 44.5p 39.8p 37.8p
Adjusted earnings per share   60.6p 55.9p 52.7p 45.1p 41.7p   
BUNZL 
WE ARE A g Ro WINg AND 
Succ ESSFu L g Roup WITH 
op ERATIo NS Ac Ro SS THE 
AmERIc AS, Eu Rop E AND 
Au STRALASIA.
We supply a variety of products that are 
everyday essentials for our customers  
to operate their businesses.
By outsourcing the purchasing, consolidation 
and distribution of a broad range of everyday 
items, our customers are able to focus on 
their core businesses, achieve purchasing 
efficiencies and savings, free up working 
capital, improve distribution capabilities  
and simplify their internal administration.
OUR MARKETS
We provide a ‘one stop shop’ distribution and outsourcing 
service supplying a broad range of internationally sourced 
non-food products to a variety of market sectors.
CONTENTS 
01 Financial highlights
02 Our business
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive’s review
16 Financial review
19  Corporate responsibility
23 Board of directors
24 Directors’ report
29 Corporate governance
32 Directors’ remuneration report 
41 Consolidated income statement
42  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
43 Consolidated balance sheet
44  Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity
45 Consolidated cash flow statement
46 Notes
74 Company balance sheet
75  Notes to the Company financial  
statements
82  Statement of directors’  
responsibilities
83 Independent auditor’s report
84 Five year review
85 Shareholder information
g ROCERy 31%
FOOdSERvi CE
30%
CLEANiNg & SAFET y 20%
SHAREHOLdER iNFORMATiON
Financial calendar  2011
Annual General Meeting  20 April
Results for the half year to 30 June 2011  30 August
 
  2012
Results for the year to 31 December 2011  February
Annual Report circulated  March
 
Dividend payments are normally made on these dates:
Ordinary shares (final)  1 July
Ordinary shares (interim)  2 January
 
Analysis of ordinary shareholders
At 31 December 2010 the Company had 5,761 (2009: 6,189) 
shareholders who held 352.5 million (2009: 351.5 million) ordinary 
shares (including treasury shares) between them, analysed as follows:
 Number of  % of issued 
Size of holding shareholders  share capital
0 – 10,000 5,166 2
10,001 – 100,000 323 3
100,001 – 500,000 168 11
500,001 – 1,000,000 49 10
1,000,001 and over 55 74
 5,761  100
ShareGift
Sometimes shareholders have only a small holding of shares which 
may be uneconomical to sell. Shareholders who wish to donate these 
shares to charity can do so through ShareGift, an independent charity 
share donation scheme (registered charity no. 1052686). Further 
information about ShareGift may be obtained from ShareGift on  
020 7930 3737 or at www.sharegift.org.
Shareholder security
Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited  
financial advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free 
company reports. More detailed information about this can be  
found at www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk. Details of any share  
dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in 
Company mailings. 
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc
Stockbrokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove  
Citigroup
Company Secretary
P N Hussey
Registered office
York House 
45 Seymour Street 
London W1H 7JT 
Telephone 020 7725 5000 
Fax 020 7725 5001
Website www.bunzl.com 
Registered in England no. 358948
Forward looking statements
The Annual Report contains certain statements about the future 
outlook for the Group. Although the Company believes that the 
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements 
about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause 
actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions  
Bridgwater Road  
Bristol BS99 6ZY 
Telephone 0870 889 3257  
Fax 0870 703 6101 
Website www.computershare.com
Investor centre
Shareholders can manage their shareholding online at  
www.investorcentre.co.uk. The Investor centre is our Registrar’s  
easy to use website, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,  
where the following services are available:
• change of address;
• view share balance information; and
• view dividend payment and tax information.
In order to register for the Investor centre, shareholders will need 
their shareholder reference number which can be found on either 
their share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Dividend payment by BACS
Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into their bank  
or building society account using the Bankers’ Automated Clearing 
Service (BACS). This means that dividends will be in the account  
on the same day the dividend payment is made. Shareholders will 
receive their tax vouchers by post. To use this method of payment 
please contact our Registrar on 0870 889 3257 or visit the Investor 
centre website. Please note that this option will not override any 
existing dividend scheme mandate, which would need to be revoked 
in writing.
Share dealing
Bunzl plc shares can be traded through most banks and  
stockbrokers. The Company’s Registrar also offers an internet  
and telephone dealing service. Further details can be found at  
www.computershare.com/dealing/uk or by telephoning 0870 703 0084.
This Annual Report is printed on Revive 50:50 Silk, a 50% recycled paper which  
is independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council  
(FSC). The composition of the paper is 25% de-inked post consumer waste, 25% 
unprinted pre-consumer waste and 50% virgin fibre. All pulps used are elemental 
chlorine free and the manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard  
for environmental management.
Designed and produced by
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Shareholder information 85 Annual Report 2010
EVERYDAY
ESSENTIALS
EVERYWHERE
York House 
45 Seymour Street 
London W1H 7JT
T 020 7725 5000
F 020 7725 5001
www.bunzl.com
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010
