 York House 
45 Seymour Street 
London W1H 7JT
T 020 7725 5000
F 020 7725 5001
www.bunzl.com
SUPPORTING  
BUSINESS 
EVERYWHERE
ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1 CONTENTS
Overview
01 Financial highlights
02 Group at a glance
04 Our products
06 Platform for growth
07 Key performance indicators
08	 Chairman’s 	 statement
Business review
10 Chief Executive’s review
22 Financial review
25	 	 Corporate	 responsibility
Governance 
30 Board of directors
31 Directors’ report
36 Corporate governance
40	 Directors’ 	 remuneration	 report	
Financial statements
54 Consolidated income statement
55  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
56 Consolidated balance sheet
57  Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
58	 	 Consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement
59 Notes
89 Company balance sheet
90  Notes to the Company financial 
statements
97  Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
98 Independent auditor’s report
99	 Five 	 year	 review
100	 Shareholder 	 information
The	 paper	 used	 in	 the	 report	 is	 Amadeus	 50	 Silk	 containing	 50%	
recycled	 content,	 all	 of	 which	 is	 de-inked	 post-consumer	 waste,	 	
and	 50%	 virgin	 fibre.	 All	 of	 the	 pulp	 is	 bleached	 using	 an	 elemental	
chlorine	 free	 process	 (ECF).	 Printed	 in	 the	 UK	 by	 Pureprint	 using	 their	
®
	 and	
®
	 environmental	 printing	 technology	 and	
vegetable	 inks	 were	 used	 throughout.	 Pureprint	 is	 a	 CarbonNeutral
®
	
company.	 Both	 manufacturing	 mill	 and	 the	 printer	 are	 registered	 to	
the	 Environmental	 Management	 System	 ISO14001	 and	 are	 Forest	
Stewardship	 Council
®
	 (FSC)	 chain-of-custody	 certified.	
Designed	 and	 produced	 by		 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      01 
BUNZL
We are a focused and successful international  
distribution and outsourcing group with operations  
across the Americas, Europe and Australasia.
We support businesses all over the world with a variety 
of products that are essential for our customers in 
the successful operation of their businesses.
By outsourcing the purchasing, consolidation and 
distribution of a broad range of everyday items, our 
customers are able to focus on their core businesses, 
achieve purchasing efficiencies and savings, free up 
working capital, improve distribution capabilities and 
simplify their internal administration.
Growth
2011 2010
Actual
exchange
rates
Constant
exchange 
rates
Revenue £m 5,109.5 4,829.6 6% 7%
Operating profit £m 279.3 255.7 9% 10%
Operating profit* £m 335.7 306.7 9% 10%
Profit before tax £m 193.7 225.2 (14)% (13)%
Profit before tax
†
 £m 306.1 276.2 11% 11%
Basic earnings per share p 38.2 49.1 (22)% (22)%
Adjusted earnings per share
†
 p 68.5 60.6 13% 13%
Dividend per share p 26.35 23.35 13%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs
†
Before intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and disposal of business
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
+7%
Revenue at constant 
exchange rates
+10%
Operating profit* at constant  
exchange rates
+13%
Adjusted earnings per share
†
 
at constant exchange rates
+13%
Dividend per share  02      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
GROUP AT A GLANCE
WHERE WE OPERATE
We have facilities in 23 countries across  
four business areas: North America,  
UK & Ireland, Continental Europe and  
Rest of the World.
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs
NORTH AmERICA 
£2,727.9m
Revenue 
£169.2m
Operating profit* 
REST OF 
THE WORLD 
£317.9m
Revenue 
£28.4m
Operating profit* 
UK & IRELAND 
£996.6m
Revenue 
£60.2m
Operating profit* 
CONTINENTAL 
EUROPE 
£1,067.1m
Revenue 
£95.6m
Operating profit*  SAFETY  
8%
A complete range of personal 
protection equipment, including 
hard hats, gloves, boots and 
workwear, to industrial and 
construction markets.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      03 
FOODSERVICE  
29%
Non-food consumables, including 
food packaging, disposable 
tableware, guest amenities, 
catering equipment, cleaning 
products and safety items, to 
hotels, restaurants, contract 
caterers, food processors and 
the leisure sector.
CLEANING & 
HYGIENE 14%
Cleaning and hygiene materials, 
including chemicals and hygiene 
paper, to cleaning and facilities 
management companies and 
industrial and healthcare 
customers.
GROCERY  
30%
Goods not for resale (items grocers 
use but do not actually sell), 
including food packaging, films, 
labels and cleaning and hygiene 
supplies, to grocery stores, 
supermarkets and retail chains.
OTHER  
4%
A variety of product ranges  
supplied to other markets such 
as government and education 
establishments.
HEAL THCARE  
7%
Disposable healthcare  
consumables, including gloves, 
swabs, gowns and bandages,  
to the healthcare sector.
NON-FOOD  
RETAIL 8%
Goods not for resale, including 
packaging and a full range of 
cleaning and hygiene products,  
to department stores, boutiques, 
office supply companies,  
retail chains and home 
improvement chains.
OUR mARKETS
We provide a ‘one stop shop’ distribution 
and outsourcing service supplying a 
broad range of internationally sourced  
non-food products to a variety of  
market sectors. 04      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
OUR PRODUCTS
270 
Warehouse locations  
throughout the world.
1 70,000 + 
Deliveries made to Bunzl’s  
customers every week. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      05 
500,000 + 
Separate stock keeping units of 
products held throughout the Group.
1 8,000 +
Containers of products  
imported during 201 1. 06      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
PLATFORm FOR GROWTH
For many years Bunzl has continued to pursue a 
consistent strategy of focusing on its strengths and 
consolidating the markets in which it competes.
OUR STRATEGY IN SUMMARY
Continually redefining and deepening our commitment to 
customers and markets, as well as extending our business into 
new geographies, remain important elements of our strategy. 
Our growth is achieved through a combination of:
•	 Organic growth 
•	 Acquisition growth
•	 Operating model efficiencies
Strategy building blocks 
•	 Unique business model
•	 Attractive markets
•	 Balanced business portfolio
•	 Operational focus
•	 Strong financial discipline
•	 Experienced management
•	 Acquisition strategy and track record
Foodservice
Cleaning & hygiene
Safety
Grocery
Non-food retail
Healthcare
Other
14
8
7
4
29
30
8
MARKET CONTEXT
Through pursuit of our strategy we have built leading positions 
in a number of market sectors throughout the world.
Growth drivers
•	 Increasing trends to outsourcing
•	 Expansion of ‘away from home’ activity
•	 Global legislative trends for health & safety
•	 Favourable demographics in healthcare
Fragmented markets
•	 No one does what we do, on our scale across our international markets
•	 Bunzl’s national distribution networks provide competitive advantage
Customers
•	 Strong national, regional and local customer base
•	 Working with national and international leading companies
% 2011 revenue
BUSINESS MODEL
Our one stop shop offering for non-food consumables enables our customers to reduce or eliminate the hidden costs of sourcing and 
distributing numerous goods not for resale, thereby allowing them to focus on their core business more effectively and at the same time  
reduce their working capital.
SUPPLIERS
•	 Global suppliers
•	 Own brands
•	 Low cost sources
•	 Commodities
BUNZL
•	 Warehousing and 
distribution infrastructure
•	 Consolidation
•	 Supply chain management
•	 Range of delivery options
CUSTOMERS
•	 Grocery
•	 Foodservice
•	 Cleaning & hygiene
•	 Safety
•	 Non-food retail
•	 Healthcare
Individual 
ranges
Consolidated 
offer 0.8
4.0
10 11
6.4
6.6
10 11
126
185
10 11
154
204
10 11
54.4
57.4
10 11
16.7
17.3
10 11
6.5 6.5
10 11
175
275
10 11
21.6
19.7
10 11
6.6
6.0
10 11
7.55
6.69
10 11
60.5
68.5
10 11
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      07 
KEY PERFORmANCE INDICATORS
In order to measure our progress against our strategic objectives, we use a number 
of key performance indicators relating to the Group’s operational performance 
and acquisition activity as well as other financial and environmental metrics.
ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH %
Increase in revenue for the year excluding the 
impact of currency, current year acquisitions and 
disposal of business, but including a pro rata part 
year in respect of prior year acquisitions. Sales of 
H1N1 prevention products in 2009 reduced the 
underlying organic revenue growth in 2010 by 
1.0% from 1.8%.
PROFIT MARGIN %
Ratio of operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related 
costs to revenue.
UNDERLYING PROFIT MARGIN %
Profit margin excluding the impact of currency, 
current year acquisitions and disposal of 
business but including a pro rata part year  
in respect of prior year acquisitions.
ACQUISITION SPEND £m
Consideration paid and payable, together with 
net debt assumed, in respect of businesses 
acquired during the year.
ANNUALISED REVENUE  
FROM ACQUISITIONS £m
Estimated revenue which would have been 
contributed by acquisitions made during the 
year if such acquisitions had been completed  
at the beginning of the relevant year.
RETURN ON AVERAGE  
OPERATING CAPITAL %
Ratio of operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs 
to the average of the month end operating 
capital employed, being tangible fixed assets, 
inventories and trade and other receivables 
less trade and other payables.
RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL %
Ratio of operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs to the 
average of the month end invested capital, being 
equity after adding back net debt, retirement benefit 
obligations, cumulative intangible amortisation, 
acquisition related costs and amounts written off 
intangible assets, net of the related tax.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE p
Earnings per share excluding the impact of 
currency, intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs and disposal of business.
SCOPE 1 CARBON EMISSIONS  
Kgs of CO
2
 per £000 revenue
Measured in accordance with the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol applying 2009 DEFRA conversion 
factors.
SCOPE 2 CARBON EMISSIONS  
Kgs of CO
2
 per £000 revenue
Measured in accordance with the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol applying 2009 DEFRA conversion 
factors.
All data for carbon emissions and fuel usage for each year is based on the 12 months ended 30 September.
FREE CASH FLOW £m
Cash generated from operations less net 
capital expenditure, interest and tax.
FUEL USAGE 
Ltrs per £000 revenue
Diesel, petrol and LPG used in the Group’s 
own vehicles. 08      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
CHAIRmAN’S STATEmENT
ReSult S
Although the challenging macroeconomic 
conditions, which have recently created so 
much uncertainty across the international 
markets in which we operate, persisted 
throughout 2011, I am once again pleased to 
report a very strong set of results for the Group.
Revenue increased to £5,109.5 million  
(2010: £4,829.6 million), an increase of 7%  
at constant exchange rates, due to strong 
organic growth in North America, Continental 
Europe and Rest of the World combined with 
the impact of recent acquisitions, partly offset 
by lower sales in UK & Ireland.
Operating profit before intangible amortisation 
and acquisition related costs was £335.7 
million (2010: £306.7 million), up 10% at 
constant exchange rates, as margins improved 
in all business areas. On the same basis the 
Group operating margin improved by 20 basis 
points to 6.6%. Adjusted earnings per share 
before intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs and the loss on disposal of 
business were 68.5p (2010: 60.6p), an 
increase of 13% at constant exchange rates. 
Adverse currency translation movements, 
principally the US dollar, reduced the growth 
rates marginally, by less than 1%.
DiviD en D
The Board is recommending a 13% increase  
in the final dividend to 18.3p. This brings the 
total dividend for the year to 26.35p, also a 
13% increase. Shareholders will again have  
the opportunity to participate in our dividend 
reinvestment plan.
St RAte Gy
We continue to pursue our established strategy 
of developing the business by organic growth 
and improved efficiencies and consolidating 
the markets in which we compete through 
focused acquisitions in both existing and  
new geographies. 
We achieve our organic growth by applying  
our resources and expertise to enable 
customers to outsource to Bunzl the 
purchasing, consolidation and distribution  
of a broad range of goods not for resale. By 
doing so our customers are able to focus on 
their core business more cost effectively by 
achieving purchasing efficiencies and savings, 
freeing up working capital, improving their 
distribution capabilities and simplifying their 
internal administration. Acquisition activity, 
which started to pick up in 2010, continued 
strongly throughout 2011 with £185 million 
invested during the year acquiring businesses 
with annualised revenue of more than  
£200 million. Having pursued our strategy 
consistently over many years, we have built 
leading positions in a variety of market sectors 
across the Americas, Europe and Australasia. 
ven Din G DiSpOSAl
As announced on 30 August, we divested our 
vending business in the UK during the second 
half of the year. This business, originally 
acquired in 1999, no longer met our strategic 
aims and the Board therefore decided to sell it. 
The net cash proceeds amounted to £31 million 
and the loss on disposal was £56 million.
inve Stment
We have continued to invest in the business  
in order to support our growth strategy  
and ensure that we retain our competitive 
advantage, thereby maintaining our leadership 
in the marketplace. Improving and upgrading 
our IT systems and warehouse facilities, both 
as we integrate new businesses into the Group 
and look to improve our existing infrastructure, 
are critical to our success in being able to serve 
our customers in the most efficient and 
appropriate manner.
Bunzl’s success is based on 
the strength and resilience  
of our business model, the 
execution of a consistent 
strategy, understanding our 
customers’ requirements and 
our ability to deliver everyday 
essential products when and 
where they are needed.
philip Rogerson 
Chairman 29.7
31.3
UK GAAP
IFRS
32.1
38.7
41.7
45.1
52.7
60.6
68.5
55.9
02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11
368
345
405
443
578
627
542
616
676
482
547
482
486
643
710
742 757
777
884
675
02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.9
3.3
3.6
4.2
4.8
5.1
4.6
02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11
164
171
UK GAAP
IFRS
183
218
241
259
297
323
353
312
02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      09 
CORpORAte Re SpOnSibility
Bunzl is a responsible company which is only 
sustainable if we maintain profitability through 
business practices which positively impact 
stakeholders, whether customers, employees 
or suppliers. Business integrity together with 
committed, well trained employees working in 
a safe environment, focusing on reducing our 
environmental impact, contributing to the 
communities in which we operate, encouraging 
our suppliers to adopt a similar ethos and 
helping our customers to meet their Corporate 
Responsibility (‘CR’) goals, particularly those 
relating to sustainability, are all intrinsic to our 
everyday business. During 2011 we have 
developed and implemented tailored training 
modules covering our CR policies including 
those relating to our business conduct/code  
of ethics such as gifts and entertainment, 
facilitation payments and our whistle blowing 
process. In addition we have enhanced some 
of our existing CR associated controls and 
procedures and the due diligence processes 
undertaken prior to acquiring a business or 
when appointing agents. Our CR policies have 
also been shared with our key suppliers to 
promote similar levels of CR activity in their 
own businesses. 
empl Oyee S
As a service oriented company we continue 
to rely on the quality and efficiency of our 
employees across the world. One of the 
strengths of our business is the enthusiasm, 
loyalty and long service of our employees 
which assists in the continuity and delivery  
of our service offering as well as helping  
to ensure the smooth integration of newly 
acquired businesses into Bunzl. We are very 
grateful for the continuing hard work and 
commitment of all our employees and we 
welcome all the new employees who have 
joined the Group during 2011 whether  
through acquisition or recruitment. 
CReDit FAC ilitie S
The Group remains highly cash generative  
and we continue to have access to diverse 
sources of funding to achieve our strategic 
objectives. In 2011 our net cash inflow was 
£63 million despite cash expenditure of  
£161 million on acquisitions. In April 2011  
we drew approximately £75 million (sterling 
equivalent) of US private placement funds 
which we had agreed in 2010 and during the 
year we also agreed approximately £350 million 
of medium term banking facilities, the vast 
majority of which were renewals of existing 
facilities. Our undrawn committed facilities  
at the end of the year were £621 million. 
bOARD
Charles Banks, who served as a non-executive 
director for almost nine years, latterly as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 
retired from the Board after our Annual General 
Meeting in April. His independent advice and 
significant contribution to our success were 
greatly appreciated. Peter Johnson, who has 
been a non-executive director since 2006  
and the Senior Independent Director since 
2010, was appointed as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Eugenia Ulasewicz 
was appointed as a non-executive director  
in April. Currently President of Burberry, 
Americas, she has a wealth of experience in 
the retail sector and has overseen the recent 
growth and successful development of 
Burberry’s businesses in North and South 
America which includes both wholesale and 
retail businesses and an extensive distribution 
network. We welcome her to the Board.
philip Rogerson
Chairman
27 February 2012
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE p SHARE PRICE RANGE p
REVENUE £bn OPERATING PROFIT* £m 
02–05 continuing operations 
*Before amortisation and acquisition related and corporate costs 10      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
CHIEF Ex ECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OpeRAtin G peRFORmAn Ce
The positive momentum from 2010 continued 
in 2011 as we had another successful year  
due to a combination of organic growth, good 
performance from the acquisitions made in 
2010 and increased acquisition spend during 
the year.
Although some currencies, notably the euro, 
were marginally stronger than in 2010, the 
translation effects of the weaker US dollar  
and overall currency movements have slightly 
reduced the reported growth rates of revenue 
and operating profit. The operations, including 
the relevant growth rates, are therefore 
reviewed below at constant exchange rates to 
remove the distorting impact of these currency 
movements. Changes in the level of revenue 
and profits at constant exchange rates have 
been calculated by retranslating the results  
for 2010 at the average rates used for 2011. 
Unless otherwise stated, all references in this 
review to operating profit are to operating profit 
before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs. 
Revenue increased 7% (6% at actual exchange 
rates) to £5,109.5 million and operating profit 
was £335.7 million, an increase of 10% (9% at 
actual exchange rates). The percentage growth 
in operating profit was greater than that of 
revenue due to the improvement in operating 
margins in all business areas which has 
resulted in a 20 basis point improvement  
in Group operating margin to 6.6%. 
In North America revenue rose 7% (4% at 
actual exchange rates) due to strong organic 
growth and the impact of Cool-Pak and 
Netpak, which we acquired in August 2010 
and July 2011 respectively, while operating 
profit increased 9% (6% at actual exchange 
rates). Revenue in Continental Europe rose 
12% (14% at actual exchange rates) as a result 
of good organic growth and the impact of 
acquisitions completed in 2010 and 2011 and 
operating profit was up 17% (20% at actual 
exchange rates). In UK & Ireland revenue 
decreased by 1% at both constant and actual 
exchange rates primarily due to the persisting 
difficult economic conditions and weakness  
in some businesses. However operating profit 
rose 1% at both constant and actual exchange 
rates due to the positive impact of earlier cost 
reduction initiatives, product mix improvements 
in some businesses and the disposal of 
vending. In Rest of the World revenue 
increased 12% (20% at actual exchange rates) 
and operating profit was up 13% (19% at 
actual exchange rates) due to both good 
organic growth and the impact of acquisitions.
Basic earnings per share were lower at 38.2p 
(2010: 49.1p) due to the loss on disposal of the 
vending business but adjusted earnings per 
share, after eliminating the effect of intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related costs and the 
loss on disposal of vending, were 68.5p (2010: 
60.6p), an increase of 13% at both constant 
and actual exchange rates. Return on average 
operating capital increased from 54.4% to 57 .4% 
due to the improvement in operating margin and 
continued good working capital management.
Cash flow remained strong, with cash 
generated from operations of £390.1 million 
which was partly used to finance a cash 
outflow for acquisitions of £161.3 million and 
net capital expenditure of £20.9 million. Net 
debt at the year end was £652.9 million 
compared to £716.8 million at the end of 2010. 
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio reduced to 1.7 
times compared to 2.1 times at the previous 
year end. 
The efficiency of our operations has been 
further evidenced this year by the reduction, 
relative to revenue, of our Scope 1 and 2 
carbon emissions. This has been achieved by  
a continued focus on the sustainability of our 
business, specifically by continuing to review 
the footprint of our facilities and installing 
energy saving equipment within them and 
using effective route planning and appropriate 
vehicles in those businesses which operate 
their own transport fleets. Our consolidated 
delivery of products supports our customers’ 
efforts to reduce their environmental impact 
and this is further enhanced by our ever 
increasing offering of more environmentally 
friendly products.
ACquiS iti OnS
During the year we announced ten acquisitions 
and committed to spend £185 million.
We expanded our business supplying catering 
equipment and disposables in Australia 
through the acquisition of Omega Hospitality in 
March and Hospitality Depot in May. Together 
these businesses have annualised revenue of 
approximately A$27 million and have allowed 
us to penetrate further in this sector in New 
South Wales and Queensland.
Against the background of 
challenging macroeconomic 
conditions, Bunzl has achieved 
excellent results. As a focused 
organisation we have again 
demonstrated the strength 
and depth of our customer 
proposition and shown our 
ability to grow and develop 
both organically and by 
acquisition in the markets 
in which we compete.
michael Roney 
Chief Executive BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      11 
At the end of March we acquired the business 
of Cannon Consumables which is principally 
engaged in the supply of cleaning and hygiene 
consumable products throughout the UK. 
Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2011 
was £16 million.
During May we purchased King Espana 
which is a leading distributor of foodservice 
disposables and cleaning and hygiene supplies 
to the catering and cleaning sectors throughout 
Spain and has established a presence for 
Bunzl in Madrid and Valencia as well as 
reinforcing our business in Barcelona. Revenue 
was €29 million in 2010. In May we also 
completed the acquisition of the SIG Safety and 
Workwear business, a leading distributor of 
personal protection equipment and workwear 
to a variety of market sectors in the UK with 
revenue in 2010 of £22 million. The business 
complements and has expanded our existing 
business in the UK serving these markets.
Netpak, with revenue of C$12 million in the  
year ended 30 June 2011, was acquired in July. 
Based in Canada, the business specialises in the 
supply of packaging supplies and equipment for 
both food and non-food products to a number  
of different sectors, including fruit and vegetable 
growers, and complements the business of 
Cool-Pak which was acquired in the US during 
the second half of the previous year.
The acquisition of Majestic Products and  
its associated businesses, which had revenue 
of €62 million in 2010, was completed in 
September and has extended our operations  
in the Netherlands into the personal protection 
equipment and safety sectors and expanded 
our safety supplies business in the US while at 
the same time providing a platform to develop 
the business further in Belgium and Germany. 
In September we also acquired Ideal in Brazil 
which had revenue in 2010 of R$42 million 
and is a leading supplier of cleaning and 
hygiene consumable products. This was an 
important step for Bunzl as it expanded our 
business in Brazil into the cleaning and hygiene 
sector for the first time. The acquisition of 
D-Care in the Netherlands, also in September, 
strengthened our healthcare business there. 
Revenue in 2010 was €5 million.
In November we completed the acquisition of 
Danny which was our fourth acquisition in the 
Brazilian market since we entered the country 
in 2008. The business, which had revenue in 
2010 of R$56 million and is growing strongly, 
is a leading supplier of personal protection 
equipment and complements our existing 
personal protection equipment operations 
in Brazil.
Today we are announcing the acquisition of 
CDW Merchants in the US. With revenue of 
$12 million in 2011, the business is engaged  
in the sale of retail gift packaging and visual 
merchandising solutions and products to the 
specialty retail and online retailing sectors and 
will complement our existing non-food retail 
supplies business in North America.
DiSpOSAl
In August we sold our vending business  
which was based in the UK and was no longer 
considered to be a strategic fit within the Group. 
Revenue in 2010 was £68 million. We believed 
that the funds generated from the disposal 
would be more usefully employed in our core, 
higher return and higher growth businesses.
pROSpeCt S
Even though the outlook for economic growth 
remains uncertain, especially for Europe, we 
believe that our resilient business model and 
strong market position will provide further 
opportunities for the development of the Group. 
In North America we expect continued strong 
organic growth with stable operating margins. 
In Continental Europe, while we anticipate 
lower organic growth compared to 2011 as  
a result of the reduced economic growth 
forecasts for many European economies,  
we will benefit from the positive impact of  
the acquisitions completed in 2011. In UK  
& Ireland, in spite of the ongoing sluggish 
economy, we expect to see an improved 
performance this year. Rest of the World 
should experience strong organic growth and 
the full year impact of the acquisitions made  
in 2011 will enhance the overall results.
Acquisition growth continues to be a key part 
of our strategy. The pipeline for acquisitions is 
promising as we continue discussions with a 
number of potential targets.
Despite the continuing economic uncertainties, 
the Board believes that our business will 
continue to grow and develop due to our strong 
market position, our consistent cash flow and 
the numerous opportunities we have to 
consolidate further the markets in which 
we compete.
michael Roney
Chief Executive
27 February 2012
mAnAGement te Am
Managers from across the 
Group meet regularly to review 
performance, discuss trends 
affecting our businesses and seek 
further opportunities for growth 
and competitive advantage.
patrick l armon
President and CEO  
North America
n ancy l ester
Director of Corporate  
Development
Celia baxter
Director of Group  
Human Resources
Frank van Zanten
Managing Director  
Continental Europe
brian may
Finance Director
paul Hussey
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
paul budge
Managing Director  
UK & Ireland
Kim Hetherington
Managing Director  
Australasia 12      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
CHIEF Ex ECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
NORTH AmERICA 
9% 
Increase in operating 
profit at constant 
exchange rates with 
improvement in 
operating margin.
In North America revenue increased by 7%  
to £2,727.9 million due to both sales growth 
with existing customers and new business 
wins, particularly in our largest business sector, 
grocery, and some product price increases. 
This sales growth, together with the impact of 
our margin enhancement programmes and cost 
saving initiatives, contributed to a 9% increase 
in operating profit to £169.2 million.
We continued to expand in grocery by 
increasing our business with existing accounts 
as well as adding new customers, including 
one of the largest retailers in North America. 
Our ability to provide direct store delivery, cross 
dock or warehouse replenishment programmes 
continues to provide us with new opportunities. 
Activity levels in the foodservice sector 
improved during the year, contributing to 
increased sales in our redistribution business. 
Additionally, new programmes for imported 
items and private label and new products 
expanded our position with several national 
foodservice customers as well as others 
operating in different sectors. Our one stop 
shop approach, on time delivery programme, 
availability of products and committed sales 
teams have all contributed to increased sales. 
Our suppliers have also taken advantage of our 
efficient warehouse network and dependable 
delivery system to handle their smaller, less 
than truckload, accounts.
Our food processor business continued to 
deliver strong sales gains as the result of new 
customer wins, increased product penetration 
within existing accounts and innovative 
products and systems to help our customers 
become more cost competitive and efficient  
on the production side. The installation of our 
first carousel picking system in R3 Safety has 
contributed to warehouse efficiencies and has 
also allowed us to handle more small and 
individual items needed by many of our 
customers. We continue to service a broad 
range of customers including meat processors, 
fresh cut produce processors, bakeries, home 
meal processors and other specialty food 
processors in all areas of the foodservice 
supply chain. Cool-Pak, acquired in 2010, has 
been successfully integrated and has opened 
up new opportunities for us in the field pack 
produce market as well as new geographical 
areas such as Mexico for these types of 
products and the recent acquisition of Netpak 
has further expanded our business in this 
sector. We continue to invest in traceability 
products since this is becoming an important 
part of the food processor safety initiative. 
The non-food retail business continued to grow 
with several new customer wins during the 
year, the introduction of new and unique 
packaging designs and products for a variety  
of retailers and incremental business with our 
existing customers. We continue to use our 
import and global sourcing capabilities to  
find packaging solutions that will help our 
customers market their own products as well 
as address environmental issues through the 
use of additional green products and initiatives. 
Our ability to partner with other Group 
companies in Europe and Australasia is an 
advantage that we use to develop and supply 
new packaging concepts and the acquisition  
of CDW Merchants in February 2012 will 
further extend our customer base, particularly 
in the specialty and online retail sectors. 
Despite higher fuel costs impacting consumers 
throughout the year and increased competition 
from cross channel distributors, our 
convenience store sector experienced strong 
sales growth. Our well trained and experienced 
sales force has worked closely with the large 
convenience store chains to provide services 
and products that respond to their needs and 
those of the customers they serve. Additionally 
we have developed several programmes with 
suppliers to provide some small retail products 
to these chains.
Our strategic sourcing initiative has once again 
helped us to strengthen our relationships with 
our preferred suppliers resulting in the 
development of unique programmes and 
products which have contributed to more 
competitive prices for our customers. We also 
continue to expand our range of private label 
products and import product lines to provide a 
number of different options for our customers 
and meet the needs of all of the sectors we 
service. Investment in our state of the art 
consolidation warehouse in Shanghai has 
continued and we have further developed our 
resources there which enable us to provide 
comprehensive quality control services and 
audit our suppliers. This has improved our 
marketing abilities when presenting to 
prospective customers as we can provide such 
services to many of our customers who do not 
have the same capabilities. 
Despite continuing increases in fuel, freight  
and healthcare expenses, our operating costs 
decreased as a percentage of sales principally 
due to the revenue growth and several cost 
reduction initiatives implemented during the 
year including further consolidation of facilities. 
New warehouse technology and equipment 
such as the carousel system in our R3 Safety 
business and increased opportunities for 
freight backhaul revenue from our suppliers 
have contributed to this decrease. Additionally 
our safety statistics improved during the year 
which resulted in less lost time throughout the 
warehouse network.
Our value proposition, single IT platform, strong 
financial position and coast to coast distribution 
network continue to position us well to meet 
the future needs of our customers in all of our 
market sectors. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      13 
Revenue rose by 12% to £1,067.1 million  
and operating profit rose 17% to £95.6 million. 
Overall our businesses delivered good organic 
sales growth and continued tight cost control 
offset the impact of ongoing pricing pressure  
in our markets, thereby improving our operating 
margins. The business area also benefited from 
the impact of acquisitions and the associated 
synergies which have been achieved.
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business 
saw a return to modest sales growth after a 
decline in 2010. Although the healthcare and 
public sectors in particular have been under 
some pressure due to spending cuts which 
continue to impact our business, the cost 
reduction measures undertaken during 2010 
and in early 2011 have led to an improvement 
in operating profit. Our personal protection 
equipment business enjoyed robust sales growth, 
in particular from increasing our share of business 
with a number of larger customers, leading to 
an increase in operating profit.
In the Netherlands, sales grew significantly in  
our businesses supplying the food and non-food 
retail sectors as well as in healthcare although 
the horeca (hotel, restaurant and catering) sector 
continues to be more challenging. Van’t Veer 
Verpakkingen, acquired in October 2010, has 
integrated well into our existing healthcare 
business. In September we acquired D-Care 
which distributes medical disposable products  
to the healthcare sector. This acquisition 
significantly enhances our position in healthcare 
and has traded ahead of expectations.
In September we also completed the 
acquisition of Majestic Products in the 
Netherlands and its associated companies  
in Belgium, Germany and the US which are 
principally engaged in the supply of personal 
protection equipment and safety products.  
The businesses have continued to deliver 
strong sales and profit growth since acquisition 
and are integrating well into the Group.
In Belgium, we recorded sales growth in both 
the cleaning and hygiene and retail sectors. 
Margin pressure, particularly in the public and 
healthcare sectors, was partially offset by the 
full year impact of synergies generated from 
the July 2010 acquisition of Global Net which 
continues to outperform expectations at the 
time of acquisition.
In Germany, sales grew well, especially  
with larger accounts and in the hotel, bakery 
and wholesale sectors which, together with 
some cost benefits particularly relating to 
improved transport efficiencies, resulted in 
improved profits.
In Switzerland, our business which we  
acquired in March 2010 has delivered strong 
sales growth in the medical and industrial 
sectors and good growth in the horeca sector, 
more than offsetting some weakness in retail. 
Margins have benefited from the strengthening 
of the Swiss franc although this has partly  
held back sales growth in recent months.  
Costs have been tightly controlled, further 
contributing to the significant improvement  
in operating profits.
In Denmark, sales growth has been modest  
in retail consumables and safety products  
and strong in horeca disposables. Further  
cost reduction measures from warehouse 
integrations have led to a significant 
improvement in operating margins.
In Spain, sales growth in cleaning and hygiene 
has been modest with some margin pressure  
in continuing challenging economic 
circumstances. The acquisition of King Espana 
in May significantly increased our coverage in 
the cleaning and hygiene market and improved 
our position in horeca. The business is 
integrating well into the Group. Although our 
safety business has seen volume declines,  
it has managed to pass on significant raw 
material price rises which helped to improve 
operating margins during the course of the year.
In central Europe, growth in the cleaning  
and hygiene and safety sectors was offset  
by a decline in the retail sector as some  
larger customers sourced directly from 
manufacturers. However, towards the end of 
the year we saw the first signs for some years 
of retailers investing in new stores in the region. 
Operating margins improved due to further  
cost reductions in what remains a difficult 
economic environment.
In Israel, Silco, our horeca disposables 
business has delivered strong sales growth 
from some new customer wins and has 
improved operating margins such that  
profits are well ahead of expectations.
CONTINENTAL 
EUROPE
£1,067m 
Record level of sales as 
business area revenue 
exceeds £1 billion for 
the first time. 14      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
CHIEF Ex ECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Our businesses in UK & Ireland have continued 
to focus on margins and operating costs to 
counter the lower demand we are experiencing 
in certain sectors of the market due to the 
difficult trading environment which many of our 
customers are currently facing. The pressure 
on sales has led to a 1% decline in revenue  
to £996.6 million although operating profit 
increased 1% to £60.2 million. Working capital 
has again been tightly managed resulting in 
strong cash flows.
In spite of lower levels of demand, we have 
seen inflationary pressures which have resulted 
in rising fuel costs and price increases on 
products purchased from most sources of 
supply. We have worked hard to pass these 
increases on to our customers in a difficult 
market in order to minimise the impact on 
margins. We continue to examine and 
rationalise our operating platform. As leases 
have come to an end, we have been able to 
reduce the warehouse footprint further. 
Our portfolio of hospitality businesses has 
been simplified with the sale of the vending 
operations which had revenue of £42 million 
and made no contribution to profits in 2011. 
This leaves us focused solely on the activity 
of distribution to our customers. The catering 
disposables business has performed well 
through developing its own exclusive brands 
which have proved attractive to the market. 
This programme has helped to retain 
customers and relieve the pressure on  
margins. Our catering equipment business has 
performed well, helped by increased levels of 
direct marketing and continued development 
of our range of imported products.
In our food retail business we have seen 
reduced levels of trading with some customers, 
particularly in the latter part of the year, and 
customers are seeking lower prices and more 
efficient solutions. However we have been able 
to respond to these demands and achieved 
good results which were bolstered by winning 
a major new account which helped to offset 
lower sales with other customers. Our non-food 
retail packaging business has continued to 
develop well. Although its customer base on 
the high street is facing significant challenges, 
strong performances from existing customers 
together with some good new customer wins 
have helped the overall results.
In cleaning and safety, a decline in spend by 
both the public sector and the construction 
market has been offset by strong demand from 
key contract cleaning customers. Our safety 
supplies business has needed to make further 
cuts to its cost base in response to the weaker 
market and is now well positioned to target 
fresh opportunities. The two acquisitions which 
we completed during the year, SIG Safety and 
Workwear and Cannon Consumables, have 
been successfully integrated into the Group 
and helped to enhance our existing businesses 
through new customer relationships and 
product procurement synergies.
The healthcare business continues to operate 
in an environment which is strongly affected 
by government spending constraints. Constant 
tender activity has commoditised a number 
of product ranges which has put pressure on 
margins but to counter this we have continued 
to expand our range of own label branded 
products that have an established reputation 
for quality in the medical and surgical 
consumables market.
In Ireland our businesses have been able  
to stabilise sales in 2011 and an improvement 
in margins and a reduction in costs led to an 
increase in profitability which is a creditable 
performance in a very difficult market. 
Achieving some growth in our market share 
and an improvement in tourism has helped to 
grow the hospitality supplies business and new 
customer wins have increased our penetration 
of the contract cleaning sector. These two 
strong performances have offset the continued 
decline in the convenience retail and 
redistribution sectors. We have also worked 
closely with chosen suppliers and further 
developed our range of imported and own  
label products which has helped relieve some 
of the pressure on margins.
UK & IRELAND 
66.4% 
Return on operating 
capital, the highest of all 
of the business areas. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      15 
In Rest of the World revenue increased 12% to 
£317.9 million while operating profit rose 13% 
to £28.4 million. Both Australasia and Brazil 
experienced good organic revenue growth and 
improvements in operating margins with the 
results also boosted by the impact 
of acquisitions.
In Australasia our largest business, Outsourcing 
Services, which supplies the healthcare, 
cleaning and catering sectors continued to 
perform strongly and delivered excellent results. 
The business has successfully grown market 
share and in particular made significant inroads 
into the supply of medical consumables into 
existing healthcare customers, further 
consolidating the supply chain. Although our 
food processor business performed below 
expectations, it made good progress with new 
business gains in the last quarter of the year 
with non-meat food processors and this should 
help drive momentum in 2012. The business 
has also made significant improvements in its 
operational platform following the implementation 
of the main IT system in late 2010. Our catering 
equipment businesses had a better year, with 
some new business wins with quick service 
restaurant customers and the introduction of our 
own label branded products helping the results. 
In September we successfully implemented the 
first of our catering equipment businesses onto 
the main IT platform. The remaining businesses 
will now follow in 2012 and this will improve our 
capability to trade electronically with customers 
and suppliers and become more efficient 
operationally. Our two newly acquired 
businesses, Omega Hospitality and Hospitality 
Depot, are integrating well. Their additional scale 
has created improved buying opportunities 
which will benefit margins for all of our branches 
in this sector.
To facilitate the growth in New South Wales we 
are investing in a new distribution centre near 
Sydney where we will consolidate all of our 
businesses in the area as their individual leases 
expire. This will bring significant operational 
efficiencies and facilitate future growth in 
Australia’s most populated region. During the 
year we made further enhancements to our 
Shanghai consolidation facilities with 
improvements to our systems and supply 
chain. In 2012 we plan to expand these 
operations into Southern China which will 
provide similar efficiencies for our supplier 
network in this region. These initiatives remain 
a source of competitive advantage enabling 
faster implementation of new product 
categories while enabling more effective  
use of working capital.
In Brazil we continued to show strong growth  
in both revenue and operating profit, despite 
the distortions in the economic environment 
due to high interest rates and a very strong 
real, as a result of good organic growth and the 
impact of acquisitions. The business expanded 
significantly during the second half of the year 
as a result of two acquisitions. Ideal, which  
was acquired in September, has extended our 
business into the cleaning and hygiene sector 
for the first time and has provided a platform 
for us to develop a strong presence in this 
sector in Brazil. Danny, which was completed 
in November, has substantially expanded our 
personal protection equipment business in 
the region.
REST OF  
THE WORLD 
12% 
Increase in revenue at 
constant exchange rates 
due to good organic 
growth and impact 
from acquisitions. 16      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      17 
TRUSTED 
SUPPLIER
As a critical supplier of everyday 
essential items, our customers 
rely on our sourcing expertise, 
the depth and breadth of  
our product offering and the 
service that we provide from  
our extensive network of 
distribution facilities. CONSISTENT 
GROWTH
Over the last 10 years we have 
delivered year on year increases 
in operating profit and dividends 
through a consistent strategy  
of developing the business  
by organic growth, improved 
operating efficiencies and 
acquisitions. During this period 
we have extended both our 
range of service and our global 
reach from 1 1 countries to  
23 countries.
CHICAGO, USA PARIS, FRANCE
18      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1 SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA LONDON, UK 
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      19  20      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
ONE STOP 
SHOP
We support businesses 
everywhere by providing a 
consolidated product offering  
of goods our customers need  
to run their businesses. From 
coffee stirrers, floor cleaning 
materials and safety equipment 
to retail packaging supplies and 
healthcare consumables, we 
provide a one stop shop solution 
for everything they require. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      21  22      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
GROup pe RFORmAn Ce
Revenue increased by 7% at constant 
exchange rates to £5,109.5 million (2010: 
£4,829.6 million) reflecting organic growth of 
4% and the benefit of acquisitions. Operating 
profit before intangible amortisation and 
acquisition related costs increased by 10%  
at constant exchange rates to £335.7 million 
(2010: £306.7 million) as a result of both the 
revenue growth and an improvement in the 
operating profit margin from 6.4% to 6.6%. 
Currency translation had a less than 1% 
negative impact on the results for the year 
principally due to some weakening of the US 
dollar, largely offset by the strengthening of the 
euro, the Australian dollar and the Brazilian 
real. At actual exchange rates, revenue 
increased by 6% and operating profit before 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related 
costs increased by 9%.
Intangible amortisation and acquisition related 
costs of £56.4 million were up £5.4 million  
due to a £3.0 million increase in intangible 
amortisation and a £3.3 million increase in 
deferred consideration payments contingent  
on the continued employment of former 
owners of businesses acquired, partly offset  
by a £0.9 million decrease in transaction  
costs and expenses. 
The net interest charge of £29.6 million was 
down £0.9 million due to lower average net 
debt levels and a higher return on pension 
scheme assets, partly offset by higher interest 
costs from a new fixed rate US private 
placement. Interest cover improved to 11.3 
times compared to 10.1 times in 2010.
The Group disposed of the UK vending 
business on 26 August 2011 resulting in a loss 
on disposal of business of £56.0 million (2010: 
£nil). The loss on disposal comprises the cash 
consideration of £32.0 million less the £87.0 
million book value of assets disposed of and 
the associated transaction costs of £1.0 million. 
Profit before income tax, intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related costs and 
disposal of business was £306.1 million  
(2010: £276.2 million), up 11% on 2010 at 
both constant and actual exchange rates  
due to the growth in operating profit before 
intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs and the benefit from the lower 
interest charge.
tA x
A tax charge at a rate of 27.5% (2010: 29.0%) 
has been provided on the profit before tax, 
intangible amortisation, acquisition related 
costs and disposal of business. Including the 
impact of intangible amortisation of £46.5 
million, acquisition related costs of £9.9 million, 
the loss on disposal of £56.0 million and  
the associated deferred and current tax of 
£14.3 million, the overall tax rate is 36.1% 
(2010: 29.4%). The underlying tax rate of 
27.5% is higher than the nominal UK rate of 
26.5% for 2011 principally because many  
of the Group’s operations are in countries  
with higher tax rates.
pROFit FOR t He ye AR
Profit after tax of £123.8 million was down 
£35.2 million, primarily due to the loss on 
disposal of vending outweighing the 11% 
growth in profit before income tax, intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related costs and 
disposal of business. 
eARnin GS
The weighted average number of shares 
increased to 324.0 million from 323.7 million 
due to shares issued for the scrip dividend  
and employee option exercises, partly offset  
by shares purchased into the Company’s 
employee benefit trust. Earnings per share 
were 38.2p, down 22% on 2010, due to the 
loss on disposal of business. After adjusting  
for intangible amortisation, acquisition related 
costs and the respective associated tax and  
the loss on disposal of business, earnings per 
share were 68.5p, an increase of 13% on 2010 
at both actual and constant exchange rates. 
The intangible amortisation and associated  
tax and the loss on disposal of business are 
non-cash charges which are not taken into 
account by management when assessing the 
underlying performance of the business. 
Similarly, the acquisition related costs and 
associated tax do not relate to the underlying 
performance of the business. Accordingly, 
such charges are removed in calculating  
the adjusted earnings per share on which 
management assesses the performance  
of the Group. 
DiviD en DS
An analysis of dividends per share for the years 
to which they relate is shown below:
2011 2010 Growth
Interim dividend (p) 8.05 7.15 13%
Final dividend (p) 18.30 16.20 13%
Total dividend (p) 26.35 23.35 13%
Dividend cover (times)* 2.6 2.6
*Based on adjusted earnings per share 
ACquiS iti OnS
The principal acquisitions made in 2011 were 
Omega, Cannon Consumables, Hospitality 
Depot, King Espana, SIG Safety and Workwear, 
Netpak, D-Care, Majestic, Ideal and Danny. 
Annualised revenue and operating profit before 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related 
costs of the businesses acquired were £204.3 
million and £24.2 million respectively.  
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Acquisition spend of £ 1 85 million 
will add more than £200 million  
of annualised revenue.
68.5p
Adjusted earnings per 
share increased by 13%
+7% 
Increase in revenue at 
constant exchange rates BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      23 
A summary of the effect of acquisitions  
is as follows:
£m
Fair value of assets acquired 117.2
Goodwill 50.4
Consideration 167.6
Satisfied by:
cash consideration 144.8
deferred consideration 22.8
167.6
Contingent payments to former owners 15.7
Net cash acquired (3.0)
Transaction costs and expenses 4.6
total expected spend in respect of 
current year acquisitions 184.9
The net cash outflow in the year in respect of 
acquisitions comprised:
£m
Cash consideration 144.8
Net cash acquired (3.0)
Deferred consideration in respect  
of prior year acquisitions 7.4
Net cash outflow in respect  
of acquisitions 149.2
Acquisition related costs 12.1
total cash outflow in respect  
of acquisitions 161.3
CASH FlOw
Cash generated from operations was £390.1 
million, an £82.5 million increase from 2010, 
primarily due to a working capital inflow in 2011 
of £31.4 million compared to a £12.7 million 
outflow in 2010, and a £29.9 million increase  
in profit before tax, intangible amortisation, 
acquisition related costs and disposal of 
business. The Group’s free cash flow of £275.2 
million was up £100.6 million from 2010. After 
payment of dividends in respect of 2010, a 
£12.6 million outflow on employee share 
schemes and an acquisition cash outflow of 
£161.3 million, partly offset by the £30.6 million 
net cash inflow from the disposal of business, 
the net cash inflow was £63.0 million which 
was used to reduce net debt. The summary 
cash flow for the year was as follows:
£m
Cash generated from operations 390.1
Net capital expenditure (20.9)
Operating cash flow 369.2
Operating cash flow to  
operating profit* 110%
Net interest (30.6)
Tax (63.4)
Free cash flow 275.2
Dividends (68.9)
Acquisitions (161.3)
Disposal of business 30.6
Employee share schemes (12.6)
n et cash inflow 63.0
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related 
costs
bAl An Ce SHeet
Return on average operating capital employed 
before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs rose to 57.4% from 54.4% in 
2010 due to the operating profit margin 
increasing from 6.4% to 6.6% combined with 
continued strong working capital management. 
Return on invested capital increased from 
16.7% in 2010 to 17.3%. Intangible assets 
increased by £12.2 million to £1,256.8 million 
reflecting goodwill and customer relationships 
arising on acquisitions in the year of £150.8 
million, partly offset by the £71.2 million impact 
of the disposal of the UK vending business, a 
reduction of £20.9 million due to exchange  
and an amortisation charge of £46.5 million.  
At 31 December 2011 the Group’s pension 
deficit was £74.3 million, a £22.0 million 
increase on 2010, primarily due to an actuarial 
loss of £35.5 million and the service cost of 
£5.5 million, partly offset by contributions of 
£17.2 million. The actuarial loss arose primarily 
as a result of the £23.3 million impact of 
changes in assumptions relating to the present 
value of scheme liabilities, principally due to 
lower discount rates partly offset by lower 
inflation rates, and the actual return on scheme 
assets being £12.6 million less than expected. 
The movements in shareholders’ equity and 
net debt during the year were as follows:
Shareholders’ equity £m
At 1 January 2011 796.4
Profit for the year 123.8
Dividends (68.9)
Actuarial loss on pension schemes (35.5)
Other (9.1)
At 31 December 2011 806.7
net debt £m
At 1 January 2011 (716.8)
Net cash inflow 63.0
Currency 0.9
At 31 December 2011 (652.9)
net debt to ebit DA (times) 1.7
GOinG COn CeRn
Based on the expected future profit generation, 
cash conversion and current facilities’ 
headroom over the 12 months to March 2013, 
the 2011 financial statements have been 
prepared on the going concern basis as 
described further in the Directors’ report on 
page 32.
CApit Al mAnAG ement 
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong 
capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor 
and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. 
The Group monitors the return on average 
operating capital employed and the return  
on invested capital as well as the level of  
total shareholders’ equity and the amount  
of dividends paid to ordinary shareholders.  
The Group funds its operations through a 
mixture of shareholders’ equity and bank and 
capital market borrowings. All of the borrowings 
are managed by a central treasury function  
and funds raised are lent onward to operating 
subsidiaries as required. The overall objective is 
to manage the funding to ensure the Group has 
a portfolio of competitively priced borrowing 
facilities to meet the demands of the business 
over time and, in order to do so, the Group 
arranges a mixture of borrowings from different 
sources with a variety of maturity dates. 
The Group’s businesses provide a high and 
consistent level of cash generation which helps 
fund future development and growth. The 
Group seeks to maintain an appropriate 
balance between the higher returns that might 
be possible with higher levels of borrowings 
and the advantages and security afforded by  
a sound capital position.
There were no changes to the Group’s 
approach to capital management during the 
year and the Group is not subject to any 
externally imposed capital requirements.
tR eASuRy p Oli Cie S AnD COnt ROl S
The Group has a centralised treasury 
department to control external borrowings  
and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign 
currency risks. Treasury policies have been 
approved by the Board and cover the nature  
of the exposure to be hedged, the types of 
financial instruments that may be employed 
and the criteria for investing and borrowing 
cash. The Group uses derivatives to manage  
its foreign currency and interest rate risks 
arising from underlying business activities.  
No transactions of a speculative nature are 
undertaken. The treasury department is 
subject to periodic independent review by the 
internal audit department. Underlying policy 
assumptions and activities are periodically 
reviewed by the executive directors and the 
Board. Controls over exposure changes and 
transaction authenticity are in place.
HeDGe ACCOuntin G
The Group designates derivatives which qualify 
as hedges for accounting purposes as either 
(a) a hedge of the fair value of a recognised 
EXCHANGE RATES
Average 2011 2010
US$: £ 1.60 1.55
€: £ 1.15 1.17
A$: £ 1.55 1.68
Brazilian real: £ 2.68 2.72
Closing 2011 2010
US$: £ 1.55 1.57
€: £ 1.20 1.17
A$: £ 1.52 1.53
Brazilian real: £ 2.90 2.60 139
157
23
53
46
152
114
80
32
161
34
120
109
40
50
70
61
43
34 32  
12 13 14 16 15 17 18 19 20 22 21 23
Bank facilities – drawn
US dollar and sterling bonds
Bank facilities – undrawn
US dollar
Euro
Other
Sterling
5
21
27
47
24      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
asset or liability; (b) a hedge of the cash flow 
risk resulting from changes in interest rates  
or foreign exchange rates; or (c) a hedge of  
a net investment in a foreign operation. The 
Group tests the effectiveness of hedges on a 
prospective and retrospective basis to ensure 
compliance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’. Methods for 
testing effectiveness include dollar offset, 
critical terms and regression analysis.
l iqui Dity Ri SK
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not 
be able to meet its financial obligations as they 
fall due. The Group continually monitors net 
debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that 
sufficient facilities are in place to meet the 
Group’s requirements in the short, medium 
and long term and, in order to do so,  
arranges borrowings from a variety of sources. 
Additionally, compliance with debt covenants  
is monitored. During 2011 all covenants have 
been complied with.
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities 
available to it comprising multi-currency credit 
facilities from the Group’s banks and US dollar 
and sterling bonds. The committed facilities 
maturity profile at 31 December 2011 is  
set out in the chart below. The undrawn 
committed facilities available to the Group  
at 31 December 2011 were £621.5 million 
(2010: £557 .3 million).
inte ReSt RA te R iSK 
The Group is funded by a mixture of floating 
and fixed rate debt. In addition, interest rate 
swaps and interest rate caps are used to 
manage the interest rate risk profile. At 31 
December 2011 fixed rate debt of £425.2 
million (2010: £347.4 million) related to fixed 
rate US dollar and sterling bonds stated at 
amortised cost with maturities ranging from 
2014 to 2023.
At 31 December 2011 floating rate debt 
comprised £109.3 million of floating rate bank 
loans (2010: £245.6 million) and £159.9 million 
of fixed rate US dollar bonds which have been 
swapped to floating rates using interest rate 
swaps (2010: £214.9 million). Bank loans are 
drawn for various periods of up to three months 
at interest rates linked to LIBOR. The interest 
rate swaps reprice every three or six months.
The interest rate risk on the floating rate  
debt is managed using interest rate options. 
Borrowings with a notional principal of £266.7 
million were capped at 31 December 2011 
(2010: £301.0 million).
FOReiGn CuRRen Cy RiSK
The principal underlying currencies of the 
Group’s earnings are sterling, US dollars and 
euros. The Group does not hedge the impact of 
exchange rate movements arising on translation 
of earnings into sterling at average exchange 
rates. For the year ended 31 December 2011, 
a movement of one cent in the US dollar and 
euro average exchange rates would have 
changed profit before tax by £0.8 million and 
£0.3 million respectively and profit before tax, 
intangible amortisation, acquisition related 
costs and disposal of business by £0.8 million 
and £0.6 million respectively.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are 
carried out in the respective functional 
currencies of the Group’s operations and so 
transaction exposures are usually relatively 
limited. Where they do occur, the Group’s 
policy is to hedge significant exposures of firm 
commitments for a period of up to one year  
as soon as they are committed using forward 
foreign exchange contracts and these are 
designated as cash flow hedges. However, the 
economic impact of foreign exchange on the 
value of uncommitted future purchases and 
sales is not hedged. As a result, sudden and 
significant movements in foreign exchange 
rates can impact profit margins where there is 
a delay in passing on to customers the resulting 
price increases. 
The majority of the Group’s borrowings are 
effectively denominated in sterling, US dollars 
and euros, aligning them to the respective 
functional currencies of its operating profit 
before depreciation, intangible amortisation 
and acquisition related costs (‘EBITDA’). This 
currency profile, which is set out in the chart 
below as at 31 December 2011, is achieved 
using short term foreign exchange contracts, 
long term cross currency interest rate swaps 
and foreign currency debt. This currency 
composition minimises the impact of foreign 
exchange rates on the ratio of net debt  
to EBITDA.
CReDit R iSK
Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to a 
financial asset due to non-payment by the 
counterparty. The Group’s objective is to 
reduce its exposure to counterparty default  
by restricting the type of counterparty it deals 
with and by employing an appropriate policy  
in relation to the collection of financial assets.
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash 
and deposits, derivative financial instruments 
and trade and other receivables which 
represent the Group’s maximum exposure to 
credit risk in relation to financial assets. The 
maximum exposure to credit risk for cash  
and deposits, derivative financial instruments 
and trade and other receivables is their 
carrying amount.
Dealings are restricted to those banks with  
the relevant combination of geographic 
presence and suitable credit rating. The Group 
continually monitors the credit ratings of its 
counterparties and the credit exposure to  
each counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, the amounts 
represented in the balance sheet are net of 
allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated 
by the Group’s management based on prior 
experience and their assessment of the current 
economic environment.
At the balance sheet date there were no 
significant concentrations of credit risk.
COMMITTED FACILITIES MATURITY PROFILE 2012–2023 £m CURRENCY PROFILE OF NET DEBT % BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      25 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
St RAte Gy 
We believe that Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) 
is not only about the good management of our 
business but also excellent and responsive long 
term relationships with all our stakeholders, 
whether customers, employees or suppliers. 
We have identified seven CR elements relevant 
to our business model: business conduct/code 
of ethics; employees; health & safety; 
environment; community; customers; and 
suppliers. These are governed by a policy 
framework, which is approved and monitored 
by the Board, with implementation at a 
business area level.
buSine SS COnDu Ct/ CODe OF et HiCS
The Group’s business conduct/code of ethics 
policy is disseminated to every employee as a 
guide to how employees are expected to 
conduct themselves both from a corporate and 
individual perspective. The policy clearly states 
that employees should avoid conflicts of 
interest, provides guidance on the giving and 
receiving of gifts and entertainment, prohibits 
illegal payments as well as political donations 
and reinforces the need to comply with laws, 
rules and regulations, protect confidential 
information and company assets and maintain 
high standards in relationships with our 
customers and suppliers. 
No material breaches of our business conduct/
code of ethics policy were recorded in 2011. 
However, some minor incidents relating to 
employee conduct, such as theft or misuse of 
the Group’s property, did occur and were dealt 
with during the normal course of business 
using Group human resource (‘HR’) policies 
and procedures. Seven (2010: nine) calls/letters 
were received through the ‘Speak Up’  
process, none of which raised any issues  
of material concern.
performance against 2011 objectives
•	 The business conduct/code of ethics policy 
has been amended taking into account  
the requirements of the Bribery Act to 
specifically ban the provision of facilitation 
payments. Further, we have enhanced 
existing controls such as the Gifts Register to 
ensure that both gifts received and given are 
recorded by employees in all companies in 
the Group. In addition we have introduced 
procedures for vetting of new agents prior  
to appointment and further enhanced our 
pre-acquisition due diligence processes to 
strengthen our review of reputational issues 
where appropriate to do so.
Efficient and ethical 
management of our 
business and long term 
relationships with all our 
stakeholders, whether 
customers, employees 
or suppliers, is key  
to our sustained 
business success.
Set policy
Devise and maintain 
systems
Measure and monitor 
performance (KPIs)
Seek and act on 
stakeholder feedback
Communicate  
and report to 
stakeholders
OUR APPROACH
To transform our strategy into tangible activities we undertake the following steps:
Further details of the 
Group’s CR policies, 
processes and controls and 
how they are monitored are 
available in the CR section  
of the Company’s website, 
www.bunzl.com.  26      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
•	 We have tailored a suite of nine e-learning 
modules which highlight the key 
responsibilities of employees in relation  
to CR. One of the modules provides an 
overview of the business conduct/code  
of ethics policy and this is supplemented  
by modules relating to anti-bribery issues 
such as facilitation payments and gifts and 
entertainment. A further module details our 
whistle blowing process ‘Speak Up’. Training 
has commenced for all management and 
sales and purchasing staff across the Group.
2012 objectives
•	 CR training to be completed by April 2012 
for all management and sales and 
purchasing staff across the Group.
•	 Monitor and review the new processes  
and procedures introduced in 2011 as  
a consequence of the Bribery Act.
empl Oyee S
Bunzl currently operates in 23 countries 
worldwide. We are a service provider, not a 
manufacturer and, as such, our business relies 
heavily on the skills and experience of our 
employees. We pride ourselves on the fact  
that we run our businesses locally with local 
managers. We do not unfairly discriminate and 
we respect human rights. We seek to recruit 
the right people who are passionate about our 
business and provide opportunities for people 
to progress within the organisation on the basis 
of their skills, experience and aptitude. We 
believe that to get the best from people we 
need to respect each other and encourage 
honest, straightforward communication. Our 
acquisition pipeline continues to be a valuable 
source of management talent for the Group 
and the completion of a number of acquisitions 
during the year has brought further highly 
skilled people into Bunzl.
performance against 2011 objectives
•	 We have prepared for the launch of the  
2012 Employee Survey. The survey will  
cover all employees in UK & Ireland, 
Continental Europe and Rest of the World 
which together represent two thirds of the 
Group’s workforce. 
•	 We have also continued to monitor key  
HR measures:
– voluntary turnover remains at very low 
levels in all business areas other than  
Rest of the World, reflecting the current 
economic conditions within the countries 
in which we operate rather than any 
intrinsic reasons related to the Group; and
– sickness absence has fallen or remained 
flat in all business areas.
2012 objectives
•	 Review the results of the 2012 Employee 
Survey and implement actions to address 
any issues identified.
•	 Continue to monitor key HR measures such 
as voluntary turnover, sickness absence, 
training days, workforce gender and age mix 
and, as appropriate, take action to address 
any issues that may arise.
HeAlt H & SAFety
The health and safety of our employees and 
other stakeholders is a priority. Although we try 
to minimise the risks which occur, particularly 
relating to the operation of our warehouses and 
vehicles, incidents relating to manual handling, 
slipping and tripping remain the highest cause 
of accidents. We are pleased to report that 
once again in 2011 there were no fatalities due 
to work related incidents (2010: no fatalities).
performance against 2011 objectives
•	 2011 was the first year that we set 
quantitative objectives for the reduction  
of accident incidence and severity rates.  
The target was a reduction of 5% of 2010 
accident rates:
– for the year ended 30 September 2011 
our accident incidence rates increased by 
1% although the actual number of time 
lost accidents across the Group fell by 
approximately 1%; and 
– for the same period our accident severity 
rates improved by 29%. This was 
principally due to better performance  
in North America and UK & Ireland.
Details of our performance from 2009 to 2011 
are provided in the bar charts opposite. The 
accident data provided is for the whole Group 
with the exception of some of the most recent 
acquisitions which represent approximately 3% 
of the total workforce.
2012 objectives
•	 Reduce Group accident incidence rate  
by 3% from 2011. 
•	 Reduce Group accident severity rate  
by 5% from 2011.
We encourage our 
suppliers to set  
similar CR standards  
to ourselves while our 
consolidated delivery 
and product solutions 
assist our customers  
in meeting their 
sustainability goals.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      27 
INCIDENCE RATE
Average number of incidents per month per 
100,000 employees.
SEVERITY RATE
Average number of days lost per month  
per 100,000 employees.
envi ROnment
We seek to prevent, mitigate and remediate  
the harmful effects of Bunzl’s operations on  
the environment. To ameliorate our impact on 
and exposure to climate change, our facilities 
operate worldwide to Group standards, we 
promote environmental awareness throughout 
the business and our branch network mitigates 
against the effects of extreme local climate 
conditions. Bunzl had no environmental 
incidents in 2011.
Our direct water usage and emissions are 
minimal. Water usage is principally confined  
to workplace cleaning and hygiene purposes. 
In 2011 we conducted a water audit to confirm 
usage and any emissions to water. This has 
confirmed our initial view but we will continue 
to monitor both usage and emissions in our 
annual environmental audit.
ISO 14001 accreditation was renewed in a 
number of locations. To date all sites in UK  
& Ireland, Australasia and many sites in 
Continental Europe are accredited. By revenue 
this represents more than 30% of the Group.
performance against 2011 objectives
•	 To improve transparency we are now 
reporting our Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
performance separately. These figures cover 
more than 95% of the Group by revenue. 
Our target for 2011 was to reduce our 
carbon emissions relative to revenue by 2% 
from the 2010 base year. 
•	 Scope 1: emission rates per £000 of revenue 
have decreased between 2010 and 2011 by 
9% (see the KPI bar chart on page 7). Fuel 
for transportation contributes about 90% of 
Bunzl’s Scope 1 emissions. The level of fuel 
consumption per £000 of revenue 
decreased year on year by 11% (see the KPI 
bar chart on page 7). We have continued to 
implement activities to improve fuel 
consumption such as changes to the fleet 
and routeing and managing driver behaviour. 
In addition the disposal of the vending 
business in the UK and the identification of 
an area where fuel usage has historically 
been double reported have resulted in a 2% 
reduction in fuel consumed. However, the 
growth of the business has increased fuel 
consumption in some areas and replacement 
vehicles in the US consume more fuel but 
have improved emissions. Many of the 
businesses acquired in 2011 do not operate 
their own transport fleets. Natural gas 
consumption has been positively affected by 
a number of site consolidations and focus on 
usage and boiler maintenance. 
•	 Scope 2: emission rates per £000 of revenue 
have decreased between 2010 and 2011 
by 9% (see the KPI bar chart on page 7). 
A number of measures have been taken to 
reduce electricity consumption including the 
installation of energy efficient lighting 
systems and voltage optimisation equipment, 
replacement of battery chargers with high 
frequency energy efficient chargers and 
‘Switch off’ campaigns. During the year our 
businesses in Spain and Switzerland and the 
recent acquisitions in North America have 
reported their consumption for the first time.
•	 We have sought to improve the accuracy and 
collection of waste data. We have started to 
appoint waste disposal contractors who are 
able to provide us with more accurate data 
on the weight of waste collected from our 
sites. In addition there has been much 
activity in the Group to improve the 
segregation of waste, with some of our 
facilities achieving zero waste to landfill. 
Where segregation of waste for recycling  
is not possible we are seeking to increase 
waste to incineration in preference to landfill. 
We are currently measuring waste in UK & 
Ireland, parts of Continental Europe and 
9% 
Decrease in Scope 1 
carbon emission rates
205
157 159
09 10 11
5,419
4,863
3,446
09 10 11 28      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
Australasia where during 2011 there was a 
decrease in waste generated as shown in 
the bar chart below. We believe that the 
2011 statistics represent improvement in 
data accuracy rather than a true reflection  
of our operational performance in this area 
year on year. 
Incinerated waste
General waste
Recovered/recycled waste
2.14
1.96
10 11
0.21
0.55
0.88
0.10
WASTE  
Kgs per £000 revenue
2012 objectives
•	 Using the 2010 data as the baseline, reduce 
the Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 13% 
and 14% respectively. 
•	 Continue to improve the accuracy of waste 
data and by the end of 2012 provide waste 
data covering at least 95% of our existing 
operations by revenue.
COmmunity
Although Bunzl’s operations are international, 
our strength is in the local nature of our 
businesses. In keeping with this ethos, we 
particularly support the fund raising activities 
championed by our employees locally. This is 
supplemented by donations made at Group 
level to charities predominantly in the fields of 
healthcare, disability and the environment as 
well as benevolent societies to support projects 
in communities where our operations are 
based. Where possible and appropriate, Bunzl 
also looks to donate stock free of charge 
(‘in-kind’). Group wide, Bunzl donated a total  
of £444,000 (2010: £430,000) to charities in 
2011. This does not include in-kind donations 
or employee fund raising.
performance against 2011 objectives
•	 We identified a further environmental project 
to support. This was the largest donation 
made last year and was to UNICEF to 
support the first stage of a project to 
heighten public awareness about the 
environmental risks and vulnerabilities in Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil. It is hoped that through 
this digital mapping initiative, community  
led strategies for adapting to climate change 
risks will be strengthened. Other larger 
donations were made to support healthcare 
initiatives, which assist both our employees 
and the communities in which they live, 
through Macmillan Cancer Support, Barts 
and the London Charity, Diabetes UK and 
the Alzheimer’s Society.
•	 Group companies and employees worldwide 
have continued to support local charitable 
initiatives. In North America, employees 
raised money for the Ronald McDonald 
House in Colombia, Missouri, a ‘home  
away from home’ for families with children 
receiving medical treatment, while 
employees in a number of branches donated 
gifts for Toys for Tots to help disadvantaged 
local children. In Australasia, employees 
participated in the Parkinson’s Unity walk 
raising money for research and awareness 
into Parkinson’s disease and many have 
been fund raising for the earthquake victims 
in New Zealand. In the UK, employees  
have raised funds through taking part in 
sponsored runs and walks for Macmillan 
Cancer Support, Cancer Research,  
Brain Research Trust and Birmingham 
Children’s Hospital.
•	 For the sixth consecutive year North America 
was honoured with a Greater St Louis Top 50 
Business Shaping our Future Award from the 
St Louis Regional Commerce and Growth 
Association. Bunzl was honoured for being 
among the best companies in its field and 
for making significant contributions to the  
St Louis region and the future of its business 
community. In the UK, Greenham opened its 
doors to local school pupils for a health and 
safety tour as part of a project organised by  
a local school to allow pupils to gain an entry 
level health and safety award.
•	 We continued to make a number of in-kind 
donations of goods. In the UK, the majority 
of such donations have been made through 
In Kind Direct, while in Australasia donations 
of goods such as kitchen utensils, rubber 
boots, bin liners and various cleaning tools 
were made to assist victims of the 
Queensland floods. In North America, 
donations of janitorial, sanitation and 
foodservice products were made to assist the 
families hit by the Joplin, Missouri tornado.
2012 objectives
•	 Continue to support appropriate charitable 
projects in the fields of healthcare, 
environment and disability.
•	 Strengthen the links of the business with  
the communities in which we operate.
CuSt OmeRS
As a service business, our ability both to 
anticipate and meet our customers’ needs is 
key to our success. We strive to ensure that we 
provide high levels of service. We achieve this 
by building solid relationships at a local level by 
regularly meeting with and seeking feedback 
from our customers. In line with our 2011 
objective we have continued to provide 
innovative service and product solutions to 
meet our customers’ needs including 
requirements to meet sustainability goals.
performance against 2011 objectives
•	 In Switzerland we launched Ecoline, a new 
range of biodegradable cleaning detergents 
aimed at minimising environmental impact. 
Our guest amenities business in Europe 
launched a new eco magnetic keycard, 
mainly composed of renewably sourced 
wood and is manufactured with up to 98% 
plant materials, and became the sole 
distributor for a shower head that uses pulse 
technology to reduce water consumption and 
energy costs and can be used effectively in 
hotel rooms. A number of UK businesses 
have been working with customers and 
suppliers to decrease their waste by reducing 
the amount of packaging used to deliver our 
products to them.
•	 The Group has received a number of awards 
from our customers including Golbon’s 2011 
Non-Food Vendor of the Year Award and 
Select Marketing’s operational excellence 
award received by the R3 business in North 
America. Keenpac in North America  
was recognised by the Retail Packaging 
Association for the Best Single Packaging 
Product and Best Co-ordinated Packaging 
Program. In the UK, Bunzl Lockhart won the 
CESA Light Equipment & Supplier Group 
Forum Supplier of the Year and Sales 
Professional of the Year Awards and 
Bunzl Catering Supplies Tamworth has 
been awarded Supplier of the Year by 
MPM Catering. 
2012 objectives
•	 Continue to provide innovative products  
and improve customer service.
Supplie RS
Bunzl has relationships with many suppliers. 
We want our suppliers to meet the same CR 
standards we set ourselves and to that end we 
have set up our own quality assurance/quality 
control (‘QA/QC’) department as part of our 
purchasing office in Shanghai. Our QA/QC staff 
perform regular audits of many of our suppliers 
in Asia and work with our suppliers to 
implement appropriate CR standards. 
performance against 2011 objectives
•	 During the year we have contacted our key 
suppliers, i.e. those suppliers that provide  
us with 50% of our product by value, to 
update them on our CR aspirations and to 
encourage them to adopt a similar approach.
2012 objectives
•	 Continue to build long term sustainable 
relationships with our key suppliers.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      29 
RiSKS AnD OppORtunitie S
The Directors’ report on page 31 details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group’s business, financial 
condition or results of operations. Although many CR risks are not seen as principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk analysis the following 
CR risks which could impact the Group’s business have been identified together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks:
Risk mitigating factors
CR compliance failures
Lack of adherence to the Group’s CR policies could result in a variety 
of issues including those relating to inappropriate business practices, 
accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of waste or  
carbon emissions. 
The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures (including 
those relating to anti-bribery and corruption) in place throughout the 
business as well as an established reporting framework.
Loss of key employees
The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on  
strong customer and supplier relationships which are built up locally. 
Stability of key relationship roles amongst the Group’s employees is 
therefore important.
The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive 
packages, development opportunities and career progression. 
Voluntary staff turnover is measured on a monthly basis, which 
enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities/unavailability of staff
Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather 
conditions. This could result in some of the Group’s facilities being 
affected or employees being unable to attend for work.
The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than 
one location as a result of which the Group usually has the ability to 
distribute products from nearby facilities. Business continuity plans  
are in place to minimise the impact of any such issues.
Suppliers’ non-compliance with good CR practices
The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international suppliers 
across the world. The failure of one of the Group’s key suppliers to 
adhere to recognised CR standards could affect the Group’s reputation. 
The Group’s key suppliers are principally publicly owned multinational 
organisations with high standards of operations. Suppliers are 
monitored by the Group’s purchasing departments and the QA/QC 
department based in China audits many suppliers throughout Asia. 
Key suppliers are made aware of the Group’s CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment. 
The principal opportunities include:
Opportunity Response
Environment
Throughout the world there is an increased awareness of the  
need to conserve resources and reduce carbon emissions.
Bunzl is not a manufacturer and therefore there is complete flexibility 
to offer products that meet customers’ requirements. A full range of 
environmentally friendly products are available.
The Group provides customers with the ability to benefit from a 
consolidated delivery of their consumable products. This reduces 
carbon emissions by eliminating the need for multiple deliveries from 
many different suppliers and streamlining the related administration  
for our customers.
Climate change
Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather 
conditions such as floods, cyclones and heavy snowfall.
There is likely to be an increase in demand for protective clothing  
to cope with climate change as well as the need for other products 
supplied by the Group, such as cleaning and hygiene products.
Employees
Competition for good quality people continues to be strong. A key element of Bunzl’s strategy is the acquisition of high quality 
businesses. This results in a number of motivated, high performing 
people joining the Group each year. It also brings new ideas and  
fresh approaches to the business which can be utilised elsewhere  
in the Group.
Health & safety
Throughout the world there has been an increase in health & safety 
legislation and an emphasis on safe working environments.
This leads to an increased demand from both existing and new 
customers for the Group’s personal protection equipment as well as 
providing the potential to introduce new innovative products in this area. 30      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
1 pHilip R OGeRSOn
# (Age 67)
Appointed to the Board in January 
2010 and became Chairman in 
March 2010. Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee. He was 
an executive director of BG plc 
(formerly British Gas plc) from 
1992 to 1998, latterly as Deputy 
Chairman. He is Chairman of 
Aggreko plc and Carillion plc 
and with effect from March 2012 
has been appointed as a  
non-executive director of  
De La Rue plc. 
2 miCHAel R Oney
# (Age 57)
Chief Executive since 2005 having 
been a non-executive director 
since 2003. After holding a 
number of senior general 
management positions within 
Goodyear throughout Latin 
America and then Asia, he 
became President of their Eastern 
European, African and Middle 
Eastern businesses and 
subsequently Chief Executive 
Officer of Goodyear Dunlop Tires 
Europe BV. He is the senior 
independent non-executive 
director of Johnson Matthey Plc. 
3 ul RiCH wO lte RS
* † #• 	 ( A g e 	 6 9 )
Non-executive director since 
2004. Formerly Managing Director 
of Aldi Süd in Germany, he built 
the business into one of the 
world’s leading retailers operating 
principally in Germany and Austria, 
the US, the UK and Australia. He 
is Chairman of Lenze SE and a 
non-executive director of Douglas 
Holding AG and Deichmann SE.
4 pAt RiCK lAR mOn
(Age 59)
Executive director since 2004  
and President and Chief Executive 
Officer, North America. Having 
joined Bunzl in 1990 when 
Packaging Products Corporation, 
of which he was an owner, was 
acquired, he held various senior 
management positions over 13 
years before becoming President 
of North America in 2003. He was 
appointed Chief Executive Officer 
in 2004.
5 DAviD Sle At H
* † #• 	 ( A g e 	 5 0 )
Non-executive director since 2007 
and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. Formerly a Partner 
and Head of Audit and Assurance 
for the Midlands region of Arthur 
Andersen, he subsequently 
became Finance Director of 
Wagon plc before joining SEGRO 
plc, the European industrial 
property group, where he was 
Group Finance Director from  
2006 until 2011 and is now  
Chief Executive.
6 bRiAn mAy
(Age 47)
Finance Director since 2006. A 
chartered accountant, he qualified 
with KPMG and joined Bunzl in 
1993 as Internal Audit Manager. 
Subsequently he became Group 
Treasurer before taking up the role 
of Finance Director, Europe & 
Australasia in 1996 and Finance 
Director designate in 2005. 
7 pete R JOHnSOn
* † #• 	 ( A g e 	 6 4 )
Non-executive director since 
2006, senior independent  
director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Having 
spent most of his earlier career  
in the motor industry, he joined 
Inchcape plc in 1995, became 
Chief Executive in 1999 and was 
Chairman from 2006 until 2009. 
He is the senior independent 
non-executive director of Wates 
Group Limited and was Chairman 
of The Rank Group Plc from 2007 
until 2011. 
8 euGeni A ul ASewiCZ
* † #• 	 ( A g e 	 5 8 )
Non-executive director since  
April 2011. After holding a  
number of senior retail positions 
with Bloomingdale’s, Galeries 
Lafayette and Saks Fifth Avenue, 
she joined Burberry Group plc in 
1998 as President of Burberry, 
Americas, one of four global 
regions of Burberry Group plc 
which includes North and  
Latin Americas. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
3
4
1
2
5
6
7
8
*  Member of the Audit 
Committee
†  Member of the Remuneration 
Committee
#  Member of the Nomination 
Committee
• 	 I n de pe n de nt 	 d i r ec t o r BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      31 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report which includes this Directors’ report and the audited financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2011. The Directors’ report incorporates by reference, to the extent 
indicated below, certain information included elsewhere in the Annual Report and should be read in conjunction with that information. The 
Corporate governance report on pages 36 to 39 also forms part of the statutory directors’ report.
pRin CipAl AC tivity A nD bu Sine SS Review 
The principal activity of the Group is providing value added distribution and outsourcing services in the Americas, Europe and Australasia.  
Details of the Group’s activities, developments and performance for the year, the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development  
and performance and information which fulfils the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the production of a business review are  
set out in the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the Financial review and the Corporate responsibility report on pages 8 to 29  
and in the section below entitled ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’. The Company uses a number of key performance indicators to measure 
progress towards its objectives. These are set out in the form of bar charts on page 7.
pRin CipAl R iSKS AnD un CeRt Aintie S
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group’s business, financial condition or results 
of operations. The Group has specific policies and procedures which are designed to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate business risk. The 
principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks and uncertainties include the following:
Risk mitigating factors
Economic environment
The Group’s business is partially dependent on general economic 
conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.  
A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse 
effect on the Group’s business and results of operations.
The Group’s operations and its customer base are diverse, with a 
variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which it 
competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient to 
economic downturns.
Competitive pressures
The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces competition 
from international companies as well as national, regional and local 
companies in the countries in which it operates. Increased competition 
and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to 
an adverse effect on results and hinder the Group’s growth potential, 
either through pressure on margins or loss of customers.
The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service 
levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their needs 
and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a national 
presence in the markets in which the Group operates and maintaining 
strong relationships with a variety of different suppliers thereby 
enabling the Group to offer a broad range of products to its customers.
Product price changes
The purchase price and availability of products distributed by the 
Group can fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting  
the results of operations. Adverse economic conditions resulting in a 
period of commodity price deflation and increased levels of imported 
products may lead to reductions in the price and value of the Group’s 
products. If this were to occur, the Group’s revenue and, as a result,  
its profits, could be reduced and the value of inventory held in stock 
may not be fully recoverable.
The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price increases 
from its suppliers to its customers and to source its products from a 
number of different suppliers so that it is not dependent on any one 
source of supply for any particular product. Increased focus on the 
Group’s own import programmes and brands, together with the 
reinforcement of the Group’s service and product offering to 
customers, helps to minimise the impact of price deflation.
The Group mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued inventory  
in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels efficiently and 
ensuring they are kept to a minimum. 
Foreign exchange
The majority of the Group’s sales are made and income is earned in 
US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. As a result, movements 
in exchange rates may have a material translation impact on the 
Group’s reported results. 
The Group may also be subject to transaction exposures where 
products are purchased in one currency and sold in another and 
movements in exchange rates may also adversely affect the value  
of the Group’s net assets.
The Group’s businesses, reported results and net assets could  
similarly be affected by the exit from the eurozone of countries  
where the Group has operations.
The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical spread 
outweigh the associated risks. 
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the 
functional currency of the Group’s operations. As a result, transaction 
exposures are usually limited and exchange rate fluctuations have 
minimal effect on the quality of earnings unless there is a sudden and 
significant adverse movement of a foreign currency in which products 
are purchased which may lead to a delay in passing on to customers 
the resulting price increases.
Although the consequences of a country leaving the eurozone,  
and the resulting impact this will have on other countries both  
within and outside the eurozone, are difficult to predict, the Group’s 
operations in those countries most likely to do so at the current  
time are relatively small. 32      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
Risk mitigating factors
Acquisitions
A significant portion of the Group’s historical growth has been achieved 
through the acquisition of businesses and the Group’s growth strategy 
includes additional acquisitions. Although the Group operates in a 
number of fragmented markets which provide future acquisition 
opportunities, there can be no assurance that the Group will be able  
to make acquisitions in the future or that any acquisitions made will  
be successful.
In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms 
compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this  
will lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the 
intangible assets attributed to that acquisition.
The Group’s acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses which 
operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive advantage 
and which have good growth opportunities. The Group continually 
reviews acquisition targets and has established processes and 
procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence  
and post-acquisition integration.
The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an acquisition 
through the recruitment and retention of high quality management 
combined with effective strategic planning, investment in resources 
and infrastructure and regular reviews of performance by both 
business area and Group management.
Financial liquidity and debt covenants
The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet its 
trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth and to 
make acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise. There is a risk 
that the Group may be unable to obtain the necessary funds when 
required or that such funds will only be available on unfavourable terms. 
The Group’s borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply with 
certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt and 
interest cover. A breach of these covenants could result in a significant 
proportion of the Group’s borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources  
and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure 
that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and 
that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s requirements  
in the short, medium and long term.
Compliance with the Group’s biannual debt covenants is monitored  
on a monthly basis based on the management accounts. Sensitivity 
analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess  
their impact on covenants.
Business continuity
The Group would be affected if there was a significant failure of  
its major distribution facilities or information systems.
The Group seeks to reduce the impact of facilities’ failure through  
the use of multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than one 
location and the impact of information systems’ failure through the 
adoption of detailed back up plans which are periodically tested and 
which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations
The international nature of the Group’s operations exposes it to 
potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws  
and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation 
to the supply of defective products or breaches of their contractual 
arrangements. The sourcing of products from lower cost countries 
increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any potential 
losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious market 
sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and mitigate 
against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary. 
The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance  
and quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with  
defective products.
The Financial review on pages 22 to 24 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements include information relating to the Group’s risk 
management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments. The ‘Internal control and risk management’ section of the Corporate governance 
report on page 39 includes further information on the specific procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
strong, converting 110% of the operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs into operating cash in 2011. 
Compliance with the Group’s biannual debt covenants is monitored on 
a monthly basis and sensitivity analyses using various scenarios are 
applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants and net debt. 
During 2011 all covenants have been complied with and based on 
current forecasts it is expected that such covenants will continue to  
be complied with for the foreseeable future.
The Group has sufficient financial resources, a well established, 
fragmented customer base, strong supplier relationships and a diverse 
geographic presence. As a consequence, the directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite 
the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason the 
directors believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
GOin G COn CeRn
As indicated in the section above entitled ‘Principal activity and business 
review’, details of the Group’s activities, developments and performance 
are set out on pages 8 to 29. In addition, information relating to the 
financial performance, financial position and cash flows of the Group  
is set out in the Financial review on pages 22 to 24. Note 13 to the 
consolidated financial statements includes the details of the Group’s 
debt profile, capital management policy, treasury policies and controls, 
hedging activities and financial instruments and its policies and 
exposures to liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks.
The Group continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows  
to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s 
requirements in the short, medium and long term and, in order to do  
so, arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources comprising 
multi-currency credit facilities and US dollar and sterling bonds. As at 
31 December 2011 the Group had net debt of £652.9 million and 
undrawn committed facilities of £621.5 million. During the next 12 
months £230.0 million of the committed facilities mature and thereafter 
the facilities will mature at various times over the period up to 2023. The 
Group is highly cash generative and its cash flows have historically been  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      33 
Divi DenDS
An interim dividend of 8.05p was paid on 3 January 2012 in respect of 
2011 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 18.3p, making a 
total for the year of 26.35p per share (2010: 23.35p). Dividend details 
are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Subject  
to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on  
18 April 2012, the final dividend will be paid on 2 July 2012 to those 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 May 2012.
SHARe CApit Al
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided  
into ordinary shares of 32
1
∕7p each which rank pari passu in respect  
of participation and voting rights. The shares are in registered form,  
are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.  
In addition, the Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary  
Receipt programme with the Bank of New York Mellon under which  
the Company’s shares are traded on the over the counter market in  
the form of American Depositary Receipts.
Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are  
set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
RiGHt S AnD Obli GAt iOnS At t ACHin G t O SHAReS
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without 
prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company 
may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights and 
restrictions as set out in such resolution or (if there is no such resolution 
or so far as it does not make specific provision) as the Board may 
decide. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and of  
any resolution of the Company passed pursuant thereto and without 
prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, the Board is duly 
authorised to issue and allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose of 
the Company’s shares on such terms and conditions and at such times 
as it thinks fit. If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided 
into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be 
varied or abrogated by special resolution passed at a separate general 
meeting of such holders. Subject to the rights attached to any existing 
shares, rights attached to shares will be deemed to be varied by the 
reduction of capital paid up on the shares and by the allotment of 
further shares ranking in priority in respect of dividend or capital or 
which confer on the holders more favourable voting rights than the 
first-mentioned shares, but will not otherwise be deemed to be varied  
by the creation or issue of further shares.
pOweR t O iSSue AnD Al l Ot SHAReS
The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under the 
authorities granted at the 2011 Annual General Meeting to allot shares 
or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of 
the Company up to i) a maximum nominal amount of £35.4 million;  
and ii) to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert 
any securities into shares in connection with a rights issue to existing 
shareholders in proportion (or as nearly as may be practicable) up to  
an aggregate nominal amount equal to £70.8 million or as reduced by 
the nominal value of any ordinary shares allotted under i) above. At the 
same meeting authority was also granted to the directors to allot the 
Company’s shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of 
approximately £5.7 million, without regard to the pre-emption provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006. No such shares were issued or allotted 
under these authorities in 2011, nor is there any current intention to do 
so, other than to satisfy the consideration payable for businesses to be 
acquired. If the directors do exercise the authority under ii) above the 
directors intend to follow ABI recommendations concerning its use.
These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. The directors again propose to seek  
equivalent authorities at such Annual General Meeting.
ReSt RiCt iOnS On t RAnSFeR OF SHAReS
Dealings in the Company’s ordinary shares by its directors, persons 
discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the 
Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject to  
the Company’s dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the Listing 
Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply to 
transfers of shares in the Company. The Board may refuse to register an 
instrument of transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share and of 
a certificated share at its discretion unless it is:
•	 lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at the offices of the Company’s 
registrar or such other place as the Board may specify and is 
accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and 
such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show  
the right of the transferor to make the transfer; 
•	 in respect of only one class of shares; and 
•	 in favour of not more than four transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused  
in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules,  
and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of  
joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred 
exceeds four. 
In addition, no instrument of transfer for certificated shares shall be 
registered if the transferor has been served with a restriction notice  
(as defined in the Company’s Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’))  
after failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain 
interests in the Company’s shares required to be provided under the 
Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be 
pursuant to an arm’s length sale. The Board has the power to procure 
that uncertificated shares are converted into certificated shares and 
kept in certificated form for as long as the Board requires. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in any restriction of the transfer of shares or voting rights.
ReSt RiCt iOnS On v Ot in G RiGHt S
A member shall not be entitled to vote, unless the Board otherwise 
decides, at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any 
shares held by them if any call or other sums payable remain unpaid. 
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid. In addition, no member shall 
be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice after 
failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain 
interests in the Company’s shares required to be provided under the 
Companies Act 2006. Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy. 
The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms 
of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before a poll is taken 
if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded or during 
the meeting at which the poll was demanded if the poll is not taken 
straight away but is taken not more than 48 hours after it was demanded.
bunZl GROup Gene RAl empl Oyee bene Fit tR uSt
Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group General 
Employee Benefit Trust (‘the EBT’) which holds shares in respect of 
employee share options and awards that have not been exercised or 
vested. The current position is that the EBT abstains from voting in 
respect of these shares. The trustee has agreed to waive the right to 
dividend payments on shares held within the EBT. Details of the shares 
so held are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 34      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
puRCHASe OF Own SHAReS
At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company 
authority to purchase a maximum of 33,015,000 ordinary shares. 
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Company did not 
purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the authority 
granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting and no shares have been 
purchased between 31 December 2011 and 27 February 2012. The 
total number of ordinary shares currently held in treasury is 23,325,000. 
The Company is therefore currently authorised to buy back 33,015,000 
of its own shares pursuant to the existing shareholders’ authority which 
is due to expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. The directors again propose to seek the equivalent authority  
at such Annual General Meeting.
DiReCt ORS 
Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened 
general meeting or appointed by the Board. Under the Articles, the 
minimum number of directors shall be two and the maximum shall be 
15. In accordance with the Articles, each director is required to retire  
at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year in which 
he or she was elected or last elected and any director who has held 
office with the Company, other than employment or executive office,  
for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Annual 
General Meeting is subject to annual re-election. The Board may also 
appoint a person willing to act as a director during the year either to fill  
a vacancy or as an additional director but so that the total number of 
directors shall not at any time exceed 15. However such appointee shall 
only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company. 
Notwithstanding the retirement by rotation provisions in the Articles, 
each of the directors will be standing for re-election at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting in accordance with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. 
In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred by 
company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove a 
director from office before the expiration of his or her period of office 
under the Articles.
The office of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles  
if the director:
•	 resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by all  
of the other directors who are not less than three in number; or 
•	 is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the 
Board resolves that his or her office be vacated; or
•	 is absent without permission from Board meetings for six consecutive 
months and the Board resolves that his or her office be vacated; or
•	 becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors 
generally; or
•	 is prohibited by law from being a director; or
•	 ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of company law  
or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Eugenia Ulasewicz was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011 and 
Charles Banks retired from the Board on 20 April 2011. All of the other 
current directors served throughout the year. Biographical details of the 
current directors are set out on page 30.
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements. None of the directors was materially 
interested in any contract of significance with the Company or any of  
its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2011. Information 
relating to the directors’ service agreements and their remuneration for 
the year and details of the directors’ share options under the Company’s 
share option schemes and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan 
and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 40 to 52.
pOweRS OF t He DiReCt ORS
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions 
given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the 
Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all powers of the 
Company. The Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint 
any person or persons to be the agent or agents of the Company for 
such purposes and on such conditions as the Board determines.
DiReCt ORS’ in Demnitie S
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the 
Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company 
Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of 
subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the 
Articles in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the 
execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or 
officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 
Amen Dment OF ARt iCle S 
Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution of 
the Company’s shareholders. Following the implementation of the final 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 and the coming into force of the 
Companies Shareholders’ Rights Regulations in 2009, new Articles  
of Association were adopted by shareholders at the 2010 Annual 
General Meeting.
en viROnment Al AnD SOCiAl ReSpOnSibility
The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider community 
and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the 
environment and social and community issues. Further information 
relating to the Company’s approach to these matters is set out in the 
Corporate responsibility report on pages 25 to 29.
empl Oyment p Ol iCie S
The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet  
the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which they 
operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity. The 
Group has standards of business conduct with which it expects all its 
employees to comply. Bunzl encourages involvement of its employees  
in the performance of the business in which they are employed and 
aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment. In addition to a regular 
magazine and the Company’s intranet, which provide a variety of 
information on activities and developments within the Group and 
incorporate half year and annual financial reports, announcements  
are periodically circulated to give details of corporate and staff matters 
together with a number of subsidiary or business area publications 
dealing with activities in specific parts of the Group.
It is the Group’s policy that disabled applicants should be considered for 
employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes and 
abilities. Employees who become disabled during their working life will 
be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with 
rehabilitation and training. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      35 
SubS t Anti Al SHAR eHOl Din GS
As at 31 December 2011 the directors had been notified by the 
following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more  
of the issued share capital of the Company. 
Shareholder
Date of 
notification
Number  
of shares
% of issued 
share capital
INVESCO plc 20.05.10 32,571,686 9.9
Blackrock, Inc. 23.03.11 16,491,628 5.0
Lloyds Banking Group plc 27.05.10 16,425,039 5.0
Aviva plc 13.10.11 16,149,582 4.9
Newton Investment Management Ltd 07.03.11 13,864,410 4.2
Cascade Investment, LLC 12.12.11 13,484,960 4.1
Legal & General Group Plc 12.11.09 13,069,891 4.0
The directors were notified on 23 February 2012 that Aviva plc no 
longer held a notifiable interest in the issued share capital of the 
Company. As at 27 February 2012 no further notifications have  
been received since the year end.
SiGni FiCAnt AGR eement S
The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, has a 
number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different counterparties, 
all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in substantially the 
same form and are prepayable at the option of the lender in the event of 
a change of control of the Company. Similar change of control provisions 
in relation to the Company are included in the syndicated bank loan and 
the US dollar bonds which have been entered into by Bunzl Finance plc 
and the Company and are also guaranteed by the Company.
COnt RACtu Al ARRA n Gement S 
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties  
in support of its business activities, none of which are considered 
individually to be essential to its business and, accordingly, it has not 
been considered necessary for an understanding of the development, 
performance or position of the Group’s business to disclose information 
about any of those third parties.
CReDit OR pAyment p Oli Cy
Group operating companies do not follow any specific published  
code or standard on payment practice but are instead responsible  
for agreeing the payment terms when agreeing all other terms and 
conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are 
conducted. It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these 
terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with 
them provided that suppliers also comply with all other relevant terms 
and conditions. The number of days’ billings from the Company’s 
suppliers outstanding at the end of the year was 30 (2010: 30).
DOnAti OnS
During 2011, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the 
Group contributed £220,000 to UK charities (2010: £215,000). 
No contributions were made for political purposes.
Annu Al GeneRA l m eetin G
The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The 
Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 18 April 2012 
at 11.00 am. The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting is set 
out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which 
explains the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
exte Rn Al Au Dit OR
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that:
•	 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information  
of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
•	 the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as  
a director in order to make the director aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware  
of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance  
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the 
Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
On behalf of the Board
paul Hussey 
Secretary
27 February 2012
Pages 31 to 35 inclusive consist of a directors’ report that has been 
drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, 
applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in 
connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by such law.
The Annual Report contains certain statements about the future outlook 
for the Group. Although the Company believes that the expectations are 
based on reasonable assumptions, any statements about future outlook 
may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and 
results to be materially different. 36      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. 
This report describes how the principles of corporate governance set out 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council (‘the Code’) have been applied by the Company during the year 
ended 31 December 2011. The Company confirms that it has complied 
throughout 2011 with the provisions of the Code, a copy of which is 
available at www.frc.org.uk. 
tH e bOARD
As at 31 December 2011 and as at the date of this report, the Board 
was made up of eight members comprising a Chairman, a Chief 
Executive, two other executive directors and four non-executive 
directors. Brief biographical details of the directors are given on page 
30. Eugenia Ulasewicz was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011 and 
Charles Banks, who was the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 
retired from the Board following the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
on 20 April 2011. None of the Company’s non-executive directors had 
any previous connection with the Company or its executive directors on 
appointment to the Board and all of them are considered by both the 
Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent. The 
Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have a breadth of 
strategic, management and financial experience gained in each of their 
own fields in a range of multinational businesses. In accordance with 
the terms of the Code, each of the directors will be subject to re-election 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive. The Chairman is primarily responsible for the 
leadership and effective working of the Board and the Chief Executive 
has executive responsibility for running the Group’s businesses. The 
Chief Executive is also the designated member of the Board responsible 
for environmental, social and governance matters and reports to the 
Board in relation to such matters.
Peter Johnson is the senior independent director and is available to 
shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal 
channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed  
to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Information relating to the conduct of Board meetings and the 
procedures implemented to ensure that the Board retains overall control 
and accountability for all strategic, financial, operational and compliance 
issues are set out in the internal control section below and in the 
Financial review on pages 22 to 24. 
All new directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board, 
including meetings with senior management and visits to some of the 
Group’s locations and the Board calendar is planned to ensure that the 
directors are fully briefed on a wide range of topics throughout the year. 
Normally at least two Board meetings a year are held at or near Group 
locations in the UK and overseas where the directors have the 
opportunity to meet and interact with senior executives from different 
businesses within the Group’s portfolio as well as observe the operations 
in situ.
Directors have access to independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense where they judge this to be necessary to discharge 
their responsibilities as directors and all directors have access to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to  
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees which 
comply with the provisions of the Code. The membership, roles and 
activities of these Committees are set out below.
The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for the 
Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen by the 
Chairman. This includes completion of self-assessment forms by, and 
individual discussions with, each director when their individual training 
and development needs are reviewed. Led by the senior independent 
director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman 
present at least annually to appraise the Chairman’s performance 
including a review of his other commitments to ensure that he is able to 
allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his responsibilities 
effectively. The Chairman periodically holds meetings with the non-
executive directors without the executive directors present. All of these 
processes were carried out satisfactorily during the year as a result of 
which the Board concluded that both it and its Committees are 
operating effectively. Following the evaluation process this year, it was 
agreed that the Board should increase its visibility of the Group’s senior 
executives, by asking them to make more presentations about the 
businesses for which they are responsible, and that the Nomination 
Committee should have greater insight into the Group’s executive 
development programmes as part of the Committee’s annual review of 
the management succession plan. The Board has considered the new 
requirements of the Code in respect of an external evaluation of the 
Board at least every three years. The Board has agreed that such an 
evaluation will be carried out within the next year.
The Board also oversees the process for reviewing any potential conflicts 
of interest which may arise in relation to each member of the Board and 
this process was carried out satisfactorily during the year. 
AuDit C Ommittee
The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive 
directors and is chaired by David Sleath who is considered by the Board 
to have recent and relevant financial experience. While the other 
directors are not members of the Committee, they normally attend 
meetings of the Committee by invitation together with the Head of 
Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor.
The Committee’s principal role is to:
•	 monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and 
review significant reporting judgements;
•	 review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial controls;
•	 review the process for the management of risk and the assurance 
procedures over controls designed to manage key risks;
•	 monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit 
function;
•	 make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment  
of the external auditor;
•	 monitor and review the external auditor’s independence; and
•	 develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external 
auditor to supply non-audit services.
The Committee Chairman holds preparatory meetings with the 
Company’s senior management and, when appropriate, the Head of 
Internal Audit and the external auditor prior to Committee meetings  
to discuss the items to be considered at the Committee meetings. In 
addition, separate discussions are held between the Committee and  
the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor without management 
present. The Committee Chairman also attends the Annual General 
Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised 
on the Committee’s activities. During the year the Committee met on 
three occasions and its activities included:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      37 
•	 receiving and considering reports from the external auditor in relation 
to the half year and annual financial statements;
•	 reviewing the half year and annual financial reports and the formal 
announcements relating thereto;
•	 receiving and considering reports from the Head of Internal Audit  
in relation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function and 
reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme for  
the year;
•	 reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial 
controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Company’s  
risk management systems;
•	 reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise 
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting 
or other matters;
•	 reviewing the Committee’s terms of reference and the  
Committee’s effectiveness;
•	 reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditor and the 
internal audit function following completion of detailed questionnaires 
by both the Board and senior management within the Company;
•	 making recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment 
of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the auditor; and
•	 reviewing and approving the level and type of non-audit work  
which the external auditor performs, including the fees paid for  
such work.
The Committee ensures that the external auditor remains independent 
of the Company and receives written confirmation from the external 
auditor as to whether it considers itself independent within the meaning 
of its own internal and the relevant regulatory and professional 
requirements. Key members of the audit team rotate off the Company’s 
audit after a specific period of time.
In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the external 
auditor is not compromised, the Committee has also pre-approved the 
non-audit service categories that can be provided by the external 
auditor and agreed monetary amounts for each service category that 
can be provided by them, subject to a maximum individual engagement 
value. Certain categories of services are prohibited under the ethical 
standards of the Accounting Practices Board. A permitted service 
requires specific authorisation from the Committee or the Committee 
Chairman where it does not fall within the pre-approved categories  
or where its value exceeds the maximum pre-approved individual 
engagement value. Such non-audit service categories which are 
pre-approved principally comprise tax services and further assurance 
services relating to pre-acquisition due diligence and other duties 
carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses. The 
Committee believes that given the external auditor’s detailed knowledge 
of the Group’s operations, its structure and accounting policies and the 
importance of carrying out tax services and detailed due diligence as 
part of the acquisition process, it is often appropriate for this additional 
work to be carried out by the Company’s auditors. However other firms 
are also used by the Company to provide non-audit services and it is the 
Company’s policy to assess the services required on a case by case 
basis to ensure that the best placed adviser is retained. Details of the 
fees paid to the external auditor in 2011 in respect of the audit and for 
non-audit services are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the re-appointment 
of the external auditor, the Committee takes into account the tenure of 
the auditor in addition to the results of its review of the effectiveness of 
the external auditor and considers whether there should be a full tender 
process. There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committee’s 
choice of external auditor.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of its review  
of the external auditor’s activities during the year, the Committee  
has recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the 
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor be put to 
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s 
website, www.bunzl.com.
Remune RAt iOn C Ommittee
The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent 
non-executive directors and is now chaired by Peter Johnson following 
the retirement of Charles Banks from the Board in April 2011. While 
neither the Chairman of the Company nor the Chief Executive are 
members of the Committee, they normally attend meetings by invitation 
except when the Committee is considering matters concerning 
themselves. Further details of the Remuneration Committee, the 
Company’s remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out  
in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 40 to 52. The terms  
of reference of the Committee are available on the Company’s website.
n Omin At iOn C Ommittee 
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Company, 
who chairs the Committee, the Chief Executive and all of the non-
executive directors. The majority of the members are independent 
non-executive directors. The Committee’s role includes:
•	 reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including 
the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on 
the Board, and making recommendations to the Board with regard to 
any changes;
•	 nominating, for the approval of the Board, appropriate individuals  
to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise having considered 
candidates with relevant experience from a wide range of 
backgrounds; and
•	 considering succession planning, taking into account the challenges 
and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise 
are therefore needed on the Board in the future, and reviewing 
annually a management succession planning presentation in relation 
to the Company’s senior executives.
The Committee meets as necessary throughout the year to discharge  
its responsibilities. An external search consultancy is retained by the 
Company to assess potential candidates to be considered as 
prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate,  
executive directors. 38      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
The Committee notes the publication of the Davies Review on Women 
on Boards in February 2011 and the subsequent consultation 
undertaken by the Financial Reporting Council in relation to the 
proposed changes to the Code. Both the Board and the Committee 
recognise the importance of gender diversity throughout the Group,  
as demonstrated by the composition of its Executive Committee of 
which 40% of members are women. Currently one of the eight Board 
members is female. The Committee aims to have a Board with a broad 
range of skills, backgrounds and experience and while the Committee 
will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that the best people are 
appointed for the relevant roles, the Committee recognises the benefits 
of greater diversity and will continue to take account of this when 
considering any particular appointment.
During the year the Committee was involved in the selection and 
appointment of a new non-executive director. This involved agreeing  
the skills, knowledge and experience required for the role, appointing 
independent search consultants and interviewing candidates. All 
members of the Committee had the opportunity to meet the preferred 
candidate before a final recommendation was made to the Board.  
The Company subsequently announced the appointment of Eugenia 
Ulasewicz as a non-executive director in April. Her experience has  
been and will continue to be of great value as the Company continues  
to expand. 
As a result of the retirement of Charles Banks, the Committee also 
considered the appointment of a new Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. Having done so, the Committee recommended to the Board 
that Peter Johnson, the Company’s senior independent director, should 
assume this role with effect from April 2011 and the Board subsequently 
agreed to such appointment.
The Committee reviewed and took account of the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience of the Board, the time commitment expected 
of the non-executive directors and the conclusions of the formal 
evaluation process which was carried out during the year when 
considering and recommending the nomination of directors for  
re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting. In particular the 
Committee reviewed the performance of Ulrich Wolters, who was 
appointed to the Board in July 2004, and Peter Johnson, who was 
appointed to the Board in January 2006. The Committee believes  
that they both continue to be effective and to demonstrate strong 
independence in character and judgement in the manner in which  
they discharge their responsibilities as directors. Consequently the 
Committee is satisfied that, despite their respective lengths of tenure, 
they remain independent.
Finally, the Chief Executive presented his annual management 
succession plan to the Committee. The Company recognises that having 
the right directors and senior management is crucial for the Group’s 
success and it is a key task of the Committee to ensure that the 
Company has a robust and continuous succession planning process.  
As part of the process this year the Director of Group HR also made a 
presentation to the Committee about the Company’s senior executive 
development programmes.
The terms of reference of the Committee are set out on the  
Company’s website. 
meetin GS AttenDA n Ce
The following table shows the attendance in 2011 of directors at  
Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which  
they are members:
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Number of meetings 8 3 3 4
Philip Rogerson 8 4
Michael Roney 8 4
Charles Banks* 3 1 1 2
Ulrich Wolters 7 3 2 3
Patrick Larmon 8
Peter Johnson 8 3 3 4
Brian May 8
David Sleath 8 3 3 4
Eugenia Ulasewicz
†
6 2 2 1
*Charles Banks retired as a director on 20 April 2011 having attended all of the Board 
meetings held between 1 January 2011 and that date. 
† 
Eugenia Ulasewicz was appointed as a director on 1 April 2011 and attended all  
of the Board meetings held between that date and the end of the year. She also 
attended all of the Board Committee meetings which were held between the date 
she was appointed a member of such Committees and the end of the year.
Rel Ati OnS wit H SHAReHOl DeRS
The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with the half 
year results announced normally at the end of August and the annual 
results announced normally at the end of February. In addition the 
Company publishes two interim management statements a year as 
required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with 
representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board the 
views of major shareholders. Additional forms of communication include 
presentations of the half year and annual results. The Chairman and the 
senior independent director and the other non-executive directors are 
available to meet with major shareholders on request. The Company 
welcomes the Stewardship Code introduced in 2010 with the aim of 
enhancing the quality of engagement between institutional investors  
and companies to help improve long term returns to shareholders and 
the efficient exercise of governance responsibilities. The Board also 
periodically reviews and discusses analysts’ and brokers’ reports  
and surveys of shareholder opinions conducted by the Company’s  
own brokers. 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least  
20 working days before the meeting. All shareholders are encouraged  
to participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited to ask questions 
at the meeting and are given the opportunity to meet all of the directors 
informally. Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote using 
the proxy card mailed to them or electronically as detailed in the Notice 
of Meeting. Shareholders are given the option to withhold their vote on 
the proxy form. As in previous years, at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting each of the resolutions put to the meeting will be taken on a 
poll rather than on a show of hands as directors believe that a poll  
is more representative of shareholders’ voting intentions because 
shareholder votes are counted according to the number of shares held 
and all votes tendered are taken into account. The results of the poll will 
be publicly announced and made available on the Company’s website 
as soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      39 
inte RnA l CO nt ROl An D RiSK mAnAGement
The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for 
identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the 
Group’s system of internal control relating to those risks. However, such 
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. In accordance 
with Principle C.2 of the Code and the related Turnbull guidance the 
Company has established the procedures necessary to ensure that 
there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing and 
mitigating significant risks to the Group and for determining the nature 
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take to achieve its 
strategic objectives. The directors confirm that such procedures have 
been in place for the year ended 31 December 2011 and up to the date 
of approval of these financial statements and have been reviewed during 
the year.
To ensure that the directors maintain overall control over all significant 
strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, the Board meets 
regularly throughout the year and has formally adopted a schedule of 
matters which are required to be brought to it for decision. These 
include the approval of the annual and half year results of the Group,  
the Group’s strategic plans, annual budget, larger capital expenditure 
and acquisition/divestment proposals, material increases to borrowing 
and loan facilities, treasury policies and the terms of reference for the 
Board Committees. 
The Board has delegated to management the responsibility for 
establishing a system of internal control appropriate to the business 
environments in which the Group operates. The principal features of  
this system include:
•	 a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control 
system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined 
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
•	 clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment  
and acquisitions;
•	 strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared 
annually by the business areas and approved by the Board;
•	 formal standards of business conduct (including a code of ethics  
and whistle blowing procedure) based on honesty, integrity and  
fair dealing;
•	 a well established consolidation and reporting system for the statutory 
accounts and monthly management accounts;
•	 continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production of timely 
and accurate management information relating to the operation of the 
Group’s businesses; and
•	 detailed manuals covering Group accounting policies and policies  
and procedures for the Group’s treasury operations.
Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the effectiveness 
of the internal control system and to identify, manage and mitigate 
business risk are listed below:
•	 central management holds regular meetings with business area 
management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues 
including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the 
business areas and the policies and procedures by which these  
risks are managed;
•	 an Executive Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance 
Director and other functional managers, meets twice per month and 
also reviews the outcome of the discussions held at business area 
meetings on internal control and risk management issues;
•	 the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee 
discussions on internal control and risk management issues which 
ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability;
•	 both the Executive Committee and the Board carry out an annual 
fraud risk assessment;
•	 actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts and the 
previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances;
•	 the Group’s bank balances around the world are monitored on a 
weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally;
•	 the internal audit department periodically reviews individual 
businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve 
controls and follows up to ensure that management implement the 
recommendations made. The internal audit department’s work is 
determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are  
reported to Group and business area management as well as to  
the Audit Committee;
•	 the Audit Committee, which comprises all of the independent 
non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly throughout 
the year. Further details of the work of the Committee are set out on 
pages 36 and 37;
•	 regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to assess 
the risks throughout the Group;
•	 the management committee, which oversees issues principally 
relating to environment, health and safety, insurance and business 
continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices and 
monitors their implementation; 
•	 risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress 
against objectives established by each business area are periodically 
carried out; and
•	 developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually 
monitored by Group management in association with  
external advisers.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness  
of the system of internal control and risk management in operation 
during 2011. 
The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial 
statements. The audit includes the review and test of the system  
of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial 
statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion  
on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
On behalf of the Board
paul Hussey
Secretary
27 February 2012 40      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
int RODu Cti On FROm p ete R JOHnSOn, CHAiRmAn OF t He Remune RAti On COmmittee
Following the retirement from the Board of Charles Banks, who had chaired the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) for the past eight 
years, I was appointed as Chairman of the Committee in April 2011. The Committee has taken the opportunity to review the contents of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to ensure that our remuneration policies and practices are clear and transparent to our stakeholders. We hope  
that the new layout of this report will aid understanding and clarity of the way that our directors are remunerated.
The Bunzl Long Term Incentive Plan (the ‘LTIP’), which is referred to below, was approved by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting (the ‘AGM’) in May 2004. The LTIP runs for a 10 year period and the Committee believes that it has worked well in both incentivising our 
senior management and aligning their interests with those of our shareholders. The Committee will start work during 2012 in developing proposals 
for the introduction of a new plan upon expiry of the current LTIP and will consult with the Company’s principal shareholders in relation thereto.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) and Schedule 8 of the Large and 
Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. KPMG Audit Plc has audited the relevant content as required by the Act (the tabular information on pages 49 to 52). 
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the AGM on 18 April 2012. 
COmmittee R emit A nD membe RSHip
The terms of reference of the Committee have been formally adopted by the Board and are available for inspection in the Investor Centre section  
of the Company’s website www.bunzl.com. The key responsibilities of the Committee include:
•	 ensuring that executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised to attract, retain and fairly reward them for their individual 
contribution to the Company and having due regard to the policies and practices applied to the rest of the employees within the Group;
•	 determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board including setting  
their individual remuneration packages as well as their level of remuneration and overseeing all the Company’s long term incentive plans;
•	 ensuring that remuneration is aligned with and supports the Company’s strategy and performance, having due regard to the shareholders  
and to the financial and commercial health of the Company, while at the same time not encouraging undue risk taking; and
•	 communicating and discussing any remuneration issues with the Company’s stakeholders as and when appropriate.
In undertaking these responsibilities, the Committee seeks external advice as necessary. During the year the Committee received advice from 
independent remuneration and benefit consultants PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) and New Bridge Street, an Aon Hewitt company  
(‘New Bridge Street’), who may from time to time also provide services to the Company on remuneration and benefit related matters that are not 
subject to review by the Committee. During 2011 PwC provided external survey data on directors’ remuneration and benefit levels and New Bridge 
Street made a presentation to update the Committee on recent market changes relating to executive remuneration and provided information to 
determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to share options and performance share awards under the LTIP 
had been satisfied. In addition to the work undertaken on behalf of the Committee, PwC also provides the Company with some accounting, tax and 
pre-acquisition due diligence services.
The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2011 and continue to be members, with the exception 
of Charles Banks who retired in April 2011:
Date of appointment
to the Committee
Meetings eligible
to attend
Meetings
attendance
Ulrich Wolters 21 July 2004 3 2
Peter Johnson 18 January 2006 3 3
David Sleath 5 December 2007 3 3
Eugenia Ulasewicz 20 April 2011 2 2
Charles Banks (retired from the Board in April 2011) 1 June 2002 1 1
note
a) Ulrich Wolters was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 7 December 2011 due to other business commitments.
The Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group HR. No executive director or Board member plays any part in determining his  
or her remuneration. During the year ended 31 December 2011, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend 
meetings of the Committee, but were not present during any part of the meeting when their own remuneration was under consideration.
In line with its remit, the following key issues were addressed by the Committee during the year:
•	 approval of the 2010 Directors’ remuneration report;
•	 review of all share plan earnings per share performance measures for the three year period ended 31 December 2010 and the total shareholder 
return (‘TSR’) performance measures for the three year periods ended 31 March and 30 September 2011; 
•	 review of the achievement against targets of the awards under the annual bonus plan and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme  
(the ‘DASBS’) and the setting of the targets for 2011;
DIRECTORS’ REmUNERATION REPORT BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      41 
•	 review and approval of the performance measures to be applied to the 2011 grants and awards under the LTIP;
•	 review and approval of all grants and awards made under the LTIP and exercise of Committee discretion regarding the vesting of any  
outstanding grants and awards where appropriate;
•	 annual review of all executive directors’ base salaries and benefits in line with the Company’s policies and practices; and
•	 consideration of current guidelines on executive remuneration by advisory bodies and institutional investors.
Remune RAti On p Oli Cy Ali Gnment wit H GROup S t RAte Gy
Bunzl continues to pursue its well defined strategy of developing the business through organic growth and targeted acquisitions in both existing and 
new geographies, while continuously improving the efficiency of our operations. Bunzl’s business model relies on excellent customer and supplier 
relationships and the skills, knowledge and experience of its directors and employees. The Company’s remuneration policy supports this strategy by 
ensuring that the overall remuneration package is set at a competitive level whilst ensuring that additional reward is paid for high performance over 
a sustained period. This policy is designed to ensure the recruitment, retention and motivation of the executive directors and other senior executives 
over the long term.
The performance related elements of the remuneration package are designed to incentivise executives to meet key performance metrics which 
align their interests and remuneration with those of shareholders, for example targets relating to earnings per share and TSR. In setting such targets 
the Committee takes due account of the potential effect such targets could have on the attitude and behaviour of executives to risk within the 
business. In addition the Committee has the discretion to take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters.
The remuneration package comprises both core fixed elements (base salary, pension and other benefits) and performance based variable 
elements (cash bonus, the DASBS and the LTIP). The Committee has set a guideline that for on target performance approximately half of the 
remuneration package should be performance related. The structure of the remuneration packages for on target and stretch performance for  
each of the executive directors is illustrated in the bar charts below:
notes
a)  Salary represents annual salary for 2011 and benefits such as car or car allowance and private medical insurance as shown on page 49.
b)  Pension represents the cost of pension accrued in 2011 in the Defined Benefit Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Brian May, the value of the 
annual pension allowance for Michael Roney and Brian May, the contributions to the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for 
Michael Roney and the total of company contributions to Patrick Larmon’s 401K Plan, Retirement Savings Benefit (the ‘RSB’) and through the 
Defined Contribution Senior Executive Retirement Agreement (‘SERA’), further details of which are shown on page 49.
c)  Target performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level (i.e. 70% of base salary comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares 
under the DASBS) and, for the LTIP , an assumption that 50% of performance shares will vest and the share options will deliver 25% of their face 
value in gain to the executives.
d)  Stretch performance comprises annual bonus awarded at maximum level (i.e. 115% of base salary for Michael Roney and Brian May and 110% 
of base salary for Patrick Larmon comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS) and, for the LTIP , an assumption that 
100% of performance shares will vest and the share options will deliver 50% of their face value in gain to the executives.
34%
23%
36%
25%
35%
25%
10% 24% 32%
7% 27% 43%
9% 25% 30%
6% 27% 42%
16% 23% 26%
11% 26% 38%
Target performance
Stretch performance
Michael Roney
Brian May
Target performance
Stretch performance
Patrick Larmon
Target performance
Stretch performance
Pension Salary and beneﬁts Bonus (cash/DASBS) LTIP 42      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
exeC utive D iReCt ORS’ RemuneRA ti On
In setting executive directors’ remuneration, the Committee is mindful of a range of factors, including remuneration policy, incentive arrangements 
and the remuneration packages across the Group. In addition, the Committee reviews information on remuneration and benefit levels based on 
external survey data produced by PwC. The Committee seeks to maintain, wherever possible, a consistent and appropriate basis for comparison 
year on year in terms of the survey methodology and, in particular, the use of comparator groups from which the survey data is produced. There 
are three comparator groups that the Committee uses. These are related to revenue, profit before tax and market capitalisation. In each case the 
comparator group consists of at least 20 non-financial and non-oil/oil services UK based companies that have substantial operations overseas. Half 
of the companies in each comparator group are the next highest and half are the next lowest compared with Bunzl. The total number of companies 
included in this survey will depend on the overlap of the companies within each of the three comparator groups but the aim is for the total number 
of companies to be at least 40. The results from each of the comparator groups are blended by PwC to provide an overall assessed market position 
as at 1 January of the year of the review. Neither PwC nor New Bridge Street provide specific recommendations to the Committee on remuneration 
or benefit levels for the executive directors. The Committee does, however, review survey information provided by them in the light of its established 
remuneration policy before making its decisions. All decisions of the Committee were implemented in full.
SAl ARy
purpose •	 recognise knowledge, skills and experience
•	 reward individual performance 
•	 reflect scope and size of the role
•	 consider achievement related to environmental, social and governance issues
Delivery •	 monthly
•	 cash
policy •	 annual review in December (with any changes effective from January)
•	 taking into consideration individual and Group performance, salary increases across the Group are benchmarked for 
appropriate salary levels using a comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence
•	 pensionable
 
The summary table above sets out the key policy principles for the salaries for the executive directors. Similar principles are applied to the salaries 
of senior managers and other levels of employees in the organisation, taking into account local market practices across the Group.
Details of the executive directors’ annual salaries are as follows:
Salary from 
1 January 2012 
Salary from 
1 January 2011
Increase in salary 
2011 to 2012
%
Michael Roney £845,000 £825,000 2.4
Brian May £468,000 £456,000 2.6
Patrick Larmon US$960,000 US$935,000 2.7
Employees across the Group have received, on average, increases in the range of 2%–4% dependent on geographical location with the exception 
being those employees based in Brazil and China where current market salary increases are much higher. The actual increases received by 
employees have been based on each individual’s contribution and performance as well as the market competitiveness of the salary.
Annu Al b Onu S
purpose •	 incentivise the attainment of annual corporate targets 
•	 retain high performing employees
Delivery •	 annual award
•	 50% cash and 50% shares (deferred shares – DASBS)
•	 Patrick Larmon’s maximum cash bonus payment is 65% of the total bonus although the total of cash and deferred shares  
is capped at 110% of base salary
policy •	 the measure for performance is the growth at constant exchange rates in the Company’s earnings per share adjusted to 
exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance (‘constant exchange rate eps’). Patrick 
Larmon has additional measures based on the profit before interest and tax (‘pbit’) and working capital employed in the 
business for which he has direct responsibility
•	 the annual on target bonus opportunity for Michael Roney and Brian May is 70% of base salary with a maximum award  
of 115% of base salary and for Patrick Larmon is 70% of base salary with a maximum award of 110% of base salary
•	 non-pensionable
DIRECTORS’ REmUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      43 
The annual bonus rewards short term business performance. Appropriately stretching financial performance targets are set by the Committee at 
the beginning of the year. The use of the constant exchange rate eps measure is seen as appropriate as it is one of Bunzl’s KPIs and aligns the 
executive directors’ interests with those of our shareholders. The additional measures relating to pbit and working capital are relevant for Patrick 
Larmon as these are the key performance indicators of the business he is responsible for running and these measures, together with other 
business measures, are used to incentivise the management group in North America. The relevant performance points are: threshold (which must 
be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus); target; and maximum amount (the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped). These 
performance points are determined at the start of the year by reference to the Group’s annual budget. No elements of the bonus are guaranteed. 
As in previous years, the specific performance points are commercially sensitive and are therefore not made public.
At the end of the performance period, which is the Group’s financial year from 1 January until 31 December, the Committee assesses the extent to 
which the performance measures have been achieved. The level of bonus for each measure is determined by reference to the performance relative 
to that measure’s performance points, on a pro rata basis. In respect of the year ended 31 December 2011, the total payments under the annual 
bonus plan were:
Total bonus payment (cash and deferred shares) as a % of salary
2011
%
2010
%
2009
 %
2008
%
Michael Roney 114.0 81.6 52.2 61.8
Brian May 114.0 81.6 52.2 61.8
Patrick Larmon 110.0 76.7 54.2 55.4
note
a) The actual performance related payments for 2011 and 2010 are included in the table on page 49.
Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including the executive directors, receive the deferred element of their annual bonus as an award of ordinary 
shares. The awards are satisfied by ordinary shares that are purchased in the market and provided via the Bunzl Group General Employee Benefit 
Trust (the ‘Trust’) on 1 March in the third year after the year in which the award is made when they are transferred to the executive. The rules of  
the DASBS provide that executives who leave the Group prior to the vesting of their awards lose their rights to any deferred shares although the 
Committee has discretion to allow such shares to vest if deemed appropriate to do so. For awards made in 2011 and in subsequent years, the 
clawback terms provide scope for the Committee to reduce or cancel such DASBS awards to the extent that the value of the bonus originally 
awarded is subsequently deemed to have been overstated as a result of a material mis-statement of the relevant financial statements by which  
the bonus was originally determined.
In February 2012 the Committee amended the rules of the DASBS to provide the flexibility to structure awards as nil cost options with  
a three year exercise window commencing on the date of vesting. Following this change, Brian May’s outstanding DASBS awards were converted  
to nil cost options.
lOn G te Rm in Centive S
purpose •	 incentivise growth in longer term earnings per share adjusted to exclude items that do not reflect the Company’s underlying 
financial performance (‘eps’) and TSR
•	 recruit and retain senior employees
Delivery •	 discretionary biannual awards
•	 executive share options and performance shares
•	 variable as related to the achievement of performance measures over a three year period
policy Executive share options
•	 maximum annual award of 300% of salary (although this level of award has never been granted, see the ‘Grant/award levels’ 
section below)
•	 three year performance period
•	 performance measure relates to the growth in the Company’s eps relative to UK inflation (RPI)
Performance shares
•	 maximum annual award of 200% of salary (although this level of award has never been granted, see the ‘Grant/award levels’  
section below)
•	 three year performance period
•	 TSR performance measure (50% of the total award) compares a combination of both the Company’s share price and dividend 
performance during the three year performance period against a comparator group of similarly sized companies with large 
international presence (the same group that is used for benchmarking salary) 
•	 eps performance measure (50% of the total award) relates to the growth in the Company’s eps relative to UK inflation (RPI) 44      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
The long term element of remuneration continues to be delivered through the LTIP . The LTIP Part A relates to the grant of executive share options 
and Part B to the award of performance shares. All of the executive directors, Executive Committee members and other key employees participate 
in both parts of the LTIP which was adopted in 2004. The majority of senior management only participate in the LTIP Part A. Share options are 
granted and performance shares awarded under the LTIP in respect of both new issue shares and market purchased shares.
Grant/award levels
The total actual annual grant/award levels for the executive directors are set out in the table below and have been applied to awards made from 
August 2008 to date.
Face value of grants/awards as a percentage of base salary
Executive share options Performance shares 
Michael Roney 150% 112.5%
Brian May 140% 105%
Patrick Larmon 125% 94%
To the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied, grants of executive share options are normally exercisable between three and 
10 years after they have been made and awards of performance shares are normally exercisable between three and six years after they have been 
made. A grant of executive share options or an award of performance shares lapses to the extent that the performance conditions are not satisfied 
in accordance with the measures set out in the forthcoming sections at the end of the three year performance period.
performance
The percentage of executive share options which vest is based solely on eps performance conditions, whereas for awards of performance shares 
vesting is based on a combination of eps and TSR performance. Performance conditions in all cases are measured over a three year period and 
there is no retesting. The Committee considers that both of these measures are appropriate benchmarks of the Company’s performance. This 
combination provides an important balance of measures relevant to the Group’s business and market conditions as well as providing a common 
goal for the executive directors, senior management and shareholders. Further details on these performance conditions are provided below.
eps performance condition
Executive share options – LTIP Part A
Executive share options may vest based solely on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s 
underlying financial performance) relative to UK inflation (RPI) over three years, based on the following sliding scale:
Face value of annual executive share options granted as a proportion of salary Total margin over UK inflation (RPI) after three years
First 150% of salary 9.3%
Next 75% of salary 12.5%
Next 75% of salary 19.1%
The Committee considers that the current performance condition remains appropriate after taking into consideration the recent significant increase 
in RPI, the current economic conditions, the performance of the business and the fact that a vested option has no value unless the share price 
increases. The Committee considers that over many years vested executive share options have provided a high level of incentivisation for the 
management team to strive continually to improve the Group’s operational performance and thereby increase the Company’s share price. 
Performance shares – LTIP Part B
The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to exclude 
items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance) relative to UK inflation (RPI) over three years, based on the following 
sliding scale:
Total margin over UK inflation (RPI) after three years Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below 12.5% Nil
12.5% 25%
Between 12.5% and 33.1% Pro rata between 25%–100%
Over 33.1% 100%
The Committee considers that the current performance condition remains challenging given the recent significant increase in RPI, the current 
economic conditions and the performance of the business. The Committee considers that the eps performance condition for the vesting of 
performance shares should be more stretching than for executive share options since on exercise of the award the value of the whole share is 
delivered to the participant as opposed to executive share options where value only arises if the share price on exercise is greater than the 
option price. 
DIRECTORS’ REmUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      45 
t SR performance condition
Performance shares – LTIP Part B
The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Company’s TSR performance relative to the TSR 
performance of a specified group of companies (the ‘Comparator Group’). The process for identifying the Comparator Group is the same as that 
used for setting executive remuneration as described under Executive directors’ remuneration on page 42. These performance share awards vest 
in full only if the Company’s TSR performance is ranked at upper quartile or above within the Comparator Group and the following vesting schedule 
is applied:
TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below median Nil
Median 25%
Median to upper quartile Pro rata between 25%–100%
Upper quartile 100%
The performance condition relating to TSR for all awards under the LTIP Part B provides for the exclusion from the Comparator Group of those 
companies that cease to be listed and the exclusion of those companies that have been subject to a recommended takeover offer and are therefore 
in the process of delisting. Where the companies are excluded from the Comparator Group, the median/upper quartile rankings are recalculated 
using the reduced number of companies in the Comparator Group. The applicable Comparator Group for the LTIP Part B awards for October 2011 
and April 2012 are shown below.
Aegis Group IMI PZ Cussons
Aggreko Inchcape Reckitt Benckiser
AMEC Informa Rexam
Burberry Inmarsat Sage Group
Carnival International Hotels Group SIG
Cobham International Power Smith & Nephew
Computacenter Intertek Smiths Group
Cookson Invensys Tate & Lyle
Croda International Johnson Matthey Thomas Cook Group
Dixons Retail Kesa Electricals Tui Travel
Experian Logica Weir Group
GKN Meggitt WPP
G4S Mondi
Hays Pearson
TSR is measured according to the return index calculated by Datastream and reviewed by New Bridge Street. It is measured on the basis that all 
companies’ dividends are reinvested in the shares of those companies. The return is the percentage increase in each company’s index over the 
three year performance period. The opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively the average of the index numbers for the last 
month preceding the performance period and for the last month of that performance period.
vesting of ltip grants/awards made in 2008
Executive share options – LTIP Part A
Grants of executive share options were made to the executive directors on 28 February 2008 and 29 August 2008 with the three year performance 
periods being completed on 31 December 2010. The Committee subsequently assessed the relevant performance of the Company against the 
performance conditions. Eps growth was 34.4% for the three years ended 31 December 2010 which compared to an increase in RPI of 8.3%  
over the same period. Since the performance condition would have been satisfied if eps had grown by at least 17.6% over the period, all of the 
options vested.
Performance shares – LTIP Part B
Awards of performance shares were made to the executive directors on 17 April 2008 and 7 October 2008 with the three year performance 
periods being completed on 31 March 2011 and 30 September 2011 respectively. The Committee subsequently assessed the performance of the 
Company against the relevant performance conditions. The extent to which half of the awards would vest was subject to a performance condition 
based on eps growth relative to RPI. Eps growth was 34.4% for the three years ended 31 December 2010 compared to an increase in RPI of 8.3% 
over the same period. A quarter of the award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 20.8% over the period and the whole award 
would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 41.4%. As a result of the Company’s actual growth in eps over the period, 74.5% of this 
part of the awards vested (37.25% of the full awards).
The extent to which the other half of the awards vested was based on the Company’s TSR performance against the relevant Comparator Group.  
For the April award, the Company ranked 25th out of the remaining 38 companies in the Comparator Group of companies, resulting in no vesting 
for this part of the award. For the October award, the Company ranked 19th out of the remaining 40 companies in the Comparator Group of 
companies, as a result of which 36.25% of this part of the award vested (18.125% of the full award) for performance between median and  
upper quartile.
Accordingly 37.25% of the total performance shares awarded in April 2008 and 55.375% of the total performance shares awarded in October 
2008 vested in April and October 2011 respectively. 46      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
performance graph
Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 requires that the Company must 
provide a graph comparing the TSR performance of a hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity market index over a five 
year period. The Company’s TSR performance against the FTSE Support Services Sector over a five year period commencing on 1 January 2007 
is shown below.
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
FTSE Support Services
Bunzl
2011 2010 2009 2007
Source: Datastream
2008
ltip – change of control
The rules of the LTIP provide that in the event of a change of control of the Company as a result of takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the 
Company, the Committee has the discretion to allow grants of options/awards to become exercisable taking into consideration the period of time 
which has elapsed since the date of the grant of option/award and the achievement of the relevant performance conditions at that date.
All empl Oyee SHARe SCHemeS
The executive directors are also eligible to participate in all employee share schemes which are designed to incentivise employees of the Group by 
giving them opportunities to build a shareholding in the Company. The UK based executive directors may participate in an HM Revenue & Customs 
(‘HMRC’) approved Sharesave Scheme and the US based executive director may participate in an IRS approved Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
(US) (the ‘ESPP’). In addition employees in Australia, Canada, Germany and the Netherlands are eligible to participate in an International Sharesave 
Plan and Irish employees can take part in the Irish Sharesave Plan.
Sharesave Scheme
The current Sharesave Scheme was approved by shareholders in 2011, is approved by HMRC and is open to all UK employees who have 
completed at least three months of continuous service. It, like the Sharesave Scheme which preceded it, is linked to a contract for monthly  
savings of up to £250 per month over a period of either three or five years. Under the Sharesave Scheme options are granted to participating 
employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option. 
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted. Both Michael Roney and Brian May participate in the 
Sharesave Scheme.
eSpp
The current ESPP was also approved by shareholders in 2011 and, like its predecessor, provides an opportunity for employees in the US to 
purchase the Company’s shares in the market at a 15% discount to the market price, up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration or 
US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower. The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee with the 
employing company contributing the 15% discount. Shares held by Patrick Larmon under the ESPPs are included in his ordinary share interests 
set out in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Opti OnS AnD AwARDS Out St AnDin G
To satisfy the future exercise of options or awards of performance shares under the Group’s employee share schemes, ordinary shares are either 
acquired in the market by the Trust or the Company issues new shares.
t he trust
The Trust is used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the DASBS and the LTIP Parts A and B. The number 
of shares held in the Trust to satisfy outstanding awards is monitored by the Board. The Trust is funded by interest free loan facilities from the 
Company enabling the Trust to facilitate the purchase of ordinary shares to satisfy the future vesting or exercise of options and awards under the 
DASBS and LTIP . The loan is either repaid from the proceeds of the exercise of options or, in the case of ordinary shares acquired by the Trust to 
satisfy vesting and exercise of awards under the DASBS and the LTIP Part B, the Company will subsequently waive the loan provided over the life  
of the awards. The Trust currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held by it. As at 31 December 2011, the Trust held 5,230,867 ordinary 
shares with a market value of £46.2 million (31 December 2010: 3,995,293 ordinary shares; market value £28.7 million) being 1.5% of the 
Company’s issued ordinary share capital (31 December 2010: 1.1%) (including treasury shares). While shares are held by the Trust, the trustee 
does not exercise any voting rights.
Details of the Company’s material equity share based payment arrangements are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
DIRECTORS’ REmUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      47 
SHAReHOl Din G GuiDeline S
In order to align further the interests of the executive directors and shareholders, the executive directors are required to build a significant personal 
shareholding in the Company. A formal share ownership guideline is in place under which executive directors are expected to retain shareholdings 
worth at least equal to their annual base salaries. A period of three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to 
achieve this shareholding with an additional two years permitted in the case of external appointments.
As at 31 December 2011, the value of the executive directors’ shareholdings as a percentage of salary were:
Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary at 
31 December 2011 at the closing mid-market price
Michael Roney 310%
Brian May 204%
Patrick Larmon 165%
The interests of the executive directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
pen SiOn bene Fit S
purpose •	 provision of competitive post retirement benefits
Delivery •	 Bunzl Pension Plan (the ‘BPP’) for UK based executive directors, the Bunzl USA, Inc. Retirement Plan (the ‘US Plan’) and 
Retirement Saving Benefit (the ‘RSB’) for US based executive directors and pension allowances and supplemental pension 
arrangements
•	 monthly pension payment
policy •	 all defined benefit pension plans in the Group have been closed since 2003 to new entrants who are offered a defined 
contribution arrangement
•	 the current pension arrangements of the executive directors reflects their date and place of joining the Group
In the UK, Michael Roney receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary. He has chosen to join the Defined Contribution Section of the BPP 
and his contribution of 5% of base salary, up to the pensionable salary cap (notionally £123,600 for tax year 2010/2011 and £129,600 for tax year 
2011/2012) is matched by the Company. During 2011 such contributions amounted to £6,405 (2010: £6,180) and this amount was deducted 
from his pension allowance. The Company also provides lump sum life assurance cover of four times base salary.
Brian May, who joined the Group in the UK prior to the closure of the defined benefit sections of the BPP , is a member of the Bunzl Senior Pension 
Section of the BPP . His pension accrues at the rate of 2.4% per annum up to two thirds of the pensionable salary cap, as described above. The 
employee contribution rate is currently 9% of pensionable salary. The normal retirement date is 60 years of age but members can choose to take  
a pension at any time after the age of 55 years without the employing company’s agreement, subject to a reduction as determined by the pension 
fund trustee in conjunction with the pension fund actuary. This section of the BPP includes provision for spouses’ benefits on death in service or 
after retirement. In the event of death in service a spouse’s pension equal to 60% of the member’s prospective pension at normal retirement age 
would be payable. A spouse’s pension in the event of death after retirement is equal to 60% of the member’s full pension, irrespective of any 
decision to exchange part of the benefit for a lump sum. In addition to benefits from the BPP , Brian May receives a pension allowance of 30% of 
base salary above the pensionable salary cap which permits him to make provision, of his own choice, in respect of that part of his salary which 
exceeds the cap. The Company also provides lump sum life assurance cover of four times base salary.
Patrick Larmon originally joined the US Plan, subject to IRS limits, which accrued at a rate of 1.67% per annum up to 50% of the five year average 
pensionable salary less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years. Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped 
at US$140,000. On closure of the US Plan, Patrick Larmon chose to freeze his benefit and join a defined contribution plan, the RSB. Contributions 
to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related. The contributions are a percentage of base salary (maximum 5%) 
which is capped at US$200,000 per annum. The Company made contributions in respect of Patrick Larmon in 2011 of £6,250 (2010: £6,452). In 
addition to the benefits described above, Patrick Larmon receives a supplementary pension through a defined benefit Senior Executive Retirement 
Agreement (‘SERA’). Patrick Larmon’s SERA provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement. In 2011 the 
Company paid all necessary contributions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA which amounted to £83,337 (2010: £79,913). This increase is 
attributable to inflation offset by foreign exchange translation. In 2007, the SERA arrangement was closed to new entrants and existing members’ 
benefits were frozen. A new defined contribution SERA (‘DC SERA’) was put in place for Patrick Larmon. During 2011 contributions to the DC 
SERA amounted to £181,250 (2010: £187,097). Patrick Larmon also participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings (401k) Plan. The 
Company makes matching contributions to this Plan. During 2011 contributions for Patrick Larmon amounted to £6,891 (2010: £7,113).
exeCutive DiReCt ORS’ SeRviCe COnt RACt S
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months’ notice from the Company  
and six months’ notice from the executive. For Michael Roney and Brian May there is no predetermined compensation for termination of these 
contracts. Patrick Larmon’s contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months’ 
base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings. There are no provisions for any of the directors for predetermined 
compensation in excess of one year’s remuneration and benefits in-kind. The date of each service contract is noted in the table below.
Date of service contract
Michael Roney 1 September 2005
Brian May 9 December 2005
Patrick Larmon 1 January 2005 48      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
exeC utive D iReCt ORS’ exteR n Al A ppOintment S
With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other 
companies and retain any related fees paid to them. Michael Roney served as a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc throughout 2011 
and retained fees of £53,703. Neither of the other executive directors hold any such appointments.
nOn-exe Cutive D iReCt ORS’ te RmS OF AppOintment
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment. The date of appointment and 
the most recent re-appointment and the length of service for each non-executive director are shown in the table below.
Date of appointment
Date of last 
re-appointment at AGM
Length of service as at 
2012 Annual General Meeting 
Ulrich Wolters 1 July 2004 20 April 2011 7 years 9 months
Peter Johnson 1 January 2006 20 April 2011 6 years 3 months
David Sleath 1 September 2007 20 April 2011 4 years 7 months
Eugenia Ulsaweicz 1 April 2011 20 April 2011 1 year
On termination, at any time, a non-executive director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid director’s fees but not to any other compensation.
nO n-exeC utive D iReCt ORS’ RemuneRA ti On p Oli Cy
The current fee structure for the non-executive directors is shown below:
With effect from 
January 2012
£
Fees paid 
in 2011
£
Basic fee 61,500 60,000
Supplements:
Senior Independent Director 16,000 16,000
Audit Committee Chairman 12,000 11,000
Remuneration Committee Chairman 12,000 11,000
note
a) Fees were reviewed but not increased in 2011.
The fees for the non-executive directors are considered annually and are determined in light of market practice and with reference to time 
commitment and responsibilities associated with the roles.
Non-executive directors’ fees (including those of the Chairman) are determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of £1,000,000 authorised 
by shareholders with reference to the Company’s Articles of Association. The Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the  
non-executive directors’ fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive. The non-executive directors do not participate  
in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration.
Non-executive directors receive no other pay or benefits (with the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in respect of their duties  
as directors of the Company). 
CHAiRmAn’S te RmS OF AppOintment A nD Remune RAti On
The Committee is responsible for determining the terms of engagement and fees payable to the Chairman. This process takes into account the 
breadth of the role coupled with its associated levels of commitment and expertise.
Philip Rogerson has been a director of the Company since 1 January 2010 and has been Chairman of the Company from 1 April 2010. The terms 
of his appointment provide that he holds the appointment for an initial term of three years unless terminated earlier by either party giving to the 
other not less than three months’ written notice.
The terms of Philip Rogerson’s appointment provided for an annual fee of £300,000 in 2010 and 2011. In common with the non-executive 
directors, Philip Rogerson does not participate in the Company’s share schemes, bonus or long term incentive plans and is not a member of any 
Group pension plan.
In February 2012, the Committee reviewed the fee for the Chairman against practice in the FTSE 50–125 and the Comparator Group as described 
on page 42. Having done so, the Committee decided to increase the annual fee to £310,000 with effect from January 2012. 
COpie S OF SeRviCe COnt RACt S AnD te RmS OF AppOintment
Copies of the executive directors’ service contracts and the details of the terms of appointment of each non-executive director and the Chairman 
are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office and will also be available for inspection at the AGM  
on 18 April 2012.
DIRECTORS’ REmUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      49 
Supplement ARy in FORmAti On On D iReCt ORS’ Remune RAti On
The following table gives details of each director’s remuneration for the financial year 2011.
Salary/fees
2011
£000
Annual 
cash bonus 
2011
£000
Pension 
allowance net 
of pension 
contributions
2011
£000
Benefits
2011
£000
total
2011
£000
Total
2010
£000
Deferred bonus
2011
£000
2010
£000
executive
Michael Roney 825.0 470.2 241.1 16.4 1,552.7 1,385.3 470.2 328.4
Brian May 456.0 259.9 98.4 16.4 830.7 734.2 259.9 180.3
Patrick Larmon 584.4 322.1 – 18.0 924.5 831.2 320.8 226.3
non-executive
Philip Rogerson 300.0 – – – 300.0 300.0 – –
Ulrich Wolters 60.0 – – – 60.0 60.0 – –
Peter Johnson 83.3 – – – 83.3 70.7 – –
David Sleath 71.0 – – – 71.0 71.0 – –
Eugenia Ulasewicz 45.0 – – – 45.0 – – –
Former non-executive
Charles Banks 29.6 – – – 29.6 71.0 – –
2,454.3 1,052.2 339.5 50.8 3,896.8 3,523.4 1,050.9 735.0
n otes
a)  The figures above represent remuneration earned as directors during the relevant financial year including, in the case of the executive directors, 
the cash element of the bonus which is paid in the year following that in which it is earned. The deferred element of the bonus is shown above 
as a cash amount. However this cash amount is conditionally awarded as shares as described on page 43. Shares relating to the 2010 deferred 
bonus were awarded in 2011 as shown in the table on page 50 and the shares relating to the 2011 deferred bonus will be awarded in 2012.
b)  The remuneration for Patrick Larmon is paid or determined in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year  
of £1: US$1.60 in respect of 2011 and £1: US$1.55 in respect of 2010.
c)  The fees paid in 2011 to Eugenia Ulasewicz in her capacity as non-executive director relate to the period from 1 April 2011 when she joined  
the Board. 
d)  The 2011 fees paid to Charles Banks in his capacity as non-executive director and Chairman of the Committee relate to the period 1 January 
2011 to 31 May 2011. 
e)  The pension allowance is the amount paid in cash during 2011. Further information relating to pensions is on page 47 and the table below 
which shows increases in accrued benefits during the year for directors who are members of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans.
f)  In addition to the remuneration paid to directors in 2010 shown above, Jeff Harris, who retired as Interim Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director on 28 February 2010, received remuneration of £45,000 in respect of the period from 1 January 2010 to 28 February 2010.
increases in pension benefits at 31 December 2011
Accrued benefits
at 31.12.10
per annum
£
Accrued benefits
at 31.12.11
per annum
£
Transfer value of
accrued benefits
at 31.12.10
£
 Change in
transfer value of
 accrued benefits
during the year
£
Transfer value of
accrued benefits
at 31.12.11
£
Brian May 42,390 47,549 627,732 326,636 965,897
Patrick Larmon* 16,641 16,856 121,189 22,809 143,998
*Excluding SERA entitlements
notes
a)  Of the additional benefits accrued since 1 January 2011, the increases attributable to factors other than inflation or foreign exchange translation 
were £3,039 for Brian May and £nil for Patrick Larmon (whose benefits are frozen in this plan).
b)  Pension accruals shown are the amounts accrued based on service with Bunzl plc or its subsidiaries. 
c)  The changes in the transfer values of accrued benefits have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant 
actuarial legislation and, in the case of Brian May, are net of his contributions. The change in the transfer value of accrued benefits for Brian 
May includes the effect of fluctuation in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and the directors, such as changes 
in market conditions and, in particular this year, reflects the significant falls in gilt yields. 50      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
Deferred share awards as at 31 December 2011
The following deferred share awards have been made to the directors. Further information relating to the deferred bonus is provided on  
pages 42 and 43.
Shares held 
at 1 January 
2011
Shares 
awarded 
during 2011 
Shares 
vested 
during 2011
Total number 
of award 
shares at 
31 December 
2011
Vesting 
date of 
award
Share price 
at grant 
(p)
Market 
price at 
vesting
(p)
Monetary 
value of 
vested award
£000
Michael Roney 39,851 – 39,851 – 01.03.11 697.5 745 297
41,217 – – 41,217 01.03.12 581 – –
29,724 – – 29,724 01.03.13 680.5 – –
– 43,215 – 43,215 01.03.14 760 – –
Brian May 21,987 – 21,987 – 01.03.11 697.5 745 164
22,603 – – 22,603 01.03.12 581 – –
16,300 – – 16,300 01.03.13 680.5 – –
– 23,728 – 23,728 01.03.14 760 – –
Patrick Larmon 18,272 – 18,272 – 01.03.11 697.5 745 136
29,672 – – 29,672 01.03.12 581 – –
23,268 – – 23,268 01.03.13 680.5 – –
– 28,372 – 28,372 01.03.14 760 – –
notes
a)  The deferred element of the 2011 annual bonus plan as showed on page 49 is not included in the table above as the appropriate number of 
shares will not be awarded until 1 March 2012. No shares lapsed during the year.
b) In February 2012 Brian May’s awards were converted to nil cost options with a three year exercise window commencing on the date of vesting.
DIRECTORS’ REmUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      51 
ltip
The tables below show the number of executive share options and performance shares held by the executive directors under the LTIP .  
Details of the relevant performance conditions and structure of the LTIP are set out on pages 43 to 46.
Executive share options – LTIP Part A
Options at
1 January
2011
Grant
date
Exercise
price
(p)
 Options 
exercisable
between
Options at
31 December
2011
Michael Roney 180,530 01.11.05 565 01.11.08 – 31.10.15 180,530
78,643 06.03.06 648.5 06.03.09 – 05.03.16 78,643
78,500 01.09.06 652.5 01.09.09 – 31.08.16 78,500
83,000 01.03.07 659 01.03.10 – 28.02.17 83,000
79,500 31.08.07 684.5 31.08.10 – 30.08.17 79,500
81,000 28.02.08 721.5 28.02.11 – 27.02.18 81,000
83,000 29.08.08 700.5 29.08.11 – 28.08.18 83,000
103,500 26.02.09 564 26.02.12 – 25.02.19 103,500
99,500 27.08.09 585 27.08.12 – 26.08.19 99,500
89,500 25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13 – 24.02.20 89,500
81,000 03.09.10 746 03.09.13 – 02.09.20 81,000
03.03.11 724.5 03.03.14 – 02.03.21 85,500
02.09.11 812.5 02.09.14 – 01.09.21 76,500
Brian May 20,000 09.09.05 568 09.09.08 – 08.09.15 20,000
32,382 06.03.06 648.5 06.03.09 – 05.03.16 32,382
32,500 01.09.06 652.5 01.09.09 – 31.08.16 32,500
34,000 01.03.07 659 01.03.10 – 28.02.17 34,000
33,000 31.08.07 684.5 31.08.10 – 30.08.17 33,000
33,000 28.02.08 721.5 28.02.11 – 27.02.18 33,000
42,500 29.08.08 700.5 29.08.11 – 28.08.18 42,500
53,000 26.02.09 564 26.02.12 – 25.02.19 53,000
51,000 27.08.09 585 27.08.12 – 26.08.19 51,000
46,000 25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13 – 24.02.20 46,000
41,500 03.09.10 746 03.09.13 – 02.09.20 41,500
03.03.11 724.5 03.03.14 – 02.03.21 44,500
02.09.11 812.5 02.09.14 – 01.09.21 39,500
Patrick Larmon 53,200 01.03.05 500.25 01.03.08 – 28.02.15 –
48,411 09.09.05 568 09.09.08 – 08.09.15 48,411
38,458 06.03.06 648.5 06.03.09 – 05.03.16 38,458
43,000 01.09.06 652.5 01.09.09 – 31.08.16 43,000
47,000 01.03.07 659 01.03.10 – 28.02.17 47,000
45,000 31.08.07 684.5 31.08.10 – 30.08.17 45,000
44,500 28.02.08 721.5 28.02.11 – 27.02.18 44,500
45,500 29.08.08 700.5 29.08.11 – 28.08.18 45,500
56,500 26.02.09 564 26.02.12 – 25.02.19 56,500
54,500 27.08.09 585 27.08.12 – 26.08.19 54,500
48,500 25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13 – 24.02.20 48,500
44,000 03.09.10 746 03.09.13 – 02.09.20 44,000
03.03.11 724.5 03.03.14 – 02.03.21 46,500
02.09.11 812.5 02.09.14 – 01.09.21 41,500
notes
a)  Executive share options were exercised during 2011 by Patrick Larmon on 14 December 2011 in respect of 53,200 ordinary shares  
at an exercise price of 500.25p at a market price of approximately 851p resulting in a gain to the executive director of £186,747.
b) The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2011 was 884p and the range during 2011 was 676.5p to 884p.
c) The performance conditions have been satisfied in relation to options granted prior to 2010 under the LTIP Part A. 52      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
Performance shares – LTIP Part B
Awards 
(shares) 
held at 
1 January 2011
Conditional 
shares 
awarded 
during 2011 
Award 
date
Market price 
per share 
at award 
(p)
Lapsed 
awards 
(shares) 
during 2011
Exercised 
awards
(shares)
 during 2011
Market price
 per share 
at exercise 
(p) 
Value at
 exercise
£000
Awards 
(shares)
held at 
31 December
 2011
Michael Roney 56,000 – 17.04.08 694 35,140 20,860 728 152 –
67,500 – 07.10.08 649.5 30,123 37,377 788 294 –
90,000 – 23.04.09 485.25 – – – – 90,000
69,500 – 02.10.09 628 – – – – 69,500
63,000 – 01.04.10 721 – – – – 63,000
60,000 – 08.10.10 759 – – – – 60,000
– 64,500 08.04.11 725 – – – – 64,500
– 59,000 11.10.11 787 – – – – 59,000
total 406,000 123,500 65,263 58,237 446 406,000
Brian May 26,000 – 17.04.08 694 16,315 9,685 740 72 –
34,500 – 07.10.08 649.5 15,396 19,104 827 158 –
46,000 – 23.04.09 485.25 – – – – 46,000
36,000 – 02.10.09 628 – – – – 36,000
32,500 – 01.04.10 721 – – – – 32,500
31,000 – 08.10.10 759 – – – – 31,000
– 33,500 08.04.11 725 – – – – 33,500
– 30,500 11.10.11 787 – – – – 30,500
total 206,000 64,000 31,711 28,789 230 209,500
Patrick Larmon 34,500 – 17.04.08 694 21,649 12,851 728 94 –
37,000 – 07.10.08 649.5 16,512 20,488 788 161 –
49,500 – 23.04.09 485.25 – – – – 49,500
38,500 – 02.10.09 628 – – – – 38,500
34,500 – 01.04.10 721 – – – – 34,500
32,500 – 08.10.10 759 – – – – 32,500
– 35,000 08.04.11 725 – – – – 35,000
– 32,000 11.10.11 787 – – – – 32,000
total 226,500 67,000 38,161 33,339 255 222,000
note
a)  The closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares as at the vesting dates on 21 April 2011 and 10 October 2011 were 731.5p 
and 787p respectively.
All employees share scheme
Sharesave Scheme
The tables below shows the number of share options granted to the executive directors under the Sharesave Scheme. Details of the Sharesave 
Scheme are set out on page 46.
Options at 
1 January 
2011 Grant date
Exercise 
price 
(p)
 Options 
exercisable 
between
Options at 
31 December 
2011
Michael Roney 3,136 27 September 2006 522 01.11.11 – 30.04.12 –
Brian May 3,462 24 March 2009 452 01.05.14 – 31.10.14 3,462
note
a)  On 1 November 2011 Michael Roney exercised options in respect of 3,136 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 522p at a market price of 
approximately 795p resulting in a gain to the executive director of £8,569.
peter Johnson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 February 2012
DIRECTORS’ REmUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      53 
FiNANci AL 
STATEMENTS
c ONTENTS
54 c onsolidated income statement
55  c onsolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
56 c onsolidated balance sheet
57  c onsolidated statement of 
changes in equity
58	 	 Consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement
59 Notes
89 c ompany balance sheet
90  Notes to the c ompany financial 
statements
97  Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
98 independent auditor’s report
99	 Five 	 year	 review
100	 Shareholder 	 information 54      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
cONSOL id ATEd i Nc OME STATEMENT
for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011
Notes
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Revenue 3 5,109.5 4,829.6
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs 3 335.7 306.7
Intangible	 amortisation	 and	 acquisition	 related	 costs 3 (56.4) (51.0)
Operating profit 3 279.3 255.7
Finance	 income 5 21.8 20.3
Finance	 cost 5 (51.4) (50.8)
Disposal	 of	 business 25 (56.0) –
Profit before income tax 193.7 225.2
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and disposal of business 306.1 276.2
Income	 tax 6 (69.9) (66.2)
Profit for the year attributable to the Company’s equity holders 123.8 159.0
Earnings per share attributable to the Company’s equity holders
Basic 7 38.2p 49.1p
Diluted 7 38.0p 48.8p
The	 Accounting	 policies	 and	 Notes	 on	 pages	 59	 to	 88	 form	 part	 of	 these	 consolidated	 financial	 statements. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      55 
c ONSOLid ATEd STATEMENT OF 
c OMPREHENSiVE iNc OME
for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011
Notes
2011 
£m
	 2010	
£m
Profit for the year 123.8 159.0
	
Other comprehensive income 	
Actuarial	 loss	 on	 pension	 schemes 20 (35.5) (2.5)
Foreign	 currency	 translation	 differences	 for	 foreign	 operations (10.7) 1.1
(Loss)/gain	 taken	 to	 equity	 as	 a	 result	 of	 designated	 effective	 net	 investment	 hedges (9.5) 2.3
Gain	 recognised	 in	 cash	 flow	 hedge	 reserve 0.8 0.4
Movement	 from	 cash	 flow	 hedge	 reserve	 to	 income	 statement 0.6 1.4
Income	 tax	 credit	 on	 other	 comprehensive	 income 6 11.0 2.0
Other	 comprehensive	 (expense)/income	 for	 the	 year (43.3) 4.7
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the Company’s equity holders 80.5 163.7 56      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
c ONSOLid ATEd BALAN c E SHEET
at	 31	 December	 2011
Notes
2011 
£m
	 2010	
£m
Assets
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 8 109.0 118.1
Intangible	 assets 9 1,256.8 1,244.6
Investment	 in	 associates 0.5 0.5
Derivative	 financial	 assets 18.4 25.1
Deferred	 tax	 assets 15 13.2 5.9
Total non-current assets 1,397.9 1,394.2
Inventories 10 528.6 482.0
Income	 tax	 receivable 0.6 6.2
Trade	 and	 other	 receivables 11 738.6 690.8
Derivative	 financial	 assets 1.5 1.3
Cash	 and	 deposits 23 74.2 83.9
Total current assets 1,343.5 1,264.2
Total assets 2,741.4 2,658.4
Equity
Share	 capital 16 113.8 113.3
Share	 premium 136.4 133.9
Translation	 reserve 37.3 57.5
Other	 reserves 10.8 9.8
Retained	 earnings 508.4 481.9
Total equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders 806.7 796.4
Liabilities
Interest	 bearing	 loans	 and	 borrowings 23 678.8 691.5
Retirement	 benefit	 obligations 20 74.3 52.3
Other	 payables 17.9 7.9
Derivative	 financial	 liabilities 2.3 2.2
Provisions 14 39.2 35.5
Deferred	 tax	 liabilities 15 126.7 115.4
Total non-current liabilities 939.2 904.8
Bank	 overdrafts 23 29.2 9.0
Interest	 bearing	 loans	 and	 borrowings 23 37.5 126.2
Income	 tax	 payable 44.9 46.4
Trade	 and	 other	 payables 12 874.4 766.3
Derivative	 financial	 liabilities 0.3 0.7
Provisions 14 9.2 8.6
Total current liabilities 995.5 957.2
Total liabilities 1,934.7 1,862.0
Total equity and liabilities 2,741.4 2,658.4
Approved	 by	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors	 of	 Bunzl	 plc	 (Company	 registration	 number	 358948)	 on	 27	 February	 2012	 and	 signed	 on	 its	 behalf	 by	 	
Michael	 Roney,	 Chief	 Executive	 and	 Brian	 May,	 Finance	 Director. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      57 
c ONSOLid ATEd STATEMENT OF  
c HANGES iN EQUiTY
for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011
Other reserves Retained earnings
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
£m
Cash flow 
hedge 
£m
Own 
shares 
£m
Earnings 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
At	 1	 January	 2011 113.3 133.9 57.5 2.5 8.6 (1.3) (199.5) 681.4 796.4
Profit	 for	 the	 year 123.8 123.8
Actuarial	 loss	 on	 pension	 schemes (35.5) (35.5)
Foreign	 currency	 translation	 differences	 for	
foreign	 operations (10.7) (10.7)
Loss	 taken	 to	 equity	 as	 a	 result	 of	 designated	
effective	 net	 investment	 hedges (9.5) (9.5)
Gain	 recognised	 in	 cash	 flow	 	
hedge	 reserve	 0.8 0.8
Movement	 from	 cash	 flow	 hedge	 reserve	 	
to	 income	 statement 0.6 0.6
Income	 tax	 (charge)/credit	 on	 other	
comprehensive	 income	 (0.4) 11.4 11.0
Total	 comprehensive	 income (20.2) 1.0 99.7 80.5
2010	 interim	 dividend (16.6) (16.6)
2010	 final	 dividend (52.3) (52.3)
Issue	 of	 share	 capital 0.5 2.5 3.0
Employee	 trust	 shares (14.3) (14.3)
Share	 based	 payments 10.0 10.0
At 31 December 2011 113.8 136.4 37.3 2.5 8.6 (0.3) (213.8) 722.2 806.7
	
At	 1	 January	 2010 113.0 131.7 52.7 2.5 8.6 (2.6) (213.0) 581.2 674.1
Profit	 for	 the	 year 159.0 159.0
Actuarial	 loss	 on	 pension	 schemes (2.5) (2.5)
Foreign	 currency	 translation	 differences	 	
for	 foreign	 operations 1.1 1.1
Gain	 taken	 to	 equity	 as	 a	 result	 of	 designated	
effective	 net	 investment	 hedges 2.3 2.3
Gain	 recognised	 in	 cash	 flow	 hedge	 reserve	 0.4 0.4
Movement	 from	 cash	 flow	 hedge	 	
reserve	 to	 income	 statement 1.4 1.4
Income	 tax	 credit/(charge)	 on	 other	
comprehensive	 income	 1.4 (0.5) 1.1 2.0
Total	 comprehensive	 income 4.8 1.3 157.6 163.7
2009	 interim	 dividend (20.2) (20.2)
2009	 final	 dividend (45.9) (45.9)
Issue	 of	 share	 capital 0.3 2.2 2.5
Employee	 trust	 shares 13.5 13.5
Share	 based	 payments 8.7 8.7
At	 31	 December	 2010 113.3 133.9 57.5 2.5 8.6 (1.3) (199.5) 681.4 796.4 58      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
c ONSOLid ATEd c ASH FLOW STATEMENT
for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011
Notes
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit	 before	 income	 tax	 193.7 225.2
Adjustments:
	 depreciation 25.4 25.5
	 intangible 	 amortisation	 and	 acquisition	 related	 costs 56.4 51.0
	 share 	 based	 payments 5.3 4.7
	 disposal 	 of	 business 25 56.0 –
Working	 capital	 movement 31.4 (12.7)
Finance	 income (21.8) (20.3)
Finance	 cost 51.4 50.8
Provisions 1.7 (9.4)
Pensions (12.1) (9.7)
Other 2.7 2.5
Cash generated from operations 390.1 307.6
Cash	 outflow	 from	 acquisition	 related	 costs 24 (12.1) (5.6)
Income	 tax	 paid (63.4) (79.7)
Cash inflow from operating activities 314.6 222.3
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest	 received 2.9 2.6
Purchase	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment (22.6) (23.4)
Sale	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 1.7 1.3
Purchase	 of	 businesses 24 (149.2) (105.0)
Disposal	 of	 business 25 30.6 –
Cash outflow from investing activities (136.6) (124.5)
Cash flow from financing activities
Interest	 paid (33.5) (33.8)
Dividends	 paid (68.9) (66.1)
(Decrease)/increase	 in	 loans (90.3) 15.1
Realised	 (losses)/gains	 on	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts (0.2) 5.3
Net	 (purchase)/proceeds	 from	 employee	 shares	 (12.6) 11.8
Cash outflow from financing activities (205.5) (67.7)
Exchange (loss)/gain on cash and cash equivalents (2.4) 1.8
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (29.9) 31.9
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 at	 start	 of	 year 74.9 43.0
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (29.9) 31.9
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 23 45.0 74.9 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      59 
NOTES
1 BASiS Of PREPARATiOn
The	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	 have	 been	 approved	 by	 the	 directors	 and	 prepared	 in	 accordance	
with	 EU	 endorsed	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 (‘IFRS’)	 and	 interpretations	 of	 the	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Interpretations	
Committee	 (‘IFRIC’).	 The	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 on	 a	 going	 concern	 basis	 (as	 referred	 to	 in	 the	 Directors’	 report	 	
on	 page	 32)	 and	 under	 the	 historical	 cost	 convention	 with	 the	 exception	 of	 certain	 items	 which	 are	 measured	 at	 fair	 value	 as	 disclosed	 in	 the	
accounting	 policies	 below.	 The	 Company	 has	 elected	 to	 prepare	 its	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	 UK	 Generally	
Accepted	 Accounting	 Practice	 (‘UK	 GAAP’).
The	 accounting	 policies	 set	 out	 below	 have,	 unless	 otherwise	 stated,	 been	 applied	 to	 all	 periods	 presented	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.
2 ACCOun Ting POLiCiES
a Basis of consolidation 
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries	 are	 entities	 controlled	 by	 the	 Group.	 Control	 exists	 when	 the	 Group	 has	 the	 power,	 directly	 or	 indirectly,	 to	 govern	 the	 financial	 and	
operating	 policies	 of	 an	 entity	 so	 as	 to	 obtain	 benefits	 from	 its	 activities.	 Subsidiaries	 are	 included	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 from	 	
the	 date	 that	 control	 commences	 until	 the	 date	 that	 control	 ceases.
The	 acquisition	 method	 of	 accounting	 is	 used	 to	 account	 for	 the	 acquisition	 of	 subsidiaries.	 Identifiable	 assets	 acquired	 and	 liabilities	 and	
contingent	 liabilities	 assumed	 in	 a business	 combination	 are	 measured	 initially	 at	 fair	 value	 at	 the	 acquisition	 date.	 The	 consideration	 paid	 or	
payable	 in	 respect	 of	 acquisitions	 comprises	 amounts	 paid	 on	 completion,	 deferred	 consideration	 and	 payments	 which	 are	 contingent	 on	 the	
continued	 employment	 of	 former	 owners	 of	 businesses	 acquired.	 The	 excess	 of	 the	 consideration	 (excluding	 payments	 contingent	 on	 future	
employment)	 over	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 identifiable	 net	 assets	 acquired	 is	 recorded	 as	 goodwill.	 Payments	 that	 are	 contingent	 on	 future	 employment	
and	 transaction	 costs	 and	 expenses	 such	 as	 professional	 fees	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement.
(ii) Associates
Associates	 are	 entities	 over	 which	 the	 Group	 is	 in	 a	 position	 to	 exercise	 significant	 influence.	 Associates	 are	 accounted	 for	 using	 the	 equity	 method	
and	 are	 recognised	 initially	 at	 cost.	 The	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 include	 the	 Group’s	 share	 of	 the	 income	 and	 expenses	 of	 associates.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup	 balances	 and	 any	 unrealised	 gains	 and	 losses	 or	 income	 and	 expenses	 arising	 from	 intragroup	 transactions	 are	 eliminated	 in	 preparing	
the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.
b f oreign currency
Transactions	 in	 foreign	 currencies	 are	 recorded	 at	 the	 rate	 of	 exchange	 at	 the	 date	 of	 the	 transaction.	 Monetary	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 denominated	
in foreign	 currencies	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 are	 translated	 at	 the	 exchange	 rate	 prevailing	 at	 that	 date.	 Foreign	 exchange	 differences	 arising	
on translation	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement,	 unless	 they	 qualify	 for	 cash	 flow	 or	 net	 investment	 hedge	 accounting	 treatment,	 in	 which	
case	 the	 effective	 portion	 is	 recognised	 directly	 in	 a	 separate	 component	 of	 equity.
Assets	 and	 liabilities	 of	 foreign	 operations	 are	 translated	 at	 the	 exchange	 rate	 prevailing	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 Income	 and	 expenses	 of	 foreign	
operations	 are	 translated	 at	 average	 exchange	 rates.	 All	 resulting	 exchange	 differences,	 including	 exchange	 differences	 arising	 from	 the	 translation	
of	 borrowings	 and	 other	 financial	 instruments	 designated	 as	 hedges	 of	 such	 investments,	 are	 recognised	 directly	 in	 a	 separate	 component	 of	
equity.	 Differences	 that	 have	 arisen	 since	 1	 January	 2004,	 the	 date	 of	 transition	 to	 IFRS,	 are	 presented	 as	 a	 separate	 component	 of	 equity.
c f inancial instruments 
Under	 International	 Accounting	 Standard	 (‘IAS’)	 39	 ‘Financial	 Instruments:	 Recognition	 and	 Measurement’,	 financial	 instruments	 are	 initially	
measured	 at	 fair	 value	 with	 subsequent	 measurement	 depending	 upon	 the	 classification	 of	 the	 instrument.	 Other	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	
held	 at	 amortised	 cost	 unless	 they	 are	 in	 a	 fair	 value	 hedging	 relationship.	 Derivative	 financial	 instruments	 are	 used	 to	 hedge	 exposures	 to	 foreign	
exchange	 and	 interest	 rate	 risks.
(i) Fair value hedge
Where	 a	 derivative	 financial	 instrument	 is	 designated	 and	 qualifies	 as	 a	 hedge	 of	 a	 recognised	 asset	 or	 liability,	 all	 changes	 in	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	
derivative	 are	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 The	 carrying	 value	 of	 the	 hedged	 item	 is	 adjusted	 by	 the	 change	 in	 fair	 value	 that	 	
is	 attributable	 to	 the	 risk	 being	 hedged	 with	 changes	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	
(ii) Cash flow hedge
Where	 a	 derivative	 that	 is	 designated	 and	 qualifies	 as	 a	 hedge	 is	 used	 to	 hedge	 forecast	 transactions,	 any	 effective	 portion	 of	 the	 change	 in	 fair	
value	 is	 recognised	 in	 equity.	 The	 gain	 or	 loss	 relating	 to	 any	 ineffective	 portion	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	 Amounts	
accumulated	 in	 equity	 are	 recycled	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 in	 the	 period	 when	 the	 hedged	 item	 affects	 profit	 or	 loss.
(iii) Hedge of a net investment in foreign operations
Foreign	 currency	 differences	 arising	 on	 the	 retranslation	 of	 a	 financial	 liability	 designated	 as	 a	 hedge	 of	 a	 net	 investment	 in	 foreign	 operations	 are	
recognised	 directly	 in	 equity	 to	 the	 extent	 the	 hedge	 is	 effective.	 To	 the	 extent	 that	 the	 hedge	 is	 ineffective	 such	 differences	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	
income	 statement. 60      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
2 ACCOun Ting POLiCiES CONTINUED
d Property, plant and equipment
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 are	 stated	 at	 historical	 cost	 less	 accumulated	 depreciation	 and	 any	 impairment	 losses.	
e Depreciation
Depreciation	 is	 provided	 on	 a	 straight	 line	 basis	 to	 write	 off	 cost	 less	 estimated	 residual	 value	 over	 the	 assets’	 estimated	 remaining	 useful	 lives.	 	
This	 is	 applied	 at	 the	 following	 annual	 rates:	
Buildings	 2%	 (or	 depreciated	 over	 life	 of	 lease	 if	 shorter	 than	 50	 years)
Plant	 and	 machinery	 10%–20%
Fixtures,	 fittings	 and	 equipment	 10%–33%
Freehold	 land	 Not	 depreciated
The	 assets’	 residual	 values,	 useful	 lives	 and	 depreciation	 methods	 are	 reviewed,	 and	 adjusted	 if	 appropriate,	 at	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date.
f intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Acquisitions	 are	 accounted	 for	 using	 the	 acquisition	 method.	 As	 permitted	 by	 IFRS	 1	 ‘First-time	 Adoption	 of	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	
Standards’,	 the	 Group	 has	 chosen	 to	 apply	 IFRS	 3	 ‘Business	 Combinations’	 from	 1	 January	 2004	 and	 has	 elected	 not	 to	 restate	 previous	 business	
combinations.	 For	 acquisitions	 made	 before	 1	 January	 2004,	 goodwill	 represents	 the	 amount	 previously	 recorded	 under	 UK	 GAAP .	 For	 acquisitions	
that	 occurred	 between	 1	 January	 2004	 and	 31	 December	 2009,	 goodwill	 represents	 the	 cost	 of	 the	 business	 combination	 in	 excess	 of	 the	 fair	
value	 of	 the	 identifiable	 assets,	 liabilities	 and	 contingent	 liabilities	 acquired.	 For	 acquisitions	 that	 have	 occurred	 on	 or	 after	 1	 January	 2010,	 goodwill	
represents	 the	 cost	 of	 the	 business	 combination	 (excluding	 payments	 contingent	 on	 future	 employment	 and	 acquisition	 related	 costs)	 in	 excess	 of	
the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 identifiable	 assets,	 liabilities	 and	 contingent	 liabilities	 acquired.	 Goodwill	 is	 allocated	 to	 cash	 generating	 units	 and	 is	 tested	
annually	 for	 impairment.	 Negative	 goodwill	 arising	 on	 acquisition	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 in	 the	 income	 statement.
(ii) Other intangible assets
Intangible	 assets	 acquired	 in	 a	 business	 combination	 are	 recognised	 on	 acquisition	 and	 recorded	 at	 fair	 value.	 These	 principally	 relate	 to	 customer	
relationships	 and	 are	 stated	 at	 cost	 less	 accumulated	 amortisation	 and	 any	 impairment	 losses.	 Amortisation	 is	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 on	
a	 straight	 line	 basis	 over	 the	 estimated	 useful	 economic	 lives	 (which	 range	 from	 10	 to	 19	 years).	
g Leases
Operating	 lease	 rentals	 and	 any	 incentives	 receivable	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 on	 a	 straight	 line	 basis	 over	 the	 term	 of	 the	 relevant	
lease.	 Leases	 in	 which	 the	 Group	 assumes	 substantially	 all	 the	 risks	 and	 rewards	 of	 ownership	 of	 the	 leased	 assets	 are	 classified	 as	 finance	 leases.	
Where	 land	 and	 buildings	 are	 held	 under	 leases,	 the	 accounting	 treatment	 of	 the	 land	 is	 considered	 separately	 from	 that	 of	 the	 buildings	 due	 to	 the	
indefinite	 life	 of	 land.	
h impairment
The	 carrying	 amounts	 of	 the	 Group’s	 assets	 are	 reviewed	 annually	 to	 determine	 if	 there	 is	 any	 indication	 of	 impairment.	 If	 any	 such	 indication	 exists,	
the	 assets’	 recoverable	 amounts	 are	 estimated.	 The	 recoverable	 amounts	 of	 assets	 carried	 at	 amortised	 cost	 are	 calculated	 as	 the	 present	 value	 of	
estimated	 future	 cash	 flows,	 discounted	 at	 appropriate	 pre-tax	 discount	 rates.	 The	 recoverable	 amounts	 of	 other	 assets	 are	 the	 greater	 of	 their	 fair	
value	 less	 the	 costs	 to	 sell	 and	 the	 value	 in	 use.	 In	 assessing	 the	 value	 in	 use,	 the	 estimated	 future	 cash	 flows	 are	 discounted	 to	 their	 present	 values	
using	 appropriate	 pre-tax	 discount	 rates.	 Impairment	 losses	 are	 recognised	 when	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 an	 asset	 or	 cash	 generating	 unit	 exceeds	
its	 recoverable	 amount,	 with	 impairment	 losses	 being	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement.	
i inventories
Inventories	 are	 valued	 at	 the	 lower	 of	 cost	 and	 net	 realisable	 value.
j Cash and cash equivalents
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 comprise	 cash	 balances,	 bank	 overdrafts	 and	 short	 term	 deposits	 with	 maturities	 of	 three	 months	 or	 less	 from	 the	 date	
the	 deposit	 is	 made.	
k Trade and other receivables
Trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 are	 stated	 at	 cost	 less	 any	 impairment	 losses.	 A	 provision	 for	 impairment	 is	 established	 when	 there	 is	 objective	
evidence	 that	 the	 Group	 will	 not	 be	 able	 to	 collect	 all	 amounts	 due	 according	 to	 the	 original	 terms	 of	 the	 receivables	 or	 uncertainty	 as	 to	 whether	 	
the	 Group	 will	 be	 able	 to	 collect	 all	 such	 amounts.	
l Trade and other payables
Trade	 and	 other	 payables	 are	 stated	 at	 cost.	 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      61 
2 ACCOunTing POLiCiES CONTINUED
m income tax
Income	 tax	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 comprises	 current	 and	 deferred	 tax.	 Income	 tax	 is	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 except	 when	 it	 relates	 	
to	 items	 reflected	 in	 equity	 when	 it	 is	 recognised	 in	 equity.
Current	 tax	 reflects	 tax	 payable	 on	 taxable	 income	 for	 the	 year	 using	 rates	 enacted	 or	 substantively	 enacted	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 and	 any	
adjustments	 in	 respect	 of	 prior	 years.
Deferred	 tax	 is	 provided	 using	 the	 balance	 sheet	 liability	 method	 providing	 for	 temporary	 differences	 arising	 between	 tax	 bases	 and	 carrying	
amounts	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.	 Deferred	 tax	 is	 measured	 at	 the	 tax	 rates	 that	 are	 expected	 to	 be	 applied	 to	 temporary	
differences	 when	 they	 reverse,	 based	 on	 the	 laws	 that	 have	 been	 enacted	 or	 substantively	 enacted	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.
Deferred	 tax	 is	 not	 recognised	 for	 the	 following	 temporary	 differences:	 goodwill	 not	 deductible	 for	 tax	 purposes,	 the	 initial	 recognition	 of	 assets	 and	
liabilities	 that	 affect	 neither	 accounting	 nor	 taxable	 profits	 and	 differences	 relating	 to	 investments	 in	 subsidiaries	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 they	 will	 probably	
not	 reverse	 in	 the	 foreseeable	 future.	 Deferred	 tax	 assets	 are	 recognised	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 future	 taxable	 profit	 will	 be	 available	
against	 which	 any	 asset	 can	 be	 utilised.	
n Revenue
The	 Group	 is	 engaged	 in	 the	 delivery	 of	 goods	 to	 customers.	 Revenue	 from	 a	 sale	 is	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 upon	 delivery	 of	 the	
relevant	 goods,	 which	 is	 the	 point	 in	 time	 at	 which	 the	 significant	 risks	 and	 rewards	 of	 ownership	 of	 the	 goods	 are	 transferred.
Revenue	 is	 valued	 at	 invoiced	 amount,	 excluding	 sales	 taxes,	 less	 estimated	 provisions	 for	 returns	 and	 trade	 discounts	 where	 relevant.	 Returns’	
provisions	 and	 early	 settlement	 discounts	 are	 based	 on	 experience	 over	 an	 appropriate	 period	 whereas	 volume	 discounts	 are	 based	 on	 agreements	
with	 customers.
Revenue	 is	 not	 recognised	 if	 there	 is	 significant	 uncertainty	 regarding	 recovery	 of	 the	 consideration	 due.
o Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution pension schemes
Obligations	 for	 contributions	 to	 defined	 contribution	 pension	 schemes	 are	 charged	 as	 an	 expense	 to	 the	 income	 statement	 as	 incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit pension schemes
Pension	 liabilities	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 consolidated	 balance	 sheet	 and	 represent	 the	 difference	 between	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets	 and	 the	
present	 value	 of	 scheme	 liabilities.	 Scheme	 liabilities	 are	 determined	 on	 an	 actuarial	 basis	 using	 the	 projected	 unit	 method	 and	 discounted	 using	 	
the	 rate	 applicable	 to	 AA	 rated	 corporate	 bonds	 that	 have	 a	 similar	 maturity	 to	 the	 scheme	 liabilities.
Current	 service	 cost,	 past	 service	 cost/credit	 and	 gains	 and	 losses	 on	 any	 settlements	 and	 curtailments	 are	 credited	 or	 charged	 to	 the	 income	
statement.	 Past	 service	 cost	 is	 recognised	 immediately	 to	 the	 extent	 benefits	 are	 already	 vested	 or	 is	 otherwise	 amortised	 on	 a	 straight	 line	 basis	
over	 the	 average	 period	 until	 the	 benefits	 are	 vested.	 The	 unwinding	 of	 the	 discount	 on	 scheme	 liabilities	 is	 recognised	 within	 finance	 cost	 and	 	
the	 expected	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets	 generated	 during	 the	 year	 is	 included	 within	 finance	 income.
Actuarial	 gains	 and	 losses	 are	 recognised	 in	 full	 in	 the	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 comprehensive	 income.	
p investment in own shares
The	 cost	 of	 shares	 held	 either	 directly	 (treasury	 shares)	 or	 indirectly	 (employee	 benefit	 trust	 shares)	 is	 deducted	 from	 equity.	 Repurchased	 shares	
are	 classified	 as	 treasury	 shares	 and	 are	 presented	 as	 a	 deduction	 from	 total	 equity.	 When	 treasury	 shares	 are	 sold	 or	 reissued	 subsequently,	 the	
amount	 received	 is	 recognised	 as	 an	 increase	 in	 equity	 and	 the	 resulting	 surplus	 or	 deficit	 on	 the	 transaction	 is	 recognised	 in	 retained	 earnings.
q Share based payments
The	 Group	 operates	 equity	 settled	 share	 based	 compensation	 plans.	 Details	 of	 these	 plans	 are	 outlined	 in	 Note	 16	 and	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	
report.	 The	 total	 expected	 expense	 is	 based	 on	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 options	 and	 other	 share	 based	 incentives	 on	 the	 grant	 date	 calculated	 using	 	
a	 valuation	 model	 and	 is	 spread	 over	 the	 expected	 vesting	 period	 with	 a	 corresponding	 credit	 to	 equity.	
r Provisions
Provisions	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 when	 the	 Group	 has	 a	 present	 legal	 or	 constructive	 obligation	 as	 a	 result	 of	 a	 past	 event	 and	 where	
it	 is	 probable	 that	 an	 outflow	 of	 economic	 benefits	 will	 be	 required	 to	 settle	 the	 obligation.	 If	 the	 effect	 is	 material,	 provisions	 are	 determined	 by	
discounting	 the	 expected	 future	 cash	 flows	 at	 a	 pre-tax	 rate	 that	 reflects	 current	 market	 assessments	 of	 the	 time	 value	 of	 money	 and,	 where	
appropriate,	 the	 risks	 specific	 to	 the	 liability.
A	 provision	 for	 onerous	 contracts	 is	 recognised	 when	 the	 expected	 benefits	 to	 be	 derived	 by	 the	 Group	 from	 a	 contract	 are	 lower	 than	 the	
unavoidable	 costs	 of	 meeting	 the	 Group’s	 obligations	 under	 the	 contract.
s net debt
Net	 debt	 is	 defined	 as	 interest	 bearing	 loans	 and	 borrowings	 and	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 on	 fixed	 interest	 rate	 borrowings,	 less	 cash	 	
and	 cash	 equivalents. 62      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
2 ACCOunTing POLiCiES CONTINUED
t Dividends
The	 interim	 dividend	 is	 recognised	 in	 the	 Consolidated	 statement	 of	 changes	 in	 equity	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 it	 is	 paid	 and	 the	 final	 dividend	 in	 the	
period	 in	 which	 it	 is	 approved	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 Annual	 General	 Meeting.
CRiTiCAL ACCOunTing ju DgEMEnTS AnD ESTiMATES 
The	 following	 provides	 information	 on	 those	 policies	 that	 management	 considers	 critical	 because	 of	 the	 level	 of	 judgement	 and	 estimation	 required	
which	 often	 involves	 assumptions	 regarding	 future	 events	 which	 can	 vary	 from	 what	 is	 anticipated.	 The	 directors	 review	 the	 judgements	 and	
estimates	 on	 an	 ongoing	 basis	 with	 revisions	 to	 accounting	 estimates	 recognised	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 the	 estimates	 are	 revised	 and	 in	 any	 future	
periods	 affected.	 The	 key	 sources	 of	 estimation	 uncertainty	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 that	 have	 risk	 of	 causing	 material	 adjustment	 to	 the	 carrying	
amounts	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 set	 out	 below.	 The	 directors	 believe	 that	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 reflect	 appropriate	 judgements	
and	 estimates	 and	 provide	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 Group’s	 performance	 and	 financial	 position.	 Where	 appropriate	 and	 practicable,	 sensitivities	
are	 disclosed	 in	 the	 relevant	 notes.
a Pension benefits
The	 cost	 of	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes	 and	 the	 present	 value	 of	 the	 obligations	 relating	 thereto	 are	 determined	 using	 actuarial	 valuations	
appropriate	 for	 each	 country	 where	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes	 are	 provided.	 The	 actuarial	 valuations	 involve	 making	 assumptions	 about	
discount	 rates,	 expected	 rates	 of	 return	 on	 assets,	 future	 salary	 increases,	 future	 pension	 increases	 and	 mortality	 rates.	 All	 assumptions	 are	
reviewed	 at	 each	 reporting	 date.	 In	 determining	 the	 appropriate	 discount	 rates,	 management	 considers	 the	 interest	 rates	 of	 corporate	 bonds	 	
with	 an	 AA	 rating	 in	 the	 relevant	 country.	 Future	 salary	 increases	 and	 future	 pension	 increases	 are	 based	 on	 expected	 future	 inflation	 rates	 	
for	 each	 country.	 Mortality	 rates	 are	 based	 on	 the	 relevant	 mortality	 tables	 for	 each	 country.	 Further	 details	 about	 the	 assumptions	 used	 are	 	
set	 out	 in	 Note	 20.	
b intangible assets
IFRS	 3	 requires	 the	 identification	 of	 acquired	 intangible	 assets	 as	 part	 of	 a	 business	 combination.	 The	 methods	 used	 to	 value	 such	 intangible	
assets	 require	 the	 use	 of	 estimates	 including	 forecast	 performance	 and	 customer	 attrition	 rates.	 Future	 results	 are	 impacted	 by	 the	 amortisation	
periods	 adopted	 and	 changes	 to	 the	 estimated	 useful	 lives	 would	 result	 in	 different	 effects	 on	 the	 income	 statement.
Goodwill	 is	 tested	 annually	 for	 impairment.	 Tests	 for	 impairment	 are	 based	 on	 discounted	 cash	 flows	 and	 assumptions	 (including	 discount	 rates,	
timing	 and	 growth	 prospects)	 which	 are	 inherently	 subjective.	 Further	 details	 about	 the	 assumptions	 used	 are	 set	 out	 in	 Note	 9.
c Acquisitions
Acquisitions	 are	 accounted	 for	 using	 the	 acquisition	 method	 based	 on	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 consideration	 paid.	 Assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 measured	 	
at	 fair	 value	 and	 the	 purchase	 price	 is	 allocated	 to	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 based	 on	 these	 fair	 values.
Determining	 the	 fair	 values	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 acquired	 involves	 the	 use	 of	 significant	 estimates	 and	 assumptions	 (including	 discount	 rates,	
asset	 lives	 and	 recoverability).	 Assets	 and	 liabilities	 are	 measured	 at	 fair	 value	 and	 the	 value	 of	 freehold	 properties	 is	 typically	 determined	 by	
qualified	 valuers	 on	 an	 open	 market	 basis.
Management	 believes	 that	 estimates	 made	 in	 previous	 years	 have	 been	 materially	 accurate	 as	 any	 changes	 made	 in	 the	 allocation	 period	 following	
acquisition	 to	 finalise	 provisional	 fair	 value	 adjustments	 made	 in	 the	 year	 of	 acquisition	 have	 not	 been	 material.
d Tax
The	 Group	 is	 subject	 to	 income	 taxes	 in	 a	 number	 of	 jurisdictions.	 Management	 is	 required	 to	 make	 judgements	 and	 estimates	 in	 determining	 	
the	 provisions	 for	 income	 taxes	 and	 deferred	 tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 recognised	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.	 Tax	 benefits	 are	
recognised	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 sufficient	 taxable	 income	 will	 be	 available	 in	 the	 future	 against	 which	 temporary	 differences	 and	
unused	 tax	 losses	 can	 be	 utilised.
nEw ACCOunTing STAnDARDS AnD in TERPRETATiOnS
The	 Group	 is	 currently	 assessing	 the	 impact	 of	 revisions	 to	 standards	 and	 interpretations	 or	 amendments	 that	 are	 not	 yet	 effective.	 The	 most	
significant	 of	 these	 changes	 is	 considered	 to	 be	 IAS	 19	 (revised	 2011)	 ‘Employee	 Benefits’	 which	 is	 effective	 for	 the	 2013	 financial	 year	 and	
requires	 the	 replacement	 of	 the	 expected	 return	 on	 assets	 and	 interest	 charge	 on	 pension	 scheme	 liabilities	 with	 a	 net	 financing	 cost	 based	 on	 the	
discount	 rate.	 The	 revised	 standard	 is	 yet	 to	 be	 endorsed	 by	 the	 EU.	 The	 impact	 of	 the	 change	 had	 it	 been	 effective	 in	 2011	 would	 have	 been	 to	
increase	 the	 net	 interest	 expense	 by	 approximately	 £4m,	 to	 reduce	 profit	 before	 income	 tax	 by	 approximately	 £4m	 and	 reduce	 profit	 after	 tax	 by	
approximately	 £3m.
The	 Group	 does	 not	 consider	 that	 any	 other	 standards	 or	 interpretations	 issued	 by	 the	 International	 Accounting	 Standards	 Board	 (‘IASB’)	 but	 not	 	
yet	 applicable	 will	 have	 a	 significant	 impact	 on	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      63 
3 SEgMEnT AnALySiS
year ended 31 December 2011
n orth 
America 
£m
Continental 
Europe 
£m
uK & 
ireland 
£m
Rest of the 
world 
£m
Corporate 
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 2,727.9 1,067.1 996.6 317.9 5,109.5
Operating profit/(loss) before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs 169.2 95.6 60.2 28.4 (17.7) 335.7
Intangible	 amortisation	 (6.9) (27.1) (7.8) (4.7) – (46.5)
Acquisition	 related	 costs (1.2) (5.2) (0.7) (2.8) – (9.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 161.1 63.3 51.7 20.9 (17.7) 279.3
Finance	 income 21.8
Finance	 cost (51.4)
Disposal	 of	 business	 (see	 Note	 25) (56.0)
Profit before income tax 193.7
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation, 
acquisition related costs and disposal of business 306.1
Income	 tax (69.9)
Profit for the year 123.8
Capital	 expenditure 7.6 8.2 4.7 1.8 0.3 22.6
Depreciation 6.3 11.2 6.1 1.6 0.2 25.4
Year	 ended	 31	 December	 2010
North	
America	
£m
Continental	
Europe	
£m
UK	 &	
Ireland	
£m
Rest	 of	 the	
World	
£m
Corporate	
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 2,621.0 936.4 1,007.1 265.1 4,829.6
Operating	 profit/(loss)	 before	 intangible	 amortisation	
and	 acquisition	 related	 costs 160.2 79.9 59.5 23.8 (16.7) 306.7
Intangible	 amortisation	 (7.5) (24.2) (7.8) (4.0) – (43.5)
Acquisition	 related	 costs (1.0) (6.2) – (0.3) – (7.5)
Operating	 profit/(loss) 151.7 49.5 51.7 19.5 (16.7) 255.7
Finance	 income 20.3
Finance	 cost (50.8)
Profit	 before	 income	 tax 225.2
Profit	 before	 income	 tax,	 intangible	 amortisation	 and	
acquisition	 related	 costs 276.2
Income	 tax (66.2)
Profit	 for	 the	 year 159.0
Capital	 expenditure 4.6 10.2 7.2 1.3 0.1 23.4
Depreciation 6.2 9.3 8.2 1.6 0.2 25.5
Acquisition	 related	 costs	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	 include	 transaction	 costs	 and	 expenses	 of	 £4.6m	 (2010:	 £5.5m)	 and	 deferred	
consideration	 payments	 of	 £5.3m	 (2010:	 £2.0m)	 which	 are	 contingent	 on	 the	 continued	 employment	 of	 former	 owners	 of	 businesses	 acquired.
The	 Group	 is	 managed	 through	 four	 business	 areas	 based	 on	 geographic	 regions	 which	 represent	 the	 reporting	 segments	 under	 IFRS	 8	 ‘Operating	
Segments’.	 The	 revenue	 presented	 relates	 to	 external	 customers.	 Sales	 between	 the	 business	 areas	 are	 not	 material.	 Each	 of	 the	 business	 areas	
supplies	 a	 range	 of	 products	 to	 customers	 operating	 primarily	 in	 the	 grocery,	 foodservice,	 cleaning	 &	 hygiene,	 non-food	 retail,	 safety	 and	 healthcare	
market	 sectors.	 The	 performance	 of	 the	 four	 business	 areas	 is	 assessed	 by	 reference	 to	 operating	 profit	 before	 intangible	 amortisation	 and	
acquisition	 related	 costs	 and	 this	 measure	 also	 represents	 the	 segment	 results	 for	 the	 purposes	 of	 reporting	 in	 accordance	 with	 IFRS	 8.	 Debt	 and	
associated	 interest	 is	 managed	 at	 a	 Group	 level	 and	 therefore	 has	 not	 been	 allocated	 across	 the	 business	 areas.	 In	 accordance	 with	 the	 provisions	
of	 IFRS	 8,	 the	 Company’s	 chief	 operating	 decision	 maker	 is	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors.
Within	 each	 of	 the	 four	 business	 areas,	 there	 are	 a	 number	 of	 further	 segments	 based	 on	 geography	 and	 market	 sector.	 These	 segments	 have	
been	 aggregated	 into	 the	 four	 business	 areas	 as	 shown	 above	 due	 to	 the	 similarity	 between	 them	 in	 terms	 of	 economic	 characteristics	 and	 also	 	
in	 respect	 of	 the	 nature	 of	 the	 products	 and	 services,	 types	 of	 customer	 and	 the	 methods	 used	 to	 distribute	 these	 products	 and	 services.
There	 are	 no	 customers	 who	 account	 for	 more	 than	 10%	 of	 Group	 revenue.	 Customer	 dependencies	 are	 regularly	 monitored. 64      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
3 SEgMEnT AnALySiS CONTINUED
Revenue by market sector
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Grocery 1,534.5 1,475.8
Foodservice 1,449.0 1,396.2
Cleaning	 &	 hygiene 731.2 684.7
Non-food	 retail 422.3 396.0
Safety 400.1 329.6
Healthcare 355.8 326.6
Other 216.6 220.7
5,109.5 4,829.6
The	 Cleaning	 &	 safety	 sector	 shown	 in	 previous	 years	 has	 been	 divided	 into	 two	 separate	 sectors	 called	 Cleaning	 &	 hygiene	 and	 Safety.	 The	 2010	
comparatives	 have	 been	 amended	 to	 reflect	 this	 new	 classification.
The	 Other	 category	 covers	 a	 wide	 range	 of	 market	 sectors,	 none	 of	 which	 is	 sufficiently	 material	 to	 warrant	 separate	 disclosure.
At 31 December 2011
n orth 
America 
£m
Continental 
Europe 
£m
uK & 
ireland 
£m
Rest of the 
world 
£m
unallocated 
£m
Total 
£m
Segment	 assets 818.6 949.4 600.2 256.5 2,624.7
Unallocated	 assets 116.7 116.7
Total assets 818.6 949.4 600.2 256.5 116.7 2,741.4
Segment	 liabilities 341.8 236.5 257.9 70.2 906.4
Unallocated	 liabilities 1,028.3 1,028.3
Total liabilities 341.8 236.5 257.9 70.2 1,028.3 1,934.7
At	 31	 December	 2010
North	
America	
£m
Continental	
Europe	
£m
UK	 &	
Ireland	
£m
Rest	 of	 the	
World	
£m
Unallocated	
£m
Total	
£m
Segment	 assets 781.3 880.0 669.3 188.2 2,518.8
Unallocated	 assets 139.6 139.6
Total	 assets 781.3 880.0 669.3 188.2 139.6 2,658.4
Segment	 liabilities 278.3 216.2 239.3 49.1 782.9
Unallocated	 liabilities 1,079.1 1,079.1
Total	 liabilities 278.3 216.2 239.3 49.1 1,079.1 1,862.0
Unallocated	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 include	 Corporate	 assets	 and	 liabilities,	 tax	 assets	 and	 liabilities,	 cash	 and	 deposits,	 borrowings,	 derivative	 assets	
and	 liabilities	 and	 pension	 scheme	 assets	 and	 liabilities. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      65 
4 AnALySiS Of OPERATing in COME AnD ExPEnSES 
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Purchase	 of	 goods	 and	 changes	 in	 inventories 3,905.7 3,686.8
Employee	 costs	 (see	 Note	 21) 486.9 464.6
Depreciation	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 25.4 25.5
Amortisation	 of	 intangible	 fixed	 assets 46.5 43.5
Acquisition	 related	 costs 9.9 7.5
(Profit)/loss	 on	 disposal	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment (0.1) 0.7
Net	 foreign	 exchange	 losses 0.1 0.2
Rentals	 payable	 under	 operating	 leases	 and	 subleases 83.0 85.1
Lease	 and	 sublease	 income	 (1.3) (1.5)
Other	 operating	 expenses 274.1 261.5
net operating expenses 4,830.2 4,573.9
2011 	 2010
Analysis of auditor’s remuneration
uK 
£m
Overseas 
£m
Total 
£m
UK	
£m
Overseas	
£m
Total	
£m
Audit	 of	 the	 Company’s	 financial	 statements 0.3 – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Audit	 of	 the	 Company’s	 subsidiaries	 pursuant	 to	 legislation	 0.3 1.3 1.6 0.4 1.4 1.8
Other	 services	 supplied	 pursuant	 to	 legislation 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Tax	 compliance – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
Tax	 advisory 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.3
Pre-acquisition	 due	 diligence	 – 0.5 0.5 – 0.6 0.6
Total remuneration 0.8 2.2 3.0 1.0 2.2 3.2
Management	 believes	 that	 given	 the	 Group’s	 auditor’s	 detailed	 knowledge	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations,	 its	 structure	 and	 accounting	 policies	 	
and	 the	 importance	 of	 carrying	 out	 tax	 services	 and	 detailed	 pre-acquisition	 due	 diligence,	 it	 is	 often	 appropriate	 for	 this	 additional	 work	 to	 	
be	 undertaken	 by	 the	 Group’s	 auditor	 rather	 than	 another	 firm	 of	 accountants.
The	 Audit	 Committee,	 which	 consists	 entirely	 of	 independent	 non-executive	 directors,	 reviews	 and	 approves	 the	 level	 and	 type	 of	 non-audit	 	
work	 which	 the	 auditor	 performs,	 including	 the	 fees	 paid	 for	 such	 work,	 to	 ensure	 that	 the	 auditor’s	 objectivity	 and	 independence	 are	 not	
compromised.	 Further	 information	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Audit	 Committee	 section	 of	 the	 Corporate	 governance	 report	 on	 pages	 36	 and	 37.
5 f inAnCE in COME/(COST)
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Interest	 on	 deposits 1.8 1.3
Interest	 income	 from	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts	 1.0 1.1
Expected	 return	 on	 pension	 scheme	 assets 18.3 16.8
Other	 finance	 income 0.7 1.1
f inance income 21.8 20.3
Interest	 on	 loans	 and	 overdrafts (32.6) (31.9)
Interest	 expense	 from	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts (1.4) (2.0)
Interest	 charge	 on	 pension	 scheme	 liabilities (16.4) (16.3)
Fair	 value	 gain	 on	 US	 dollar	 bonds	 in	 a	 hedge	 relationship	 5.9 0.8
Fair	 value	 loss	 on	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 in	 a	 hedge	 relationship	 (5.9) (0.8)
Foreign	 exchange	 (loss)/gain	 on	 intercompany	 funding (12.9) 17.9
Foreign	 exchange	 gain/(loss)	 on	 external	 debt	 not	 in	 a	 hedge	 relationship	 12.7 (18.0)
Other	 finance	 expense	 (0.8) (0.5)
f inance cost (51.4) (50.8)
The	 foreign	 exchange	 (loss)/gain	 on	 intercompany	 funding	 arises	 as	 a	 result	 of	 foreign	 currency	 intercompany	 loans	 and	 deposits.	 This	 is	
substantially	 matched	 by	 external	 debt	 to	 minimise	 this	 foreign	 currency	 exposure	 in	 the	 income	 statement. 66      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
6 inCOME TAx 
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Current	 tax	 on	 profit
	 current 	 year 82.5 68.5
	 prior 	 years (12.1) (3.9)
	 double 	 tax	 relief (0.4) (0.2)
70.0 64.4
Deferred	 tax	 on	 profit
	 current 	 year 2.5 6.7
	 prior 	 years (2.6) (4.9)
(0.1) 1.8
Income	 tax	 on	 profit	 69.9 66.2
In	 assessing	 the	 underlying	 performance	 of	 the	 Group,	 management	 uses	 adjusted	 profit	 which	 excludes	 intangible	 amortisation,	 acquisition	
related	 costs	 and	 the	 loss	 on	 disposal	 of	 business.	 Similarly	 the	 tax	 effect	 of	 these	 items	 are	 excluded	 in	 monitoring	 the	 tax	 rate	 on	 the	 adjusted	 	
profit	 of	 the	 Group	 which	 is	 shown	 in	 the	 table	 below:
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Income	 tax	 on	 profit 69.9 66.2
Tax	 associated	 with	 intangible	 amortisation,	 acquisition	 related	 costs	 and	 disposal	 of	 business 14.3 13.9
Tax	 on	 adjusted	 profit 84.2 80.1
Profit	 before	 income	 tax 193.7 225.2
Intangible	 amortisation,	 acquisition	 related	 costs	 and	 disposal	 of	 business 112.4 51.0
Adjusted	 profit	 before	 income	 tax 306.1 276.2
Reported	 tax	 rate 36.1% 29.4%
Tax	 rate	 on	 adjusted	 profit 27.5% 29.0%
Tax on other comprehensive income and equity
g ross 
2011 
£m
Tax credit/
 (charge) 
2011 
£m
n et 
2011 
£m
Gross	
2010	
£m
Tax	 credit/	
(charge)
	 2010	
£m
Net	
2010	
£m
Actuarial	 loss	 on	 pension	 schemes (35.5) 11.4 (24.1) (2.5) 1.1 (1.4)	
Foreign	 currency	 translation	 differences	 for	 foreign	 operations (10.7) – (10.7) 1.1 – 1.1	
(Loss)/gain	 taken	 to	 equity	 as	 a	 result	 of	 designated	 effective	 	
net	 investment	 hedges (9.5) – (9.5) 2.3 1.4 3.7
Gain/(loss)	 recognised	 in	 cash	 flow	 hedge	 reserve 0.8 (0.2) 0.6 0.4 (0.1) 0.3
Movement	 from	 cash	 flow	 hedge	 reserve	 to	 income	 statement 0.6 (0.2) 0.4 1.4 (0.4) 1.0	
Other comprehensive (expense)/income (54.3) 11.0 (43.3) 2.7 2.0 4.7	
Dividends (68.9) – (68.9) (66.1) – (66.1)	
Issue	 of	 share	 capital 3.0 – 3.0 2.5 – 2.5	
Employee	 trust	 shares (14.3) – (14.3) 13.5 – 13.5
Share	 based	 payments 5.3 4.7 10.0 7.7 1.0 8.7	
Other comprehensive (expense)/income and equity (129.2) 15.7 (113.5) (39.7) 3.0 (36.7) BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      67 
6 inCOME TAx CONTINUED
f actors affecting tax charge for the year
The	 Group	 operates	 in	 many	 countries	 and	 is	 subject	 to	 income	 tax	 in	 many	 different	 jurisdictions.	 The	 expected	 tax	 rate	 is	 calculated	 as	 a	
weighted	 average	 of	 the	 tax	 rates	 in	 the	 tax	 jurisdictions	 in	 which	 the	 Group	 operates.	 The	 adjustments	 to	 the	 tax	 charge	 at	 the	 weighted	 average	
rate	 to	 determine	 the	 income	 tax	 on	 profit	 are	 as	 follows:
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Profit	 before	 income	 tax 193.7 225.2
Tax	 charge	 at	 weighted	 average	 rate	 (2011:	 36.3%;	 2010:	 34.0%) 70.4 76.5
Effects	 of:
	 loss 	 on	 disposal	 not	 deductible 14.8 –
	 adjustment 	 in	 respect	 of	 prior	 years (14.7) (8.8)
	 non-taxable 	 items (2.1) (2.0)
	 other 1.5 0.5
income tax on profit 69.9 66.2
Deferred tax in the income statement
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Accelerated	 capital	 allowances 1.9 0.2
Pension	 liabilities 3.2 3.0
Intangible	 assets (12.4) (13.4)
Share	 based	 payments (1.0) (0.2)
Provisions 6.4 0.7
Other 1.8 11.5
Deferred tax on profit (0.1) 1.8
uK tax rate change
Following	 the	 enactment	 of	 legislation	 in	 the	 UK	 to	 reduce	 the	 corporation	 tax	 rate	 to	 25%	 from	 1	 April	 2012,	 the	 UK	 deferred	 tax	 balances	 were	
reduced	 from	 27%	 to	 25%.	 This	 increased	 the	 tax	 expense	 for	 the	 year	 by	 £0.9m.	 Proposed	 future	 reductions	 in	 the	 UK	 tax	 rate	 to	 23%	 will	 be	
reflected	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 when	 the	 relevant	 legislation	 is	 substantively	 enacted.
7 EARning S PER ShARE 
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Profit	 for	 the	 year 123.8 159.0
Adjustment 98.1 37.1
Adjusted	 profit* 221.9 196.1
Basic	 weighted	 average	 ordinary	 shares	 in	 issue	 (million) 324.0 323.7
Dilutive	 effect	 of	 employee	 share	 plans	 (million) 1.9 2.2
Diluted	 weighted	 average	 ordinary	 shares	 (million) 325.9 325.9
Basic	 earnings	 per	 share 38.2p 49.1p
Adjustment 30.3p 11.5p
Adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share* 68.5p 60.6p
Diluted	 basic	 earnings	 per	 share	 38.0p 48.8p
Adjustment 30.1p 11.4p
Adjusted	 diluted	 earnings	 per	 share* 68.1p 60.2p
*	 Adjusted	 profit,	 adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share	 and	 adjusted	 diluted	 earnings	 per	 share	 exclude	 the	 charge	 for	 intangible	 amortisation,	 acquisition	
related	 costs	 and	 the	 respective	 associated	 tax	 and	 the	 loss	 on	 disposal	 of	 business.	 The	 intangible	 amortisation	 and	 associated	 tax	 and	 the	 loss	
on	 disposal	 of	 business	 are	 non-cash	 charges	 which	 are	 not	 taken	 into	 account	 by	 management	 when	 assessing	 the	 underlying	 performance	 	
of	 the	 business.	 Similarly,	 the	 acquisition	 related	 costs	 and	 associated	 tax	 do	 not	 relate	 to	 the	 underlying	 performance	 of	 the	 business.	 Accordingly,	
such	 charges	 are	 removed	 in	 calculating	 the	 adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share	 on	 which	 management	 assesses	 the	 performance	 of	 the	 Group.	 68      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
8 PROPERTy, PLAnT AnD Equi PMEnT
2011
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
f ixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
Beginning	 of	 year 74.7 102.8 95.9 273.4
Acquisitions	 0.6 2.3 1.7 4.6
Disposal	 of	 business (1.2) (17.3) (2.5) (21.0)
Additions 1.6 10.3 10.7 22.6
Disposals (1.6) (2.7) (2.3) (6.6)
Currency	 translation 0.4 (0.1) (0.2) 0.1
End	 of	 year 74.5 95.3 103.3 273.1
Depreciation
Beginning	 of	 year 23.1 62.5 69.7 155.3
Charge	 in	 year 3.0 9.7 12.7 25.4
Disposal	 of	 business (1.0) (7.9) (3.2) (12.1)
Disposals (0.9) (2.0) (2.1) (5.0)
Currency	 translation (0.1) 1.2 (0.6) 0.5
End	 of	 year 24.1 63.5 76.5 164.1
net book value at 31 December 2011 50.4 31.8 26.8 109.0
2010
Land	 and	
buildings	
£m
Plant	 and	
machinery	
£m
Fixtures,	
fittings	 and	
equipment	
£m
Total	
£m
Cost 
Beginning	 of	 year 61.7 91.4 85.6 238.7
Acquisitions	 12.0 4.5 1.4 17.9
Additions 1.3 11.4 10.7 23.4
Disposals (0.4) (6.3) (2.7) (9.4)
Currency	 translation 0.1 1.8 0.9 2.8
End	 of	 year 74.7 102.8 95.9 273.4
Depreciation
Beginning	 of	 year 20.2 56.1 59.6 135.9
Charge	 in	 year 3.0 10.8 11.7 25.5
Disposals (0.1) (4.6) (2.7) (7.4)
Currency	 translation – 0.2 1.1 1.3
End	 of	 year 23.1 62.5 69.7 155.3
Net	 book	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2010 51.6 40.3 26.2 118.1
Net	 book	 value	 at	 1	 January	 2010 41.5 35.3 26.0 102.8
The	 net	 book	 value	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 includes	 assets	 held	 under	 finance	 leases	 and	 hire	 purchase	 contracts	 totalling	 £9.2m	 	
(2010:	 £9.9m).	 Accumulated	 depreciation	 of	 these	 assets	 was	 £4.4m	 (2010:	 £5.1m).	 Future	 capital	 expenditure	 at	 31	 December	 2011	 consisted	 	
of	 commitments	 not	 provided	 for	 of	 £2.5m	 (2010:	 £0.9m). BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      69 
9 inTAngi BLE ASSETS
g oodwill
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Beginning	 of	 year 789.0 749.4
Acquisitions 50.4 34.5
Disposal	 of	 business (44.8) –
Currency	 translation	 (10.0) 5.1
End of year 784.6 789.0
Customer relationships
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Cost
Beginning	 of	 year 661.0 610.9
Acquisitions 100.4 51.5
Disposal	 of	 business (35.7) –
Currency	 translation	 (17.8) (1.4)
End	 of	 year 707.9 661.0
Amortisation
Beginning	 of	 year 205.4 163.7
Charge	 in	 year	 46.5 43.5
Disposal	 of	 business (9.3) –
Currency	 translation (6.9) (1.8)
End	 of	 year 235.7 205.4
net book value at 31 December 472.2 455.6
Total net book value of intangible assets at 31 December 1,256.8 1,244.6
Both	 goodwill	 and	 customer	 relationships	 have	 been	 acquired	 as	 part	 of	 business	 combinations.	 Customer	 relationships	 are	 amortised	 over	 their	
estimated	 useful	 lives	 which	 range	 from	 10	 to	 19	 years.
impairment tests
The	 carrying	 amount	 of	 goodwill	 is	 allocated	 across	 cash	 generating	 units	 (‘CGUs’).	
A	 description	 of	 the	 Group’s	 principal	 activities	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Directors’	 report	 on	 page	 31.	 There	 is	 no	 significant	 difference	 in	 the	 nature	 of	
activities	 across	 different	 geographies.	 The	 identification	 of	 CGUs	 reflects	 the	 way	 in	 which	 the	 business	 is	 managed	 on	 a	 geographical	 basis.	 	
Given	 the	 similar	 nature	 of	 the	 activities	 of	 each	 CGU,	 a	 consistent	 methodology	 is	 applied	 across	 the	 Group	 in	 assessing	 CGU	 recoverable	
amounts.	 The	 recoverable	 amount	 is	 the	 higher	 of	 the	 value	 in	 use	 and	 the	 fair	 value	 less	 the	 costs	 to	 sell.	 The	 value	 in	 use	 is	 the	 present	 value	 	
of	 the	 cash	 flows	 expected	 to	 be	 generated	 by	 the	 CGU	 over	 a	 projection	 period	 together	 with	 a	 terminal	 value.	 The	 projection	 period	 is	 the	 time	
period	 over	 which	 future	 cash	 flows	 are	 predicted.	 The	 Group’s	 methodology	 is	 to	 use	 a	 projection	 period	 of	 five	 years	 being	 the	 maximum	 	
period	 over	 which	 detailed	 future	 cash	 flows	 for	 each	 CGU	 are	 prepared.	 For	 periods	 after	 this	 five	 year	 period,	 the	 methodology	 applies	 a	 long	
term	 growth	 rate	 to	 derive	 a	 terminal	 value.	 Cash	 flow	 expectations	 exclude	 any	 future	 cash	 flows	 that	 may	 arise	 from	 restructuring	 or	 other	
enhancements	 to	 the	 cash	 generating	 activities	 of	 the	 CGU	 and	 reflect	 management’s	 expectations	 of	 the	 range	 of	 economic	 conditions	 that	 	
may	 exist	 over	 the	 projection	 period.	
The	 value	 in	 use	 calculations	 are	 principally	 sensitive	 to	 revenue	 growth,	 achievability	 of	 future	 margins,	 any	 significant	 changes	 to	 the	 customer	 	
base	 and	 the	 discount	 rate	 used	 in	 the	 present	 value	 calculation.	 The	 information	 used	 for	 valuation	 purposes	 takes	 into	 consideration	 past	
experience	 and	 the	 current	 economic	 environment	 with	 regard	 to	 customer	 attrition	 rates	 and	 additions	 to	 the	 customer	 base,	 the	 ability	 to	
introduce	 price	 increases	 and	 new	 products	 and	 experience	 in	 controlling	 the	 underlying	 cost	 base.	 This	 provides	 a	 long	 term	 growth	 rate	 which	 is	
consistent	 with	 the	 geographic	 segments	 in	 which	 the	 Group	 operates	 and	 management’s	 assessment	 of	 future	 operating	 performance	 and	 market	
share	 movements.	 The	 growth	 rate	 has	 been	 calculated	 based	 principally	 on	 current	 inflation	 rates	 of	 the	 relevant	 economies.
At	 31	 December	 2011	 North	 America,	 France	 Hygiene	 and	 UK	 Hospitality	 carried	 a	 significant	 amount	 of	 goodwill	 in	 comparison	 with	 the	 total	 	
value	 of	 the	 Group’s	 goodwill.	 At	 31	 December	 2011	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 goodwill	 in	 respect	 of	 North	 America	 was	 £191.7m	 (2010:	 £186.7m),	 	
France	 Hygiene	 was	 £82.2m	 (2010:	 £84.3m)	 and	 UK	 Hospitality	 was	 £60.1m	 (2010:	 £104.9m).	 At	 31	 December	 2011	 the	 aggregate	 amount	 	
of	 goodwill	 attributable	 to	 the	 Group’s	 CGUs,	 excluding	 North	 America,	 France	 Hygiene	 and	 UK	 Hospitality,	 was	 £450.6m	 (2010:	 £413.1m).	 	
The	 remaining	 goodwill	 relates	 to	 CGUs	 which	 are	 not	 individually	 significant.
For	 North	 America,	 France	 Hygiene	 and	 UK	 Hospitality	 the	 weighted	 average	 growth	 rate	 used	 in	 2011	 was	 2.5%	 (2010:	 2.5%).	 A	 discount	 rate	 	
of	 7%	 (2010:	 8%)	 has	 been	 applied	 to	 the	 value	 in	 use	 calculations	 representing	 a	 pre-tax	 rate	 reflecting	 market	 assessments	 of	 the	 time	 value	 of	
money	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.	 Similar	 assumptions	 have	 been	 applied	 to	 the	 other	 CGUs	 but	 where	 appropriate	 the	 directors	 have	 considered	
alternative	 market	 risk	 assumptions	 to	 reflect	 the	 specific	 conditions	 arising	 in	 individual	 countries	 (with	 discount	 rates	 ranging	 from	 6%–16%).	 70      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
9 inTAngi BLE ASSETS CONTINUED
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Impairment	 testing	 is	 dependent	 on	 management’s	 estimates	 and	 judgements,	 particularly	 as	 they	 relate	 to	 the	 forecasting	 of	 future	 cash	 flows,	 	
the	 discount	 rates	 selected	 and	 expected	 long	 term	 growth	 rates.	 A	 key	 assumption	 on	 which	 value	 in	 use	 calculations	 are	 dependent	 relates	 to	 	
the	 underlying	 customer	 base.	 This	 assumption	 is	 sensitive	 to	 customer	 attrition	 and	 the	 rate	 at	 which	 new	 customer	 relationships	 are	 introduced	
and	 established.	
Based	 on	 past	 experience	 and	 taking	 into	 account	 current	 market	 conditions,	 management	 has	 concluded	 that	 it	 is	 reasonable	 to	 assume	 that	
there	 will	 be	 no	 material	 deterioration	 in	 the	 customer	 base	 over	 the	 projection	 period	 which	 will	 significantly	 impact	 future	 cash	 flows	 and	 that	 	
no	 reasonably	 possible	 change	 in	 key	 assumptions	 would	 result	 in	 impairment	 in	 any	 of	 the	 Group’s	 CGUs.	 Should	 such	 a	 change	 occur,	 this	 	
would	 represent	 a	 triggering	 event	 to	 indicate	 that	 an	 impairment	 review	 may	 be	 necessary.	 In	 accordance	 with	 IAS	 36	 ‘Impairment	 of	 Assets’,	 	
a	 full	 impairment	 review	 would	 then	 be	 undertaken	 on	 the	 relevant	 assets	 within	 the	 CGU.	 Any	 such	 changes	 are	 monitored	 through	 normal	
monthly	 procedures.
10 inv EnTORiES
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Goods	 for	 resale 528.6 482.0
£4.0m	 was	 written	 off	 inventories	 during	 the	 year	 (2010:	 £1.8m)	 due	 to	 obsolescence	 or	 damage.	 The	 inventories	 provision	 at	 31	 December	 2011	
was	 £52.8m	 (2010:	 £49.8m).	
11 TRADE AnD OThER RECEivABLES
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Trade	 receivables 609.8 572.2
Prepayments	 and	 other	 receivables 128.8 118.6
738.6 690.8
The	 ageing	 of	 trade	 receivables	 at	 31	 December	 was:
g ross 
2011 
£m
 Provision 
2011 
£m
	 Gross	
2010	
£m
	 Provision	
2010	
£m
Current 480.4 3.7 440.4 1.6
0–30	 days	 overdue 110.4 0.3 110.8 0.2
31–90	 days	 overdue	 23.7 0.7 24.0 1.2
Over	 90	 days	 overdue	 9.1 9.1 12.6 12.6
623.6 13.8 587.8 15.6
The	 movement	 in	 the	 provision	 for	 doubtful	 debts	 in	 respect	 of	 trade	 receivables	 during	 the	 year	 was	 as	 follows:
 2011 
£m
	 2010	
£m
Beginning	 of	 year 15.6 18.4
Acquisitions 1.4 0.7
Disposal	 of	 business (1.2) –
Charge 1.6 2.3
Utilised	 and	 unused (3.8) (5.5)
Currency	 translation	 0.2 (0.3)
End	 of	 year 13.8 15.6
12 TRADE AnD OThER PAyABLES – CuRREnT
 2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Trade	 payables 642.7 551.0
Other	 tax	 and	 social	 security	 contributions 20.3 21.9
Other	 payables 98.1 81.0
Accruals	 and	 deferred	 income 113.3 112.4
874.4 766.3 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      71 
13 RiSK MAnAgEMEnT AnD fin AnCiAL in STRuMEnTS
Capital management
The	 Group’s	 policy	 is	 to	 maintain	 a	 strong	 capital	 base	 so	 as	 to	 maintain	 investor,	 creditor	 and	 market	 confidence	 and	 to	 sustain	 future	 development	
of	 the	 business.	 The	 Group	 monitors	 the	 return	 on	 average	 operating	 capital	 employed	 and	 the	 return	 on	 invested	 capital	 as	 well	 as	 the	 level	 of	 total	
shareholders’	 equity	 and	 the	 amount	 of	 dividends	 paid	 to	 ordinary	 shareholders.	 For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011,	 the	 return	 on	 average	
operating	 capital	 employed	 was	 57.4%	 (2010:	 54.4%),	 the	 return	 on	 invested	 capital	 was	 17.3%	 (2010:	 16.7%),	 the	 level	 of	 total	 shareholders’	
equity	 at	 31	 December	 2011	 was	 £806.7m	 (2010:	 £796.4m)	 and	 the	 amount	 of	 dividends	 paid	 in	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	 was	 £68.9m	
(2010:	 £66.1m).
The	 Group	 funds	 its	 operations	 through	 a	 mixture	 of	 shareholders’	 equity	 and	 bank	 and	 capital	 market	 borrowings.	 All	 of	 the	 borrowings	 are	
managed	 by	 a	 central	 treasury	 function	 and	 funds	 raised	 are	 lent	 onward	 to	 operating	 subsidiaries	 as	 required.	 The	 overall	 objective	 is	 to	 manage	
the	 funding	 to	 ensure	 the	 Group	 has	 a	 portfolio	 of	 competitively	 priced	 borrowing	 facilities	 to	 meet	 the	 demands	 of	 the	 business	 over	 time	 and,	 	
in	 order	 to	 do	 so,	 the	 Group	 arranges	 a	 mixture	 of	 borrowings	 from	 different	 sources	 with	 a	 variety	 of	 maturity	 dates.
The	 Group’s	 businesses	 provide	 a	 high	 and	 consistent	 level	 of	 cash	 generation	 which	 helps	 fund	 future	 development	 and	 growth.	 The	 Group	 seeks	
to	 maintain	 an	 appropriate	 balance	 between	 the	 higher	 returns	 that	 might	 be	 possible	 with	 higher	 levels	 of	 borrowings	 and	 the	 advantages	 and	
security	 afforded	 by	 a	 sound	 capital	 position.
There	 were	 no	 changes	 to	 the	 Group’s	 approach	 to	 capital	 management	 during	 the	 year	 and	 the	 Group	 is	 not	 subject	 to	 any	 externally	 imposed	
capital	 requirements.
Treasury policies and controls
The	 Group	 has	 a	 centralised	 treasury	 department	 to	 control	 external	 borrowings	 and	 manage	 liquidity,	 interest	 rate	 and	 foreign	 currency	 risks.	
Treasury	 policies	 have	 been	 approved	 by	 the	 Board	 and	 cover	 the	 nature	 of	 the	 exposure	 to	 be	 hedged,	 the	 types	 of	 financial	 instruments	 that	 may	
be	 employed	 and	 the	 criteria	 for	 investing	 and	 borrowing	 cash.	 The	 Group	 uses	 derivatives	 to	 manage	 its	 foreign	 currency	 and	 interest	 rate	 risks	
arising	 from	 underlying	 business	 activities.	 No	 transactions	 of	 a	 speculative	 nature	 are	 undertaken.	 The	 treasury	 department	 is	 subject	 to	 periodic	
independent	 review	 by	 the	 internal	 audit	 department.	 Underlying	 policy	 assumptions	 and	 activities	 are	 periodically	 reviewed	 by	 the	 executive	
directors	 and	 the	 Board.	 Controls	 over	 exposure	 changes	 and	 transaction	 authenticity	 are	 in	 place.
hedge accounting
The	 Group	 designates	 derivatives	 which	 qualify	 as	 hedges	 for	 accounting	 purposes	 as	 either	 (a)	 a	 hedge	 of	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 a	 recognised	 asset	 	
or	 liability;	 (b)	 a	 hedge	 of	 the	 cash	 flow	 risk	 resulting	 from	 changes	 in	 interest	 rates	 or	 foreign	 exchange	 rates;	 or	 (c)	 a	 hedge	 of	 a	 net	 investment	 	
in	 a	 foreign	 operation.	 The	 accounting	 treatment	 for	 hedges	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 financial	 instruments	 accounting	 policy	 in	 Note	 2.
The	 Group	 tests	 the	 effectiveness	 of	 hedges	 on	 a	 prospective	 and	 retrospective	 basis	 to	 ensure	 compliance	 with	 IAS	 39.	 Methods	 for	 testing	
effectiveness	 include	 dollar	 offset,	 critical	 terms	 and	 regression	 analysis.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity	 risk	 is	 the	 risk	 that	 the	 Group	 will	 not	 be	 able	 to	 meet	 its	 financial	 obligations	 as	 they	 fall	 due.	 The	 Group	 continually	 monitors	 net	 debt	 	
and	 forecast	 cash	 flows	 to	 ensure	 that	 sufficient	 facilities	 are	 in	 place	 to	 meet	 the	 Group’s	 requirements	 in	 the	 short,	 medium	 and	 long	 term	 and,	 in	
order	 to	 do	 so,	 arranges	 borrowings	 from	 a	 variety	 of	 sources.	 Additionally,	 compliance	 with	 debt	 covenants	 is	 monitored.	 During	 2011	 all	 covenants	
have	 been	 complied	 with.
The	 Group	 has	 substantial	 borrowing	 facilities	 available	 to	 it	 comprising	 multi-currency	 credit	 facilities	 from	 the	 Group’s	 banks	 and	 US	 dollar	 and	
sterling	 bonds.	 At	 31	 December	 2011,	 the	 total	 bonds	 outstanding	 were	 £585.1m	 (2010:	 £562.3m)	 with	 maturities	 ranging	 from	 2013	 to	 2023.	
The	 bank	 facilities	 mature	 between	 2012	 and	 2017.	 At	 31	 December	 2011	 the	 available	 bank	 facilities	 totalled	 £730.8m	 (2010:	 £781.5m)	 of	 which	
£109.3m	 (2010:	 £224.2m)	 was	 drawn	 down.	
The	 undrawn	 committed	 facilities	 available	 at	 31	 December	 are	 as	 follows:
2011 
£m
	 2010	
£m
Expiring	 within	 one	 year 157.5 139.0
Expiring	 after	 one	 year	 but	 within	 two	 years 53.2 140.0
Expiring	 after	 two	 years 410.8 278.3
621.5 557.3
In	 addition	 the	 Group	 maintains	 overdraft	 and	 uncommitted	 facilities	 to	 provide	 short	 term	 flexibility.	 At	 31	 December	 2011	 loans	 totalling	 £4.0m	
were	 secured	 by	 fixed	 charges	 on	 property	 (2010:	 £5.4m). 72      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
13 RiSK MAnAgEMEnT AnD fin AnCiAL in STRuMEnTS CONTINUED
The	 contractual	 maturity	 profile	 of	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 at	 31	 December	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 tables	 below.	 The	 amounts	 disclosed	
are	 the	 contractual	 undiscounted	 cash	 flows	 and	 therefore	 include	 interest	 cash	 flows	 (forecast	 using	 LIBOR	 interest	 rates	 at	 31	 December	 in	 the	
case	 of	 floating	 rate	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities).	 Derivative	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 have	 been	 included	 within	 the	 tables	 since	 they	 predominantly	
relate	 to	 derivatives	 which	 are	 used	 to	 manage	 the	 interest	 cash	 flows	 on	 the	 Group’s	 debt.	 Bank	 loans	 have	 been	 drawn	 under	 committed	 	
facilities	 and	 can	 be	 refinanced	 on	 maturity	 from	 these	 same	 facilities.	 Accordingly	 they	 have	 been	 aged	 based	 on	 the	 maturity	 dates	 of	 the	
underlying	 facilities.	
The	 tables	 below	 also	 compare	 the	 fair	 value	 and	 carrying	 amounts	 for	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities:
Contractual cash inflows/(outflows)
2011
f air value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Total 
contractual 
cash flows 
£m
w ithin one 
year 
£m
After
 one year 
but within
 two years 
£m
After
 two years 
but within 
five years 
£m
After 
more than 
five years 
£m
f inancial assets:
Cash and deposits 74.2 74.2 74.2 74.2 – – –
Loans and receivables
Trade	 receivables 609.8 609.8 609.8 609.8 – – –
Derivative financial instruments
Interest	 rate	 swaps 18.4 18.4 20.6 8.4 5.3 6.0 0.9
Foreign	 exchange	 contracts	 for	 cash	
flow	 hedging 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 – – –
Foreign	 exchange	 contracts	 not	 in	
a	 hedge	 relationship 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – –
703.5 703.5 705.7 693.5 5.3 6.0 0.9
f inancial liabilities: 
f inancial liabilities at amortised cost
Bank	 loans (124.3) (124.4) (128.8) (37.8) (47.9) (43.0) (0.1)
US	 dollar	 and	 sterling	 bonds (478.1) (425.2) (574.1) (27.2) (27.2) (243.7) (276.0)
Bank	 overdrafts (29.2) (29.2) (29.2) (29.2) – – –
Other	 interest	 bearing	 loans	 and	 borrowings (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) – – (0.4) –
Finance	 lease	 creditors (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) –
Trade	 payables (642.7) (642.7) (642.7) (642.7) – – –
Other	 current	 payables (110.5) (110.5) (110.5) (110.5) – – –
Non-current	 payables (15.2) (15.2) (15.2) – (15.2) – –
f inancial liabilities at fair value
US	 dollar	 bonds (158.0) (159.9) (164.1) (7.9) (156.2) – –
Derivative financial instruments
Cross	 currency	 interest	 rate	 swaps (7.1) (7.1) (6.2) (0.5) (0.5) (5.2) –
Foreign	 exchange	 contracts	 for	 net	
investment	 hedging (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) – – –
(1,567.1) (1,516.2) (1,672.8) (857.1) (247.1) (292.5) (276.1) BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      73 
13 RiSK MAnAgEMEnT AnD fin AnCiAL in STRuMEnTS CONTINUED
Contractual	 cash	 inflows/(outflows)
2010
Fair	 value	
£m
Carrying	
amount	
£m
Total	
contractual	
cash	 flows	
£m
Within	 one	
year	
£m
After
	 one	 year	
but	 within
	 two	 years	
£m
After
	 two	 years	
but	 within	
five	 years	
£m
After	
more	 than	
five	 years	
£m
Financial	 assets:
Cash	 and	 deposits 83.9 83.9 83.9 83.9 – – –
Loans	 and	 receivables
Trade	 receivables 572.2 572.2 572.2 572.2 – – –
Derivative	 financial	 instruments
Interest	 rate	 swaps 26.0 26.0 32.0 11.1 8.7 9.9 2.3
Interest	 rate	 caps 0.2 0.2 – – – – –
682.3 682.3 688.1 667.2 8.7 9.9 2.3
Financial	 liabilities:	
Financial	 liabilities	 at	 amortised	 cost
Bank	 loans (245.5) (245.6) (249.7) (73.0) (125.8) (50.9) –
US	 dollar	 and	 sterling	 bonds (385.7) (347.4) (517.5) 50.0 (26.8) (141.4) (399.3)
Bank	 overdrafts (9.0) (9.0) (9.0) (9.0) – – –
Other	 interest	 bearing	 loans	 and	 borrowings (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) – – (0.4) –
Finance	 lease	 creditors (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) –
Trade	 payables (551.0) (551.0) (551.0) (551.0) – – –
Other	 current	 payables (95.7) (95.7) (95.7) (95.7) – – –
Non-current	 payables (4.7) (4.7) (4.7) – (4.7) – –
Financial	 liabilities	 at	 fair	 value
US	 dollar	 bonds (210.7) (214.9) (223.6) (61.6) (7.8) (154.2) –
Derivative	 financial	 instruments
Cross	 currency	 interest	 rate	 swaps (8.0) (8.0) (8.7) 0.5 (0.7) (8.5) –
Foreign	 exchange	 contracts	 for	 net	
investment	 hedging (2.9) (2.9) (2.9) (2.9) – – –
Foreign	 exchange	 contracts	 for	 cash	
flow	 hedging (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) – – –
(1,514.8) (1,480.8) (1,664.4) (743.6) (166.0) (355.5) (399.3)
All	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 stated	 at	 fair	 value	 in	 the	 tables	 above	 have	 carrying	 amounts	 where	 the	 fair	 value	 component	 is	 a	 level	 two	 fair	
value	 measurement.	 Level	 two	 fair	 value	 measurements	 use	 inputs	 other	 than	 quoted	 prices	 that	 are	 observable	 for	 the	 relevant	 asset	 or	 liability,	
either	 directly	 or	 indirectly.	 The	 US	 dollar	 bonds,	 included	 within	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 stated	 at	 fair	 value,	 have	 a	 carrying	 amount	 of	 	
£159.9m	 (2010:	 £214.9m)	 which	 includes	 a	 fair	 value	 measurement	 related	 to	 the	 risk	 being	 hedged.	 The	 tables	 above	 also	 disclose	 the	 fair	 value	 	
of	 these	 bonds	 including	 all	 other	 components	 of	 £158.0m	 (2010:	 £210.7m).
Fair	 value	 gains	 and	 losses	 on	 interest	 rate	 caps	 impact	 the	 income	 statement	 immediately	 while	 all	 other	 financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 stated	 at	 fair	
value	 are	 in	 hedging	 relationships. 74      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
13 RiSK MAnAgEMEnT AnD fin AnCiAL in STRuMEnTS CONTINUED
interest rate risk
The	 Group	 is	 funded	 by	 a	 mixture	 of	 fixed	 and	 floating	 rate	 debt.	 In	 addition,	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 and	 interest	 rate	 caps	 are	 used	 to	 manage	 the	
interest	 rate	 risk	 profile.	 At	 31	 December	 2011	 fixed	 rate	 debt	 of	 £425.2m	 (2010:	 £347.4m)	 related	 to	 fixed	 rate	 US	 dollar	 and	 sterling	 bonds	 stated	
at	 amortised	 cost	 with	 maturities	 ranging	 from	 2014	 to	 2023.
At	 31	 December	 2011	 floating	 rate	 debt	 comprised	 £109.3m	 of	 floating	 rate	 bank	 loans	 (2010:	 £245.6m)	 and	 £159.9m	 of	 fixed	 rate	 US	 dollar	
bonds	 which	 have	 been	 swapped	 to	 floating	 rates	 using	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 (2010:	 £214.9m).	 Bank	 loans	 are	 drawn	 for	 various	 periods	 of	 up	 to	
three	 months	 at	 interest	 rates	 linked	 to	 LIBOR.	 The	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 reprice	 every	 three	 or	 six	 months.	 These	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 are	 in	 fair	 value	
hedge	 relationships	 with	 the	 market	 risk	 of	 the	 US	 dollar	 bonds.	 These	 hedges	 were	 effective	 during	 the	 year	 and	 have	 therefore	 had	 no	 	
net	 impact	 on	 the	 income	 statement.
The	 interest	 rate	 risk	 on	 the	 floating	 rate	 debt	 is	 managed	 using	 interest	 rate	 options.	 Borrowings	 with	 a	 notional	 principal	 of	 £266.7m	 were	 capped	 	
at	 31	 December	 2011	 (2010:	 £301.0m).	 Hedge	 accounting	 is	 not	 applied	 to	 the	 interest	 rate	 caps	 since	 the	 majority	 of	 their	 value	 is	 related	 to	 time	
value.	 The	 strike	 rates	 of	 these	 options	 are	 based	 on	 sterling,	 US	 dollar	 and	 euro	 LIBOR	 repricing	 every	 three	 months.
After	 taking	 account	 of	 hedge	 relationships,	 a	 change	 of	 1%	 in	 the	 interest	 rate	 forward	 curves	 on	 31	 December	 would	 have	 increased/(decreased)	
profit	 before	 tax	 and	 equity	 for	 the	 year	 by	 the	 amounts	 shown	 below	 as	 a	 result	 of	 changes	 in	 the	 fair	 values	 of	 derivative	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 at	
that	 date:
Impact	 on	 profit	 before	 tax Impact	 on	 equity
+1% 
£m
–1% 
£m
+1% 
£m
–1% 
£m
2011 (0.1) 0.3 (0.1) 0.3
2010 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.2
f oreign currency risk
The	 principal	 underlying	 currencies	 of	 the	 Group’s	 earnings	 are	 sterling,	 US	 dollars	 and	 euros.	 The	 Group	 does	 not	 hedge	 the	 impact	 of	 exchange	
rate	 movements	 arising	 on	 translation	 of	 earnings	 into	 sterling	 at	 average	 exchange	 rates.
The	 following	 significant	 exchange	 rates	 applied	 during	 the	 year:
Average	 rate Closing	 rate
 2011 	 2010 2011 	 2010
US	 dollar 1.60 1.55 1.55 1.57
Euro 1.15 1.17 1.20 1.17
For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011,	 a	 movement	 of	 one	 cent	 in	 the	 US	 dollar	 and	 euro	 average	 exchange	 rates	 would	 have	 changed	 profit	
before	 tax	 by	 £0.8m	 and	 £0.3m	 respectively	 and	 profit	 before	 tax,	 intangible	 amortisation,	 acquisition	 related	 costs	 and	 disposal	 of	 business	 	
by	 £0.8m	 and	 £0.6m	 respectively.
The	 majority	 of	 the	 Group’s	 transactions	 are	 carried	 out	 in	 the	 respective	 functional	 currencies	 of	 the	 Group’s	 operations	 and	 so	 transaction	
exposures	 are	 usually	 relatively	 limited.	 Where	 they	 do	 occur	 the	 Group’s	 policy	 is	 to	 hedge	 significant	 exposures	 of	 firm	 commitments	 for	 a	 	
period	 of	 up	 to	 one	 year	 as	 soon	 as	 they	 are	 committed	 using	 forward	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts	 and	 these	 are	 designated	 as	 cash	 flow	 hedges.	
However,	 the	 economic	 impact	 of	 foreign	 exchange	 on	 the	 value	 of	 uncommitted	 future	 purchases	 and	 sales	 is	 not	 hedged.	 As	 a	 result,	 sudden	
and	 significant	 movements	 in	 foreign	 exchange	 rates	 can	 impact	 profit	 margins	 where	 there	 is	 a	 delay	 in	 passing	 on	 to	 customers	 the	 resulting	
price	 increases.	 For	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	 all	 foreign	 exchange	 cash	 flow	 hedges	 were	 effective	 with	 a	 £1.0m	 gain	 recognised	 in	
equity	 (2010:	 loss	 of	 £0.6m)	 which	 will	 affect	 the	 income	 statement	 during 2012.
The	 majority	 of	 the	 Group’s	 borrowings	 are	 effectively	 denominated	 in	 sterling,	 US	 dollars	 and	 euros,	 aligning	 them	 to	 the	 respective	 functional	
currencies	 of	 its	 operating	 profit	 before	 depreciation,	 intangible	 amortisation	 and	 acquisition	 related	 costs	 (‘EBITDA’).	 This	 currency	 profile	 is	
achieved	 using	 short	 term	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts,	 long	 term	 cross	 currency	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 and	 foreign	 currency	 debt.	 This	 currency	
composition	 minimises	 the	 impact	 of	 foreign	 exchange	 rates	 on	 the	 ratio	 of	 net	 debt	 to	 EBITDA.
Cross	 currency	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 in	 a	 cash	 flow	 hedge	 relationship	 were	 effective	 during	 the	 year,	 with	 a	 loss	 of	 £1.4m	 (2010:	 £1.2m)	 being	
recognised	 in	 equity	 which	 will	 affect	 the	 income	 statement	 from	 2012	 to	 2015. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      75 
13 RiSK MAnAgEMEnT AnD fin AnCiAL in STRuMEnTS CONTINUED
The	 currency	 profile	 of	 the	 Group’s	 net	 debt	 at	 31	 December	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 table	 below:
 2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Sterling 179.6 209.9
US	 dollar 305.1 350.3
Euro 135.5 140.8
Other 32.7 15.8
652.9 716.8
If	 a	 10%	 strengthening	 or	 weakening	 of	 sterling	 had	 taken	 place	 on	 31	 December	 it	 would	 have	 increased/(decreased)	 profit	 before	 tax	 and	 equity	
for	 the	 year	 by	 the	 amounts	 shown	 below.	 The	 impact	 of	 this	 translation	 is	 much	 greater	 on	 equity	 than	 it	 is	 on	 profit	 before	 tax	 since	 equity	 is	
translated	 using	 the	 closing	 exchange	 rates	 and	 profit	 before	 tax	 is	 translated	 using	 the	 average	 exchange	 rates	 for	 the	 year.	 As	 a	 result	 the	 value	 of	
equity	 is	 more	 sensitive	 than	 the	 value	 of	 profit	 before	 tax	 to	 a	 movement	 in	 exchange	 rates	 on	 31	 December	 and	 the	 resulting	 movement	 in	 profit	
before	 tax	 is	 due	 solely	 to	 the	 translation	 effect	 on	 monetary	 items.	 This	 analysis	 assumes	 that	 all	 other	 variables,	 and	 in	 particular	 interest	 rates,	
remain	 constant.
Impact	 on	 profit	 before	 tax Impact	 on	 equity
+10% 
£m
–10% 
£m
+10% 
£m
–10% 
£m
2011 0.4 (0.5) (56.2) 68.7
2010 0.3 (0.3) (51.8) 57.0
Credit risk
Credit	 risk	 is	 the	 risk	 of	 loss	 in	 relation	 to	 a	 financial	 asset	 due	 to	 non-payment	 by	 the	 counterparty.	 The	 Group’s	 objective	 is	 to	 reduce	 its	 exposure	
to	 counterparty	 default	 by	 restricting	 the	 type	 of	 counterparty	 it	 deals	 with	 and	 by	 employing	 an	 appropriate	 policy	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 collection	 of	
financial	 assets.
The	 Group’s	 principal	 financial	 assets	 are	 cash	 and	 deposits,	 derivative	 financial	 instruments	 and	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 which	 represent	 	
the	 Group’s	 maximum	 exposure	 to	 credit	 risk	 in	 relation	 to	 financial	 assets.	 The	 maximum	 exposure	 to	 credit	 risk	 for	 cash	 and	 deposits	 (Note	 23),	
derivative	 financial	 instruments	 (see	 above)	 and	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 (Note	 11)	 is	 their	 carrying	 amount.	
Dealings	 are	 restricted	 to	 those	 banks	 with	 the	 relevant	 combination	 of	 geographic	 presence	 and	 suitable	 credit	 rating.	 The	 Group	 continually	
monitors	 the	 credit	 ratings	 of	 its	 counterparties	 and	 the	 credit	 exposure	 to	 each	 counterparty.
For	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables,	 the	 amounts	 represented	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 are	 net	 of	 allowances	 for	 doubtful	 receivables,	 estimated	 by	 the	
Group’s	 management	 based	 on	 prior	 experience	 and	 their	 assessment	 of	 the	 current	 economic	 environment.	 Note	 11	 sets	 out	 an	 analysis	 of	 trade	
and	 other	 receivables	 and	 the	 provision	 for	 doubtful	 debts	 in	 respect	 of	 trade	 receivables.
At	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 there	 were	 no	 significant	 concentrations	 of	 credit	 risk.
14 PROviSiOnS
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Current 9.2 8.6
Non-current 39.2 35.5
48.4 44.1
Properties 
2011 
£m
Claims 
2011 
£m
Total 
2011 
£m
Properties	
2010	
£m
Claims
	 2010	
£m
Total	
2010	
£m
Beginning	 of	 year 21.6 22.5 44.1 26.3 24.7 51.0
Charge 1.0 11.2 12.2 0.8 1.2 2.0
Acquisitions 0.6 3.1 3.7 0.5 2.6 3.1
Disposal	 of	 business (0.6) – (0.6) – – –
Utilised	 and	 released (3.4) (7.1) (10.5) (6.0) (5.4) (11.4)
Currency	 translation	 – (0.5) (0.5) – (0.6) (0.6)
End of year 19.2 29.2 48.4 21.6 22.5 44.1
The	 properties	 provision	 includes	 vacant	 properties	 where	 amounts	 are	 held	 against	 liabilities	 for	 onerous	 lease	 commitments,	 repairs	 and	
dilapidations.	 These	 provisions	 cover	 the	 relevant	 periods	 of	 the	 lease	 agreements,	 up	 to	 the	 earliest	 possible	 termination	 date,	 which	 typically	 	
extend	 from	 one	 to	 10	 years.	 76      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
14 PROviSiOnS CONTINUED
The	 Group	 has	 provisions	 for	 expected	 legal,	 environmental	 and	 other	 claims	 based	 on	 management’s	 best	 estimate	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date	 of	
the	 probable	 loss	 likely	 to	 be	 incurred.	 It	 expects	 that	 these	 amounts,	 which	 are	 based	 on	 detailed	 plans	 or	 other	 known	 factors	 and	 take	 account	
of	 past	 experience	 for	 similar	 items,	 will	 be	 settled	 within	 the	 next	 one	 to	 five	 years.
The	 Group	 is	 a	 defendant	 in	 a	 number	 of	 legal	 proceedings	 incidental	 to	 its	 operations.	 While	 any	 litigation	 has	 an	 element	 of	 uncertainty,	
management	 does	 not	 expect	 that	 the	 outcome	 of	 such	 proceedings,	 either	 individually	 or	 in	 the	 aggregate,	 will	 have	 a	 material	 adverse	 effect	 	
on	 the	 Group’s	 financial	 condition	 or	 results	 of	 operations.
15 DEf ERRED TAx 
 2011 	 2010
Asset 
£m
Liability 
£m
n et 
£m
Asset	
£m
Liability	
£m
Net	
£m
Accelerated	 capital	 allowances 1.7 (8.2) (6.5) 4.2 (5.9) (1.7)
Pension	 liabilities 23.4 – 23.4 16.2 – 16.2
Intangible	 assets – (144.3) (144.3) – (135.4) (135.4)
Share	 based	 payments 8.4 – 8.4 5.0 – 5.0
Provisions 7.7 (1.3) 6.4 9.4 – 9.4
Inventories 8.7 (15.6) (6.9) 5.1 (10.0) (4.9)
Other 10.7 (4.7) 6.0 12.8 (10.9) 1.9
Deferred	 tax	 asset/(liability) 60.6 (174.1) (113.5) 52.7 (162.2) (109.5)
Set-off	 of	 tax (47.4) 47.4 – (46.8) 46.8 –
net deferred tax asset/(liability) 13.2 (126.7) (113.5) 5.9 (115.4) (109.5)
Except	 as	 noted	 below,	 deferred	 tax	 is	 calculated	 in	 full	 on	 temporary	 differences	 under	 the	 liability	 method	 using	 the	 tax	 rate	 of	 the	 country	 	
of	 operation.
The	 Company	 is	 able	 to	 control	 the	 dividend	 policy	 of	 its	 subsidiaries	 and,	 therefore,	 the	 timing	 of	 the	 remittance	 of	 the	 undistributed	 earnings	 	
of	 overseas	 subsidiaries.	 In	 general,	 the	 Company	 has	 determined	 either	 that	 such	 earnings	 will	 not	 be	 distributed	 in	 the	 foreseeable	 future	 or,	
where	 there	 are	 plans	 to	 remit	 those	 earnings,	 no	 tax	 liability	 is	 expected	 to	 arise.	 Deferred	 tax	 of	 £1.9m	 (2010:	 £1.4m)	 has	 been	 recognised	 in	 	
the	 exceptional	 case	 where	 distribution	 of	 earnings	 is	 both	 planned	 and	 expected	 to	 result	 in	 a	 tax	 liability.	
Deferred	 tax	 assets	 in	 respect	 of	 temporary	 differences	 have	 only	 been	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 tax	 losses	 and	 other	 temporary	 differences	 	
where	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 these	 assets	 will	 be	 realised.	 No	 deferred	 tax	 asset	 has	 been	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 unutilised	 tax	 losses	 of	 £5.3m	 	
(2010:	 £7.0m).	 The	 unutilised	 tax	 losses	 may	 be	 carried	 forward	 indefinitely.
No	 deferred	 tax	 has	 been	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 unutilised	 capital	 losses	 of	 £95.8m	 (2010:	 £95.9m)	 as	 it	 is	 not	 considered	 probable	 that	 	
there	 will	 be	 suitable	 future	 taxable	 profits	 against	 which	 they	 can	 be	 utilised.
The	 movement	 on	 the	 net	 deferred	 tax	 liability	 is	 shown	 below:
 2011 
£m
	 2010	
£m
Beginning	 of	 year 109.5 97.1
Acquisitions 22.3 11.9
Disposal	 of	 business (3.4) –
(Credit)/charge	 to	 income	 statement (0.1) 1.8
Recognised	 in	 other	 comprehensive	 income	 and	 equity (14.2) (3.0)
Other – (0.4)
Currency	 translation (0.6) 2.1
End of year 113.5 109.5 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      77 
16 ShARE CAPiTAL AnD ShARE BASED PAyMEnTS
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 32
1
⁄7p each 113.8 113.3
number of ordinary shares in issue and fully paid
Beginning	 of	 year 352,520,158 351,509,328
Issued	 –	 scrip	 dividend 925,544 498,486
	 	 	 	 	 	 –	 option	 exercises 529,378 512,344
End of year 353,975,080 352,520,158
The	 Company	 operates	 the	 following	 share	 plans	 for	 the	 benefit	 of	 employees	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	 relating	 to	 the	 acquisition	 of	
shares	 in	 the	 Company.	 Further	 details	 of	 the	 share	 plans	 operated	 by	 the	 Company	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report.
Sharesave Scheme (2011) 
The	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2011),	 approved	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 2011	 Annual	 General	 Meeting,	 is	 approved	 by	 HM	 Revenue	 &	 Customs	 in	 the	 UK	
and	 is	 open	 to	 all	 UK	 employees,	 including	 UK	 based	 executive	 directors,	 who	 have	 completed	 at	 least	 three	 months	 of	 continuous	 service.	 It	 is	
linked	 to	 a	 contract	 for	 monthly	 savings	 of	 up	 to	 £250	 per	 month	 over	 a	 period	 of	 either	 three	 or	 five	 years.	 Under	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2011)	
options	 are	 granted	 to	 participating	 employees	 at	 a	 discount	 of	 up	 to	 20%	 of	 the	 market	 price	 prevailing	 shortly	 before	 the	 invitation	 to	 apply	 for	 the	
option.	 Options	 are	 normally	 exercisable	 either	 three	 or	 five	 years	 after	 they	 have	 been	 granted.	 As	 at	 31	 December	 2011	 no	 options	 had	 been	
granted	 under	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2011).
The	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2011)	 replaces	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2001)	 which	 was	 approved	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 2001	 Annual	 General	 Meeting.	
The	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2001)	 operates	 on	 a	 similar	 basis	 to	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2011).	 Although	 there	 are	 a	 number	 of	 options	 outstanding	
under	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2001),	 no	 further	 options	 have	 been	 granted	 under	 this	 Scheme	 since	 it	 expired	 in	 May	 2011.	
international Sharesave Plan 
The	 International	 Sharesave	 Plan	 was	 introduced	 following	 the	 approval	 of	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2001)	 by	 shareholders	 and	 was	 extended	
following	 the	 approval	 of	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2011).	 The	 plan	 operates	 on	 a	 similar	 basis	 to	 both	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2001)	 and	 the	
Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2011)	 except	 that	 it	 is	 linked	 to	 a	 contract	 for	 monthly	 savings	 of	 approximately	 £250	 per	 month	 (or	 equivalent	 in	 other	
currencies)	 over	 a	 period	 of	 three	 years.
irish Sharesave Plan 
The	 Irish	 Sharesave	 Plan	 was	 also	 introduced	 following	 the	 approval	 of	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2001)	 by	 shareholders	 and	 was	 extended	 following	
the	 approval	 of	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2011).	 It	 is	 approved	 by	 the	 Irish	 Revenue	 Commissioners	 and	 operates	 on	 a	 similar	 basis	 to	 both	 the	
Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2001)	 and	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2011)	 as	 described	 above	 except	 that	 it	 is	 linked	 to	 a	 contract	 for	 monthly	 savings	 of	 the	
euro	 equivalent	 of	 approximately	 £250	 per	 month	 over	 a	 period	 of	 three	 years.
1994 Executive Share Option Scheme (‘1994 Scheme’)
The	 1994	 Scheme	 was	 approved	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 1994	 Annual	 General	 Meeting.	 No	 further	 options	 have	 been	 granted	 under	 the	 1994	
Scheme	 since	 it	 expired	 in	 May	 2004.	 A	 performance	 condition,	 based	 on	 the	 Company’s	 adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share	 growth	 relative	 to	 UK	 RPI	
inflation	 over	 three	 years,	 had	 to	 be	 satisfied	 before	 options	 would	 normally	 be	 exercisable.	 All	 such	 performance	 conditions	 relating	 to	 options	
granted	 under	 the	 1994	 Scheme	 have	 been	 satisfied.	 Prior	 to	 25	 August	 2010	 all	 options	 granted	 under	 the	 1994	 Scheme	 to	 US	 resident	
participants	 (with	 the	 exception	 of	 Patrick	 Larmon)	 were	 settled	 in	 cash	 (rather	 than	 through	 the	 delivery	 of	 shares)	 based	 upon	 the	 market	 value	 	
of	 the	 Company’s	 ordinary	 shares	 at	 the	 time	 the	 relevant	 options	 were	 exercised.	 With	 effect	 from	 such	 date,	 all	 such	 cash	 settled	 options	 were	
converted	 to	 equity	 settled	 options.
Long Term incentive Plan (‘LTiP’)
The	 LTIP	 was	 approved	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 2004	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 and	 replaced	 the	 1994	 Scheme.	 The	 LTIP	 is	 divided	 into	 two	 parts.
Part	 A	 allows	 the	 Board	 to	 grant	 share	 options.	 In	 normal	 circumstances	 options	 granted	 are	 only	 exercisable	 if	 the	 relevant	 performance	 condition	
has	 been	 satisfied.	 Share	 options	 granted	 to	 date	 have	 a	 performance	 condition	 attached	 based	 on	 the	 Company’s	 adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share	
growth	 relative	 to	 UK	 RPI	 inflation	 over	 three	 years.	 Prior	 to	 25	 August	 2010	 all	 options	 granted	 under	 Part	 A	 of	 the	 LTIP	 to	 US	 resident	 participants	
(with	 the	 exception	 of	 Patrick	 Larmon)	 were	 settled	 in	 cash	 (rather	 than	 through	 the	 delivery	 of	 shares)	 based	 upon	 the	 market	 value	 of	 the	
Company’s	 ordinary	 shares	 at	 the	 time	 the	 relevant	 options	 were	 exercised.	 With	 effect	 from	 such	 date,	 all	 such	 cash	 settled	 options	 were	
converted	 to	 equity	 settled	 options. 78      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
16 ShARE CAPiTAL AnD ShARE BASED PAyMEnTS CONTINUED
Part	 B	 of	 the	 LTIP	 allows	 the	 Board	 to	 award	 performance	 shares	 which	 is	 a	 conditional	 right	 to	 receive	 shares	 in	 the	 Company	 for	 nil	 consideration.	
A	 performance	 share	 award	 will	 normally	 vest	 (i.e.	 become	 exercisable)	 on	 the	 third	 anniversary	 of	 its	 grant	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 the	 applicable	
performance	 condition	 has	 been	 satisfied.	 The	 extent	 to	 which	 performance	 share	 awards	 granted	 prior	 to	 2007	 vested	 was	 subject	 to	 the	
Company’s	 total	 shareholder	 return	 (‘TSR’)	 performance	 over	 a	 three	 year	 period	 relative	 to	 the	 TSR	 performance	 of	 a	 specified	 peer	 group	 of	
companies.	 The	 extent	 to	 which	 performance	 share	 awards	 granted	 thereafter	 have	 vested	 or	 will	 in	 future	 vest	 is	 normally	 partly	 subject	 to	 the	
Company’s	 TSR	 performance	 and	 partly	 subject	 to	 the	 Company’s	 adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share	 growth	 relative	 to	 UK	 RPI	 inflation	 over	 three	 years.
investment in own shares
The	 Company	 holds	 a	 number	 of	 its	 ordinary	 shares	 in	 an	 employee	 benefit	 trust.	 The	 principal	 purpose	 of	 this	 trust	 is	 to	 hold	 shares	 in	 the	 Company	
for	 subsequent	 transfer	 to	 certain	 senior	 employees	 and	 executive	 directors	 relating	 to	 options	 granted	 and	 awards	 made	 in	 respect	 	
of	 market	 purchase	 shares	 under	 the	 1994	 Scheme,	 the	 LTIP	 and	 the	 Deferred	 Annual	 Share	 Bonus	 Scheme	 (‘DASBS’).	 Details	 of	 such	 plans	 	
are	 set	 out	 above	 and	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report.	 The	 assets,	 liabilities	 and	 expenditure	 of	 the	 trust	 have	 been	 incorporated	 in	 	
the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.	 Finance	 costs	 and	 administration	 charges	 are	 included	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 on	 an	 accruals	 basis.	 	
At	 31	 December	 2011	 the	 trust	 held	 5,230,867	 (2010:	 3,995,293)	 shares,	 upon	 which	 dividends	 have	 been	 waived,	 with	 an	 aggregate	 nominal	
value	 of	 £1.7m	 (2010:	 £1.3m)	 and	 market	 value	 of	 £46.2m	 (2010:	 £28.7m).	 At	 31	 December	 2011,	 23,325,000	 (2010:	 23,325,000)	 shares	 with	 an	
aggregate	 nominal	 value	 of	 £7.5m	 (2010:	 £7.5m)	 and	 market	 value	 of	 £206.2m	 (2010:	 £167.7m)	 were	 held	 in	 treasury.
if RS 2 disclosures
Options	 granted	 during	 the	 year	 have	 been	 valued	 using	 a	 stochastic	 model.	 The	 fair	 value	 per	 option	 granted	 during	 the	 year	 and	 the	 assumptions	
used	 in the	 calculations	 are	 as	 follows:
 2011 	 2010
Grant	 date	 03.03.11–11.10.11 25.02.10–08.10.10
Share	 price	 at	 grant	 date	 (£) 7.03–7.91 6.69–7.61
Exercise	 price	 (£) nil–8.13 nil–7.57
Options	 granted	 during	 the	 year	 (shares) 4,247,408 4,273,366
Vesting	 period	 (years) 3–5 3–5
Expected	 volatility	 (%) 21–24 21–25
Option	 life	 (years) 3–10 3–10
Expected	 life	 (years) 3.0–6.5 3.0–6.5
Risk	 free	 rate	 of	 return	 (%) 0.9–2.9 0.9–3.1
Expected	 dividends	 expressed	 as	 a	 dividend	 yield	 (%) 3.1–3.3 2.8–3.2
Fair	 value	 per	 option	 (£) 0.62–3.08 0.59–2.78
The	 expected	 volatility	 is	 based	 on	 historical	 volatility	 over	 the	 last	 three	 to	 five	 years.	 The	 expected	 life	 is	 the	 average	 expected	 period	 to	 exercise.	
The	 risk	 free	 rate	 of	 return	 is	 the	 yield	 on	 zero	 coupon	 UK	 government	 bonds	 of	 a	 term	 consistent	 with	 the	 assumed	 option	 life.	
The	 weighted	 average	 share	 price	 for	 options	 exercised	 by	 employees	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	 during	 the	 year	 was	 £7.95	 (2010:	 £7.42).	
The	 total	 charge	 for	 the	 year	 relating	 to	 share	 based	 payments	 was	 £5.3m	 (2010:	 £4.1m),	 comprising	 a	 charge	 of	 £5.3m	 relating	 to	 equity	 	
settled	 options	 (2010:	 £3.4m)	 and	 £nil	 relating	 to	 cash	 settled	 options	 (2010:	 £0.7m).	 After	 tax	 the	 total	 charge	 was	 £3.1m	 (2010:	 £2.0m).
Details	 of	 share	 options	 and	 awards	 which	 have	 been	 granted	 and	 exercised,	 those	 which	 have	 lapsed	 during	 2011	 and	 those	 outstanding	 and	
available	 to	 exercise	 at	 31	 December	 2011,	 in	 each	 case	 in	 respect	 of	 all	 options	 and	 awards,	 whether	 over	 new	 issue	 or	 market	 purchase	 shares,	
under	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2001),	 International	 Sharesave	 Plan,	 Irish	 Sharesave	 Plan,	 1994	 Scheme	 and	 LTIP	 Part	 A	 and	 Part	 B	 are	 set	 out	 in	
the	 following	 table:
Options	
outstanding	 Grants/awards	 Exercises Lapses*
Options	
outstanding	
Options	
available	
to	 exercise	
at	 01.01.11 2011 	 2011 	 2011 at	 31.12.11 at	 31.12.11
Number Number Price	 (p) Number Price	 (p) Number Number Price	 (p) Number
Sharesave	 Scheme 1,110,304 266,850 580 228,723 437–580 172,349 976,082 452–580 129,719
International	 Sharesave	 Plan	 142,332 6,106 580 15,673 452–578 16,454 116,311 452–580 –
Irish	 Sharesave	 Plan 37,634 – – 1,568 578 7,615 28,451 452–580 588
1994	 Scheme 640,000 – – 319,500 372–482 – 320,500 372–461 320,500
LTIP	 Part	 A 14,358,782 3,294,850 712–813 2,198,989 429–746 336,329 15,118,314 429–813 5,835,939
LTIP	 Part	 B 2,032,269 679,602 nil 277,939 nil 352,811 2,081,121 nil –
18,321,321 4,247,408 3,042,392 885,558 18,640,779 6,286,746
*Share	 option	 lapses	 relate	 to	 those	 which	 have	 either	 been	 forfeited	 or	 have	 expired	 during	 the	 year. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      79 
16 ShARE CAPiTAL AnD ShARE BASED PAyMEnTS CONTINUED
Weighted	
average	
fair	 value	
of	 options	
granted	 (£)
Weighted	
average	
remaining	
contractual	
life	 (years)
Sharesave	 Scheme 0.90 2.69
International	 Sharesave	 Plan 0.64 2.26
LTIP	 Part	 A 0.66 2.65
LTIP	 Part	 B 2.85 2.52
The	 outstanding	 options	 and	 awards	 are	 exercis	 able	 at	 various	 dates	 up	 to	 September	 2021.
17 Divi DEnDS 
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
2009	 interim 21.4
2009	 final	 48.2
2010	 interim 23.2
2010	 final 52.3 	
Total 75.5 69.6
Total	 dividends	 per	 share	 for	 the	 year	 to	 which	 they	 relate	 are:
Per	 share
 2011 	 2010
Interim 8.05p 7.15p
Final 18.30p 16.20p
Total 26.35p 23.35p
The	 2011	 interim	 dividend	 of	 8.05p	 per	 share	 was	 paid	 on	 3	 January	 2012	 and	 comprised	 £26.1m	 of	 cash.	 The	 2011	 final	 dividend	 of	 18.30p	 per	
share	 will	 be	 paid	 on	 2	 July	 2012	 to	 shareholders	 on	 the	 register	 at	 the	 close	 of	 business	 on	 11	 May	 2012.
18 COnTing EnT LiABiLiTiES
2011 
£m
	 2010	
£m
Bank	 guarantees 0.2 0.2
19 DiRECTORS’ ORDin ARy ShARE in TERESTS
The	 interests	 of	 the	 directors,	 and	 their	 connected	 persons,	 in	 the	 share	 capital	 of	 the	 Company	 at	 31	 December	 were:
 2011 	 2010
Philip	 Rogerson 10,000 10,000
Michael	 Roney 289,375 238,888
Ulrich	 Wolters 5,000 5,000
Patrick	 Larmon 109,381 95,528
Peter	 Johnson 6,630 5,188
Brian	 May 105,240 100,610
David	 Sleath 4,000 4,000
Eugenia	 Ulasewicz 4,000 	
533,626 459,214
Details	 of	 directors’	 options	 over	 ordinary	 shares	 and	 awards	 made	 under	 the	 LTIP	 and	 the	 DASBS	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report.	
Since	 31	 December	 2011	 Patrick	 Larmon	 has	 acquired	 interests	 in	 833	 ordinary	 shares	 as	 a	 result	 of	 his	 election	 to	 participate	 in	 the	 dividend	
reinvestment	 plan	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 interim	 dividend	 which	 was	 paid	 on	 3	 January	 2012	 and	 he	 has	 also	 acquired	 interests	 in	 430	 ordinary	 shares	
pursuant	 to	 the	 Company’s	 US	 Stock	 Purchase	 Plan.	 No	 other	 changes	 to	 the	 directors’	 ordinary	 share	 interests	 shown	 in	 this	 Note	 and	 the	
Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 have	 taken	 place	 between	 31	 December	 2011	 and	 27	 February	 2012. 80      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
20 PEnSiOnS 
The	 Group	 operates	 both	 defined	 benefit	 and	 defined	 contribution	 pension	 schemes.	 The	 funds	 of	 the	 principal	 schemes	 are	 administered	 	
by	 trustees	 and	 are	 held	 independently	 from	 the	 Group.	 Pension	 costs	 of	 defined	 benefit	 schemes	 are	 assessed	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 advice	 	
of	 independent	 professionally	 qualified	 actuaries.	 Full	 triennial	 actuarial	 valuations	 were	 carried	 out	 on	 the	 UK	 defined	 benefit	 schemes	 in	 April	
2009	 and	 annual	 actuarial	 valuations	 are	 performed	 on	 the	 principal	 US	 defined	 benefit	 schemes.	 The	 valuation	 of	 the	 UK	 defined	 benefit	
schemes	 has	 been	 updated	 to	 31	 December	 2011	 by	 the	 Group’s	 actuaries.	 Contributions	 to	 all	 schemes	 are	 determined	 in	 line	 with	 actuarial	
advice	 and	 local	 conditions	 and	 practices.	 Scheme	 assets	 for	 the	 purpose	 of	 IAS	 19	 are	 stated	 at	 their	 bid	 value.
The	 amounts	 included	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 Group	 were:
Amounts included in net operating expenses
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Defined	 contribution	 schemes	 9.9 9.5
Defined	 benefit	 schemes	
	 current 	 service	 cost 5.5 5.4
	 past 	 service	 cost – 0.1
Total	 operating	 charge 15.4 15.0
Amounts included in finance (income)/cost
Expected	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets (18.3) (16.8)
Interest	 charge	 on	 scheme	 liabilities 16.4 16.3
Net	 financial	 return (1.9) (0.5)
Total charge 13.5 14.5
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
 2011
£m
	 2010
£m
Actual	 return	 less	 expected	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets (12.6) 10.8
Experience	 gain	 on	 scheme	 liabilities 0.4 1.2
Impact	 of	 changes	 in	 assumptions	 relating	 to	 the	 present	 value	 of	 scheme	 liabilities (23.3) (14.5)
Actuarial	 loss	 on	 pension	 schemes (35.5) (2.5)
The	 cumulative	 amount	 of	 actuarial	 losses	 arising	 since	 1	 January	 2004	 recognised	 in	 the	 statement	 of	 comprehensive	 income	 at	 31	 December	
2011	 was	 £102.9m	 (2010:	 £67.4m). BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      81 
20 PEnSiOnS CONTINUED
The	 principal	 assumptions	 used	 by	 the	 independent	 qualified	 actuaries	 for	 the	 purposes	 of	 IAS	 19	 were:
Europe 2011 	 2010
Longevity	 at	 age	 65	 for	 current	 pensioners	 (years) 21.1 21.0
Longevity	 at	 age	 65	 for	 future	 pensioners	 (years) 23.0 22.9
uS 	
Longevity	 at	 age	 65	 for	 current	 and	 future	 pensioners	 (years) 20.1 19.7
Europe US
 2011 	 2010 2009 2011 	 2010 2009
Rate	 of	 increase	 in	 salaries 3.8% 4.2% 4.3% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
Rate	 of	 increase	 in	 pensions 3.0% 3.4% 3.3% – – –
Discount	 rate 4.7% 5.4% 5.7% 5.1% 5.7% 6.1%
Inflation	 rate 2.3% 2.8% 3.3% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5%
The	 assumptions	 used	 by	 the	 actuaries	 are	 the	 best	 estimates	 chosen	 from	 a	 range	 of	 possible	 actuarial	 assumptions	 which,	 due	 to	 the	 timescales	
covered,	 may	 not	 necessarily	 be	 borne	 out	 in	 practice.
To	 develop	 the	 expected	 long	 term	 rate	 of	 return	 on	 assets	 assumption,	 the	 Group	 considers	 the	 current	 level	 of	 expected	 returns	 on	 risk	 free	
investments	 (primarily	 government	 bonds),	 the	 historical	 level	 of	 the	 risk	 premium	 associated	 with	 the	 other	 asset	 classes	 in	 which	 the	 portfolio	 	
is	 invested	 and	 the	 expectations	 for	 the	 future	 returns	 of	 each	 asset	 class.	 The	 expected	 return	 for	 each	 asset	 class	 is	 then	 weighted	 based	 on	 the	
actual	 asset	 allocation	 to	 develop	 the	 expected	 long	 term	 rate	 of	 return	 on	 assets	 assumption	 for	 the	 portfolio.	 The	 market	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets	
and	 the	 present	 value	 of	 pensions	 obligations	 were:
Europe uS Total
2011 2011 2011
Long term 
rate of return†
value 
£m
Long term 
rate of return
value 
£m
value 
£m
Equities 7.6% 136.5 8.2% 40.4 176.9
Bonds 4.4% 60.1 5.1% 30.5 90.6
Other 6.6% 0.9 8.0% 3.9 4.8
Blended	 rate	 of	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets 6.7% 7.5% 
Total	 market	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets 197.5 74.8 272.3
Present	 value	 of	 funded	 obligations (229.6) (102.3) (331.9)
Present	 value	 of	 unfunded	 obligations (4.3) (10.5) (14.8)
Present	 value	 of	 funded	 and	 unfunded	 obligations (233.9) (112.8) (346.7)
Unrecognised	 past	 service	 cost – 0.1 0.1
Deficit (36.4) (37.9) (74.3)
Deferred	 tax	 9.4 14.0 23.4
Net	 deficit (27.0) (23.9) (50.9)
†Long	 term	 rate	 of	 return	 is	 based	 on	 the	 weighted	 average	 across	 all	 European	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes. 82      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
20 PEnSiOnS CONTINUED
Europe US Total
	 2010 	 2010 	 2010
Long	 term	
rate	 of	 return†
Value	
£m
Long	 term	
rate	 of	 return
Value	
£m
Value	
£m
Equities 7.7% 121.8 8.2% 40.5 162.3
Bonds 5.3% 64.9 5.1% 26.1 91.0
Other 4.1% 0.4 8.0% 4.3 4.7
Blended	 rate	 of	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets 6.8% 7.4% 	
Total	 market	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets 187.1 70.9 258.0
Present	 value	 of	 funded	 obligations (209.8) (86.5) (296.3)
Present	 value	 of	 unfunded	 obligations (4.7) (9.5) (14.2)
Present	 value	 of	 funded	 and	 unfunded	 obligations (214.5) (96.0) (310.5)
Unrecognised	 past	 service	 cost – 0.2 0.2
Deficit (27.4) (24.9) (52.3)
Deferred	 tax	 7.5 8.7 16.2
Net	 deficit (19.9) (16.2) (36.1)
†Long	 term	 rate	 of	 return	 is	 based	 on	 the	 weighted	 average	 across	 all	 European	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes.
f ive year summary
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
2009	
£m
2008	
£m
2007	
£m
Total	 market	 value	 of	 scheme	 assets 272.3 258.0 223.1 202.3 229.9
Present	 value	 of	 funded	 and	 unfunded	 obligations (346.7) (310.5) (283.1) (253.0) (243.4)
Unrecognised	 past	 service	 cost 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3
Pension	 schemes’	 minimum	 funding	 liabilities (5.5) (18.1)
Deficit (74.3) (52.3) (59.8) (55.9) (31.3)
Experience	 adjustments	 arising	 on	 scheme	 liabilities 0.4 1.2 1.2 2.2 0.4
Movement in deficit
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Beginning	 of	 year (52.3) (59.8)
Current	 service	 cost (5.5) (5.4)
Past	 service	 cost – (0.1)
Contributions 17.2 15.2
Net	 financial	 return 1.9 0.5
Actuarial	 loss (35.5) (2.5)
Curtailment	 gain 0.4 –
Currency	 translation (0.5) (0.2)
End of year (74.3) (52.3) BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      83 
20 PEnSiOnS CONTINUED
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Beginning	 of	 year 310.5 283.1
Current	 service	 cost 5.5 5.4
Past	 service	 cost – 0.1
Interest	 charge	 on	 scheme	 liabilities 16.4 16.3
Contributions	 by	 employees 1.0 1.0
Actuarial	 loss 22.9 13.3
Benefits	 paid (10.5) (9.8)
Curtailment	 gain (0.4) –
Currency	 translation 1.3 1.1
End of year 346.7 310.5
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets £m £m
Beginning	 of	 year 258.0 223.1
Expected	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets 18.3 16.8
Actuarial	 (loss)/gain (12.6) 10.8
Contributions	 by	 employer	 17.2 15.2
Contributions	 by	 employees	 1.0 1.0
Benefits	 paid	 (10.5) (9.8)
Currency	 translation	 0.9 0.9
End of year 272.3 258.0
The	 calculation	 of	 expected	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets	 is	 determined	 with	 reference	 to	 market	 expectations	 in	 conjunction	 with	 the	 relevant	 	
scheme’s	 actuaries.
The	 actual	 return	 on	 scheme	 assets	 was	 £5.7m	 (2010:	 £27.6m).	
The	 Group	 expects	 to	 pay	 approximately	 £13.8m	 in	 contributions	 to	 the	 defined	 benefit	 pension	 schemes	 in	 the	 year	 ending	 31	 December	 2012.
21 DiRECTORS AnD EMPLOyEES 
Average number of employees 2011 	 2010
North	 America 3,519 3,468
Continental	 Europe 3,406 3,252
UK	 &	 Ireland 3,934 4,742
Rest	 of	 the	 World 1,047 854
11,906 12,316
Corporate	 50 52
11,956 12,368
Employee costs 
 2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Wages	 and	 salaries 413.6 396.4
Social	 security	 costs 52.6 48.5
Share	 based	 payments 5.3 4.7
Pension	 costs	 15.4 15.0
486.9 464.6 84      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
21 DiRECTORS AnD EMPLOyEES CONTINUED
Key management remuneration
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Salaries	 and	 short	 term	 employee	 benefits 5.7 5.1
Share	 based	 payments 1.9 1.4
Post	 employment	 benefits 1.0 0.9
8.6 7.4
The	 Group	 considers	 key	 management	 personnel	 as	 defined	 in	 IAS	 24	 ‘Related	 Party	 Disclosures’	 to	 be	 the	 directors	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 	
those	 members	 of	 the	 Executive	 Committee	 and	 the	 Managing	 Directors	 of	 the	 major	 geographic	 regions	 who	 are	 not	 directors	 of	 the	 Company.	 	
The	 amounts	 disclosed	 are	 calculated	 on	 the	 same	 bases	 as	 those	 used	 to	 determine	 the	 relevant	 amounts	 disclosed	 in	 the	 Directors’	 	
remuneration	 report.
Directors’ emoluments
 2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Non-executive	 directors 0.6 0.6
Executive	 directors:
	 remuneration 	 excluding	 performance	 related	 elements 2.3 2.2
	 annual 	 cash	 bonus	 1.0 0.7
3.9 3.5
More	 detailed	 information	 concerning	 directors’	 emoluments	 and	 long	 term	 incentives	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report.	 The	
aggregate	 amount	 of	 gains	 made	 by	 directors	 on	 the	 exercise	 of	 share	 options	 during	 the	 year	 was	 £0.2m	 (2010:	 £0.4m).	 The	 aggregate	 market	
value	 of	 performance	 share	 awards	 exercised	 by	 directors	 under	 long	 term	 incentive	 schemes	 during	 the	 year	 was	 £0.9m	 (2010:	 £1.1m).	 	
The	 aggregate	 market	 value	 of	 shares	 exercised	 by	 directors	 under	 the	 DASBS	 was	 £0.6m	 (2010:	 £0.6m).
22 LEASE COMMiTMEnTS
The	 Group	 leases	 certain	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 under	 non-cancellable	 operating	 lease	 agreements.	 These	 leases	 have	 varying	 terms	 	
and	 renewal	 rights.	 At	 31	 December	 the	 total	 future	 minimum	 lease	 payments	 under	 non-cancellable	 operating	 leases	 for	 each	 of	 the	 following	
periods	 were:
Land & 
buildings 
2011 
£m
 Other 
2011 
£m
Land	 &	
buildings
	 2010	
£m
Other	
2010	
£m
Within	 one	 year 51.2 20.1 48.6 25.5
Between	 one	 and	 five	 years 150.9 31.7 133.0 34.1
After	 five	 years 72.6 0.8 68.8 3.2
274.7 52.6 250.4 62.8
Total	 of	 future	 minimum	 sublease	 income	 under	 non-cancellable	 subleases (0.9) – (0.8) –
	 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      85 
23 CASh AnD CASh Equiv ALEnTS AnD nET DEBT
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Cash	 at	 bank	 and	 in	 hand 63.6 57.4
Short	 term	 deposits	 repayable	 in	 less	 than	 three	 months 10.6 26.5
Cash	 and	 deposits 74.2 83.9
Bank	 overdrafts	 (29.2) (9.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 45.0 74.9
Current	 liabilities (37.5) (126.2)
Non-current	 liabilities (678.8) (691.5)
Derivative	 assets	 –	 fair	 value	 of	 interest	 rate	 swaps	 on	 fixed	 interest	 rate	 borrowings 18.4 26.0
interest bearing loans and borrowings (697.9) (791.7)
net debt (652.9) (716.8)
Movement in net debt
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
Beginning	 of	 year (716.8) (716.8)
Net	 cash	 inflow 63.0 9.7
Realised	 (losses)/gains	 on	 foreign	 exchange	 contracts (0.2) 5.3
Currency	 translation 1.1 (15.0)
End of year (652.9) (716.8)
24 ACqui SiTiOnS 
2011
The	 principal	 acquisitions	 made	 in	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	 were	 Omega,	 Cannon	 Consumables,	 Hospitality	 Depot,	 King	 Espana,	 	
SIG	 Safety	 and	 Workwear,	 Netpak,	 D-Care,	 Majestic,	 Ideal	 and	 Danny.
Omega,	 a	 business	 principally	 engaged	 in	 the	 supply	 of	 catering	 equipment	 and	 disposables	 to	 contract	 caterers,	 hotels	 and	 other	 foodservice	
customers	 in	 New	 South	 Wales,	 Australia,	 was	 acquired	 on	 4	 March	 2011.	 Cannon	 Consumables,	 a	 business	 principally	 engaged	 in	 the	 supply	 of	
cleaning	 and	 hygiene	 consumable	 products,	 was	 acquired	 on	 31	 March	 2011.	 Hospitality	 Depot,	 a	 business	 principally	 engaged	 in	 the	 distribution	
of	 catering	 equipment	 and	 supplies	 to	 hotels,	 restaurants	 and	 caterers	 as	 well	 as	 to	 aged	 care	 facilities	 and	 education	 establishments	 in	 New	 South	
Wales,	 Australia,	 was	 acquired	 on	 6	 May	 2011.	 King	 Espana,	 a	 leading	 distributor	 of	 foodservice	 disposables	 and	 cleaning	 and	 hygiene	 supplies	 to	
the	 catering	 and	 cleaning	 sectors	 in	 Spain,	 was	 acquired	 on	 26	 May	 2011.	 SIG	 Safety	 and	 Workwear,	 a	 leading	 distributor	 of	 personal	 protection	
equipment	 and	 workwear	 to	 a	 variety	 of	 market	 sectors	 throughout	 the	 UK,	 was	 acquired	 on	 31	 May	 2011.	 Netpak,	 a	 business	 principally	 engaged	
in	 the	 supply	 of	 packaging	 supplies	 and	 equipment	 to	 a	 variety	 of	 sectors	 throughout	 Canada,	 was	 acquired	 with	 effect	 from	 1	 July	 2011.	 D-Care,	 	
a	 business	 principally	 engaged	 in	 the	 distribution	 of	 medical	 disposable	 products	 to	 hospitals	 and	 other	 healthcare	 customers	 throughout	 the	
Netherlands,	 was	 acquired	 on	 2	 September	 2011.	 Majestic	 and	 its	 associated	 companies,	 which	 supply	 personal	 protection	 equipment	 and	 	
safety	 products	 to	 customers	 in	 the	 Benelux,	 Germany	 and	 the	 US,	 was	 acquired	 on	 23	 September	 2011.	 Ideal,	 a	 leading	 supplier	 of	 cleaning	 	
and	 hygiene	 consumable	 products	 to	 facilities	 management	 companies,	 contract	 cleaners	 and	 other	 customers	 in	 the	 industrial,	 healthcare	 and	
education	 sectors	 in	 Brazil,	 was	 acquired	 on	 22	 September	 2011.	 Danny,	 a	 leading	 supplier	 of	 personal	 protection	 equipment	 throughout	 Brazil,	
specialising	 in	 the	 sourcing	 and	 sale	 of	 gloves	 and	 safety	 glasses	 for	 a	 variety	 of	 industrial	 uses	 including	 the	 automotive,	 consumer	 goods,	 food	
processing,	 petrochemical	 and	 mining	 sectors,	 was	 acquired	 on	 3	 November	 2011.
Acquisitions	 have	 been	 accounted	 for	 under	 the	 acquisition	 method	 of	 accounting,	 involving	 the	 purchase	 of	 100%	 of	 the	 acquiree’s	 share	 capital	 	
or,	 as	 the	 case	 may	 be,	 all	 of	 the	 relevant	 assets	 of	 the	 businesses	 acquired.	 Part	 of	 the	 Group’s	 strategy	 is	 to	 grow	 through	 acquisition.	 The	 Group	
has	 developed	 a	 process	 to	 assist	 with	 the	 identification	 of	 the	 fair	 values	 of	 the	 assets	 acquired	 and	 liabilities	 assumed,	 including	 the	 separate	
identification	 of	 intangible	 assets	 in	 accordance	 with	 IFRS	 3	 ‘Business	 Combinations’.	 This	 formal	 process	 is	 applied	 to	 each	 acquisition	 and	
involves	 an	 assessment	 of	 the	 assets	 acquired	 and	 liabilities	 assumed	 with	 assistance	 provided	 by	 external	 valuation	 specialists	 where	 appropriate.	
Until	 this	 assessment	 is	 complete,	 the	 allocation	 period	 remains	 open	 up	 to	 a	 maximum	 of	 12	 months	 from	 the	 relevant	 acquisition	 date.	 At	
31 December	 2011	 the	 allocation	 period	 for	 all	 acquisitions	 completed	 since	 1	 January	 2011	 remained	 open	 and	 accordingly	 the	 fair	 values	
presented	 are provisional.	
Adjustments	 are	 made	 to	 the	 assets	 acquired	 and	 liabilities	 assumed	 during	 the	 allocation	 period	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 further	 information	 and	
knowledge	 come	 to	 light	 that	 more	 accurately	 reflect	 conditions	 at	 the	 acquisition	 date.	 To	 date	 the	 adjustments	 made	 have	 impacted	 assets	
acquired	 to	 reflect	 more	 accurately	 the	 estimated	 realisable	 or	 settlement	 value.	 Similarly	 adjustments	 have	 been	 made	 to	 acquired	 liabilities	 to	
record	 onerous	 commitments	 or	 other	 commitments	 existing	 at	 the	 acquisition	 date	 but	 not	 recognised	 by	 the	 acquiree.	 Adjustments	 have	 also	
been	 made	 to	 reflect	 the	 associated	 tax	 effects.	
The	 consideration	 paid	 or	 payable	 in	 respect	 of	 acquisitions	 comprises	 amounts	 paid	 on	 completion,	 deferred	 consideration	 and	 payments	 which	
are	 contingent	 on	 the	 continued	 employment	 of	 former	 owners	 of	 businesses	 acquired.	 IFRS	 3	 requires	 that	 any	 such	 payments	 that	 are	 contingent	
on	 future	 employment	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement.	 All	 other	 consideration	 has	 been	 allocated	 against	 the	 identified	 net	 assets,	 with	 the	
balance	 recorded	 as	 goodwill.	 Transaction	 costs	 and	 expenses	 such	 as	 professional	 fees	 are	 charged	 to	 the	 income	 statement.	 The	 acquisitions	
provide	 opportunities	 for	 further	 development	 of	 the	 Group’s	 activities	 and	 create	 enhanced	 returns.	 Such	 opportunities	 and	 the	 workforces	
inherent	 in	 each	 of	 the	 acquired	 businesses	 do	 not	 translate	 to	 separately	 identifiable	 intangible	 assets	 but	 do	 represent	 much	 of	 the	 assessed	
value	 that	 supports	 the	 recognised goodwill.	 86      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
24 ACqui SiTiOnS CONTINUED
A	 summary	 of	 the	 effect	 of	 acquisitions	 completed	 in	 2011	 is	 detailed	 below:
Book value at 
acquisition 
£m
Provisional 
fair value 
adjustments
£m
f air value 
of assets 
acquired 
£m
Intangible	 assets 100.4 100.4
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 5.4 (0.8) 4.6
Inventories 34.2 (6.8) 27.4
Trade	 and	 other	 receivables 32.6 (1.2) 31.4
Trade	 and	 other	 payables (19.4) (2.4) (21.8)
Net	 cash 3.0 3.0
Provisions	 for	 liabilities	 and	 charges (3.7) (3.7)
Tax	 and	 deferred	 tax (1.4) (22.7) (24.1)
54.4 62.8 117.2
Goodwill	 50.4
Consideration 167.6
Satisfied	 by:
	 cash 	 consideration 144.8
	 deferred 	 consideration 22.8
167.6
Contingent	 payments	 to	 former	 owners 15.7
Net	 cash	 acquired (3.0)
Transaction	 costs	 and	 expenses 4.6
Total expected spend in respect of current year acquisitions 184.9
The	 net	 cash	 outflow	 in	 the	 year	 in	 respect	 of	 acquisitions	 comprised:
Cash	 consideration 144.8
Net	 cash	 acquired (3.0)
Deferred	 consideration	 in	 respect	 of	 prior	 year	 acquisitions 7.4
Net	 cash	 outflow	 in	 respect	 of	 acquisitions 149.2
Acquisition	 related	 costs 12.1
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 161.3
Acquisitions	 made	 in	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	 contributed	 £89.6m	 to	 the	 Group’s	 revenue	 and	 £9.4m	 to	 the	 Group’s	 operating	 profit	
before	 intangible	 amortisation	 and	 acquisition	 related	 costs.	
The	 estimated	 contributions	 of	 acquired	 businesses	 to	 the	 results	 of	 the	 Group,	 as	 if	 the	 acquisitions	 had	 been	 made	 at	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 year,	 are	
as	 follows:
£m
Revenue 204.3
Operating	 profit	 before	 intangible	 amortisation	 and	 acquisition	 related	 costs 24.2
2010
The	 principal	 acquisitions	 made	 in	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2010	 were	 Clean	 Care,	 Hamo,	 Weita,	 Silco,	 Juba,	 Global	 Net,	 A.M. Supply,	
Cool-Pak	 and	 Van’t	 Veer	 Verpakkingen.
Clean	 Care,	 a	 business	 principally	 engaged	 in	 the	 supply	 of	 cleaning	 and	 hygiene	 consumable	 products	 in	 Denmark,	 was	 acquired	 on	 15	 January	
2010.	 Hamo,	 a	 distributor	 of	 catering	 disposables	 and	 light	 catering	 equipment	 to	 customers	 in	 both	 the	 public	 and	 private	 sectors,	 was	 acquired	 on	
12 February	 2010.	 Weita,	 a	 supplier	 of	 cleaning	 and	 hygiene,	 foodservice,	 retail,	 healthcare	 and	 safety	 consumables	 products	 to	 both	 end	 	
users	 and	 redistributors	 in	 Switzerland,	 was	 acquired	 on	 12	 March	 2010.	 Silco,	 a	 supplier	 of	 foodservice	 disposables	 in	 Israel,	 was	 acquired	 on	 	
21	 April	 2010.	 Juba,	 a	 supplier	 of personal	 protection	 equipment	 to	 redistributors	 throughout	 Spain,	 was	 acquired	 on	 27 May	 2010.	 Global	 Net,	
which	 sells	 cleaning	 and	 hygiene	 consumables	 and	 equipment	 to	 contract	 cleaners,	 local	 authorities	 and	 other	 industrial	 customers	 throughout	 the	
Walloon	 region	 of	 Belgium,	 was	 acquired	 on	 1	 July	 2010.	 A.M.	 Supply,	 which	 supplies	 personal	 protection	 equipment	 to	 the	 oil	 and	 petrochemical	
sector	 in	 the	 state	 of	 Rio	 de	 Janeiro	 in	 Brazil,	 was	 acquired	 on	 26	 August	 2010.	 Cool-Pak,	 a	 leading	 distributor	 of	 plastic	 and	 pulp	 packaging	 to	 fruit	
and	 vegetable	 growers	 in	 the	 US,	 was	 acquired	 on	 30 August	 2010.	 Van’t	 Veer	 Verpakkingen,	 a	 business	 supplying	 cleaning	 and	 hygiene	 and	
catering	 disposable	 products	 in	 the	 Netherlands	 predominantly	 to	 the	 healthcare	 sector,	 was	 acquired	 on	 1	 October	 2010.
NOTES c ONTiNUEd BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      87 
24 ACqui SiTiOnS CONTINUED
A	 summary	 of	 the	 effect	 of	 acquisitions	 completed	 in	 2010	 is	 detailed	 below:
Book	 value	 at	
acquisition	
£m
Provisional	
fair	 value	
adjustments
£m
Fair	 value	
of	 assets	
acquired	
£m
Intangible	 assets 51.5 51.5
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment 18.3 (0.4) 17.9
Inventories 23.3 (4.4) 18.9
Trade	 and	 other	 receivables 26.1 (0.7) 25.4
Trade	 and	 other	 payables (16.4) (1.6) (18.0)
Net	 bank	 overdrafts (6.2) (6.2)
Provisions	 for	 liabilities	 and	 charges (3.1) (3.1)
Tax	 and	 deferred	 tax (3.0) (13.1) (16.1)
42.1 28.2 70.3
Goodwill	 34.5
Consideration 104.8
Satisfied	 by:
	 cash 	 consideration 97.2
	 deferred 	 consideration 7.6
104.8
Contingent	 payments	 to	 former	 owners 9.7
Net	 bank	 overdrafts	 acquired 6.2
Transaction	 costs	 and	 expenses 5.5
Total	 expected	 spend	 in	 respect	 of	 current	 year	 acquisitions 126.2
The	 net	 cash	 outflow	 in	 the	 year	 in	 respect	 of	 acquisitions	 comprised:
Cash	 consideration 97.2
Net	 bank	 overdrafts	 acquired 6.2
Deferred	 consideration	 in	 respect	 of	 prior	 year	 acquisitions 1.6
Net	 cash	 outflow	 in	 respect	 of	 acquisitions 105.0
Acquisition	 related	 costs 5.6
Total	 cash	 outflow	 in	 respect	 of	 acquisitions 110.6
Acquisitions	 made	 in	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2010	 contributed	 £84.4m	 to	 the	 Group’s	 revenue	 and	 £9.9m	 to	 the	 Group’s	 operating	 profit	
before	 intangible	 amortisation	 and	 acquisition	 related	 costs.
The	 estimated	 contributions	 of	 acquired	 businesses	 to	 the	 results	 of	 the	 Group,	 as	 if	 the	 acquisitions	 had	 been	 made	 at	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 year,	 	
are	 as	 follows:
£m
Revenue	 153.6
Operating	 profit	 before	 intangible	 amortisation	 and	 acquisition	 related	 costs	 17.8 88      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
NOTES c ONTiNUEd
25 DiSPOSALS 
During	 the	 second	 half	 of	 the	 year	 the	 Board	 decided	 that	 it	 would	 be	 an	 appropriate	 time	 to	 divest	 the	 Group’s	 vending	 business,	 which	 was	
restricted	 to	 operations	 solely	 in	 the	 UK,	 as	 it	 was	 no	 longer	 a	 strategic	 fit	 within	 the	 portfolio	 of	 the	 Group’s	 businesses.	 The	 vending	 market	 had	
changed	 significantly	 in	 recent	 years,	 partly	 due	 to	 the	 growth	 of	 high	 street	 coffee	 shops	 in	 the	 UK	 which	 led	 to	 reductions	 in	 vend	 volumes,	 and	
also	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 market	 consolidation	 which	 had	 taken	 place	 with	 two	 other	 groups	 emerging	 as	 clear	 European	 leaders.	 The	 Board	 therefore	
concluded	 that	 the	 funds	 which	 would	 be	 generated	 from	 the	 disposal	 would	 be	 better	 invested	 in	 the	 Group’s	 core,	 higher	 return	 and	 higher	 	
growth	 businesses.	
The	 disposal	 was	 completed	 on	 26	 August	 2011.	 As	 a	 result,	 the	 net	 assets	 of	 the	 Group	 reduced	 by	 £56.0m	 representing	 the	 net	 loss	 on	 disposal	
(including	 associated	 transaction	 costs	 of	 £1.0m).	 This	 reflected	 the	 book	 value	 of	 the	 assets	 disposed	 (£87.0m),	 primarily	 the	 associated	 intangible	
assets	 (£26.4m)	 and	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 allocated	 goodwill	 (£44.8m),	 offset	 by	 the	 cash	 consideration	 received	 of	 £32.0m.	 The	 loss	 relates	 to	 the	
UK	 &	 Ireland	 business	 area.	
Cash flow from disposal
2011 
£m
Cash	 received 32.0
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 disposed (1.4)
net cash inflow 30.6
26 RELATED PARTy DiSCLOSuRES 
The	 Group	 has	 identified	 the	 directors	 of	 the	 Company,	 the	 Group	 pension	 schemes	 and	 its	 key	 management	 as	 related	 parties	 for	 the	 purpose	 	
of	 IAS	 24	 ‘Related	 Party	 Disclosures’.	 Details	 of	 the	 relevant	 relationships	 with	 these	 related	 parties	 are	 disclosed	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	
report,	 Note	 20	 and	 Note	 21	 respectively.
27 PRinCiPAL SuBSiDiARy un DERTAKing S
Country	 of	 incorporation
Bunzl	 Australasia	 Ltd	 Australia
Bunzl	 Do	 Brasil	 Participacoes	 Ltda Brazil
Bunzl	 Finance	 plc* England	 &	 Wales
Bunzl	 Holding	 Danmark	 A/S Denmark
Bunzl	 Holding	 GmbH Germany
Bunzl	 Holdings	 France	 SNC France
Bunzl	 Outsourcing	 Services	 BV Netherlands
Bunzl	 UK	 Ltd England	 &	 Wales
Bunzl	 USA	 Holdings	 LLC USA
*Direct	 subsidiary	 undertaking	 of	 Bunzl	 plc.
The	 companies	 named	 above	 are	 the	 principal	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 of	 Bunzl	 plc	 at	 31	 December	 2011,	 which	 are	 wholly	 owned,	 and	 are	
included	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Group.	 The	 investments	 in	 these	 companies,	 as	 shown	 above,	 relate	 to	 ordinary	 shares,	
quotas	 or	 common	 stock.	 The	 principal	 country	 in	 which	 each	 company	 operates	 is	 the	 country	 of	 incorporation.	 The	 principal	 activities	 of	 the	 	
Group	 are	 reviewed	 in	 the	 Chief	 Executive’s	 review.	 A	 full	 list	 of	 the	 Group’s	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 will	 be	 annexed	 to	 the	 next	 annual	 return	 	
filed	 at	 Companies	 House. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      89 
Notes
2011 
£m
2010	
£m
f ixed assets
Tangible	 fixed	 assets 3 0.8 0.7
Investments 4 677.9 657.7
678.7 658.4
Current assets
Debtors 5 263.4 451.0
Cash	 at	 bank	 and	 in	 hand – 0.1
263.4 451.1
Current liabilities
Creditors:	 amounts	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year 6 (107.2) (105.3)
net current assets 156.2 345.8
Total assets less current liabilities 834.9 1,004.2
Provisions 7 (8.7) (4.6)
net assets 826.2 999.6
Capital and reserves
Called	 up	 share	 capital 8 113.8 113.3
Share	 premium	 account 9 136.4 133.9
Other	 reserves 9 5.6 5.6
Capital	 redemption	 reserve 9 8.6 8.6
Profit	 and	 loss	 account 9 561.8 738.2
Shareholders’ funds 826.2 999.6
Approved	 by	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors	 of	 Bunzl	 plc	 (Company	 registration	 number	 358948)	 on	 27	 February	 2012	 and	 signed	 on	 its	 behalf	 by	 	
Michael	 Roney,	 Chief	 Executive	 and	 Brian	 May,	 Finance	 Director.	
The	 Accounting	 policies	 and	 Notes	 on	 pages	 90	 to	 96	 form	 part	 of	 these	 financial	 statements.
c OMPANY BALANc E SHEET
at	 31	 December	 2011 90      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
1 BASiS Of PREPARATiOn
The	 financial	 statements	 of	 Bunzl	 plc	 (‘the	 Company’)	 have	 been	 prepared	 on	 a	 going	 concern	 basis	 and	 under	 the	 historical	 cost	 convention	 	
and	 have	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 and	 UK	 GAAP .	 Under	 section	 408	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006,	 the	
Company	 is	 exempt	 from	 the	 requirement	 to	 present	 its	 own	 profit	 and	 loss	 account.	
The	 following	 accounting	 policies	 have	 been	 applied	 consistently	 in	 dealing	 with	 items	 which	 are	 considered	 material	 in	 relation	 to	 the	 Company	
financial	 statements.
2 ACCOunTing POLiCiES
a investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments	 in	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 are	 held	 at	 cost	 less	 any	 provision	 for	 impairment.
b investment in own shares
The	 cost	 of	 shares	 held	 either	 directly	 (treasury	 shares)	 or	 indirectly	 (employee	 benefit	 trust	 shares)	 is	 deducted	 from	 equity.	 Repurchased	 shares	
are	 classified	 as	 treasury	 shares	 and	 are	 presented	 as	 a	 deduction	 from	 total	 equity.	 When	 treasury	 shares	 are	 subsequently	 sold	 or	 reissued,	 the	
amount	 received	 is	 recognised	 as	 an	 increase	 in	 equity	 and	 the	 resulting	 surplus	 or	 deficit	 on	 the	 transaction	 is	 recognised	 in	 retained	 earnings.
c Share based payments
The	 Company	 operates	 equity	 settled	 share	 based	 compensation	 plans	 for	 which	 the	 total	 expected	 expense	 is	 based	 on	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 options	
and	 other	 share	 based	 incentives	 on	 the	 grant	 date,	 calculated	 using	 a	 valuation	 model,	 and	 is	 spread	 over	 the	 expected	 vesting	 period	 with	 a	
corresponding	 credit	 to	 equity.	 The	 amount	 recognised	 as	 an	 expense	 is	 adjusted	 to	 reflect	 the	 number	 of	 options	 that	 are	 expected	 to	 vest.	 Details	
of	 the	 relevant	 plans	 are	 outlined	 in	 Note	 16	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.	 Where	 the	 Company	 grants	 options	 over	 its	 own	 shares	 to	 the	
employees	 of	 its	 subsidiaries	 these	 awards	 are	 accounted	 for	 by	 the	 Company	 as	 an	 additional	 investment	 in	 the	 relevant	 subsidiary	 equivalent	 to	
the	 equity	 settled	 share	 based	 payment	 charge	 recognised	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 with	 the	 corresponding	 credit	 recognised	
directly	 in	 equity.	 Any	 payment	 made	 by	 the	 subsidiaries	 in	 respect	 of	 these	 arrangements	 is	 treated	 as	 a	 return	 of	 this	 investment.	 These	 costs	 are	
determined	 in	 accordance	 with	 FRS	 20	 ‘Share-based	 Payment’.
d Tangible fixed assets
Until	 31	 December	 1999	 land	 and	 buildings	 were	 revalued	 periodically.	 As	 permitted	 under	 FRS	 15	 ‘Tangible	 Fixed	 Assets’,	 the	 valuations	 of	 land	
and	 buildings	 have	 not	 been	 and	 will	 not	 be	 updated.	 All	 other	 tangible	 fixed	 assets	 are	 included	 at	 historical	 cost,	 less	 accumulated	 depreciation.	
The	 profit	 or	 loss	 on	 sale	 of	 tangible	 fixed	 assets	 is	 calculated	 by	 reference	 to	 the	 carrying	 values	 of	 the	 assets.	 The	 carrying	 values	 of	 tangible	 fixed	
assets	 are	 periodically	 reviewed	 for	 impairment	 when	 events	 or	 changes	 in	 circumstances	 indicate	 that	 the	 carrying	 values	 may	 not	 be	 recoverable.
e Depreciation
Depreciation	 is	 provided	 on	 a	 straight	 line	 basis	 to	 write	 off	 cost	 less	 estimated	 residual	 value	 over	 the	 assets’	 estimated	 remaining	 useful	 lives.	 This	
is	 applied	 at	 the	 following	 annual	 rates:
Buildings		 	 	 2% 	 (or	 depreciated	 over	 life	 of	 lease	 if	 shorter	 than	 50	 years)	
Fixtures,	 fittings	 and	 equipment	 10%–33%
The	 assets’	 residual	 values,	 useful	 lives	 and	 depreciation	 methods	 are	 reviewed,	 and	 adjusted	 if	 appropriate,	 at	 each	 balance	 sheet	 date.
f Leases
Operating	 lease	 rentals	 and	 any	 incentives	 receivable	 are	 recognised	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 on	 a	 straight	 line	 basis	 over	 the	 term	 of	 the	 relevant	
lease.	 Leases	 in	 which	 the	 Company	 assumes	 substantially	 all	 the	 risks	 and	 rewards	 of	 ownership	 of	 the	 leased	 assets	 are	 classified	 as	 finance	
leases.	 Where	 land	 and	 buildings	 are	 held	 under	 leases,	 the	 accounting	 treatment	 of	 the	 land	 is	 considered	 separately	 from	 that	 of	 the	 buildings	
due	 to	 the	 indefinite	 life	 of	 land.
NOTES TO THE c OMPANY FiNANc iAL STATEMENTS BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      91 
2 ACCOun Ting POLiCiES CONTINUED 
g Tax
The	 charge	 for	 tax	 is	 based	 on	 the	 profit	 or	 loss	 for	 the	 year	 and	 takes	 into	 account	 tax	 deferred	 due	 to	 timing	 differences	 between	 the	 treatment	 	
of	 certain	 items	 for	 tax	 and	 accounting	 purposes.	 Deferred	 tax	 is	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 all	 timing	 differences	 between	 the	 treatment	 of	 certain	
items	 for	 tax	 and	 accounting	 purposes	 which	 have	 arisen	 but	 not	 reversed	 by	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date,	 except	 as	 otherwise	 required	 by	 FRS 19	
‘Deferred	 Tax’.	
h Pensions
The	 Company	 participates	 in	 a	 Group	 UK	 defined	 benefit	 scheme	 providing	 benefits	 based	 on	 final	 pensionable	 pay.	 As	 the	 Company	 is	 unable	 	
to	 identify	 its	 share	 of	 scheme	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 on	 a	 consistent	 and	 reasonable	 basis,	 the	 Company	 treats	 contributions	 to	 the	 defined	 benefit	
scheme	 as	 if	 they	 were	 contributions	 to	 a	 defined	 contribution	 scheme	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 exemptions	 permitted	 by	 FRS	 17	 ‘Retirement	
Benefits’.	 As	 a	 result	 the	 amount	 charged	 to	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 represents	 the	 contributions	 payable	 to	 the	 scheme	 in	 respect	 of	 the	
relevant	 accounting	 period.
i f inancial guarantee contracts
Where	 the	 Company	 enters	 into	 financial	 guarantee	 contracts	 to	 guarantee	 the	 indebtedness	 of	 other	 companies	 within	 the	 Group,	 the	 Company	
considers	 these	 to	 be	 insurance	 arrangements	 and	 accounts	 for	 them	 as	 such.	 In	 this	 respect,	 the	 Company	 treats	 the	 guarantee	 contract	 as	 	
a	 contingent	 liability	 until	 such	 time	 as	 it	 becomes	 probable	 that	 the	 Company	 will	 be	 required	 to	 make	 a	 payment	 under	 the	 guarantee.	
j Dividends
The	 interim	 dividend	 is	 included	 in	 the	 financial	 statements	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 it	 is	 paid	 and	 the	 final	 dividend	 in	 the	 period	 in	 which	 it	 is	
approved	 by	 shareholders	 at	 the	 Annual	 General	 Meeting.
3 TAngi BLE fix ED ASSETS 
Short	
leasehold	
£m
Fixtures,	
fittings	 and	
equipment	
£m
Total	
£m
Cost 
Beginning	 of	 year 0.4 2.6 3.0
Additions 0.1 0.2 0.3
End	 of	 year 0.5 2.8 3.3	
Depreciation
Beginning	 of	 year 0.3 2.0 2.3
Charge	 in	 year 0.1 0.1 0.2
End	 of	 year 0.4 2.1 2.5	
net book value at 31 December 2011 0.1 0.7 0.8
Net	 book	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2010 0.1 0.6 0.7	 92      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
4 inv ESTMEnTS hELD AS fix ED ASSETS
Investments	 in	
subsidiary	
undertakings	
£m
Cost 
Beginning	 of	 year 703.3
Additions 49.8
Disposal (29.6)
End of year 723.5
impairment provisions
Beginning	 and	 end	 of	 year 45.6
net book value at 31 December 2011 677.9
Net	 book	 value	 at	 31	 December	 2010 657.7
The	 additions	 during	 the	 year	 include	 the	 Company	 subscribing	 £45.2m	 for	 ordinary	 shares	 in	 Bunzl	 Overseas	 Holdings	 (No.	 2)	 Limited,	 its	
ownership	 being	 100%	 at	 the	 beginning	 and	 end	 of	 the	 year.	
On	 26	 August	 2011	 the	 Company	 disposed	 of	 its	 entire	 shareholding	 in	 Provend	 Group	 Limited,	 the	 parent	 company	 of	 the	 UK	 vending	 business.	
See	 Note	 25	 of	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 for	 further	 details.	
The	 principal	 companies	 in	 which	 the	 Company’s	 interest	 at	 31	 December	 2011	 is	 more	 than	 20%	 are	 as	 follows:
Country	 of	 incorporation
Bunzl	 Australasia	 Ltd	 Australia
Bunzl	 Do	 Brasil	 Participacoes	 Ltda Brazil
Bunzl	 Finance	 plc* England	 &	 Wales
Bunzl	 Holding	 Danmark	 A/S Denmark
Bunzl	 Holding	 GmbH Germany
Bunzl	 Holdings	 France	 SNC France
Bunzl	 Outsourcing	 Services	 BV Netherlands
Bunzl	 UK	 Ltd England	 &	 Wales
Bunzl	 USA	 Holdings	 LLC USA
*Direct	 subsidiary	 undertaking	 of	 Bunzl	 plc.
5 DEBTORS
 2011
£m
	 2010
£m
Amounts	 owed	 by	 subsidiary	 undertakings 256.2 429.9
Prepayments	 and	 other	 debtors 1.5 7.4
Corporation	 tax 5.0 9.6
Deferred	 tax 0.7 4.1
263.4 451.0
NOTES TO THE c OMPANY FiNANci AL STATEMENTS c ONTiNUEd BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      93 
6 CREDiTORS: AMOunTS f ALLing DuE wi Thin OnE yEAR
2011
£m
	 2010
£m
Trade	 creditors 0.4 0.4
Amounts	 owed	 to	 subsidiary	 undertakings 100.4 100.0
Other	 tax	 and	 social	 security	 contributions 0.6 –
Accruals	 and	 deferred	 income 5.8 4.9
107.2 105.3
7 PROviSiOnS
2011
£m
	 2010
£m
Beginning	 of	 year 4.6 6.6
Charge 5.2 –
Utilised (1.1) (2.0)
End of year 8.7 4.6
The	 provisions	 relate	 to	 properties,	 where	 amounts	 are	 held	 against	 liabilities	 for	 onerous	 lease	 commitments,	 repairs	 and	 dilapidations,	 and	
other claims.
8 ShARE CAPiTAL AnD ShARE BASED PAyMEnTS
 2011
£m
	 2010
£m
issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 32
1
⁄7p each 113.8 113.3
number of ordinary shares in issue and fully paid
Beginning	 of	 year 352,520,158 351,509,328
Issued	– 	 scrip	 dividend 925,544 498,486
	 	 	 – 	 option	 exercises 529,378 512,344
End of year 353,975,080 352,520,158
The	 Company	 operates	 a	 number	 of	 share	 plans,	 for	 the	 benefit	 of	 employees	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	 relating	 to	 the	 acquisition	 of	
shares	 in	 the	 Company,	 which	 are	 described	 in	 Note	 16	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements. 94      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
8 ShARE CAPiTAL AnD ShARE BASED PAyMEnTS CONTINUED 
f RS 20 disclosures
Options	 granted	 to	 employees	 of	 the	 Company	 during	 the	 year	 have	 been	 valued	 using	 a	 stochastic	 model.	 The	 fair	 value	 per	 option	 granted	 during	
the	 year	 and	 the	 assumptions	 used	 in the	 calculations	 are	 as	 follows:
 2011 	 2010
Grant	 date	 03.03.11–11.10.11 25.02.10–08.10.10
Share	 price	 at	 grant	 date	 (£) 7.30–7.91 6.69–7.61
Exercise	 price	 (£) nil–8.13 nil–7.46
Options	 granted	 during	 the	 year	 (shares) 767,380 777,465
Vesting	 period	 (years) 3–5 3–5
Expected	 volatility	 (%) 21–24 21–25
Option	 life	 (years) 3–10 3–10
Expected	 life	 (years) 3.0–6.3 3.0–6.0
Risk	 free	 rate	 of	 return	 (%) 0.9–2.9 0.9–3.0
Expected	 dividends	 expressed	 as	 a	 dividend	 yield	 (%) 3.0–3.2 2.9–3.2
Fair	 value	 per	 option	 (£) 0.66–3.08 0.59–2.78
The	 expected	 volatility	 is	 based	 on	 historical	 volatility	 over	 the	 last	 three	 to	 five	 years.	 The	 expected	 life	 is	 the	 average	 expected	 period	 to	 exercise.	
The	 risk	 free	 rate	 of	 return	 is	 the	 yield	 on	 zero	 coupon	 UK	 government	 bonds	 of	 a	 term	 consistent	 with	 the	 assumed	 option	 life.
The	 weighted	 average	 share	 price	 for	 options	 exercised	 by	 employees	 of	 the	 Company	 during	 the	 year	 was	 £7.99	 (2010:	 £7.34).	 The	 total	 Company	
charge	 for	 the	 year	 relating	 to	 share	 based	 payments	 was	 £0.7m	 (2010:	 £1.0m).	
Details	 of	 share	 options	 and	 awards	 to	 employees	 of	 the	 Company	 which	 have	 been	 granted	 and	 exercised,	 those	 which	 have	 lapsed	 during	 2011	
and	 those	 outstanding	 and	 available	 to	 exercise	 at	 31	 December	 2011,	 in	 each	 case	 in	 respect	 of	 all	 options	 and	 awards,	 whether	 over	 new	 issue	 	
or	 market	 purchase	 shares,	 under	 the	 Sharesave	 Scheme	 (2001),	 1994	 Executive	 Share	 Option	 Scheme	 and	 the	 Long	 Term	 Incentive	 Plan	 Part	 A	
and	 Part	 B	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 following	 table:
Options
outstanding 	 Grants/awards Exercises Lapses*
Options
outstanding
Options
available
to	 exercise
at	 01.01.11 2011 2011 2011 at	 31.12.11 at	 31.12.11
Number Number Price	 (p) Number Price	 (p) Number Number Price	 (p) Number
Sharesave	 Scheme 58,252 10,254 580 7,469 512-578 8,542 52,495 452-580 3,462
1994	 Scheme 8,000 – – 6,000 446 – 2,000 446 2,000
LTIP	 Part	 A 2,567,152† 483,000 725-813 293,261 429-746 31,500 2,725,391 429-813 1,292,391
LTIP	 Part	 B 988,002 274,126 nil 126,965 nil 176,285 958,878 nil –
3,621,406	 767,380 433,695 216,327 3,738,764 1,297,853
*Share	 option	 lapses	 relate	 to	 those	 which	 have	 either	 been	 forfeited	 or	 have	 expired	 during	 the	 year.
†	 Includes	 48,500	 options	 previously	 granted	 to	 an	 individual	 whose	 employment	 was	 transferred	 to	 the	 Company	 during	 2011	 from	 a	 wholly	 owned	
subsidiary	 of	 the	 Company.
Weighted
average
fair	 value
of	 options
granted	 (£)
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life	 (years)
Sharesave	 Scheme 0.90 2.97
LTIP	 Part	 A 0.67 2.47
LTIP	 Part	 B 2.85 2.51
The	 outstanding	 options	 and	 awards	 are	 exercis	 able	 at	 various	 dates	 up	 to	 September	 2021.
NOTES TO THE c OMPANY FiNANci AL STATEMENTS c ONTiNUEd BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      95 
9 CAPiTAL AnD RESERvES 
Share	
capital
£m
Share	 premium
account
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Profit	 and	 loss	 account
Total
£m
Own
shares
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
At	 1	 January	 2011 113.3 133.9 5.6 8.6 (199.5) 937.7 999.6
Issue	 of	 share	 capital 0.5 2.5 3.0
Employee	 trust	 shares (14.3) (14.3)
Share	 based	 payments 5.3 5.3	
Loss	 for	 the	 year (98.5) (98.5)
2010	 interim	 dividend (16.6) (16.6)
2010	 final	 dividend (52.3) (52.3)
At 31 December 2011 113.8 136.4 5.6 8.6 (213.8) 775.6 826.2
As	 permitted	 by	 section	 408	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006,	 the	 profit	 and	 loss	 account	 of	 the	 Company	 has	 not	 been	 separately	 presented	 in	 these	
financial	 statements.
Included	 within	 own	 shares	 are	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 the	 Company	 held	 by	 the	 Group	 in	 an	 employee	 benefit	 trust.	 The	 principal	 purpose	 of	 this	 	
trust	 is	 to	 hold	 shares	 in	 the	 Company	 for	 subsequent	 transfer	 to	 certain	 senior	 employees	 and	 executive	 directors	 relating	 to	 options	 granted	 	
and	 awards	 made	 in	 respect	 of	 market	 purchase	 shares	 under	 the	 Long	 Term	 Incentive	 Plan,	 the	 Deferred	 Annual	 Share	 Bonus	 Scheme	 and	 	
the	 1994	 Executive	 Share	 Option	 Scheme.	 Details	 of	 such	 plans	 are	 set	 out	 in	 Note	 16	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 Directors’	
remuneration	 report.	 The	 assets,	 liabilities	 and	 expenditure	 of	 the	 trust	 have	 been	 incorporated	 in	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.	 Finance	
costs	 and	 administration	 charges	 are	 included	 in	 the	 income	 statement	 on	 an	 accruals	 basis.	 At	 31	 December	 2011	 the	 trust	 held	 5,230,867	
(2010:	 3,995,293)	 shares,	 upon	 which	 dividends	 have	 been	 waived,	 with	 an	 aggregate	 nominal	 value	 of	 £1.7m	 (2010:	 £1.3m)	 and	 market	 value	 	
of	 £46.2m	 (2010:	 £28.7m).	 At	 31	 December	 2011,	 23,325,000	 (2010:	 23,325,000)	 shares	 with	 an	 aggregate	 nominal	 value	 of	 £7.5m	 (2010:	
£7.5m)	 and	 market	 value	 of	 £206.2m	 (2010:	 £167.7m)	 were	 held	 in	 treasury. 96      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
10 RECOnCiLiATiOn Of MOvEMEnT in ShAREhOLDERS’ fun DS
2011 2010
£m £m
(Loss)/profit	 for	 the	 year (98.5) 212.5
Dividends	 (68.9) (66.1)
(167.4) 146.4
Issue	 of	 share	 capital	 3.0 2.5
Employee	 trust	 shares (14.3) 13.5
Share	 based	 payments 5.3 3.3
net increase in shareholders’ funds (173.4) 165.7
Opening	 shareholders’	 funds	 999.6 833.9
Closing shareholders’ funds 826.2 999.6
The	 Company	 had	 no	 recognised	 gains	 or	 losses	 in	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2011	 or	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 December	 2010	 other	 than	 its	 	
loss	 for	 the	 relevant	 year.
11 COnTing EnT LiABiLiTiES
Borrowings	 by	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 totalling	 £676.1m	 (2010:	 £760.2m)	 which	 are	 included	 in	 the	 Group’s	 borrowings	 have	 been	 guaranteed	 by	
the	 Company.	
12 DiRECTORS’ REMunERATiOn
The	 remuneration	 of	 the	 directors	 of	 the	 Company	 is	 disclosed	 in	 Note	 21	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	
report.
13 EMPLOyEE nu MBERS AnD COSTS
The	 average	 number	 of	 persons	 employed	 by	 the	 Company	 (including	 directors)	 during	 the	 year	 was	 42	 (2010:	 42).
The	 aggregate	 employee	 costs	 relating	 to	 these	 persons	 were:
2011 2010
£m £m
Wages	 and	 salaries 7.2 7.0
Social	 security	 costs 1.2 1.1
Share	 based	 payments 0.7 1.0
Pension	 costs 0.8 0.7
9.9 9.8
14 RELATED PARTy DiSCLOSuRES
The	 Company	 has	 identified	 the	 directors	 of	 the	 Company,	 the	 UK	 pension	 scheme	 and	 its	 key	 management	 as	 related	 parties	 for	 the	 purpose	 	
of	 FRS	 8	 ‘Related	 Party	 Disclosures’.	 Details	 of	 the	 relevant	 relationships	 with	 these	 related	 parties	 are	 disclosed	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	
report,	 Note	 20	 of	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 and	 Note	 21	 of	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 respectively.
NOTES TO THE c OMPANY FiNANci AL STATEMENTS c ONTiNUEd BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      97 
STATEMENT OF di REc TORS’ RESPONSiBiLiTiES
The	 directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 preparing	 the	 Group	 and	 parent	
company	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	 	
and	 regulations.
Company	 law	 requires	 the	 directors	 to	 prepare	 Group	 and	 parent	
company	 financial	 statements	 for	 each	 financial	 year.	 Under	 that	 law	 	
the	 directors	 are	 required	 to	 prepare	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 in	
accordance	 with	 IFRS	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 EU	 and	 applicable	 law	 and	
have	 elected	 to	 prepare	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 in	
accordance	 with	 UK	 GAAP	 and	 applicable	 law.
Under	 company	 law	 the	 directors	 must	 not	 approve	 the	 financial	
statements	 unless	 they	 are	 satisfied	 that	 they	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 	
of	 the	 state	 of	 affairs	 of	 the	 Group	 and	 parent	 company	 and	 of	 their	
profit	 or	 loss	 for	 that	 period.
In	 preparing	 both	 the	 Group	 and	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements,	
the	 directors	 are	 required	 to:
•	 select 	 suitable	 accounting	 policies	 and	 then	 apply	 them	 consistently;
•	 make 	 judgements	 and	 estimates	 that	 are	 reasonable	 and	 prudent;
•		 for	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements,	 state	 whether	 they	 have	 been	
prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 IFRS	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 EU;
•	 	 	 for	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements,	 state	 whether	 	
applicable	 UK	 GAAP	 has	 been	 followed,	 subject	 to	 any	 material	
departures	 disclosed	 and	 explained	 in	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	
statements;	 and
•		 prepare	 the	 financial	 statements	 on	 the	 going	 concern	 basis	 unless	 it	
is	 inappropriate	 to	 presume	 that	 the	 Group	 and	 the	 parent	 company	
will	 continue	 in	 business.
The	 directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 keeping	 adequate	 accounting	 	
records	 that	 are	 sufficient	 to	 show	 and	 explain	 the	 parent	 company’s	
transactions	 and	 disclose	 with	 reasonable	 accuracy	 at	 any	 time	 the	
financial	 position	 of	 the	 parent	 company	 and	 enable	 them	 to	 ensure	 that	
its	 financial	 statements	 comply	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006.	 They	
have	 general	 responsibility	 for	 taking	 such	 steps	 as	 are	 reasonably	 open	
to	 them	 to	 safeguard	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 Group	 and	 to	 prevent	 and	 detect	
fraud	 and	 other	 irregularities.
Under	 applicable	 law	 and	 regulations,	 the	 directors	 are	 also	 responsible	
for	 preparing	 a	 Directors’	 report,	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 and	
Corporate	 governance	 statement	 that	 comply	 with	 that	 law	 and	 those	
regulations.	 As	 explained	 in	 the	 Directors’	 report,	 certain	 information	
included	 in	 the	 Annual	 Report	 and	 financial	 statements	 is	 incorporated	
by	 reference	 into	 the	 Directors’	 report.
The	 directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 the	 maintenance	 and	 integrity	 of	 the	
corporate	 and	 financial	 information	 included	 on	 the	 Company’s	 website.	
Legislation	 in	 the	 UK	 governing	 the	 preparation	 and	 dissemination	 of	
financial	 statements	 may	 differ	 from	 legislation	 in	 other	 jurisdictions.
The	 Annual	 Report	 and	 financial	 statements	 comply	 with	 the	 Disclosure	
and	 Transparency	 Rules	 of	 the	 United	 Kingdom’s	 Financial	 Services	
Authority	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 requirement	 to	 produce	 an	 annual	 	
financial	 report.
We	 confirm	 on	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board	 that	 to	 the	 best	 of	 our	 knowledge:
•		 the	 Group	 and	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	
prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 applicable	 set	 of	 accounting	
standards	 and	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 assets,	 liabilities,	
financial	 position	 and	 profit	 or	 loss	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 the	
undertakings	 included	 in	 the	 consolidation	 taken	 as	 a	 whole;	 and
•		 the	 Annual	 Report	 and	 financial	 statements	 include	 a	 fair	 review	 of	 	
the	 development	 and	 performance	 of	 the	 business	 and	 the	 position	 	
of	 the	 Company	 and	 the	 undertakings	 included	 in	 the	 consolidation	
taken	 as	 a	 whole,	 together	 with	 a	 description	 of	 the	 principal	 risks	 	
and	 uncertainties	 that	 they	 face.
On	 behalf	 of	 the	 Board	
Michael Roney   Brian May 
Chief	 Executive	 	 	 Finance 	 Director	
27	 February	 2012 98      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
iNd EPENd ENT AUdi TOR’S REPORT TO THE 
MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLc
We	 have	 audited	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 Bunzl	 plc	 for	 the	 year	
ended	 31	 December	 2011	 which	 comprise	 the	 consolidated	 income	
statement,	 the	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 comprehensive	 income,	 the	
Group	 and	 parent	 company	 balance	 sheets,	 the	 consolidated	 cash	 flow	
statement,	 the	 consolidated	 statement	 of	 changes	 in	 equity	 and	 related	
notes.	 The	 financial	 reporting	 framework	 that	 has	 been	 applied	 in	 the	
preparation	 of	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 is	 applicable	 law	 and	
International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 (IFRS)	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	
EU.	 The	 financial	 reporting	 framework	 that	 has	 been	 applied	 in	 the	
preparation	 of	 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 is	 applicable	 	
law	 and	 UK	 Accounting	 Standards	 (UK	 Generally	 Accepted	 	
Accounting	 Practice).
This	 report	 is	 made	 solely	 to	 the	 Company’s	 members,	 as	 a	 body,	 	
in	 accordance	 with	 Chapter	 3	 of	 Part	 16	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006.	
Our	 audit	 work	 has	 been	 undertaken	 so	 that	 we	 might	 state	 to	 the	
Company’s	 members	 those	 matters	 we	 are	 required	 to	 state	 to	 them	 	
in	 an	 auditor’s	 report	 and	 for	 no	 other	 purpose.	 To	 the	 fullest	 extent	
permitted	 by	 law,	 we	 do	 not	 accept	 or	 assume	 responsibility	 to	 anyone	
other	 than	 the	 Company	 and	 the	 Company’s	 members,	 as	 a	 body,	 for	
our	 audit	 work,	 for	 this	 report,	 or	 for	 the	 opinions	 we	 have	 formed.
RESPECTivE RESPOnSiBiLiTiES Of DiRECTORS AnD AuDiTORS 
As	 explained	 more	 fully	 in	 the	 Statement	 of	 directors’	 responsibilities	 set	
out	 on	 page	 97,	 the	 directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 the	 preparation	 of	 the	
financial	 statements	 and	 for	 being	 satisfied	 that	 they	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	
view.	 Our	 responsibility	 is	 to	 audit,	 and	 express	 an	 opinion	 on,	 the	
financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	 applicable	 law	 and	 International	
Standards	 on	 Auditing	 (UK	 and	 Ireland).	 Those	 standards	 require	 us	 to	
comply	 with	 the	 Auditing	 Practices	 Board’s	 (APB’s)	 Ethical	 Standards	 	
for	 Auditors.
SCOPE Of ThE AuDiT Of ThE fin AnCiAL STATEMEnTS
A	 description	 of	 the	 scope	 of	 an	 audit	 of	 financial	 statements	 is	 provided	
on	 the	 APB’s	 website	 at	 www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
OPini On On fin AnCiAL STATEMEnTS
In	 our	 opinion:	
•		 the	 financial	 statements	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 state	 of	 the	
Group’s	 and	 of	 the	 parent	 company’s	 affairs	 at	 31	 December	 2011	
and	 of	 the	 Group’s	 profit	 for	 the	 year	 then	 ended;
•		 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	
accordance	 with	 IFRS	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 EU;
•		 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 properly	
prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 UK	 Generally	 Accepted	 Accounting	
Practice;	 and
•		 the	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	
requirements	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 and,	 as	 regards	 the	 Group	
financial	 statements,	 Article	 4	 of	 the	 IAS	 Regulation.
OPini On On OThER MATTERS PRESCRiBED By ThE COMPAni ES 
ACT 2006
In	 our	 opinion:	
•		 	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 to	 be	 audited	 has	 been	
properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006;	 and
•		 the	 information	 given	 in	 the	 Directors’	 report	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 for	
which	 the	 financial	 statements	 are	 prepared	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	
financial	 statements.
MATTERS On whi Ch w E ARE REqui RED TO REPORT  
By ExCEPTiOn
We	 have	 nothing	 to	 report	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 following:
Under	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 we	 are	 required	 to	 report	 to	 you	 if,	 	
in	 our	 opinion:
•		 adequate	 accounting	 records	 have	 not	 been	 kept	 by	 the	 parent	
company	 or	 returns	 adequate	 for	 our	 audit	 have	 not	 been	 received	
from	 branches	 not	 visited	 by	 us;	 or
•		 the	 parent	 company	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	
remuneration	 report	 to	 be	 audited	 are	 not	 in	 agreement	 with	 the	
accounting	 records	 and	 returns;	 or
•		 certain	 disclosures	 of	 directors’	 remuneration	 specified	 by	 law	 are	 	
not	 made;	 or
•		 we	 have	 not	 received	 all	 the	 information	 and	 explanations	 we	 require	
for	 our	 audit.
Under	 the	 Listing	 Rules	 we	 are	 required	 to	 review:
•		 the	 directors’	 statement,	 set	 out	 on	 page	 32,	 in	 relation	 to	 	
going	 concern;
•		 the	 part	 of	 the	 Corporate	 governance	 statement	 on	 pages	 36	 to	 39	
relating	 to	 the	 Company’s	 compliance	 with	 the	 nine	 provisions	 of	 the	
UK	 Corporate	 Governance	 Code	 specified	 for	 our	 review;	 and
•		 certain	 elements	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report.
Mike Maloney (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMg Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered	 Accountants	
15	 Canada	 Square,	 London	 	
27	 February	 2012 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      99 
FiVE YEAR REViEW
 2011 	 2010 2009 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 5,109.5 4,829.6 4,648.7 4,177.3 3,581.9
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs 335.7 306.7	 295.7 280.5 242.9
Intangible	 amortisation	 and	 acquisition	 related	 costs (56.4) (51.0) (41.8) (36.0) (24.4)
Operating profit 279.3 255.7 253.9 244.5 218.5
Finance	 income 21.8 20.3 16.8 27.6 21.1
Finance	 cost (51.4) (50.8) (54.7) (65.2) (48.5)
Disposal	 of	 business (56.0) – – – –
Profit before income tax 193.7 225.2 216.0 206.9 191.1
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation, acquisition related 
costs and disposal of business 306.1 276.2 257.8 242.9 215.5
Income	 tax (69.9) (66.2) (67.1) (64.7) (61.0)
Profit for the year 123.8 159.0 148.9 142.2 130.1
Basic	 earnings	 per	 share 38.2p 49.1p 46.4p 44.5p 39.8p
Adjusted	 earnings	 per	 share 68.5p 60.6p 55.9p 52.7p 45.1p
	 100      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
SHAREHOLd ER iNFORMATiON
f in AnCiAL CALEnDAR
2012
Annual	 General	 Meeting 18	 April
Results	 for	 the	 half	 year	 to	 30	 June	 2012 28	 August
2013
Results	 for	 the	 year	 to	 31	 December	 2012 February
Annual	 Report	 circulated March
Dividend	 payments	 are	 normally	 made	 on	 these	 dates:
Ordinary	 shares	 (final) 1	 July
Ordinary	 shares	 (interim) 2	 January
AnALySiS Of ORDin ARy ShAREhOLDERS
At	 31	 December	 2011	 the	 Company	 had	 5,603	 (2010:	 5,761)	
shareholders	 who	 held	 354.0m	 (2010:	 352.5m)	 ordinary	 shares	
(including	 treasury	 shares)	 between	 them,	 analysed	 as	 follows:
Size	 of	 holding
Number	 of	
shareholders
%	 of	 issued
	 share	 capital
0	 –	 10,000 5,012 2
10,001	 –	 100,000 332 3
100,001	 –	 500,000 162 11
500,001	 –	 1,000,000 42 9
1,000,001	 and	 over 55 75
5,603	 100
REgi STRAR
Computershare	 Investor	 Services	 PLC	
The	 Pavilions	 	
Bridgwater	 Road	 	
Bristol	 BS99	 6ZZ	
Telephone	 0870	 889	 3257	 	
Fax	 0870	 703	 6101	
Website	 www.computershare.com
inv ESTOR CEnTRE
Shareholders	 can	 manage	 their	 shareholding	 online	 at	 	
www.investorcentre.co.uk.	 The	 Investor	 centre	 is	 our	 Registrar’s	 	
easy	 to	 use	 website,	 available	 24	 hours	 a	 day,	 7	 days	 a	 week,	 	
where	 the	 following	 services	 are	 available:
•	 change	 of	 address;
•	 view	 share	 balance	 information;	
•	 join	 the	 dividend	 reinvestment	 plan;	 and
•	 view	 dividend	 payment	 and	 tax	 information.
In	 order	 to	 register	 for	 the	 Investor	 centre,	 shareholders	 will	 need	 their	
shareholder	 reference	 number	 which	 can	 be	 found	 on	 either	 their	 share	
certificate	 or	 dividend	 tax	 voucher.
Divi DEnD PAyMEnT By BACS
Shareholders	 can	 have	 their	 dividends	 paid	 directly	 into	 their	 bank	 	
or	 building	 society	 account	 using	 the	 Bankers’	 Automated	 Clearing	
Service	 (‘BACS’).	 This	 means	 that	 dividends	 will	 be	 in	 the	 account	 	
on	 the	 same	 day	 the	 dividend	 payment	 is	 made.	 Shareholders	 will	
receive	 their	 tax	 vouchers	 by	 post.	 To	 use	 this	 method	 of	 payment	
please	 contact	 our	 Registrar	 on	 0870	 889	 3257	 or	 visit	 the	 Investor	
centre	 website.	 Please	 note	 that	 this	 option	 will	 not	 override	 any	 existing	
dividend	 scheme	 mandate,	 which	 would	 need	 to	 be	 revoked	 in	 writing.
Divi DEnD REinv ESTMEnT PLAn
The	 Company	 operates	 a	 dividend	 reinvestment	 plan	 which	 allows	
shareholders	 to	 use	 the	 whole	 of	 their	 cash	 dividend	 to	 buy	 additional	
shares	 in	 the	 Company,	 thereby	 increasing	 their	 shareholding.	
Shareholders	 can	 apply	 to	 join	 the	 plan	 online	 in	 the	 Investor	 centre	 or	
can	 contact	 the	 Company’s	 registrar	 to	 request	 the	 terms	 and	 conditions	
of	 the	 plan	 and	 a	 printed	 mandate	 form.	
ShARE DEALing
Bunzl	 plc	 shares	 can	 be	 traded	 through	 most	 banks	 and	 	
stockbrokers.	 The	 Company’s	 Registrar	 also	 offers	 an	 internet	 	
and	 telephone	 dealing	 service.	 Further	 details	 can	 be	 found	 at	 	
www.computershare.com/dealing/uk	 or	 by	 telephoning	 0870	 703	 0084.
ShAREgif T
Sometimes	 shareholders	 have	 only	 a	 small	 holding	 of	 shares	 which	 may	
be	 uneconomical	 to	 sell.	 Shareholders	 who	 wish	 to	 donate	 these	 shares	
to	 charity	 can	 do	 so	 through	 ShareGift,	 an	 independent	 charity	 share	
donation	 scheme	 (registered	 charity	 no.	 1052686).	 Further	 information	
about	 ShareGift	 may	 be	 obtained	 from	 ShareGift	 on	 	
020	 7930	 3737	 or	 at	 www.sharegift.org.
ShAREhOLDER SECuRiTy
Shareholders	are	advised	to	be	cautious	about	any	unsolicited		
financial	advice,	offers	to	buy	shares	at	a	discount	or	offers	of	free	
company	reports.	More	detailed	information	about	this	can	be	 	
found	 at	 www.fsa.gov.uk	 in	 the	 Consumer	 Information	 section.	 Details	 	
of	 any	 share	 dealing	 facilities	 that	 the	 Company	 endorses	 will	 be	
included	 in	 Company	 mailings.	
AuDiTOR
KPMG	 Audit	 Plc
STOCKBROKERS
J.P .	 Morgan	 Cazenove	 	
Citigroup
COMPAny S ECRETARy
Paul	 Hussey
REgi STERED Offi CE
York	 House	
45	 Seymour	 Street	
London	 W1H	 7JT	
Telephone	 020	 7725	 5000	
Fax	 020	 7725	 5001
Website	 www.bunzl.com	
Registered	 in	 England	 no.	 358948
fOR wARD LOOKing STATEMEnTS
The	 Annual	 Report	 contains	 certain	 statements	 about	 the	 future	 outlook	
for	 the	 Group.	 Although	 the	 Company	 believes	 that	 the	 expectations	 are	
based	 on	 reasonable	 assumptions,	 any	 statements	 about	 future	 outlook	
may	 be	 influenced	 by	 factors	 that	 could	 cause	 actual	 outcomes	 and	
results	 to	 be	 materially	 different. CONTENTS
Overview
01 Financial highlights
02 Group at a glance
04 Our products
06 Platform for growth
07 Key performance indicators
08	 Chairman’s 	 statement
Business review
10 Chief Executive’s review
22 Financial review
25	 	 Corporate	 responsibility
Governance 
30 Board of directors
31 Directors’ report
36 Corporate governance
40	 Directors’ 	 remuneration	 report	
Financial statements
54 Consolidated income statement
55  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
56 Consolidated balance sheet
57  Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
58	 	 Consolidated	 cash	 flow	 statement
59 Notes
89 Company balance sheet
90  Notes to the Company financial 
statements
97  Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
98 Independent auditor’s report
99	 Five 	 year	 review
100	 Shareholder 	 information
The	 paper	 used	 in	 the	 report	 is	 Amadeus	 50	 Silk	 containing	 50%	
recycled	 content,	 all	 of	 which	 is	 de-inked	 post-consumer	 waste,	 	
and	 50%	 virgin	 fibre.	 All	 of	 the	 pulp	 is	 bleached	 using	 an	 elemental	
chlorine	 free	 process	 (ECF).	 Printed	 in	 the	 UK	 by	 Pureprint	 using	 their	
®
	 and	
®
	 environmental	 printing	 technology	 and	
vegetable	 inks	 were	 used	 throughout.	 Pureprint	 is	 a	 CarbonNeutral
®
	
company.	 Both	 manufacturing	 mill	 and	 the	 printer	 are	 registered	 to	
the	 Environmental	 Management	 System	 ISO14001	 and	 are	 Forest	
Stewardship	 Council
®
	 (FSC)	 chain-of-custody	 certified.	
Designed	 and	 produced	 by		 York House 
45 Seymour Street 
London W1H 7JT
T 020 7725 5000
F 020 7725 5001
www.bunzl.com
SUPPORTING  
BUSINESS 
EVERYWHERE
ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
