 HELPING 
BUSINESSES 
PERFORM 
BETTER
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 We are a focused and 
successful international 
distribution and outsourcing 
group Wi th operations across 
the a me ricas, e u rope and 
a u stralasia. 
We support our customers all over the world  
with a variety of products that are essential for 
the successful operation of their businesses.
By outsourcing the purchasing, consolidation  
and delivery of a broad range of everyday items,  
our customers are able to focus on their core 
businesses, achieve purchasing efficiencies  
and savings, free up working capital, improve 
distribution capabilities, reduce carbon emissions 
and simplify their internal administration.
CONTENTS
strategic report 01 Financial highlights
02 Where we operate 
04 Business model and strategy
06 Key performance indicators
10 Chairman’s statement
12 Chief Executive’s review
26 Financial review
30 Principal risks and uncertainties
33 Corporate responsibility 
d i rectors’ report 38 Board of directors
39 Corporate governance report
44 Audit Committee report 
47 Directors’ remuneration report 
68 Other statutory information
f i nancial statements 72 Consolidated income statement
73 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
74 Consolidated balance sheet
75 Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
76 Consolidated cash flow statement
77 Notes
108 Company balance sheet
109 Notes to the Company financial 
statements
116 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
117 Independent auditor’s report
119 Five year review
120 Shareholder information
WHO WE ARE £6,097.7m
Revenue (2012: £5,359.2m)
+12%
Growth at constant exchange rates  
(Actual exchange rates +14%)
£332.1m
Operating profit (2012: £293.8m)
+12%
Growth at constant exchange rates  
(Actual exchange rates +13%)
£414.4m
Operating profit before intangible  
amortisation and acquisition related  
costs (2012: £352.4m)
+16%
Growth at constant exchange rates  
(Actual exchange rates +18%)
£289.9m
Profit before tax (2012: £263.8m*) 
 
+9%
Growth at constant exchange rates  
(Actual exchange rates +10%)
£372.2m
Profit before tax, intangible amortisation, 
acquisition related costs and disposal of 
business (2012: £318.4m*)
+16%
Growth at constant exchange rates  
(Actual exchange rates +17%)
63.5p
Basic earnings per share (2012: 58.7p*) 
 
+7%
Growth at constant exchange rates  
(Actual exchange rates +8%)
82.4p
Adjusted earnings per share
†
 (2012: 70.6p*)
+15%
Growth at constant exchange rates  
(Actual exchange rates +17%)
32.4p
Dividend per share (2012: 28.2p)
+15%
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee benefits’ (see Note 1). 
†
Before intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and disposal of business.
The Annual Report can be downloaded online. To find out more visit www.bunzl.com .
Bunzl has produced another excellent set of results 
with growth across all business areas and strong 
increases in revenue, profits, earnings and dividend.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 01
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS *Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. 
We provide a one-stop-shop distribution 
and outsourcing service across 27 countries, 
supplying a broad range of internationally 
sourced non-food products to a variety of 
market sectors.
£3,401.7m
Revenue
• Revenue increased 15% at constant 
exchange rates.
• Slight decrease in operating margin from 
6.4% to 6.3%.
• Return on operating capital down from 
64.4% to 61.2%. 
Read more on page 16 > 
£213.6m
Operating profit* 
NORTH AMERICA
55%
of revenue
19%
of revenue
£1,151.5m
Revenue
• Revenue up 2% at constant exchange 
rates.
• Improvement in operating margin from 
8.1% to 8.4%.
• Return on operating capital up from 
42.4% to 47.5%.
Read more on page 19 > 
£97.0m
Operating profit* 
CONTINENTAL EUROPE
FOODSERVICE
Non-food consumables, 
including food 
packaging, disposable 
tableware, guest 
amenities, catering 
equipment, cleaning 
products and safety 
items, to hotels, 
restaurants, contract 
caterers, food 
processors and 
the leisure sector.
GROCERY 
Goods not for resale 
(items which are used 
but not actually sold), 
including food 
packaging, films, 
labels and cleaning 
and hygiene supplies, 
to grocery stores, 
supermarkets and 
retail chains.
CLEANING  
& HYGIENE
Cleaning and hygiene 
materials, including 
chemicals and hygiene 
paper, to cleaning and 
facilities management 
companies and 
industrial and 
healthcare customers.
NON-FOOD 
RETAIL 
Goods not for resale, 
including packaging and 
a full range of cleaning 
and hygiene products, 
to department stores, 
boutiques, office supply 
companies, retail 
chains and home 
improvement chains.
SAFETY
A complete range of 
personal protection 
equipment, including 
hard hats, gloves, 
boots and workwear, 
to industrial and 
construction markets.
OUR MARKET SECTORS
29% 27% 12% 12% 10%
02 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
WHERE WE OPERATE £1,018.5m
Revenue
• Revenue increased 2% at constant 
exchange rates. 
• Increase in operating margin from 6.6% 
to 7.0%.
• Return on operating capital improved 
from 86.5% to 98.8%.
Read more on page 20 > 
£71.6m
Operating profit* 
UK & IRELAND
17%
of revenue
£526.0m
Revenue
• Revenue up 47% at constant exchange 
rates.
• Significant increase in operating margin 
from 8.7% to 9.7%.
• Return on operating capital down from 
54.5% to 47.1%.
Read more on page 23 > 
£51.2m
Operating profit* 
REST OF THE WORLD
9%
of revenue
HEALTHCARE
Disposable healthcare 
consumables, including 
gloves, swabs, gowns 
and bandages, to the 
healthcare sector.
OTHER
A variety of product 
ranges supplied to  
other markets such 
as government 
and education 
establishments.
MARKET ENVIRONMENT
GROWTH DRIVERS
• Increasing trend to outsourcing.
• Global legislative trends for  
health & safety and the 
environment.
• Favourable demographics in 
healthcare.
• Underlying growth in key sectors 
including:
 − Foodservice – away from home;
 − Cleaning & hygiene – away  
from home;
 − Safety – increased legislation;
 − Healthcare – demographics.
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
• No one does what we do, on our 
scale, across our international 
markets.
• Expertise in making successful 
acquisitions.
• Global sourcing capabilities.
• Bunzl’s national distribution 
networks. 
CUSTOMERS
• Strong national, regional and local 
customer base.
• Working with national and 
international leading companies.
• Aligned with customer growth.
• Focus on customer service.
7% 3%
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 03 For many years we have followed a well established and successful 
business model and pursued a consistent and proven strategy. By doing  
so we have delivered strong growth across our selected international 
markets as we have looked to develop both in existing and new geographies.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
WE SOURCE
We source and procure branded,  
own brand and unbranded products 
globally, working with both multinational 
and local suppliers, to ensure that  
our customers have access to the best 
and most suitable products to meet  
their needs.
WE CONSOLIDATE
By applying our resources and 
consolidating a broad range of products 
into our extensive warehousing 
infrastructure, we are able to offer our 
customers a one-stop-shop solution 
which reduces or eliminates many of 
the hidden costs of self-distribution.
WE DELIVER
We offer several delivery options, 
including direct store delivery, cross 
dock and warehouse replenishment 
programmes, on a local, regional and 
national basis, to ensure that our 
customers get their products when  
and where they are needed.
SHAREHOLDER 
RETURNS
Our shareholders 
have enjoyed 
significant 
returns on their 
investment over 
time with 
sustained growth 
in Bunzl’s share 
price and year-
on-year increases 
in dividends.
CUSTOMER 
BENEFITS
Our customers 
benefit from a 
lower cost of 
doing business 
by reducing or 
eliminating many 
of the hidden 
costs of in-house 
procurement and 
distribution and 
reducing carbon 
emissions.
ONE-STOP 
-SHOP FOR 
NON-FOOD 
CONSUMABLES
CUSTOMER BENEFITS
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
INVESTMENTS
EXPERTISE
EFFICIENCIES
SOURCE
CONSOLIDATE
DELIVER
04 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY ACQUISITION 
GROWTH
Since 2004 we have announced 
more than 80 acquisitions with 
an average annual spend of £180 
million, adding average annualised 
revenue of £265 million.
OPERATING  
MODEL  
EFFICIENCIES
We continually strive to make 
our businesses more efficient 
and environmentally friendly 
by investing in new IT systems 
and warehouse facilities and 
implementing best practice 
operational procedures.
 OR GA N IC  
GROWTH
We achieve organic growth by 
applying our resources and expertise 
to enable customers to outsource to 
Bunzl the purchasing, consolidation 
and delivery of a broad range of 
products, thereby enabling them 
to achieve efficiencies and savings.
OUR STRATEGY
OUR STRATEGY BUILDING BLOCKS
• Unique business model 
  Our supply chain management and one-stop-shop 
offering allows our customers to focus on their core 
businesses more effectively and at the same time 
reduce their working capital and carbon emissions.
•	 Ba l a n c ed 	 b u s i n ess 	 po r t f o l i o 
  We have a geographically balanced and diversified 
business portfolio operating across 27 countries.
•	 	 Oper a ti o n a l 	 f o cu s 
 With a decentralised operational structure, our 
management are able to focus on our customers’ needs 
while retaining full responsibility for the financial 
performance of their businesses.
•	 Stro n g 	 fi n a n ci a l 	 d i sci p l i n e 
  Over the last 10 years we have delivered consistently 
good results with very high returns on capital and 
operating cash flow conversion.
•	 E x peri e n c ed 	 m a n ag e m e n t 
  Our executive directors and business area heads  
have extensive experience in managing the Group’s 
businesses with an average of 16 years’ service  
with Bunzl. 
•	 A c qu i s i ti o n 	 str a t eg y 	 a n d 	 tr a ck 	 rec o rd 
  Our acquisition strategy is to seek out those businesses 
that satisfy key criteria, including having good financial 
returns in resilient and growing markets, while at the 
same time providing opportunities to extract further 
value as part of the Bunzl Group.
•	 A t tr a c ti v e 	 m a r k et s 
  We operate across six core fragmented markets sectors, 
many of which are growing and resilient to challenging 
economic conditions.
To find out how we are making progress  
on our strategic priorities through our key 
performance indicators, see pages 6 and 7.
BY FOLLOWING A STRATEGY OF FOCUSING  
ON OUR STRENGTHS AND CONSOLIDATING THE 
MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE, WE ARE ABLE 
TO CREATE LONG TERM SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 05 We use the following key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) to measure our 
progress in delivering the successful implementation of our strategy and  
to monitor and drive performance. Together these KPIs reflect our strategic 
priorities of developing the business through organic and acquisition led 
growth and improving the efficiency of our operations as well as other 
financial and environmental metrics.
Increase in revenue for the year 
excluding the impact of currency 
translation, acquisitions during the  
first 12 months of ownership and 
disposal of business.
Ratio of operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related 
costs to revenue.
Current year profit margin excluding 
the impact of acquisitions during the 
first 12 months of ownership compared 
to the prior year profit margin restated 
at constant exchange rates.
Earnings per share excluding intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related 
costs and disposal of business. 2011 
and 2012 have been restated on adoption 
of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) ‘Employee 
Benefits’ (see Note 1).
Consideration paid and payable, together 
with net debt assumed, in respect of 
businesses acquired or agreed to be 
acquired during the year.
Estimated revenue which would have 
been contributed by acquisitions made 
or agreed to be made during the year if 
such acquisitions had been completed 
at the beginning of the relevant year.
ORGANIC REVENUE 
GROWTH %
ADJUSTED 
EARNINGS  
PER SHARE p
PROFIT MARGIN % ACQUISITION 
SPEND £m
UNDERLYING 
PROFIT MARGIN %
ANNUALISED 
REVENUE FROM 
ACQUISITIONS £m
2.0
2.6
4.0
11 12 13
6.8
6.6 6.6
11 12 13
6.7
6.6
12 13
82.4
70.6
67.6
11 12 13
295
277
185
11 12 13
281
518
204
11 12 13
06 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Cash generated from operations before 
acquisition related costs less net capital 
expenditure, interest and tax.
Ratio of operating profit before 
intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs and disposal of business 
to the average of the month end operating 
capital employed, being tangible fixed 
assets, inventories and trade and 
other receivables less trade and 
other payables.
Ratio of operating profit before intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related costs 
and disposal of business to the average 
of the month end invested capital, 
being equity after adding back net debt, 
retirement benefit obligations, cumulative 
intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs and amounts written off 
intangible assets, net of the related tax.
Measured using the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol applying 2013 Defra conversion 
factors with the 2011 and 2012 data 
restated accordingly.
Measured using the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol applying 2013 Defra conversion 
factors with the 2011 and 2012 data 
restated accordingly.
Diesel, petrol and LPG used  
in the Group’s own vehicles.
FREE CASH  
FLOW £m
SCOPE 1 CARBON 
EMISSIONS  
Tonnes of CO
2
 per  
£m revenue
RETURN ON  
AVERAGE  
OPERATING  
CAPITAL %
SCOPE 2 CARBON 
EMISSIONS  
Tonnes of CO
2
 per  
£m revenue
RETURN ON 
INVESTED  
CAPITAL %
FUEL USAGE  
Litres per 
£000 revenue
302
235
275
11 12 13
56.9 56.5
57.4
11 12 13
17.9 17.9
17.3
11 12 13
15.8
17.7
11 12 13
15.5
5.3
4.6
5.3
11 12 13
5.1
5.6
6.1
11 12 13
12 months to 30 September
12 months to 30 September
12 months to 30 September
 Included in the external auditor’s limited assurance scope referred to on page 36.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 07 SUPPLY
DELIVER
ENABLE
 W E D E L I V ER  
MANY DIFFERENT 
PRODUCTS TO  
OUR CUSTOMERS  
IN A TIMELY 
MANNER, ENABLING  
THEM TO OPERATE 
MORE EFFICIENTLY 
600,000+
Separate stock 
keeping units of 
products held
We supply a broad range of everyday items 
across six core market sectors. We ensure 
the right products are delivered where 
and when they are needed, enabling our 
customers to focus on their core businesses.
08 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 09 82.4
44.4
55.4
51.8
67.6
59.7
70.6
31.7
38.2
41.1
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13
6.1
3.6
4.6
4.2
5.1
4.8
5.4
2.4
2.9
3.3
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13
‘ OUR DEEP UNDERSTANDING 
OF THE FRAGMENTED MARKETS 
IN WHICH WE OPERATE AND 
OUR ABILITY TO OFFER TOTAL 
SOLUTIONS THAT PROVIDE 
QUANTIFIABLE BENEFITS TO 
OUR CUSTOMERS HAVE ONCE 
AGAIN CONTRIBUTED TO 
OUR SUCCESS.’
RESULTS
Although there were signs of improving macroeconomic conditions  
in some of the countries in which we operate, the market conditions 
in many of our sectors remained challenging throughout 2013.  
I am therefore delighted to be able to report an excellent set of 
results for 2013. 
Group revenue increased to £6,097.7 million (2012: £5,359.2 million), 
an increase of 12% at constant exchange rates, due to organic 
growth of 2% combined with the impact of acquisitions.
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs was £414.4 million (2012: £352.4 million), up 16%  
at constant exchange rates, with the improvement in the Group 
operating margin being driven by both organic growth and the  
impact of acquisitions. Adjusted earnings per share before 
intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and the vending 
disposal were 82.4p (2012: 70.6p), an increase of 15% at constant 
exchange rates. 
Positive currency translation movements, principally in the US dollar 
and euro, which were partly offset by adverse exchange rate 
movements elsewhere, increased the reported Group growth rates 
by around a further 2%.
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 22.4p. This brings  
the total dividend for the year to 32.4p, up 15% compared to 2012. 
Shareholders will again have the opportunity to participate in our 
dividend reinvestment plan.
STRATEGY
We have continued to pursue our consistent and proven strategy of 
developing the business through organic growth, consolidating our 
markets through focused acquisitions and continuously improving  
the efficiency of our operations. Once again this has resulted in 
another successful year of growth for the Group.
Ph il i p 	 Rogerso n
Chairman
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE p
04–12 RESTATED ON ADOPTION OF IAS 19 (REVISED 2011)
REVENUE £bn
04–05 CONTINUING OPERATIONS
10 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 433
259
312
297
353
323
371
183
218
241
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13
We achieve our organic growth by applying our resources and 
expertise to enable customers to outsource to Bunzl the purchasing, 
consolidation and distribution of a broad range of goods not for 
resale. By doing so our customers are able to focus on their core 
business more cost effectively by achieving purchasing efficiencies 
and savings, freeing up working capital, improving their distribution 
capabilities, reducing carbon emissions and simplifying their 
internal administration. 
Acquisition activity continued at a similar pace to that seen in 2012.  
In addition to completing in February 2013 the purchase of Vicsa 
Brasil, which we agreed to acquire in December 2012, we made  
11 acquisitions in the year. The committed spend in respect of these 
11 acquisitions was £295 million, adding annualised revenue of over 
£280 million. Having pursued our strategy consistently over many 
years, we have built leading positions in a variety of market sectors 
across the Americas, Europe and Australasia. 
INVESTMENT
Investment in the business to support our growth strategy and 
to expand and enhance our asset base is an ongoing process. 
During the year, we have continued to improve existing warehouses 
and open new ones. Upgrading our IT systems is also an important 
task as we integrate new businesses into the Group and increase the 
functionality and efficiency of our existing operations.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
We continue to emphasise the requirement for high standards of 
business practice and sustainable operating processes throughout 
the Group. Bunzl has collected and analysed environmental 
performance data from across the businesses for a number of years. 
As the Group has grown, the collation of this data has become more 
complex and therefore we have, for the first time, obtained external 
independent assurance of our CO
²
 emissions and fuel usage data.  
We have also continued to review and enhance our policies and 
procedures to ensure that we remain compliant with changing 
practices and legislation and over the last year have focused  
on further understanding our waste stream and working with  
our suppliers to ensure compliance with recently introduced  
timber regulations.
EMPLOYEES
A key differentiator of Bunzl is its long serving and loyal workforce. 
We believe that this is, in part, due to our decentralised organisation 
structure. This structure allows our people to understand easily 
their responsibilities and gives them the space to operate efficiently 
and effectively. We very much appreciate their consistent high levels 
of service, performance and hard work. As Bunzl continues to grow 
by acquisition, we benefit from new ideas and collaboration between 
our employees from across the world to improve our customer 
service and introduce more innovative products to our customers.
BOARD
Ulrich Wolters, who served as a non-executive director from 2004, 
retired after the Company’s Annual General Meeting in April 2013.  
We thank Ulrich for his significant contribution over many years. 
Jean-Charles Pauze and Meinie Oldersma were appointed as 
non-executive directors in January and April 2013 respectively.  
Based in Paris, Jean-Charles is presently Chairman of Europcar  
and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of CFAO Group and was 
Chairman and Chief Executive of Rexel for 10 years until 2012. Prior  
to that he held a number of senior positions with PPR Group, Strafor 
Facom Group and Alfa Laval Group in France and Germany. A Dutch 
national, Meinie was Chief Executive of 20:20 Mobile Group from  
2008 until earlier this month and previously held a variety of senior 
positions with Ingram Micro, most recently as Chief Executive  
and President of their China Group and Managing Director of their 
business in Northern Europe. Both Jean-Charles and Meinie have 
extensive international experience across a range of distribution  
and service sectors, particularly in Europe and Asia, which is already 
proving to be of great value to Bunzl as we expand and develop.
Ph il i p 	 Rogerso n
Chairman 
24 February 2014
OPERATING PROFIT* £m
04–05 CONTINUING OPERATIONS
*
 Before amortisation and acquisition  
related and corporate costs
1,450
742
675
757
884
777
1,167
486
405
443
578
627
542
482
616
676
852
1,014
643
710
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13
SHARE PRICE RANGE p
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 11 OPERATING PERFORMANCE
The Group has had another successful year in 2013 due to a 
combination of some organic growth, good performances from  
the acquisitions made in 2012 and a high level of acquisition spend 
during the year.
The overall positive translation effect of currency movements has 
increased the reported Group growth rates of revenue and operating 
profit by approximately 2%. The operations, including the relevant 
growth rates, are reviewed below at constant exchange rates to 
remove the distorting impact of these currency movements. 
Changes in the level of revenue and profits at constant exchange 
rates have been calculated by retranslating the results for 2012 at 
the average rates used for 2013. Unless otherwise stated, all 
references in this review to operating profit are to operating profit 
before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. 
Revenue increased 12% (14% at actual exchange rates) to £6,097.7 
million and operating profit was £414.4 million, an increase of 16% 
(18% at actual exchange rates). The percentage growth in operating 
profit was greater than that of revenue due to the improvement in 
Group operating margin at both actual and constant exchange 
rates by 20 basis points to 6.8% as a result of improved levels of 
profitability in some businesses and the impact of acquisitions. 
In North America revenue rose 15% (17% at actual exchange rates) 
due to good organic revenue growth and the impact of acquisitions 
completed in both 2012 and 2013, while operating profit increased 
14% (16% at actual exchange rates). Revenue in Continental Europe 
rose 2% (7% at actual exchange rates) as a result of improved 
organic revenue growth and the impact of acquisitions, with 
operating profit up 6% (11% at actual exchange rates) as margins 
improved. In UK & Ireland revenue was up 2% (3% at actual 
exchange rates) due to the impact of relatively small acquisitions, but 
operating profit rose 10% at both constant and actual exchange rates 
as margins continued to recover during the year. In Rest of the World 
revenue increased 47% (38% at actual exchange rates) and operating 
profit was up 65% (54% at actual exchange rates) due to both good 
organic revenue growth and the substantial impact of acquisitions.
Basic earnings per share were 7% higher (8% at actual exchange 
rates) at 63.5p. Adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating the 
effect of intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and the 
disposal of vending, were 82.4p, an increase of 15% (17% at actual 
exchange rates). The return on average operating capital increased 
from 56.5% to 56.9%. Return on invested capital was 17.9%, in line 
with 2012, despite our ongoing acquisition spend.
Our operating cash flow continued to be strong with the ratio of 
operating cash flow before acquisition related costs to operating 
profit at 102%. The net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.8 times, the same 
level as at the previous year end despite an acquisition cash outflow 
of £279.9 million. 
Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) remains intrinsic to the effective 
running of our business. In particular we have continued to give 
outstanding customer service by providing innovative products and 
service solutions, many of which assist our customers in reducing 
their impact on the environment. During the year Bunzl has received 
a number of awards for CR activities from customers, public bodies 
and other organisations.
ACQUISITIONS
Our committed acquisition spend in 2013 of £295 million was slightly 
higher than in 2012 and was the highest level since 2004. During  
the year 11 transactions were completed in addition to the 
completion in February 2013 of the purchase of Vicsa Brasil which 
we agreed to acquire in December 2012.
At the end of January 2013 we acquired McNeil Surgical in Australia.  
With revenue of £10 million in 2013, the business is engaged in  
the sale of healthcare consumables and equipment to aged care 
facilities, hospitals and medical centres as well as to distributors and 
increases our market presence in this growing sector. We completed 
the purchase of Vicsa Brasil in February, the proposed acquisition of 
which was agreed in December 2012, following clearance of the 
transaction from the Brazilian Competition Authority. Based in São 
Paulo, the business is engaged in the sale of personal protection 
equipment throughout Brazil and expands our growing safety 
business in Brazil. Revenue in 2013 was £6 million. In March we 
purchased Labor Import, a business principally engaged in the 
supply and distribution of own label medical and healthcare 
consumable products to distributors as well as to hospitals, clinics, 
laboratories and care homes throughout Brazil. Revenue in 2013 was 
£15 million. This is another important step for Bunzl as it represents 
our first move into the healthcare sector in Brazil, having previously 
acquired businesses in the safety and cleaning and hygiene sectors. 
The acquisition of MDA in the UK was also completed in March. The 
business, which had revenue in 2013 of £23 million, is involved in the 
procurement and fulfilment of promotional products and marketing 
point of sale materials for a variety of customers, principally in the 
food and drinks industries. 
Our business in Australia was significantly expanded at the end of 
April with the purchase of three businesses which formed part of the 
Industrial & Safety division of Jeminex. The workwear and personal 
safety business distributes an extensive range of specialist personal 
protection equipment and workwear to the mining, resources, 
construction and general industrial sectors. The lifting, rigging and 
height safety business is principally engaged in the supply of lifting 
chains and ropes, slings and load restraints as well as the provision 
of accredited testing and repair services. The third business is 
involved in the supply of industrial packaging products to a variety  
of customers in different market sectors. Revenue of the acquired 
businesses was £98 million in 2013.
Mi c ha el 	 Ro n e y
Chief Executive
12 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Br ian 	 Ma y	
Finance Director
P a tr i c k 	 Lar mo n
President and CEO 
North America
C el i a 	 Bax t er
Director of Group 
Human Resources
P a u l 	 Hus se y
General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
P a u l 	 Budge
Managing Director  
UK & Ireland
And rew 	 Moo n e y
Director of Corporate 
Development
F r a n k 	 v a n 	 Za n ten
Managing Director 
Continental Europe
Rod r ig o 	 Masc a renh as
Managing Director  
Latin America
K i m 	 Hether i n g to n
Managing Director 
Australasia
The acquisition of TFS in the UK was completed at the end of July. With 
revenue of £9 million in 2013, TFS complements MDA and has further 
strengthened that part of our business in the UK which is focused on 
marketing and point of sale materials. Espomega, which supplies a 
variety of safety products to distributors throughout Mexico, was 
acquired at the end of August. Revenue was £27 million in 2013 and the 
acquisition has expanded significantly our safety business in Mexico. 
ProEpta, a leading distributor of catering equipment throughout 
Mexico, principally to luxury hotels and restaurants, was acquired in 
September. Revenue in 2013 was £18 million. 
Wesclean, a business engaged in the distribution of cleaning and 
hygiene equipment and supplies to a variety of customer markets 
throughout Western Canada with revenue of £40 million in 2013, 
was acquired in November. Our safety business in Germany was 
expanded with the acquisition at the end of November of pka Klöcker, 
a business based near Düsseldorf engaged in the sale to distributors 
of personal protection equipment, principally own label workwear. 
Revenue in 2013 was £5 million. De Santis, a business based near 
São Paulo principally engaged in the sale of personal protection 
equipment to end user customers in a number of different market 
sectors and with revenue of £5 million in 2013, was acquired in 
December. Finally, SAS Safety, a business based in California 
specialising in the sourcing and sale to distributors of a variety of 
own label personal protection equipment, principally safety gloves, 
was also acquired in December. Revenue in 2013 was £31 million.
Today we are announcing the acquisition of Bäumer and Protemo in 
Germany and Oskar Plast in the Czech Republic. The businesses in 
Germany had aggregated revenue of €11.9 million (c.£10 million) in 
2013 and represent our first step into the cleaning and hygiene and 
healthcare sectors in Germany. Oskar Plast had revenue of CZK284 
million (c.£9 million) in 2013 and has expanded our operations in the 
Czech Republic.
PROSPECTS
We believe that an improving macroeconomic outlook, Bunzl’s strong 
competitive position and the full year impact of the 2013 acquisitions 
should lead to a good performance in 2014. However, with the recent 
strengthening of sterling, our reported results will be negatively 
affected by foreign exchange translation if exchange rates remain 
at their current levels.
At constant exchange rates each of our business areas is expected 
to grow. In North America, we expect good growth as a result of 
both organic revenue growth and the acquisitions made in 2013. 
Even though the economic environment continues to be sluggish 
in Continental Europe, we expect to see continued growth this year. 
In UK & Ireland, after a long period of time with a weak revenue line, 
we expect to see some sales growth in 2014 with margin stability. 
Rest of the World should show significant increase in revenue 
and profit, especially in Latin America, due to a combination of 
underlying growth and the impact of recent acquisitions.
We have had three consecutive years of higher than our historical 
average acquisition spend and the pipeline of potential acquisitions 
continues to be promising. Discussions are ongoing with a number 
of targets in all of the business areas and we expect to complete 
further acquisitions in the coming months.
The Board is confident that our strong market position will enable  
the Group to grow the business and continue to build value for our 
shareholders.
Mi c ha el 	 Ro n e y
Chief Executive 
24 February 2014
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 13
Managers from across the Group meet regularly to review performance, discuss trends 
affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
MANAGEMENT TEAM 14 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GROW
DEVELOP
SIMPLIFY
27
Countries of 
operation across 
four continents
WE UNDERSTAND  
THE IMPORTANCE  
OF GROWING 
ORGANICALLY 
AND THROUGH 
ACQUISITIONS  
WHILE MAKING  
OUR BUSINESS  
MORE EFFICIENT
We have grown consistently and sustainably 
with a clear and focused strategy through the 
development of long term relationships and  
by identifying future business opportunities.  
Our service offer is based on a one-stop-shop 
solution which allows our customers to 
simplify their business processes. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 15 NORTH AMERICA 
‘  AS A FOCUSED ORGANISATION WE  
HAVE CONTINUED TO DEMONSTRATE THE 
STRENGTH AND DEPTH OF OUR CUSTOMER 
PROPOSITION AND SHOW OUR ABILITY  
TO DEVELOP FURTHER ACROSS THE 
MARKETS WE SERVE.’
P a tr i c k 	 Lar mo n
President and CEO North America
In North America revenue increased by 15% to £3,401.7 million  
due to organic sales growth from new customer wins and overall 
revenue gains in our existing business, together with the impact  
of acquisitions, particularly those businesses purchased in 2012.  
This sales growth contributed to an operating profit increase of  
14% to £213.6 million. 
Our largest business, which serves the grocery sector, continued to 
produce solid results in 2013. We maintained strong positions with 
our existing large national and regional customers. We also gained 
several new locally based accounts to bolster our sales in this sector 
during the year. Our uniform IT platform and ability to execute our 
programmes on a local, regional and national basis give us a distinct 
competitive advantage and the ability to accommodate supply chain 
disruptions, such as those caused by bad weather, and thereby 
sustain our level and quality of service.
The redistribution business once again provided opportunities for  
our distributor customers to increase their sales and profitability.  
As a result of our distribution scale and proximity, customers can  
rely on our one-stop-shop offering, excellent fill rates, dependable 
delivery capabilities and extensive product lines and use us as a 
virtual extension of their own inventory. Customers can thereby 
improve their asset utilisation and reallocate storage space to higher 
revenue generating items previously occupied by the items we 
provide. Our domestically sourced, environmentally friendly and 
imported private label lines give customers the opportunity to 
substitute quality private label alternatives to increase their gross 
margins and profits. Our sales teams assist in consolidating the 
sources of supply that lead to administrative and operating cost 
reductions. Additionally, we provide sophisticated marketing tools 
to drive increased customer sales of our products. The acquisition 
of SAS Safety in December is a significant and strategic addition to 
our safety business in North America. 
We are increasing our marketing and communication activities 
through the FoodHandler brand, which is recognised by the 
foodservice market for excellence in innovation, quality and safety. 
We also established a new FoodHandler distribution centre in the 
Midwest, in addition to our existing East and West Coast facilities, 
to reduce our operating costs, improve product availability and 
reduce lead times. 
Our food processor business continued to grow through our ability  
to supply a wide range of MRO, personal protection equipment and 
packaging products to major producers in the meat, field and fresh 
cut produce, dairy and prepared foods industries. We gained 
business with growers, packers and retailers through our Cool Pak, 
Netpak and Destiny Packaging businesses which assist our 
customers in designing and sourcing both flexible and rigid 
packaging solutions and programmes that meet their specialised 
needs in the agricultural processing sector. 
Our business serving the non-food retail sector expanded further 
despite the slow growth in US retail sales. Our uniform operating 
platform, coupled with our extensive branch network, give us the 
ability to create programmes that offer our retail customers 
centralised account management while leveraging our sourcing and 
import expertise thereby enabling us to service retailer locations on 
a local basis coast to coast. Further integrating the expertise, 
facilities and customer base of Schwarz Paper Company, which we 
acquired in December 2012, has strengthened our retail fulfilment 
capabilities and position in the marketplace. Schwarz has also 
extended our product lines, especially in-store fixtures and store 
supplies. Their materials consolidation division offers a dynamic 
solution for our customers in handling store fixtures and equipment. 
Similarly CDW Merchants, which was also acquired in 2012, 
continues to deliver creative expertise in the design of point of sale 
displays and specialty retail packaging. Overall, the retail supplies 
businesses are together able to offer a wide breadth of resources 
to our customers in this sector.
The convenience store sector also expanded in 2013. We have 
partnered with retail convenience store chains and increased the 
breadth of product lines provided through our programmes to assist 
retailers in improving their in-store offerings. We also developed  
our retail redistribution programme during the year and now 
distribute products for two of our preferred suppliers through 
a national wholesaler.
We increased the breadth of our imported private label product 
offering and significantly grew our import business. In order to  
do so we continued to utilise our state-of-the-art Shanghai export 
consolidation centre, quality control services and international 
logistics expertise. As a result, we have realigned our import  
sales and marketing resources to focus on growing import 
programme sales.
The recent acquisition of ProEpta in Mexico expands our presence  
in the restaurant and hospitality sector. This also gives us the 
opportunity to expand the business into other product lines available 
through our existing operations there.
Our business in Canada continued to grow and produce good results. 
McCordick Glove & Safety, acquired in 2012, performed well and has 
gained several new national accounts. Our recent acquisition of 
Wesclean has significantly expanded our operations in the cleaning 
and hygiene sector in Canada and broadened the range of products 
we can offer.
+14%
Increase in 
operating profit 
at constant 
exchange rates 
16 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED Wesclean  
Equipment & 
Cleaning Supplies
The purchase of Wesclean is an important 
development for our business in Canada as it 
significantly expands our operations there in the 
cleaning and hygiene sector. The business has an 
excellent reputation for providing a broad range 
of products and services and should provide 
additional opportunities for us to develop further 
in this sector.
 Pr oE pta
The acquisition of ProEpta further extends our 
business in Mexico into the catering equipment 
sector following the recent expansion into the 
safety sector with the acquisition of both Vicsa 
Safety and Espomega. The business has a strong 
position in this promising market.
SAS Safety
SAS Safety is a significant and strategic addition 
to our safety business in North America.  
It specialises in the sourcing and sale of a variety 
of own label personal protection equipment, 
principally safety gloves, to distributors.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 17 pka Klöcker
The acquisition of pka Klöcker extends our existing 
safety operations in Germany following the purchase 
of Majestic in 2011. The business is principally engaged 
in the sale of own label workwear to distributors.
18 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CONTINENTAL EUROPE
‘  WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO INCREASE  
BOTH REVENUE AND OPERATING PROFIT 
DESPITE THE DIFFICULT ECONOMIC 
CONDITIONS WE CONTINUED TO FACE 
THROUGHOUT THE REGION.’
	 F r a n k 	 v a n 	 Za n ten
Managing Director Continental Europe
Revenue rose by 2% to £1,151.5 million and operating profit improved 
6% to £97.0 million. While macroeconomic conditions remained 
challenging, overall profitability and operating margins have 
improved due to a combination of organic sales growth, improved 
margin management, continued tight cost control and the full year 
impact of the 2012 acquisitions of Zahav and Distrimondo together 
with the acquisition of pka Klöcker in late November 2013.
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business saw a slight decline  
in sales but improved its gross margin despite ongoing market 
pressures, particularly in the healthcare and public sectors, helped 
partly by an increase in sales of own brand products. Cost reduction 
measures continued to deliver savings such that operating profit 
improved significantly following the reduction in profit last year.  
Our personal protection equipment business enjoyed good sales 
growth and consequently improved its operating profit.
In the Netherlands, sales improved in the healthcare, cleaning  
and hygiene and horeca (hotel, restaurant and catering) sectors. 
However sales declined in the food and non-food retail sectors given 
the ongoing market pressures on our customers in these sectors. 
While overall sales decreased slightly, margins improved and  
cost increases were kept to a minimum. Two of our businesses 
successfully migrated to a new IT system. The personal protection 
equipment and safety products business recorded strong sales 
growth from gaining market share and achieved better margins from 
the increase in sales of own brand products. Overall the operating 
profit for the Netherlands was at a similar level to the previous year.
In Belgium, we recorded strong sales growth in the cleaning and 
hygiene sector, particularly from increasing business with a number 
of existing key accounts, although sales remained weak in the retail 
sector. With margins improving, profitability grew strongly.
In Germany, stronger sales to hotels and butchers were offset by 
weaker trading in the foodservice and bakery sectors. Margins 
improved and costs were reduced leading to an increase in operating 
profit. At the end of November we acquired pka Klöcker which is 
engaged in the sale of personal protection equipment, principally  
own label workwear, to distributors. The business is integrating well 
and will help improve our position in the safety sector in Germany 
through cross-selling activities with our existing operations,  
including Majestic. The recent acquisition of Bäumer and Protemo 
in January 2014 has extended our business in Germany into the 
cleaning and hygiene and healthcare sectors.
In Switzerland, our Weita business increased sales, in particular 
in the retail and medical sectors, but margins remained under 
pressure and operating profit declined. We have benefited from the 
full year impact of the acquisition of Distrimondo in mid 2012 which 
continues to trade well and benefit from the significant synergies 
generated from the combination with Weita.
In Denmark, sales of personal protection equipment and packaging 
increased and revenue to horeca distributors improved but sales 
of horeca products to the public sector, which continues to seek 
significant cost savings, declined leading to a fall in overall revenue. 
Gross margins stabilised in the retail sector but declined in the 
horeca market, particularly as a result of public sector customers 
issuing a number of major tenders. Costs were reduced due to the 
impact of the new IT system in our horeca business and the same 
system was successfully implemented into the retail business but 
this was not sufficient to offset fully the reduction in gross margin, 
leading to a decrease in operating profit.
In Spain, trading conditions have started to improve although our 
cleaning and hygiene business saw full year sales decline slightly 
compared to 2012. Sales increased in our personal protection 
equipment businesses, particularly due to exports, but also as a 
result of a return to modest growth in the Spanish economy in recent 
months. Margins improved in both sectors and cost increases were 
limited such that operating profit grew well. During the year we 
consolidated our various warehouses in Catalonia into one new 
facility which will generate cost savings going forward.
In central Europe, sales grew strongly, particularly in Romania  
and the retail business in Hungary, although margins remained 
under pressure across the region. Costs were carefully controlled  
and operating profit grew significantly. The purchase of Oskar Plast 
in February 2014 is an important addition to our business in the 
Czech Republic.
In Israel, Silco saw sales decline following the loss of a major 
customer. This was more than compensated for by the full year 
impact of the 2012 acquisition of Zahav but overall operating profit 
reduced in a difficult market environment.
+6%
Increase in 
operating profit 
at constant 
exchange rates
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 19
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED +10%
Increase in 
operating profit  
at constant 
exchange rates
UK & IRELAND
‘  DUE TO GOOD MARGIN MANAGEMENT AND 
TIGHT COST CONTROL, OUR OPERATING 
MARGIN HAS RETURNED TO 7.0%, ITS 
HIGHEST LEVEL FOR FIVE YEARS, WITH  
A FURTHER INCREASE IN OUR RETURN  
ON OPERATING CAPITAL TO 98.8%.’
	 P a u l 	 Budge
Managing Director UK & Ireland
Our operations in the UK & Ireland continued to build on the 
improvements seen in recent years. Although revenue was up  
2% to £1,018.5 million, operating profit rose significantly by 10% to 
£71.6 million as we improved the efficiency of our businesses and,  
as a result, the operating margin once again increased. A notable 
element of this year’s performance is that we have made good 
progress in each of the sectors in which we operate, including  
those that were particularly adversely affected at the onset of  
the financial crisis.
Against the background of the challenging macroeconomic 
conditions over the last few years, we have remained focused on 
margin management and tight cost control while also continuing to 
enhance the levels of service that we provide to our customers. This 
service offering has not only built our reputation in the markets in 
which we compete but has also delivered an increasingly efficient 
organisation. We continue to manage cash flow closely and are 
pleased to report a further improvement in the return on capital 
employed which was already the highest of our business areas.
In our food and non-food retail supplies businesses, our broad mix of 
customers has helped to produce a strong performance in a difficult 
market with both revenue and operating profit ahead. As our retail 
customers adapt to changes in their market conditions, we have 
assisted them as they have developed smaller local retail concepts 
and their online sales offerings to their customers. The flexibility of 
our services across procurement and different models of delivery, 
including direct to store, has seen us continue to develop our 
offering. Our retail packaging business, Keenpac, has opened a sales 
office in Shenzhen which allows us to sell direct to global retail 
brands with outlets in China.
During the year we acquired two marketing services businesses, 
MDA and TFS. These businesses manage and deliver the supply of 
point of sale and marketing materials on behalf of leading consumer 
brands to retail outlets. They are both performing strongly and have 
fitted in well alongside, and provided complementary services to, 
our existing operations.
In the hospitality business, our own brand product offering has  
grown and been well received and has partly helped to compensate 
for a reduction in sales and operating profit, following the loss of 
some business towards the end of 2012. We have continued to make 
efficiency improvements, including in particular the consolidation 
of three branches and the imminent relocation to a purpose built 
facility in the West Midlands.
Our cleaning and hygiene supplies business had another good  
year following a strong performance throughout the recession.  
Our focus on efficiency and high service levels has continued to help 
this business remain successful and we have further consolidated 
our branch network, reducing the number of facilities by two. 
In our safety business, demand has started to grow once more. 
Our strong market position and our ability to offer both leading 
brands and our own label products, combined with a responsive and 
flexible service, continue to make us an attractive proposition to our 
customers and position us well to take advantage of some major 
construction and maintenance projects as they come on stream.
Our healthcare business operates in a market that continues  
to be subject to tight spending constraints and ongoing cost  
reduction initiatives. In this environment, although revenue was 
slightly lower, our offering has once again proved to be competitive 
and our high service levels have contributed to a continued 
improvement in this business.
In Ireland, the hospitality sector has continued to recover and, having 
significantly adjusted our cost base following the initial economic 
downturn, we are now well positioned for further growth and have 
seen a significant improvement in profitability during the year. 
During the year we relocated one of our two facilities in Dublin into 
a new facility. This investment has greatly enhanced the quality and 
efficiency of our business serving the cleaning and safety sectors.
20 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED mda
MDA is engaged in the procurement and fulfilment  
of promotional products and point of sale materials for  
a variety of customers, principally in the food and drinks 
industries. This is an exciting development for us as  
the acquisition has extended our product offering in  
the retail and hospitality sectors in the UK.
 
tfs
TFS complements MDA and has further strengthened 
that part of our business in the UK which is focused  
on products for marketing and point of sale displays.  
It has also expanded our service capabilities in these 
types of products into additional markets such as the 
automotive and charity sectors.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 21 McNeil 
Surgical
McNeil Surgical has expanded our presence 
in the healthcare sector in Australia, 
supplying a broad range of medical 
consumables and equipment to aged care 
facilities, hospitals and medical centres as 
well as to distributors.
 
Labor Import 
Labor Import represents our first move 
into the healthcare sector in Brazil, 
having previously acquired businesses 
in the safety and cleaning and hygiene 
sectors. It has a market leading position 
and an excellent customer base which 
should provide a platform for us to 
develop a strong presence in this sector 
going forward.
De Santis
De Santis is the fifth acquisition we have 
made in the safety sector in Brazil since 
the purchase of Prot Cap in 2008. The 
business sells a variety of personal 
protection equipment to end user 
customers in a number of different 
market sectors.
BIS
The acquisition of the industrial and 
safety businesses from Jeminex has 
significantly increased the size of our 
business in Australasia and extends 
our operations there into the safety 
market which is a successful sector for 
us in many countries. Together these 
businesses now form the Bunzl 
Industrial & Safety division (‘BIS’) 
in Australia.
 Es po m eg a
The purchase of Espomega has 
significantly increased the size of our 
safety business in Mexico, having 
entered the safety sector there with 
the acquisition of Vicsa Safety at the 
end of 2012. The business has an 
excellent range of own brand products 
which has extended our product offering 
to customers throughout the region.
22 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 REST OF THE WORLD
In Rest of the World revenue increased 47% to £526.0 million and 
operating profit rose 65% to £51.2 million with the results benefiting 
significantly from the impact of acquisitions.
In Australia, the economy continued to be impacted by a slowdown  
in demand for resources from the major export markets in Asia.  
This has had a consequential effect on our customers supplying  
into the mining and resource sectors which in turn has reduced  
the demand for the products which we supply. 
Our largest business, Outsourcing Services, which supplies the 
healthcare, cleaning and hygiene, catering and retail sectors, 
continued to develop its position providing consolidated value-added 
supply solutions for disposable consumables across Australia and 
New Zealand. Although the business faced challenging market 
conditions, we increased our presence in the healthcare sector, 
in particular the aged care and private hospital markets, where 
we supply a wide range of disposable and medical consumables. 
To support our growth in this sector, we acquired McNeil Surgical 
in January 2013 which has provided us with increased levels of 
expertise and a critical mass in the medical consumables and 
wound care categories.
In April we acquired part of the Industrial & Safety division of 
Jeminex. Based in Sydney, the businesses operate nationally from 
a network of locations throughout Australia. While these businesses 
have been impacted by the downturn in the resources sector, they 
have benefited from having a spread of quality customers across 
other markets and have achieved purchasing synergies and cost 
reductions since acquisition. The businesses have settled well into 
our ownership and we have already seen the benefits of creating 
cross-selling opportunities into existing Bunzl customers. 
Our food processor business delivered a much improved 
performance in 2013. We made progress on our strategy to develop 
our operations into non-meat and other food processors. To build  
on this strategy and further consolidate our position as a leading 
national supplier into this sector, we merged our existing business 
with Network Packaging which was purchased as part of the 
acquisition from Jeminex. Network Packaging has a long and 
successful history supplying into the fruit and produce markets, 
predominantly in Western Australia, and the merger provides the 
combined business with an infrastructure and platform to develop 
these markets nationally. In addition, we are leveraging the expertise 
of our US operations which have already established a supply chain 
for the specialist products in this sector. These developments have 
also provided a good platform for the larger market on the east coast 
of Australia.
Our operations in Latin America have performed strongly in 2013  
and have grown substantially. Despite slower economic growth  
and currency volatility in Brazil, the organic revenue growth there 
continued to be strong and was supplemented by a significant impact 
from acquisitions both in Brazil and elsewhere in Latin America.
Our personal protection equipment businesses in Brazil have 
continued to develop positively. Prot Cap has gained several new  
key accounts and has successfully introduced new products and 
suppliers to its portfolio. This has resulted in a strong performance 
with increases in both revenue and operating profit. We are  
currently investing in a new distribution centre in São Paulo that  
will significantly improve our efficiency and establish a sustainable 
platform for future growth. Danny, our own brand redistribution 
safety business, has been successfully integrated into the Group and 
continues to introduce new innovative solutions for our customers. 
Vicsa Brasil, which was acquired in February 2013, is meeting our 
expectations and is also benefiting from purchasing synergies.  
In particular the own label products they have developed have 
expanded the range of our product offering in the safety sector 
throughout Brazil. Its back office operation has been successfully 
integrated with Danny’s and we are continuing to invest in more 
efficient logistics solutions. Finally, the acquisition of De Santis in 
December has further expanded our presence in the safety sector. 
Overall our safety businesses in Brazil performed strongly with 
substantial growth in both sales and operating profit.
Ideal, our cleaning and hygiene business in Brazil, achieved good 
organic growth winning some new key accounts and also improving 
gross margins which together have led to an increase in profitability.
In March we acquired Labor Import which is principally engaged in 
the distribution of own label medical and healthcare consumables 
and represents our first move into the healthcare sector in Brazil.  
It has a market leading position and an excellent customer base 
which should provide a platform for us to develop a strong presence 
in this sector going forward. The company has integrated well and  
we are in the process of implementing a new IT platform.
Vicsa Safety, our personal protection equipment business with 
operations in Chile, Argentina, Peru, Colombia and Mexico which  
was purchased in December 2012, is performing in line with our 
expectations. New product development and partnerships with our 
global suppliers are providing interesting opportunities in the region, 
particularly in the mining and retail sectors. The business has moved 
to new distribution centres in Chile and Colombia which will be key  
for our future expansion in the region. We are introducing new 
product lines and also benefiting from synergies both within Vicsa’s 
operations in Latin America and other Bunzl companies.
The acquisition of Espomega in August has significantly expanded  
our safety business in Mexico and has extended our product offering 
to customers in this large and important market. Despite some 
volatility in the Mexican economy, the business performed strongly  
in 2013 and is integrating well.
+65%
Increase in 
operating profit  
at constant 
exchange rates
‘WE HAVE CONTINUED TO FOCUS  
ON OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES IN  
A WEAK ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT  
WHILE EXTENDING OUR OPERATIONS IN 
AUSTRALASIA INTO THE SAFETY SECTOR.’
K i m 	 Hether i n g to n
Managing Director Australasia
‘  THE COMBINATION OF STRONG  
ORGANIC GROWTH AND THE IMPACT  
OF ACQUISITIONS IN BOTH NEW AND 
EXISTING COUNTRIES AND SECTORS  
HAS TRANSFORMED THE SIZE OF OUR 
BUSINESS IN LATIN AMERICA.’
Rod r ig o 	 Masc a renh as
Managing Director Latin America
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 23
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 24 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 LISTEN
PROVIDE
CARE
By listening to their needs, we have formed 
strong partnerships with our customers, 
providing them with reliable and value-added 
outsourcing solutions and service oriented 
distribution across the Americas, Europe 
and Australasia.
360+
Warehouse  
locations  
throughout 
the world
WE CARE 
PASSIONATELY 
ABOUT OUR 
BUSINESS TO 
ENSURE THAT OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS’ 
REQUIREMENTS  
ARE FULLY MET
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 25 ‘THE GROUP HAS PRODUCED 
ANOTHER STRONG SET OF 
RESULTS WITH FREE CASH 
FLOW OF £302 MILLION AND 
COMMITTED ACQUISITION 
SPEND OF £295 MILLION ON 
11 ACQUISITIONS DURING 
THE YEAR.’
GROUP PERFORMANCE
Revenue increased to £6,097.7 million (2012: £5,359.2 million), up 
12% at constant exchange rates and up 14% at actual exchange 
rates, reflecting organic growth of 2% and the benefit of acquisitions. 
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs increased to £414.4 million (2012: £352.4 million), 
an increase of 16% at constant exchange rates and 18% at actual 
exchange rates, as a result of the revenue growth and the operating 
profit margin increasing from 6.6% to 6.8%. Currency translation 
had a positive impact of approximately 2% on the results for the 
year principally due to the strengthening of the US dollar and euro, 
partially offset by the weakening of the Australian dollar, Canadian 
dollar and Brazilian real. 
Intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs of £82.3 million 
were up £23.7 million due to a £13.6 million increase in deferred 
consideration payments relating to the continued employment of 
former owners of businesses acquired, a £10.6 million increase in 
intangible amortisation and a £1.5 million increase in transaction 
costs and expenses, partially offset by a further reduction in 
estimated earn out payments of £2.0 million.
The net interest charge of £42.2 million was up £8.2 million on 
2012, principally due to higher average net debt from the funding 
of acquisitions and additional interest expense from the new fixed 
interest US dollar bonds agreed in 2012 which replaced maturing 
floating interest US dollar bonds. Interest cover reduced to 9.8 times 
compared to 10.4 times in 2012.
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation, acquisition related 
costs and disposal of business was £372.2 million (2012: £318.4 
million), up 16% on 2012 at constant exchange rates and up 17% at 
actual exchange rates, due to the growth in operating profit before 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs, partially offset 
by the higher interest charge. 
The profit on disposal of business of £4.0 million in 2012 reflects the 
reassessment of provisions relating to the disposal of the UK vending 
business in 2011.
TAX
A tax charge at a rate of 27.9% (2012: 27.7%) has been provided on 
the profit before tax, intangible amortisation, acquisition related 
costs and disposal of business. Including the impact of intangible 
amortisation of £58.3 million, acquisition related costs of £24.0 
million and the associated deferred and current tax of £20.7 million, 
the overall tax rate is 28.7% (2012: 27.5%). The underlying tax rate 
of 27.9% is higher than the nominal UK rate of 23.3% for 2013 
principally because many of the Group’s operations are in 
countries with higher tax rates.
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Profit after tax of £206.8 million was up £15.5 million, primarily due 
to the £53.8 million increase in profit before income tax, intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related costs and disposal of business, 
partially offset by the increase in intangible amortisation and 
acquisition related costs of £23.7 million resulting from the 
increased acquisition activity in 2012 and 2013 and an increase 
in the tax charge of £10.6 million. 
EARNINGS
The weighted average number of shares decreased to 325.8 million 
from 326.1 million due to shares being purchased from the market 
into the Company’s employee benefit trust, partially offset by employee 
option exercises. Earnings per share were 63.5p, up 7% on 2012 at 
constant exchange rates and 8% at actual exchange rates. After 
adjusting for intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and 
the respective associated tax and the profit on disposal of business, 
adjusted earnings per share were 82.4p, an increase on 2012 of 
15% at constant exchange rates and 17% at actual exchange rates. 
Br ian 	 Ma y
Finance Director
26 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
FINANCIAL REVIEW The intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs, profit on 
disposal of business and associated tax are items which are not 
taken into account by management when assessing the underlying 
performance of the business. Accordingly, such items are removed 
in calculating the adjusted earnings per share on which management 
assesses the performance of the Group. 
DIVIDENDS
An analysis of dividends per share for the years to which they relate 
is shown below:
2013 2012 Growth
Interim dividend (p) 10.0 8.8 14%
Final dividend (p) 22.4 19.4 15%
Total dividend (p) 32.4 28.2 15%
Dividend cover (times)* 2.5 2.5 
*Based on adjusted earnings per share 
ACQUISITIONS
The acquisitions completed in 2013 were McNeil Surgical, Vicsa 
Brasil (which the Company agreed to acquire in December 2012), 
Labor Import, MDA, most of the Industrial & Safety division of 
Jeminex, TFS, Espomega, ProEpta, Wesclean Equipment & Cleaning 
Supplies, pka Klöcker, De Santis and SAS Safety. Annualised revenue 
and operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs of the businesses acquired (excluding Vicsa Brasil) 
were £281.1 million and £37.5 million respectively. A summary of 
the effect of acquisitions is as follows:
£m
Fair value of assets acquired 159.1
Goodwill 97.4
Consideration 256.5
Satisfied by:
cash consideration 223.8
deferred consideration 32.7
256.5
Contingent payments relating to continued employment 
of former owners 32.4
Net bank overdrafts acquired 7.5
Transaction costs and expenses 8.4
Total committed spend in respect of current year 
acquisitions 304.8
Spend on acquisition committed as at  
31 December 2012 (9.7)
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions 
agreed in the current year 295.1
The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisitions comprised:
£m
Cash consideration 223.8
Net bank overdrafts acquired 7.5
Deferred consideration in respect of prior year 
acquisitions 22.5
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 253.8
Acquisition related costs 26.1
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 279.9
CASH FLOW
Cash generated from operations before acquisition related costs was 
£446.4 million, a £97.3 million increase from 2012, primarily due to a 
£53.8 million increase in profit before tax, intangible amortisation, 
acquisition related costs and disposal of business and a working 
capital inflow in 2013 of £16.8 million compared to a £22.4 million 
outflow in 2012. The Group’s free cash flow of £301.8 million was up 
£67.1 million from 2012. After payment of dividends of £91.8 million in 
respect of 2012, an acquisition cash outflow of £279.9 million and a 
£43.3 million outflow on employee share schemes, the net cash 
outflow was £113.2 million. The summary cash flow for the year 
was as follows:
£m
Cash generated from operations* 446.4
Net capital expenditure (25.3)
Operating cash flow* 421.1
Operating cash flow* to operating profit
†
102%
Net interest (39.0)
Tax (80.3)
Free cash flow 301.8
Dividends (91.8)
Acquisitions (279.9)
Employee share schemes (43.3)
Net cash outflow (113.2)
*Before acquisition related costs
†
Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs
BALANCE SHEET
Return on average operating capital employed before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs increased to 56.9% from 
56.5% in 2012, with the impact of the lower return on operating 
capital from acquisitions being more than offset by improvements  
in the return on operating capital in the rest of the Group. Return on 
invested capital was 17.9%, in line with 2012, due to improved returns 
in the underlying business offsetting the adverse impact of recent 
acquisitions. Intangible assets increased by £116.3 million to £1,456.9 
million, reflecting goodwill and customer relationships arising on 
acquisitions in the year of £208.5 million, partially offset by an 
amortisation charge of £58.3 million and a reduction of £33.9 million 
due to exchange. The Group’s pension deficit of £45.0 million at 31 
December 2013 was £30.5 million lower than at 31 December 2012, 
with an actuarial gain of £26.9 million and contributions of £14.1 million 
being partially offset by a current service cost of £6.6 million, net 
interest charge of £2.8 million and other net costs of £1.1 million.  
The actuarial gain arose primarily as a result of the actual return 
on scheme assets being £18.6 million higher than expected and the  
£8.2 million impact of changes in assumptions relating to the present 
value of scheme liabilities, principally due to higher discount rates.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.8 times, the same level as at 
the previous year end despite an acquisition cash outflow of £279.9 
million. The movements in shareholders’ equity and net debt during 
the year were as follows:
Shareholders’ equity £m
At 1 January 2013 885.5
Profit for the year 206.8
Dividends (91.8)
Currency (52.1)
Actuarial gain on pension schemes (net of tax) 16.8
Share based payments 15.2
Employee trust shares (40.5)
At 31 December 2013 939.9
Net debt £m
At 1 January 2013 (738.1)
Net cash outflow (113.2)
Currency 1.8
At 31 December 2013 (849.5)
Net debt to EBITDA (times) 1.8
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 27 EXCHANGE RATES
Average 2013 2012
US$: £ 1.56 1.59
: £ 1.18 1.23
A$: £ 1.62 1.53
C$: £ 1.61 1.58
Brazilian real: £ 3.38 3.10
Closing 2013 2012
US$: £ 1.66 1.63
: £ 1.20 1.23
A$: £ 1.85 1.57
C$: £ 1.76 1.62
Brazilian real: £ 3.91 3.33
GROUP TAX STRATEGY
The Group’s tax strategy is principally focused on ensuring 
compliance with the legal obligations of all countries in which it 
operates. This extends to filings, payments and disclosures to tax 
authorities. In alignment with the commercial and economic activity 
of the business, the Group manages its taxes so as to maximise 
value for its shareholders in a way that does not adversely impact its 
reputation as a responsible taxpayer. The Board has approved the 
Group’s tax strategy and regularly reviews the Group’s tax risks.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to 
maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business.
The Group monitors the return on average operating capital 
employed and the return on invested capital as well as the level 
of total shareholders’ equity and the amount of dividends paid to 
ordinary shareholders. 
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of shareholders’ 
equity and bank and capital market borrowings. All of the 
borrowings are managed by a central treasury function and funds 
raised are lent onward to operating subsidiaries as required. The 
overall objective is to manage the funding to ensure the Group has 
a portfolio of competitively priced borrowing facilities to meet the 
demands of the business over time and, in order to do so, the Group 
arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources with 
a variety of maturity dates.
The Group’s businesses provide a high and consistent level of cash 
generation which helps fund future development and growth. The 
Group seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the higher 
returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and 
the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital 
management during the year and the Group is not subject to any 
externally imposed capital requirements.
TREASURY POLICIES AND CONTROLS
The Group has a centralised treasury department to control external 
borrowings and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency 
risks. Treasury policies have been approved by the Board and cover 
the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of financial 
instruments that may be employed and the criteria for investing and 
borrowing cash. The Group uses derivatives to manage its foreign 
currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying business 
activities. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. 
The treasury department is subject to periodic independent review 
by the internal audit department. Underlying policy assumptions and 
activities are periodically reviewed by the executive directors and the 
Board. Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity 
are in place.
HEDGE ACCOUNTING
The Group designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for 
accounting purposes as either (a) a hedge of the fair value of a 
recognised asset or liability; (b) a hedge of the cash flow risk 
resulting from changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates; 
or (c) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. The Group 
tests the effectiveness of hedges on a prospective and retrospective 
basis to ensure compliance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’. Methods for testing effectiveness 
include dollar offset, critical terms and hypothetical derivatives.
LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its 
financial obligations as they fall due. The Group continually monitors 
net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that sufficient facilities are 
in place to meet the Group’s requirements in the short, medium and 
long term and, in order to do so, arranges borrowings from a variety 
of sources. Additionally, compliance with the Group’s biannual debt 
covenants is monitored on a monthly basis. The principal covenant 
limits are net debt to operating profit before depreciation, intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs (‘EBITDA’) of no more than 
3.5 times and interest cover of no less than 3.0 times. Sensitivity 
analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess 
their impact on covenants and net debt. During 2013 all covenants 
have been complied with and based on current forecasts it is 
expected that such covenants will continue to be complied 
with for the foreseeable future.
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it 
comprising multi-currency credit facilities from the Group’s banks 
and US dollar and sterling bonds. An issue of fixed interest US dollar 
bonds of $240.0m which was agreed in 2012 was drawn by the Group 
in April 2013. At 31 December 2013 the total bonds outstanding were 
£607.1 million (2012: £618.9 million) with maturities ranging from 2014 
to 2024. During the year the Group also refinanced or agreed new 
banking facilities totalling £264.2 million. The Group’s committed 
bank facilities mature between 2014 and 2018. At 31 December 2013 
the available committed bank facilities totalled £886.7 million 
(2012: £758.5 million) of which £273.1 million (2012: £169.2 million) 
was drawn down. The committed facilities maturity profile 
at 31 December 2013 is set out in the chart below. 
65
59
66
40
45
100
31
40
40
30 32 32
218
105
67
35
20
246
223
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 24 23
COMMITTED FACILITIES MATURITY PROFILE 2014–2024 £m 
 BANK FACILITIES – UNDRAWN
 BANK FACILITIES – DRAWN
 US DOLLAR AND STERLING BONDS
28 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED INTEREST RATE RISK
The Group is funded by a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt. 
In addition, interest rate swaps and interest rate caps are used to 
manage the interest rate risk profile. At 31 December 2013 fixed rate 
debt of £607.1 million (2012: £472.2 million) related to fixed rate US 
dollar and sterling bonds stated at amortised cost with maturities 
ranging from 2014 to 2024.
At 31 December 2013 floating rate debt comprised £273.1 million of 
floating rate bank loans (2012: £174.3 million). Bank loans are drawn 
for various periods of up to three months at interest rates linked 
to LIBOR. 
The interest rate risk on the floating rate debt is managed using 
interest rate options. Borrowings with a notional principal of £60.0 
million were capped at 31 December 2013 (2012: £162.6 million). 
Hedge accounting is not applied to the interest rate caps since the 
majority of their value is related to time value. The strike rates of 
these options are based on LIBOR repricing every three months.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
The majority of the Group’s sales are made and income is earned in 
US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. The Group does not 
hedge the impact of exchange rate movements arising on translation 
of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates. For the year 
ended 31 December 2013, a movement of one cent in the US dollar 
and euro average exchange rates would have changed profit before 
tax by £1.0 million and £0.3 million respectively and profit before tax, 
intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and disposal of 
business by £1.1 million and £0.6 million respectively.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the 
respective functional currencies of the Group’s operations and so 
transaction exposures are usually relatively limited. Where they do 
occur, the Group’s policy is to hedge significant exposures of firm 
commitments for a period of up to one year as soon as they are 
committed using forward foreign exchange contracts and these are 
designated as cash flow hedges. However, the economic impact of 
foreign exchange on the value of uncommitted future purchases and 
sales is not hedged. As a result, sudden and significant movements 
in foreign exchange rates can impact profit margins where there is 
a delay in passing on to customers the resulting price increases.
The majority of the Group’s borrowings are effectively denominated 
in sterling, US dollars and euros, aligning them to the respective 
functional currencies of the component parts of the Group’s EBITDA. 
This currency profile is achieved using short term foreign exchange 
contracts, long term cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign 
currency debt. This currency composition minimises the impact of 
foreign exchange rates on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to a financial asset due to 
non-payment by the counterparty. The Group’s objective is to reduce 
its exposure to counterparty default by restricting the type of 
counterparty it deals with and by employing an appropriate policy 
in relation to the collection of financial assets.
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and deposits, 
derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables 
which represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in 
relation to financial assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk 
for these financial assets is their carrying amount.
Dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant combination 
of geographic presence and suitable credit rating. The Group 
continually monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties and 
the credit exposure to each counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, the amounts represented in the 
balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, 
estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience 
and their assessment of the current economic environment.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations 
of credit risk.
GOING CONCERN
Details of the Group’s activities, developments and performance 
are set out on pages 10 to 37. This Financial review summarises the 
Group’s financial performance, balance sheet and cash flows and 
provides information on its treasury policies, exposure to financial 
risks, debt profile and funding headroom. Note 13 to the consolidated 
financial statements provides further details of the Group’s debt 
profile, capital management policy, treasury policies and controls, 
hedging activities and financial instruments and its policies and 
exposures to liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks. 
The Group has significant financial resources, a well established 
and fragmented customer base, strong supplier relationships and 
a diverse geographic presence. As a consequence, the directors 
believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks 
successfully. Based on the expected future profit generation, cash 
conversion and current facilities’ headroom over the 12 months to 
March 2015, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors believe it is 
appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
Br ian 	 Ma y
Finance Director
24 February 2014
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 29 Mar k et 	 r isk s	 Mi tig a ti n g 	 f a c tors
Competitive pressures
The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces 
competition from international companies as well as national, 
regional and local companies in the countries in which it operates. 
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or 
customers could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder the 
Group’s growth potential, either through pressure on sales volumes 
or margins from customers, the loss of customers, increased price 
competition or unforeseen changes in the competitive landscape 
due to changes in technology or routes to market.
The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service 
levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their 
needs and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a 
national presence in the markets in which the Group operates 
and maintaining strong relationships with a variety of different 
suppliers thereby enabling the Group to offer a broad range of 
products to its customers. The Group also regularly reviews the 
competitive environment in which it operates. 
Product price changes
The purchase price of products distributed by the Group can 
fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting the results 
of operations. There could be significant increases in the cost of 
specific products leading to a diminution in margins if cost increases 
cannot be passed on in full to customers or substitute products 
sourced from elsewhere. In addition, adverse economic conditions 
resulting in a period of commodity price deflation and increased 
levels of imported products may lead to reductions in the price 
and value of the Group’s products. If this were to occur, the Group’s 
revenue and, as a result, its profits, could be reduced and the value 
of inventory held in stock may not be fully recoverable.
The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price 
increases from its suppliers to its customers and to source its 
products from a number of different suppliers so that it is not 
dependent on any one source of supply for any particular product. 
Increased focus on the Group’s own import programmes and 
brands, together with the reinforcement of the Group’s service 
and product offering to customers, helps to minimise the impact 
of price deflation.
The Group mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued 
inventory in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels 
efficiently and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
Economic environment
The Group’s business is partially dependent on general economic 
conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets. 
A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse 
effect on the Group’s business and results of operations.
The Group’s operations and its customer base are diverse, with 
a variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which 
it competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient 
to economic downturns.
RISK OVERVIEW
The effective identification, management and mitigation of risks and 
uncertainties across the Group are an integral part of delivering the 
Group’s strategic objectives. The ‘Risk management and internal 
control’ section of the Corporate governance report on pages 42 and 
43 includes further information on the specific procedures designed 
to identify, manage and mitigate business risk which could have a 
material impact on the Group’s business, financial condition or 
results of operations. 
The Company’s risk management framework provides a consistent 
methodology by which every business and business area, the 
Executive Committee and ultimately the Board assess the risks that 
the Group faces against a defined set of probability and impact 
criteria. In assessing impact, the following criteria are considered: 
business continuity; health, safety and the environment; regulatory; 
reputational; and financial. The probability and impact of each risk 
is assessed on two bases. The first, defined as Gross Risk, is the 
probability and impact of a risk if none of the mitigating actions or 
internal controls designed to reduce either the probability or the 
impact of a risk occurring were in place. The second, defined as Net 
Risk, is the residual probability and impact of a risk assuming that 
the mitigating actions and internal controls operated as intended in 
an effective way.
Using this framework, every business documents their key risks 
in a consistent reporting format which specifically identifies the 
mitigating activities, relevant controls and related assurance 
activities for each significant risk. Management then consolidates 
the risk information at both a business area and Group level using 
the same reporting format, culminating in the Group risk 
assessment. The Executive Committee then reviews the Group risk 
assessment, the relevant controls and other steps taken to mitigate 
the risks identified and the assurance procedures in place over such 
controls with a view to determining any further actions required in 
order to reduce the levels of risk to acceptable levels. The risk 
assessment is then submitted for review and approval by the Board. 
CHANGES TO THE RISK PROFILE
The Group operates in many business environments and across a 
number of geographies in which risks and uncertainties exist, not 
all of which are necessarily within the Company’s control. The risks 
identified in the 2012 Annual Report remain those of most concern 
to the business at the end of 2013. However, the risk of a negative 
impact due to countries leaving the eurozone is considered to have 
decreased since the previous year and is no longer regarded as a 
principal risk for the purposes of the Group risk assessment. The 
principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps 
taken to mitigate such risks and uncertainties are detailed below. 
This summary is not intended to be exhaustive and is not presented 
in order of potential probability or impact.
Bunzl has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify 
and assess the likelihood and consequences of risks and to manage the 
actions necessary to mitigate their impact to acceptable levels. It also 
identifies the assurance activities relating to the relevant mitigating actions. 
30 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES F i n a n ci al 	 r isk s	 Mi tig a ti n g 	 f a c tors
Foreign exchange
The majority of the Group’s sales are made and income is earned 
in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. The Group does 
not hedge the impact of exchange rate movements arising on 
translation of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.  
As a result, movements in exchange rates may have a material 
translation impact on the Group’s reported results.
The Group may also be subject to transaction exposures where 
products are purchased in one currency and sold in another and 
movements in exchange rates may also adversely affect the value 
of the Group’s net assets.
The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical spread 
outweigh the associated risks.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the 
functional currency of the Group’s operations. As a result, 
transaction exposures are usually limited and exchange rate 
fluctuations have minimal effect on the quality of earnings unless 
there is a sudden and significant adverse movement of a foreign 
currency in which products are purchased which may lead to a delay 
in passing on to customers the resulting price increases. The Group 
undertakes some forward purchasing of foreign currencies for 
identified exposures to reduce the impact of short term volatility.
The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates and related 
hedging activity is regularly monitored by senior management. 
The Group’s approach to managing foreign exchange risk is 
reviewed annually by the Board. 
Financial liquidity and debt covenants
The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet 
its trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth and 
to make acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise. There 
is a risk that the Group may be unable to obtain the necessary 
funds when required or that such funds will only be available 
on unfavourable terms.
The Group’s borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply with 
certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt and 
interest cover. A breach of these covenants could result in a significant 
proportion of the Group’s borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different 
sources and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows 
to ensure that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they 
fall due and that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s 
requirements in the short, medium and long term.
Compliance with the Group’s biannual debt covenants is monitored 
on a monthly basis based on the management accounts. Sensitivity 
analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess 
their impact on covenants.
Oper a ti o n al 	 r isk s Mi tig a ti n g 	 f a c tors
Acquisitions
A significant portion of the Group’s historical growth has been 
achieved through the acquisition of businesses and the Group’s 
growth strategy includes additional acquisitions. Although the 
Group operates in a number of fragmented markets which provide 
future acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance that the 
Group will be able to make acquisitions in the future. There is also a 
risk that not all of the acquisitions made will be successful due to 
the loss of key people or customers after the acquisition, or 
deterioration in the economic environment of the acquired business. 
In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms 
compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this 
will lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the 
intangible assets attributed to that acquisition.
The Group’s acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses 
which operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive 
advantage and which have good growth opportunities. The Group 
continually reviews acquisition targets and has established 
processes and procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition 
due diligence and post-acquisition integration.
The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an 
acquisition through the recruitment and retention of high 
quality management combined with effective strategic planning, 
investment in resources and infrastructure and regular reviews 
of performance by both business area and Group management.
Business continuity
The Group would be affected if there was a significant failure 
of its major distribution facilities or information systems. 
The Group seeks to reduce the impact of facilities’ failure through 
the use of multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than 
one location and the impact of information systems’ failure through 
the adoption of detailed back up plans which are periodically tested 
and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations
The international nature of the Group’s operations exposes it to 
potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws 
and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in 
relation to the supply of defective products or breaches of their 
contractual arrangements. The sourcing of products from lower cost 
countries increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any 
potential losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious 
market sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage 
and mitigate against third party litigation using external advisers 
where necessary. 
The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance 
and quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with 
defective products.
The Financial review on pages 26 to 29 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements include information relating to the Group’s risk 
management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 31 4%
Decrease 
in accident 
incidence rate
SUPPORT 
IMPROVE 
SUSTAIN
We are fully engaged in our wider responsibilities, 
including reducing environmental impact, a 
commitment to social well-being and supporting 
our people to develop their skills to benefit 
community initiatives.
32 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 • providing local community support by the encouragement of 
employee fund raising and by donating stock and cash to charitable 
organisations and good causes; and
• working with our suppliers as partners to encourage high levels of 
CR and ethical trading initiatives.
These issues are governed by a policy framework, which is approved 
and monitored by the Board, with implementation at a business 
area level.
BUSINESS CONDUCT/CODE OF ETHICS
The Group’s business conduct/code of ethics policy is disseminated  
to every employee as a guide to how employees are expected 
to conduct themselves both from a corporate and individual 
perspective. The policy clearly states that employees should avoid 
conflicts of interest, provides guidance on the giving and receiving 
of gifts and entertainment, prohibits illegal payments as well as 
political donations and reinforces the need to comply with laws, 
rules and regulations, protect confidential information and company 
assets and maintain high standards in relationships with our 
customers and suppliers.
No material breaches of our business conduct/code of ethics policy 
were recorded in 2013. However, some minor incidents relating to 
employee conduct, such as theft or misuse of the Group’s property, 
did occur and were dealt with during the normal course of business 
using Group human resource (‘HR’) policies and procedures. Seven 
(2012: seven) calls/letters were received through our confidential 
whistle blowing process, ‘Speak Up’, none of which raised any issues 
of material concern.
Per for ma n c e 	 a g a i nst 	 20 1 3 	 o b j ec tiv es
• Our suite of nine tailored e-learning modules including modules 
which provide an overview of the business conduct/code of ethics 
policy and anti-bribery issues such as facilitation payments and 
gifts and entertainment, continues to be used for induction training 
of all managers and sales and procurement staff joining the Group. 
These e-learning modules are particularly useful for introducing 
staff from newly acquired businesses to Bunzl’s standards of 
business conduct. During the year we reviewed the modules to 
identify any gaps and an additional module relating to competition 
law compliance has been developed and will be launched shortly.
• Taking into account the results of our monitoring and reviewing 
of the existing CR policies, processes and controls, communication 
of CR was enhanced by upgrading the Responsibility section 
of our website, www.bunzl.com. Previously the information 
provided on the website mirrored that within the Annual Report. 
Additional material has been introduced such as a video describing 
Bunzl’s approach to CR, as well as case studies which describe the 
range of CR activities taking place in the Group. A ‘frequently 
asked questions’ section is now included to assist researchers.
20 1 4 	 o b j ec tiv es
• Continue to review our policies, processes and controls to ensure 
that they continue to support the business appropriately and 
remain in line with good business practice.
• Refresh and enhance communication relating to business conduct 
across the Group.
STRATEGY 
We believe that positive actions with respect to Corporate 
Responsibility (‘CR’) are not only desirable in their own right but are 
also of potential economic and commercial benefit to the Group. For 
many years Bunzl has continued to pursue a consistent strategy of 
focusing on its strengths and consolidating the markets in which it 
competes. This requires continually redefining and deepening our 
commitment to customers and markets, as well as extending our 
business into new geographies. Our CR strategy and ambition 
directly supports Bunzl’s strategic vision by seeking to gain 
sustainable business success through building relationships with 
stakeholders. We deliver this through an approach built on ethical 
values and behaviours and responsible business practices, aimed at 
winning the trust of our customers, suppliers, investors and other 
stakeholders by effectively managing our social, environmental  
and ethical impacts. It also helps us to attract and retain talented  
and committed employees.
OUR FRAMEWORK AND APPROACH TO MATERIALITY
Our approach to CR is straightforward:
• we communicate our stance on key issues impacting our  
business and, through our business conduct/code of ethics policy, 
are clear about the standards we expect of ourselves and those  
we work with;
• we consult with our employees, customers, suppliers, investors 
and wider stakeholder groups to understand the main social and 
environmental matters affecting our business;
• we identify and prioritise the risks we face and the opportunities 
we have and develop relevant activities, objectives and targets;
• we manage CR focusing on the most relevant issues and where 
we feel we have the greatest impact; and
• we communicate our performance with openness and 
transparency, so that our stakeholders understand the progress 
we are making.
A strong reputation for CR can provide business advantage and 
contribute to shareholder value. Conversely, perceived weakness 
in CR may damage our reputation and cause risks.
Ma ter ia li t y
Understanding our material issues is important to enable us to 
manage our CR related impacts and stakeholder relationships 
effectively. It also helps to focus our resources, engagement and 
reporting activities by addressing those issues most material to 
our business. Our current areas of focus are:
• business conduct/code of ethics training;
• employee engagement through clear communication using 
a variety of channels, as well as provision of training and 
development opportunities;
• improving safety in the warehouses and on our vehicles and 
ensuring that everyone takes personal responsibility for this;
• reducing our and our customers’ impacts on the environment by 
reducing carbon emissions and promoting the reduction of waste;
• providing innovative products to meet our customers’ needs, 
for example environmentally friendly packaging; 
Sustainable business practices remain a priority for both Bunzl and our supply 
chain while the services we provide continue to assist our customers to 
reduce their carbon footprint.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 33
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 20 1 4 	 o b j ec tiv es
• Continue to monitor key HR measures such as voluntary turnover, 
sickness absence, training days, workforce gender and age mix 
and, as appropriate, take action to address any issues that 
may arise.
HEALTH & SAFETY
The health and safety of our employees and other stakeholders 
is a priority. Although we try to minimise the risks which occur, 
particularly relating to the operation of our warehouses and vehicles, 
incidents relating to manual handling, slipping and tripping remain 
the highest cause of accidents. Regretfully in the 2013 reporting 
period there was one fatality (2012: one) when a cyclist was killed 
in a road traffic accident in Canada having been struck by a Bunzl 
vehicle that was turning right at traffic lights. The accident was fully 
investigated and no charges have been brought against Bunzl or our 
driver. A number of actions have been taken to raise awareness and 
continue to improve our health and safety performance.
Per for ma n c e 	 a g a i nst 	 20 1 3 	 o b j ec tiv es
• The 2013 target was to reduce the Group accident incidence rate 
by 3% and the Group accident severity rate by 6% from the 2012 
accident rates:
 − for the year ended 30 September 2013 our accident incidence 
rate reduced by 4%; and
 − for the same period our accident severity rate reduced by 1%. 
Accident incidence and severity rates for UK & Ireland and Rest of 
the World improved in excess of the respective targets. However, 
despite improvements in a number of areas, North America’s and 
Continental Europe’s performance deteriorated overall, albeit that 
some of this deterioration was due to the impact of acquiring a 
business with health and safety processes below Bunzl’s standard. 
Details of our performance from 2011 to 2013 are provided in the bar 
charts on page 35. The accident data provided is for the whole Group 
with the exception of some of the most recent acquisitions which 
represent less than 4% of the total workforce.
20 1 4 	 o b j ec tiv es
• Reduce the Group accident incidence rate by 3% from 2013.
• Reduce the Group accident severity rate by 5% from 2013.
EMPLOYEES
Bunzl currently operates in 27 countries worldwide. We are a service 
provider, not a manufacturer and, as such, our business relies 
heavily on the skills and experience of our employees. We pride 
ourselves on the fact that we run our businesses locally with local 
managers. We do not unfairly discriminate and we respect human 
rights. We seek to recruit the right people who are passionate about 
our business and to provide opportunities for people to progress 
within the organisation on the basis of their skills, experience and 
aptitude. We believe that to get the best from people we need to 
respect each other and encourage honest, straightforward 
communication. Our acquisition pipeline continues to be a valuable 
source of management talent for the Group and the completion of a 
number of acquisitions during the year has brought further highly 
skilled people into Bunzl. Details of the Group’s workforce diversity 
at 31 December 2013 are set out in the pie charts below.
Hu ma n 	 r ig h t s
Bunzl adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
(‘UDHR’) and upholds the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 
policies, defined by the International Labour Organization, as well as 
local laws. The majority of countries in which Bunzl operates have 
their own laws banning child labour and promoting human rights. 
We monitor the age of our workforce across the world to ensure 
compliance and identify any potential succession issues. In the US 
some of our operations, particularly in the north east, are 
represented by trade unions with which we have negotiated pay 
contracts. Bunzl does not restrict any of its employees in any of the 
countries in which it operates from joining a trade union if they wish 
to do so. We also work closely with our suppliers to ensure that they 
at least meet internationally recognised minimum requirements for 
workers’ welfare and conditions of employment, as defined by the 
International Labour Organization or the Ethical Trading Initiative. 
Per for ma n c e 	 a g a i nst 	 20 1 3 	 o b j ec tiv es
• The Group’s annual voluntary turnover, that is the percentage 
of employees resigning from the Group, is 7.5%. Considering 
the profile of our workforce, the current turnover level is low, 
reflecting the underlying economic conditions in many of the 
countries in which we operate rather than any intrinsic reasons 
related to the Group. Sickness absence has fallen slightly in 
Continental Europe, North America and UK & Ireland but has 
risen slightly in Rest of the World. No underlying issues of 
concern have been identified.
• An internal social networking tool was introduced into UK & 
Ireland to improve communication and share best practice. The 
effectiveness of this tool will be reviewed once it has been in place 
for over 12 months to consider whether there would be benefits in 
implementing it more widely across the Group.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
BY BUSINESS AREA
TOTAL WORKFORCE
GENDER SPLIT AT 31 DECEMBER 2013
BOARD AND SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT 
GENDER SPLIT AT 31 DECEMBER 2013
35%
25%
25%
15%
65%
35%
91%
9%
 NORTH AMERICA
  C O N TI N E NT A L E U R O P E
 UK & IRELAND
 REST OF THE WORLD
 MALE (8,350)
  F E M A L E ( 4 ,39 9 )
 MALE (308)
  F E M A L E ( 3 0 )
BOARD COMPOSITION: 8 MALE, 1 FEMALE
34 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT
We seek to prevent, mitigate and remediate the harmful effects of 
Bunzl’s operations on the environment. To ameliorate our impact on 
and exposure to climate change, our facilities operate worldwide to 
Group standards, we promote environmental awareness throughout 
the business and our branch network mitigates against the effects 
of extreme local climate conditions. Our reported environmental 
data includes all businesses that are subsidiaries of the Group 
for financial reporting purposes, with the exception of recent 
acquisitions which are excluded from environmental data reporting 
to allow the acquired businesses sufficient time to adopt our 
reporting guidelines. Bunzl had no significant environmental 
incidents in 2013.
Our direct water usage and emissions are minimal and are largely 
unchanged since the 2011 water audit. Water usage is principally 
confined to workplace cleaning and hygiene purposes. If we lease a 
purpose built site, wherever possible the specification includes water 
harvesting to further minimise our use. We continue to measure 
water usage across a sample of our sites worldwide. 
ISO 14001 accreditation was renewed in a number of locations. 
To date all sites in UK & Ireland and Australasia, with the exception 
of the most recent acquisitions, and many sites in Continental 
Europe are accredited. By revenue this represents more than 30% 
of the Group.
Per for ma n c e 	 a g a i nst 	 20 1 3 	 o b j ec tiv es
Our carbon emissions data has been restated for prior years in order 
to account for material changes to the conversion factors provided by 
Defra for company reporting purposes. 
Greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 October to 30 September
Tonnes of CO 2 e
Base year 2010 2012 2013
◊
Scope 1 95,249 83,932 89,397
Scope 2 28,757 24,599 30,465
Total gross emissions 124,006 108,531 119,862 
Total carbon emissions  
per £m revenue 26.3 20.4 20.8
 Included in the external auditor’s limited assurance scope referred to on page 36.
• Our target for 2013 was to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon 
emissions relative to revenue by 22% from 2010, our base year. 
This data covers around 99% of the Group by revenue. During the 
reporting period 14 acquisitions were completed providing total 
revenue of c. £350 million. 10 of these acquisitions, representing 
78% of this revenue, are included in the 2013 carbon emissions 
data from the date of acquisition. 
• Scope 1: emission rates per £m of revenue have decreased 
between 2012 and 2013 by 2% (see the KPI bar chart on page 7) and 
from 2010, our base year, by 23%. In 2013 fuel for transportation 
contributed about 85% of Bunzl’s Scope 1 emissions. The level of 
fuel consumed per £000 of revenue decreased between 2012 and 
2013 by 9% (see the KPI bar chart on page 7). We continue to focus 
on improved fuel efficiency through regular renewal of our fleet, 
driver training and the use of telematics providing in-cab feedback 
on performance. Many of the businesses acquired since 2010 do 
not operate their own transport fleets and there has been some 
transfer from own fleet to carriers where this has been shown to 
be more cost effective. Gas consumption has increased by around 
50% against the previous year. This is in part the result of our 
ongoing acquisition programme which has increased the overall 
size of our estate despite a continued programme of site 
consolidations. In addition, we experienced a longer period of cold 
weather than in the previous year. We continue to focus on gas 
usage and boiler maintenance. 
• Scope 2: emission rates per £m of revenue increased between 
2012 and 2013 by 15% (see the KPI bar chart on page 7) but from 
2010, our base year, have decreased by 13%. Most of the increase 
in this year’s Scope 2 CO
2
e emissions was attributable to the 
impact of new acquisitions. We have continued to implement 
measures to reduce electricity consumption including investment 
in energy efficient lighting systems, replacement of battery 
chargers with high frequency energy efficient chargers, purchase 
of more efficient manual handling equipment and ‘Switch off’ 
campaigns. However, the benefits of these measures were offset 
by the extended period of cold weather in the year which resulted 
in an increased requirement for artificial lighting and space heating. 
• Waste data now covers 96% of the Group by revenue. Our 
businesses in Latin America, Israel and recent acquisitions are 
not currently included. The reduction in general waste has been 
achieved by improved waste management including the elimination 
and reuse of transit packaging and more sites providing waste 
segregation facilities for increased recycling. The lack of suitable 
weighing equipment, especially for waste to landfill, continues to 
challenge the accuracy of this data and last year’s estimated 
figures for North America have proved to be overstated. However 
we are working with our contractors to improve this.
20 1 4 	 o b j ec tiv es
• Using the 2010 data as the baseline, reduce the Scope 1 carbon 
emissions by 26% (3% from 2013 to 2014) and the Scope 2 carbon 
emissions by 15% (2% from 2013 to 2014).
• Develop a Scope 3 carbon emissions report in line with the Group’s 
reporting guidelines. 
• More closely integrate the environmental reporting with our 
financial reporting processes. 
INCIDENCE RATE 
AVERAGE NUMBER OF  INCIDENTS PER 
MONTH  PER 100,000 EMPLOYEES
SEVERITY RATE 
AVERAGE NUMBER OF DAYS LOST PER 
MONTH PER 100,000 EMPLOYEES
WASTE 
TONNES PER £M REVENUE 
135
140
159
11 12 13
3,514 3,552
3,446
11 12 13
0.14 0.08 0.21
11 12 13
1.96
0.55
1.14
1.30
0.93
0.73
 INCINERATED WASTE
 GENERAL WASTE
 RECOVERED/RECYCLED WASTE
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 35 E x ter n al 	 as su r a n c e
We engaged KPMG Audit Plc to undertake a limited assurance 
engagement, reporting to Bunzl plc only, using International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements (‘ISAE’) 3000: ‘Assurance 
Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information’ and ISAE 3410: ‘Assurance Engagements on 
Greenhouse Gas Statements’ over the three KPIs on page 7 and the 
data on page 35, in each case that has been highlighted with the 
symbol . They have provided an unqualified opinion in relation to the 
relevant KPIs and data and their full assurance opinion is available 
in the Responsibility section of our website, www.bunzl.com. 
The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance engagement 
is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance engagement. 
In order to reach their opinion, KPMG Audit Plc performed a range 
of procedures which included interviews with management, 
examination of reporting systems and visits to some of our 
businesses in the UK, France and the US as well as specific data 
testing at these businesses and the Group head office. A summary 
of the work they performed is included in their assurance opinion.
Non-financial performance information, including greenhouse gas 
quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations 
than financial information. It is important to read the selected 
corporate responsibility information contained in this Annual Report 
in the context of KPMG Audit Plc’s full limited assurance opinion and 
the Company’s Corporate Responsibility Performance Reporting 
Guidelines which are also available in the Responsibility section 
of our website.
COMMUNITY
Although Bunzl’s operations are international, our strength is in 
the local nature of our businesses. In keeping with this ethos, we 
particularly support the fund raising activities championed by our 
employees locally. This is supplemented by donations made at Group 
level to charities predominantly in the fields of healthcare, disability 
and the environment as well as benevolent societies to support 
projects in communities where our operations are based. Where 
possible and appropriate, Bunzl also looks to donate stock free of 
charge (‘in-kind’). Group wide, Bunzl donated a total of £580,000 
(2012: £480,000) to charities in 2013. This does not include in-kind 
donations or employee fund raising. 
CUSTOMERS
As a service business, our ability both to anticipate and meet our 
customers’ needs is key to our success. We strive to ensure that 
we provide high levels of service. We achieve this by building solid 
relationships at a local level by regularly meeting with and seeking 
feedback from our customers. We continue to provide innovative 
service and product solutions to meet our customers’ needs, 
including requirements to meet sustainability goals. The Group 
provides customers with the ability to benefit from a consolidated 
delivery of their consumable products. This reduces carbon 
emissions by eliminating the need for multiple deliveries from many 
different suppliers and streamlining the related administration for 
our customers. Bunzl is not a manufacturer and therefore there is 
complete flexibility to offer products that meet customers’ 
requirements. A full range of environmentally friendly products are 
available. Bunzl continues to receive awards from its customers for 
high levels of service. 
SUPPLIERS
Price is only one factor in our purchasing decisions and matters such 
as quality, availability, our customers’ preferences and our policies 
are also taken into account. The vast majority of our products are 
sourced locally by our businesses but many products are sourced 
elsewhere if it is appropriate to do so. In 2013 approximately 18% of 
our products were sourced from lower cost countries. Each business 
area is responsible for implementing appropriate processes to 
assess key suppliers’ compliance with the relevant CR standards 
and to monitor performance and improvements against such 
standards. Bunzl focuses on its key suppliers to ensure that they 
meet the same CR standards we have set for ourselves. We have 
written to those suppliers that provide us with 50% of our products 
by value to update them on our CR aspirations and to encourage 
them to adopt a similar approach.
To facilitate the business areas, we have our own quality assurance/
quality control team based in Shanghai whose main aim is to 
perform regular audits of our suppliers in Asia to ensure that 
they meet international standards, as well as testing the factories’ 
production capabilities and their quality assurance and quality 
control systems. Employees’ terms and conditions of work, 
customer service, hygiene management systems and their policies 
on environmental issues are also checked. Our policy is that all our 
suppliers meet internationally recognised minimum requirements 
for workers’ welfare and conditions of employment, as defined 
by the International Labour Organization or the Ethical Trading 
Initiative. A key tool available to the quality control team is an 
on-site professional laboratory where they undertake tests on 
manufacturers’ products.
Suppliers who are unable to meet all the requirements after an initial 
assessment/audit will be given the opportunity to comply fully within 
a period which is deemed appropriate for the circumstances. If a 
serious breach is identified following assessment, an action plan 
will be documented and the supplier will be expected to commit to 
addressing all the areas where discrepancies have been identified. 
The process of improvement via this method is principally down to 
the commitment of the supplier’s management team/owner/agent 
to ensure that all areas are addressed. If we have reason to believe 
that the supplier is not making sufficient or committed progress, this 
could lead to a suspension in the relationship until such time that we 
are confident that all areas are being satisfactorily addressed. Bunzl 
companies reserve the right to cease a relationship with a supplier 
if it is found that unacceptable practices are being employed at any 
sites used for producing or sourcing Bunzl products. Such practices 
include use of child labour, forced or bonded labour as well as 
physical abuse or discipline and intimidation.
During 2013 we have been liaising with suppliers to ensure that any 
paper or wood based products are from sustainable sources in 
compliance with the relevant timber regulations.
For more information on all of Bunzl’s CR policies and activities 
please visit the Responsibility section of www.bunzl.com.
36 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED RISKS 
The Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 30 and 31 details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material 
impact on the Group’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Although many CR risks are not seen as principal risks to the 
Group, as part of the Group risk analysis a number of CR risks which could impact the Group’s business have been identified and these are 
set out below together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks:
R is k Mi tig a ti n g 	 f a c tors
CR compliance failures
Lack of adherence to the Group’s CR policies could result in a variety 
of issues including those relating to inappropriate business 
practices, accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of 
waste or carbon emissions.
The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures 
(including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption) in place 
throughout the business as well as an established reporting 
framework.
Loss of key employees
The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on 
strong customer and supplier relationships which are built up 
locally. Stability of key relationship roles amongst the Group’s 
employees is therefore important.
The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive 
packages, development opportunities and career progression. 
Voluntary staff turnover is measured on a monthly basis, which 
enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities/unavailability of staff
Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather 
conditions. This could result in some of the Group’s facilities being 
affected or employees being unable to attend for work.
The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more 
than one location as a result of which the Group usually has the 
ability to distribute products from nearby facilities. Business 
continuity plans are in place to minimise the impact of any 
such issues.
Suppliers’ non-compliance with good CR practices
The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international 
suppliers across the world. The failure of one of the Group’s key 
suppliers to adhere to recognised CR standards could affect the 
Group’s reputation.
The Group’s key suppliers are principally publicly owned 
multinational organisations with high standards of operations. 
Suppliers are monitored by the Group’s purchasing departments 
and the QA/QC department based in China audits many suppliers 
throughout Asia. Key suppliers are made aware of the Group’s 
CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business 
environment as previously outlined in this report.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 37 1 3
6 8 9
5
7
4 2
1 	 Ph il i p 	 Rogerso n # (Age 69)
Appointed to the Board in January 2010 and became Chairman in 
March 2010. Chairman of the Nomination Committee. He was 
an executive director of BG plc (formerly British Gas plc) from 1992 
to 1998, latterly as Deputy Chairman. He is Chairman of Carillion plc 
and De La Rue plc. 
2 	 Mi c ha el 	 Ro n e y 	# (Age 59)
Chief Executive since 2005 having been a non-executive director 
since 2003. After holding a number of senior general management 
positions within Goodyear throughout Latin America and then Asia, 
he became President of their Eastern European, African and Middle 
Eastern businesses and subsequently Chief Executive Officer of 
Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe BV. He is the senior independent 
non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc. 
3 	 Peter 	 Joh nso n 	*†#• (Age 66)
Non-executive director since 2006, senior independent director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Having spent most of his 
earlier career in the motor industry, he joined Inchcape plc in 1995, 
became Chief Executive in 1999 and was Chairman from 2006 until 
2009. He was the senior independent non-executive director of Wates 
Group Limited from 2011 until 2013 and was Chairman of The Rank 
Group Plc from 2007 until 2011. 
4 	 P a tr i c k 	 Lar mo n (Age 61)
Executive director since 2004 and President and Chief Executive 
Officer, North America. Having joined Bunzl in 1990 when Packaging 
Products Corporation, of which he was an owner, was acquired, he 
held various senior management positions over 13 years before 
becoming President of North America in 2003 and additionally 
assuming the role of Chief Executive Officer in 2004.
5 	 Br i a n 	 Ma y (Age 49)
Finance Director since 2006. A chartered accountant, he qualified 
with KPMG and joined Bunzl in 1993 as Internal Audit Manager. 
Subsequently he became Group Treasurer before taking up the role 
of Finance Director, Europe & Australasia in 1996 and Finance 
Director designate in 2005. He is a non-executive director of United 
Utilities Group PLC and United Utilities Water PLC. 
6 	 Da vid 	 Sl ea th 	*†#• (Age 52)
Non-executive director since 2007 and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. Formerly a Partner and Head of Audit and Assurance for 
the Midlands region of Arthur Andersen, he subsequently became 
Finance Director of Wagon plc before joining SEGRO plc, the 
European industrial property group, where he was Group Finance 
Director from 2006 and has been Chief Executive since 2011.
7 	 Eugeni a 	 Ul asewi c z 	*†#• (Age 60)
Non-executive director since 2011. After holding a number of senior 
retail positions with Bloomingdale’s, Galeries Lafayette and Saks 
Fifth Avenue, she joined Burberry Group plc and was President of 
Burberry, Americas, one of three global regions of Burberry Group 
plc which includes North and Latin Americas, from 1998 until 2013. 
She is a non-executive director of Signet Jewelers Limited.
8 	 Jea n- Char l es 	 P a uz e 	*†#• (Age 66)
Non-executive director since January 2013. Having previously held a 
number of senior positions with PPR Group, Strafor Facom Group 
and Alfa Laval Group in France and Germany, he was Chairman and 
Chief Executive of Rexel SA from 2002 until 2012. He is presently 
Chairman of Europcar Groupe SA and Chairman of the Supervisory 
Board of CFAO SA.
9 	 Mei ni e 	 Oldersma 	*†#• (Age 54) 
Non-executive director since April 2013. With over 20 years’ 
experience in the technology distribution sector, he held a variety 
of senior positions with Ingram Micro and served as Chief Executive 
and President of their China Group and Managing Director of their 
business in Northern Europe before joining 20:20 Mobile Group 
Limited where he was Chief Executive from 2008 until 
February 2014.
*  Member of the Audit Committee
†  Member of the Remuneration Committee
#  Member of the Nomination Committee
• Independent director
38 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
BOARD OF DIRECTORS INTRODUCTION
Bunzl’s corporate governance framework is designed to facilitate 
effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that can 
safeguard shareholders’ interests and sustain the success of 
the Company over the longer term. In order to achieve this the 
Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance. 
In September 2012 the Financial Reporting Council published the 
2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) a 
copy of which is available at www.frc.org.uk. This contains broad 
principles together with more specific provisions which set out 
standards of good practice in relation to Board leadership and 
effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with 
shareholders. This report describes how these principles have been 
applied by the Company during the year ended 31 December 2013. 
Since the Financial Conduct Authority has yet to change the Listing 
Rules and therefore requires that certain compliance statements are 
made in relation to the predecessor edition of the Code, this report 
addresses the requirements of both editions of the Code. The 
Company confirms that it has complied throughout 2013 with the 
provisions of both editions of the Code. 
BOARD COMPOSITION
As at 31 December 2013 and as at the date of this report, the Board 
was made up of nine members comprising a Chairman, a Chief 
Executive, two other executive directors and five non-executive 
directors. Brief biographical details of the directors are given on 
page 38. Jean-Charles Pauze and Meinie Oldersma were appointed 
to the Board as non-executive directors on 1 January and 1 April 
2013 respectively and Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board 
following the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2013. 
None of the Company’s non-executive directors had any previous 
connection with the Company or its executive directors on 
appointment to the Board and all of them are considered by both the 
Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent. The 
Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have a breadth of 
strategic, management and financial experience gained in each of 
their own fields in a range of multinational businesses. In accordance 
with the terms of the Code each of the directors will be subject to 
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD
To ensure directors maintain overall control over strategic, financial 
and operational and compliance issues, the Board meets regularly 
throughout the year and has formally adopted a schedule of matters 
which are required to be brought to it for decision. Key aspects of the 
Board’s role include:
• setting the Group’s strategic aims and ensuring that the Company 
has the necessary capabilities to deliver the Group’s strategy;
• reviewing the Group’s operating performance and approving the 
Group’s financial results;
• reviewing and approving larger capital expenditure and 
acquisition/divestment proposals and material increases to 
borrowing and loan facilities; and
• overseeing the Group’s risk management and internal controls 
processes and procedures.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been 
agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters:
• the primary job of the Chairman is to be responsible for the 
leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all 
aspects of its role while the Chief Executive is responsible for the 
leadership and the operational and performance management 
of the Company within the strategy agreed by the Board.
• the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the 
business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders. 
• the Chairman:
 − takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability 
of the Board and its Committees;
 − consults regularly with the Chief Executive and is available on a 
flexible basis to provide advice, counsel and support to the Chief 
Executive; and 
 − ensures corporate governance is conducted in accordance 
with current best practice, as appropriate to the Group.
• the Chief Executive:
 − manages the executive directors and the Group’s management 
and day-to-day activities;
 − prepares and presents to the Board the strategy for growth 
in shareholder value;
 − sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver 
the agreed strategy;
 − ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk 
management and control mechanisms; and
 − communicates with the Company’s shareholders and analysts 
on a day-to-day basis as necessary (subject to an overview of 
such matters by the Chairman).
The Chief Executive is also the designated member of the Board 
responsible for environmental, social and governance matters 
and reports to the Board in relation to such matters.
Peter Johnson is the senior independent director and is available to 
shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the 
normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director 
has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate. He is 
also available to the other directors should they have any concerns 
which are not appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have 
not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
The non-executive directors play a key role in corporate governance 
and accountability through both their attendance at Board meetings 
and their membership of the various Board Committees. The 
non-executive directors bring a broad and diverse range of business 
and financial expertise and experience to the Board which 
complements and supplements the experience of the executive 
directors. This enables them to evaluate information provided and 
constructively challenge management’s viewpoints, assumptions 
and performance.
The Board has appointed Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees all of which comply with the provisions of the Code and 
play an important governance role through the detailed work they 
carry out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them. Briefing 
papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in 
advance of each meeting and, in respect of the Audit Committee, 
made available to the other directors. Further information relating 
to the Board Committees is set out on pages 40 and 41.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 39
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INFORMATION AND SUPPORT
Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief 
Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who 
maintains a rolling programme of items for discussion by the Board 
to ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and other key 
issues are considered at the appropriate time. The Board is 
supplied with full and timely information, including detailed 
financial information, to enable the directors to discharge their 
responsibilities. To enable informed decision making, briefing papers 
are prepared and circulated to directors approximately one week 
before the scheduled Board meeting. All directors have access to 
the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is tasked with 
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and the Board 
is fully briefed on relevant legislative, regulatory and corporate 
governance developments. Directors may also take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense where they judge this 
to be necessary in the furtherance of their duties to discharge their 
responsibilities as directors. 
The Board meets formally at least eight times a year and the Board 
calendar is planned to ensure that the directors discuss a wide range 
of topics throughout the year. Normally at least two Board meetings 
a year are held at or near Group locations in the UK and overseas 
where the directors have the opportunity to meet and interact with 
senior executives from different businesses within the Group’s 
portfolio as well as observe the operations in situ. During 2013 a 
number of the Group’s senior executives made presentations to 
the Board about a variety of different and diverse topics including 
reviews of the post-acquisition performance of businesses acquired 
in prior years, the Group’s financing facilities and treasury policies, 
the Group’s pension schemes and cyber risk. 
In addition to regular Board meetings, the directors meet annually 
to review and discuss the Group’s overall strategy. As part of this 
process, presentations are made by the Chief Executive and the 
heads of each of the business areas together with the Director of 
Corporate Development. 
All new directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board, 
including meetings with senior management and visits to some 
of the Group’s locations. They also receive a detailed information 
pack which includes details of directors’ duties and responsibilities, 
procedures for dealing in Bunzl’s shares and a number of other 
governance related issues. Directors are continually updated on 
the Group’s businesses and their markets and the changes to the 
competitive and regulatory environments in which they operate.
Training and development needs of the Board are kept under review 
and directors attend external courses where it is considered 
appropriate for them to do so.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or 
could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly 
may conflict, with the Company’s interests. In accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006, the Company’s Articles of Association allow 
the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise 
and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational and/
or transactional conflicts which are then considered by the Board 
and, if considered appropriate, authorised accordingly. A director is 
not however permitted to participate in such considerations or to 
vote in relation to their own conflicts.
The Board has considered and authorised a number of potential 
situational conflicts all of which relate to the holding of external 
directorships and have been entered on the Company’s conflicts 
register. No actual conflicts have been identified during the year. 
The Board considers that these procedures operate effectively.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive 
directors and is chaired by David Sleath who, as Chief Executive and 
formerly Group Finance Director of SEGRO plc and as a fellow of the 
ICAEW, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant 
financial experience as required by the Code. While the other 
directors are not members of the Committee, they normally attend 
meetings of the Committee by invitation together with the Head of 
Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor. The 
Secretary to the Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary. 
Further details about the Audit Committee and the work undertaken 
by it during the year and prior to the publication of the Group’s 
results for 2013 are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 
44 to 46. Members’ attendance at the Committee meetings held 
during the year is set out in the table on page 41. The terms 
of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed by the 
Board during the year, are available on the Company’s website,  
www.bunzl.com.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent 
non-executive directors and is chaired by the senior independent 
director, Peter Johnson. While neither the Chairman of the Company 
nor the Chief Executive are members of the Committee, they 
normally attend meetings by invitation except when the Committee is 
considering matters concerning themselves. The Secretary to the 
Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group Human Resources. 
Further details of the Remuneration Committee, the Company’s 
remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 47 to 67. Members’ attendance at 
the Committee meetings held during the year is set out in the table 
on page 41. The terms of reference of the Committee, which were 
reviewed and revised by the Board during the year, are available 
on the Company’s website.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
C o m pos itio n
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the 
Company, who chairs the Committee (unless the Committee is 
dealing with the matter of succession of the Chairman of the 
Company), the Chief Executive and all of the non-executive directors. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the majority of the 
members are independent non-executive directors. The Secretary 
to the Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary.
Role
The Committee’s principal role is to consider, and make 
recommendations to the Board concerning, the composition of the 
Board and its Committees including proposed appointees to the 
Board, whether to fill any vacancies that may arise or to change 
the number of Board members. It is the Committee’s role to ensure 
that the Board and its Committees maintain the appropriate balance 
of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity to ensure their 
continued effectiveness. 
40 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee’s responsibilities include:
• reviewing the structure, size and composition (including the 
skills, knowledge, experience and diversity) of the Board and 
making recommendations to the Board with regard to any 
proposed changes;
• nominating, for the approval of the Board, appropriate individuals 
to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise having considered 
candidates with relevant experience from a wide range of 
backgrounds; and
• succession planning, taking into account the challenges and 
opportunities facing the Company and the background, skills 
and expertise that will be required on the Board in the future, 
and reviewing annually management succession planning 
processes in relation to the Company’s senior executives.
The Committee meets as necessary throughout the year to 
discharge its responsibilities. An external search consultancy which 
does not have any other connection with the Company is retained by 
the Company to assess potential candidates to be considered as 
prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate, 
executive directors. This process was adopted in relation to the 
appointments of both Jean-Charles Pauze and Meinie Oldersma as 
non-executive directors with effect from 1 January 2013 and 1 April 
2013 respectively. The work undertaken by the Committee in 
connection with these appointments was carried out during 2012 and 
further information about the appointment process which was 
followed can be found in the Corporate governance report set out in 
the 2012 Annual Report.
A c ti v itie s
The Committee met on five occasions during 2013. Members’ 
attendance at those meetings is set out in the table opposite. 
During the year the Committee reviewed and took account of the 
balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board, 
the time commitment expected of the non-executive directors and 
the conclusions of the formal evaluation process which was carried 
out when considering and recommending the nomination of directors 
for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. In particular the 
Committee reviewed the performance of Peter Johnson and David 
Sleath, who were appointed to the Board in January 2006 and 
September 2007 respectively. The Committee believes that they 
continue to be effective and to demonstrate strong independence 
in character and judgement in the manner in which they discharge 
their responsibilities as directors. Consequently the Committee is 
satisfied that, despite their respective lengths of tenure, they 
remain independent.
The Chief Executive presented his annual management succession 
plan to the Committee. The Company recognises that having the 
right directors and senior management is crucial for the Group’s 
success and it is a key task of the Committee to ensure that the 
Company has a robust and continuous succession planning process. 
As part of the review in 2013 the Committee retained an external 
consultant to provide objective insight into the development of the 
Company’s senior executives. 
As part of the review of the composition of the Board and the 
succession planning process, the Committee notes the publication 
of the Davies Review on Women on Boards in February 2011 and the 
subsequent amendments which have been made to the Code which 
apply to the 2013 financial year. Both the Board and the Committee 
recognise the importance of gender diversity throughout the Group. 
Currently one of the nine Board members and one of the five 
Executive Committee members are female. The Committee aims to 
have a Board with a broad range of skills, backgrounds, experience 
and diversity and while the Committee will continue to follow a policy 
of ensuring that the best people are appointed for the relevant roles, 
the Committee recognises the benefits of greater diversity and will 
continue to take account of this when considering any particular 
appointment. However, the primary responsibility of the Committee 
in selecting and recommending candidates to the Board when 
making new appointments is to ensure the strength of the Board’s 
composition and the overriding aim is to always select and 
recommend the best candidate for the position. Although the Board 
has not set a formal target in relation thereto, it is the Board’s aim 
to increase its level of female representation as part of the ongoing 
succession planning process. Further information about the 
Company’s workforce diversity is set out on page 34.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed by 
the Board during the year, are set out on the Company’s website. 
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE
The following table shows the attendance in 2013 of directors at 
Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which 
they are members:
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Number of meetings 8 5 5 5
Philip Rogerson 8 5
Michael Roney 8 5
Ulrich Wolters* 3 2 1 2
Patrick Larmon 8
Peter Johnson 8 5 5 5
Brian May 8
David Sleath 8 5 5 5
Eugenia Ulasewicz 8 5 5 5
Jean-Charles Pauze 8 5 5 5
Meinie Oldersma
†
6 3 4 3
* Ulrich Wolters retired as a director on 17 April 2013 having attended all of the 
Board and Committee meetings held between 1 January 2013 and that date.
†
 Meinie Oldersma was appointed as a director on 1 April 2013 and attended all  
of the Board and Committee meetings held between that date and the end of 
the year.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for 
the Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen by 
the Chairman. This includes individual discussions between the 
Chairman and each director when their individual training and 
development needs are reviewed. Led by the senior independent 
director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman 
present at least annually to appraise the Chairman’s performance 
including a review of his other commitments to ensure that he is 
able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his 
responsibilities effectively. The Chairman also periodically holds 
meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive 
directors present. All of these processes were carried out 
satisfactorily during the year. 
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 41 In accordance with the requirements of the Code an external 
performance evaluation was carried out in 2012 and the results were 
subsequently presented to the Board. The facilitator of the external 
evaluation, Lintstock, does not provide any other services to, or have 
any other connection with, the Company. Although the Code only 
requires that the evaluation of the Board and its Committees should 
be externally facilitated at least every three years, it was decided to 
appoint Lintstock to carry out a further performance evaluation in 
2013. By doing so, the Board was able to ensure that there was 
consistency and continuity in the evaluation process from one year 
to the next. Following the evaluation, the Board agreed to implement 
a number of recommendations including:
• continuing the focus of the Nomination Committee on the 
management succession plans for the Group, including in 
particular increased exposure to the Group’s senior management 
below Board level;
• adapting the process followed as part of the Board’s annual 
strategy review to allow more discussion on the key strategic 
issues facing the Group; and
• reviewing in more detail the opportunities and threats presented 
by future developments in technology and how these might impact 
on the continuing success of the Group.
As a result of the overall performance evaluation process carried 
out, the Board concluded that both it and its Committees are 
operating effectively. 
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING
The responsibilities of the directors in respect of the preparation 
of the Group and parent company financial statements are set 
out on page 116 and the auditor’s report on pages 117 and 118 
includes a statement by the external auditor about their reporting 
responsibilities. As set out on page 29, the directors are of the 
opinion that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. 
The process of preparing the Annual Report has included 
the following:
• verification procedures, both internally and by the external auditor, 
to deal with the factual content of the Annual Report; and
• comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the Group 
in order to ensure the accuracy, consistency and overall balance of 
the Annual Report.
From the information and assurance provided by the ongoing work of 
the internal audit department, the reviews conducted by the external 
auditor in relation to both the half year and full year results, the 
Board’s understanding of the Group’s business and the information 
provided by the senior executive management team, the Board 
considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for 
identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the 
Group’s system of internal control relating to those risks. However, 
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. In accordance with Principle C.2 of the 
Code and the related guidance, the Company has established the 
procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating, managing and mitigating significant risks to 
the Group and for determining the nature and extent of the significant 
risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives. The 
directors confirm that such procedures have been in place for the 
year ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date of approval of these 
financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
Further information relating to how the directors maintain overall 
control over all significant strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance issues is set out in the ‘Role of the Board’ section 
on page 39.
In addition, the Board has delegated to an Executive Committee, 
consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other 
functional managers, the responsibility for identifying, evaluating 
and monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding how these 
are managed and to establish a system of internal control 
appropriate to the business environments in which the Group 
operates. The principal features of this system include:
• a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control 
system through a tiered management structure with clearly 
defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
• clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment 
and acquisitions;
• strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared 
annually by the business areas and approved by the Board;
• formal standards of business conduct (including a code of ethics 
and whistle blowing procedure) based on honesty, integrity, fair 
dealing and compliance with the local laws and regulations of 
the countries in which the Group operates;
• a well established consolidation and reporting system for 
the statutory accounts and monthly management accounts;
• continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production 
of timely and accurate management information relating to 
the operation of the Group’s businesses; and
• detailed manuals covering Group accounting policies and policies 
and procedures for the Group’s treasury operations supplemented 
by internal control procedures at a business area level.
42 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the 
effectiveness of the internal control system and to identify, manage 
and mitigate business risk are listed below:
• central management holds regular meetings with business area 
management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues 
including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the 
business areas and the policies and procedures by which these 
risks are managed; 
• the Executive Committee meets twice per month and also reviews 
the outcome of the discussions held at business area meetings on 
internal control and risk management issues;
• the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee 
discussions on internal control and risk management issues which 
ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability;
• each business area, the Executive Committee and the Board carry 
out an annual fraud risk assessment;
• actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts 
and the previous year and explanations obtained for all 
significant variances;
• all treasury activities, including in relation to the management of 
foreign exchange exposures and Group borrowings, are reported 
and reviewed monthly;
• the Group’s bank balances around the world are monitored on a 
weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally;
• the internal audit department periodically reviews individual 
businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve 
controls and follows up to ensure that management implement 
the recommendations made. The internal audit department’s work 
is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are 
reported to Group and business area management as well as to 
the Audit Committee and the external auditor;
• an annual self-assessment of the status of internal controls 
measured against a prescribed list of minimum standards is 
performed by every business and action plans are agreed where 
remedial action is required; 
• the Audit Committee, which comprises all of the independent 
non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly 
throughout the year. Further details of the work of the Committee, 
which includes a review of the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal financial controls and the assurance procedures relating 
to the Company’s risk management system, are set out in the 
Audit Committee report on pages 44 to 46;
• regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to 
assess the risks throughout the Group;
• a management committee, which oversees issues relating 
principally to environment, health & safety, insurance and 
business continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and 
practices and monitors their implementation;
• risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress 
against objectives established by each business area are 
periodically carried out; and
• developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually 
monitored by Group management in association with 
external advisers.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of 
the system of internal control and risk management in operation 
during 2013.
The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial 
statements. The audit includes the review and test of the system of 
internal financial control and the data contained in the financial 
statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion 
on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with 
the half year results announced normally at the end of August and 
the annual results announced normally at the end of February. 
In addition the Company publishes two interim management 
statements a year as required by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings 
with representatives of institutional shareholders and report to 
the Board the views of major shareholders. Additional forms of 
communication include presentations of the half year and annual 
results. The Chairman and the senior independent director and 
the other non-executive directors are available to meet with major 
shareholders on request. The Board also periodically reviews and 
discusses analysts’ and brokers’ reports and surveys of shareholder 
opinions conducted by the Company’s own brokers.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 
20 working days before the meeting. All shareholders are encouraged 
to participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited to ask 
questions at the meeting and are given the opportunity to meet 
all of the directors informally. Shareholders unable to attend 
are encouraged to vote using the proxy card mailed to them or 
electronically as detailed in the Notice of Meeting. Shareholders 
are given the option to withhold their vote on the proxy form. As in 
previous years, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting each 
of the resolutions put to the meeting will be taken on a poll rather 
than on a show of hands as directors believe that a poll is more 
representative of shareholders’ voting intentions because 
shareholder votes are counted according to the number of shares 
held and all votes tendered are taken into account. The results of the 
poll will be publicly announced and made available on the Company’s 
website as soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board
P a u l 	 Hus se y
Secretary
24 February 2014
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 43 In 2012 the Financial Reporting Council 
introduced a number of changes to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), 
some of which related to the role and 
reporting requirements of Audit 
Committees. In particular, these new 
requirements, which apply for the first 
time to the Company’s financial year ended 
31 December 2013, are centred on the Audit 
Committee’s relationship with the external 
auditor and its review of the financial 
statements. This report has been prepared 
in accordance with the revised requirements 
of the Code.
ROLE
The Committee’s principal role is to gain assurance as to the  
integrity of the financial reporting and auditing processes and  
the maintenance of sound internal control and risk management 
systems. In particular the Committee is responsible for:
• monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements 
of the Group and the significant reporting judgements contained 
in them;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
financial controls;
• reviewing the process for the management of risk and the 
assurance procedures over controls designed to manage 
key risks;
• reviewing the appropriateness of the Company’s relationship 
with the external auditor, including auditor independence, fees 
and provisions of non-audit services;
• making recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment of the external auditor; and
• developing and implementing a policy on the engagement 
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The Committee’s terms of reference, which were reviewed and 
revised by the Board at the end of 2012 to take account of the recent 
changes to the Code which apply to the 2013 financial year, are 
available on the Company’s website, www.bunzl.com.
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent 
access to the services of the Company’s internal audit function and 
to the external auditor and may obtain outside professional advice 
as necessary. Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external 
auditor have direct access to me as the Chairman of the Committee 
and I held a number of meetings with each of them during the year 
outside formal Committee meetings.
ACTIVITIES
As Chairman of the Committee, I hold preparatory discussions with 
the Company’s senior management, the Head of Internal Audit and 
the external auditor prior to Committee meetings to discuss the 
items to be considered at the Committee meetings. In addition, 
separate discussions are held between the Committee and the Head 
of Internal Audit and the external auditor without management 
present. I also attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any 
shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committee’s 
activities. The Committee met on five occasions during the year 
and members’ attendance at those meetings is set out in the 
table on page 41. 
During the year the Committee’s activities included:
• receiving and considering reports from the external auditor in 
relation to the half yearly financial report and the annual financial 
statements, further details of which are set out below;
• reviewing the half yearly financial report and the annual financial 
statements and the formal announcements relating thereto, 
further details of which are also set out below;
• receiving and considering reports from the Head of Internal Audit 
in relation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function 
and reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme 
for the year;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial 
controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Company’s 
risk management systems;
Da vid 	 Sl ea th
Chairman of the Audit Committee
‘I AM PLEASED TO INTRODUCE 
THE REPORT OF THE AUDIT 
COMMITTEE FOR 2013, THE 
PURPOSE OF WHICH IS TO 
GIVE SHAREHOLDERS AN 
OVERVIEW OF THE OPERATION 
AND SCOPE OF THE AUDIT 
COMMITTEE’S FUNCTION  
AND TO REPORT ON ITS 
ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN 
OVER THE PAST YEAR.’
44 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT • reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, 
raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial 
reporting or other matters and receiving periodic reports relating 
to the matters raised through such arrangements;
• reviewing the Committee’s terms of reference and the 
Committee’s effectiveness;
• reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditor and 
the internal audit function following completion of detailed 
questionnaires by both the Board and senior management within 
the Company;
• making recommendations to the Board concerning the 
appointment of the external auditor and approving the 
remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditor 
including the audit strategy and planning process for the 
current financial year; 
• reviewing and approving the level and type of non-audit work 
which the external auditor performs, including the fees paid 
for such work, further details of which are set out below; and
• reviewing the principal tax risks applicable to the Company and 
the steps taken to manage such risks.
Following each Committee meeting, I report any significant findings 
to the Board and copies of the minutes of the Committee meetings 
are circulated to all of the directors and to the external auditor.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SIGNIFICANT 
ACCOUNTING MATTERS
During the year and prior to the publication of the Group’s results 
for 2013, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2013 half yearly financial 
report, the 2013 Annual Report (including the financial statements), 
the 2013 annual results news release and the reports from the 
external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, on the outcomes of their half year 
review and audit relating to 2013. 
As part of its work, the Committee considered the following 
significant accounting issues, matters and judgements in relation 
to the Group’s financial statements:
A c c oun ti n g 	 for 	 busi n es s 	 c om bi n a ti o ns
For business combinations, the Group has a long-standing process 
for the identification of the fair values of the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed including separate identification of intangible 
assets using external valuation specialists where required. The 
Committee reviewed this process and discussed with management 
and the external auditor the methodology and assumptions used 
to value the assets and liabilities of the significant acquisitions 
completed in 2013. The Committee concluded that it was satisfied 
with management’s valuations of these assets and liabilities, 
including the degree to which such valuations are supported 
by professional advice from external advisers. 
The 	 c ar r yi n g 	 v al ue 	 of 	 goodwill	
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘CGUs’) and is tested 
annually for impairment. The Committee critically reviewed and 
discussed management’s report on the annual impairment testing 
of the carrying value of goodwill of each CGU and considered the 
external auditor’s testing thereof including the sensitivity of the 
outcome of impairment testing to the use of different discount rates. 
After due challenge and debate, the Committee concluded that it was 
satisfied with the assumptions and judgements applied in relation 
to such testing and agreed that there was no impairment to goodwill. 
Details of the key assumptions and judgements used are set out in 
Note 9 to the financial statements.
T ax a t i o n	
The Committee reviewed reports and received presentations from 
the Head of Tax highlighting the principal tax risks that the Group 
faces, the tax strategy and the judgements underpinning the 
provisions for potential tax liabilities. The Committee also reviewed 
the results of the external auditor’s assessment of provisions for 
income taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities and, having done 
so, was satisfied with the key judgements made by management. 
Defi n ed 	 ben efit 	 pensi o n 	 sc heme 	 o bl ig a ti o ns
The Committee considered reports from management and the 
external auditor in relation to the valuation of the defined benefit 
pension schemes and reviewed the key actuarial assumptions used 
in calculating the defined benefit pension liabilities, especially in 
relation to discount rates, inflation rates and mortality/life 
expectancy. The Committee discussed the reasons for the decrease 
in the net pension deficit and was satisfied that the assumptions 
used were appropriate and were supported by independent actuarial 
specialists. Details of the key assumptions used are set out in 
Note 20 to the financial statements.
P ro v i si o n s
The Group holds a number of provisions relating to properties 
(including liabilities for onerous lease commitments, repairs and 
dilapidations) and actual and anticipated legal, environmental and 
other claims. The Committee reviewed reports from management 
and the external auditor concerning the significant provisions held 
for such matters including any provisions with notable movements 
and those provisions requiring a greater degree of judgement. 
The Committee considered the background to such provisions and 
discussed with management the judgements applied in determining 
the value of provisions required. The Committee enquired of 
management and the external auditor as to the existence of other 
matters potentially requiring a provision to be made. The Committee 
concluded that it was satisfied with the value of provisions carried. 
EXTERNAL AUDITOR’S INDEPENDENCE AND 
EFFECTIVENESS
The Committee ensures that the external auditor remains 
independent of the Company and receives written confirmation from 
the external auditor as to whether it considers itself independent 
within the meaning of its own internal and the relevant regulatory 
and professional requirements. Key members of the audit team 
rotate off the Company’s audit after a specific period of time.
In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditor is not compromised, the Committee has also 
pre-approved the non-audit service categories that can be provided 
by the external auditor and agreed monetary amounts for each 
service category that can be provided by them, subject to a maximum 
individual engagement value. Certain categories of services are 
prohibited under the ethical standards of the Accounting Practices 
Board. A permitted service requires specific authorisation from the 
Committee or myself as the Committee Chairman where it does not 
fall within the pre-approved categories or where its value exceeds 
the maximum pre-approved individual engagement value. Such 
non-audit service categories which are pre-approved principally 
comprise tax services and further assurance services relating to 
pre-acquisition due diligence and other duties carried out in respect 
of acquisitions and disposals of businesses. The Committee believes 
that given the external auditor’s detailed knowledge of the Group’s 
operations, its structure and accounting policies and the importance 
of carrying out tax services and detailed due diligence as part of the 
acquisition process, it is sometimes appropriate for this additional 
work to be carried out by the Company’s auditor. However other 
firms are also used by the Company to provide non-audit services 
and it is the Company’s policy to assess the services required on a 
case by case basis to ensure that the best placed adviser is retained. 
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 45 Details of the fees paid to the external auditor in 2013 in respect 
of the audit and for non-audit services are set out in Note 4 to the 
financial statements.
During the year the Committee carried out a review of the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. As part of this review, 
the Committee considered feedback on the audit gathered through 
a detailed survey which was completed by each of the directors and 
members of the Company’s senior management team at both Group 
and business area levels. The survey covered a total of 22 different 
aspects of the audit process grouped under three separate headings; 
the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery of the 
audit process and the quality of the people in the audit team and the 
service provided by them. Each respondent was asked to award a 
rating on a scale of 1 to 5 for each aspect reviewed and to provide any 
additional comments they wished to make in relation to the questions 
raised. The Committee discussed the findings of the survey and their 
overall assessment of the work of the auditor.
AUDITOR RE-APPOINTMENT
As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the  
re-appointment of the external auditor, the Committee takes into 
account the tenure of the auditor in addition to the results of its 
review of the effectiveness of the external auditor and considers 
whether there should be a full tender process. There are no 
contractual obligations restricting the Committee’s choice of 
external auditor.
KPMG Audit Plc (or its predecessor firms) has been the Company’s 
external auditor since 1986, being the date when an audit tender was 
last conducted. As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results 
of its review of the external auditor’s activities during the year, the 
Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution 
proposing the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor 
be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
However, notwithstanding this recommendation, in line with the new 
requirement under the Code and the recent report of the UK 
Competition Commission for listed companies to tender the external 
audit at least once every 10 years, the Committee has also made a 
recommendation to the Board that the Company should carry out 
such a tender during 2014 with a view to the successful firm 
performing the external audit for the year ending 31 December 2014. 
The Board intends to implement this recommendation later this year. 
Any firm so appointed during the year would then be subject to 
re-appointment by the Company’s shareholders at the 2015 Annual 
General Meeting.
In order to comply with good governance practice and given KPMG’s 
length of tenure as the Company’s auditor and the current regulatory 
environment which may soon impose an obligation on listed 
companies to rotate their auditor periodically, the Board has decided 
that it intends to appoint a new audit firm as the Company’s external 
auditor following the tender process. As a result KPMG Audit Plc will 
not be invited to participate in the process. KPMG has served the 
Company very well over many years and we thank them for their  
hard work.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
As mentioned above, the Committee is responsible for reviewing 
on behalf of the Board the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
financial controls and the assurance procedures relating to the 
Company’s risk management system. These controls and 
procedures are designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of 
failure of the Company to meet its business objectives and, as such, 
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. During the year, the Committee monitors the 
effectiveness of the internal financial controls framework through 
reports from the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the 
external auditor. In particular the Committee considered the scope 
and results of work of the internal audit function, the findings of the 
external auditor in relation to the year end audit, the assessment 
of fraud risk carried out by management, the controls over the 
Company’s financial consolidation and reporting system, the 
treasury controls, the tax risks and the processes for setting 
strategic plans and budgets and for monitoring the ongoing 
performance of the Company. 
In relation to the risk management system, the Committee reviewed 
the process by which significant risks had been identified by 
management and the Board, the key controls and other processes 
designed to manage and mitigate such risks and the assurance 
provided by the internal audit function, the external auditor and 
other oversight from management and the Board.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Company has an internal audit department which comprises 
eight in-house auditors, including the Head of Internal Audit who 
reports jointly to me, in my capacity as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, and the Finance Director. The scope of work of the 
internal audit function covers all systems and activities of the Group. 
Work is prioritised according to the Company’s risk profile with the 
annual audit plan being approved by the Committee each year. 
Internal audit reports are regularly provided to the Committee which 
include details of the audit findings, and the relevant management 
actions required in order to address any issues arising therefrom, 
as well as updates on the progress made by management in 
addressing any outstanding recommendations from previously 
reported findings. In addition, the internal audit function reports on 
any significant issues relating to the processes for controlling the 
activities of the Group and the adequacy and effectiveness of such 
processes. Together the work of the internal audit function provides 
the Committee with a further means of monitoring the processes 
and actions to manage and mitigate those risks identified as posing 
the greatest threat to the Company.
A review by the Committee of the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function was carried out during the year. The Committee considered 
the results of a questionnaire completed by each of the directors and 
those members of the senior management team who interact with 
the internal audit department and discussed generally the work of 
the internal audit department, the adequacy of resources and the 
skills and capabilities of the internal audit team.
Da vid 	 Sl ea th
Chairman of the Audit Committee
24 February 2014
46 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED This report has been prepared on behalf 
of and has been approved by the Board. 
It complies with Schedule 8 to the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
(as amended) (the ‘Regulations’), the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and the 
Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules 
and takes into account the accompanying 
Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Guidance 
and the relevant policies of shareholder 
representative bodies. As required this 
report is presented in three main sections: 
an annual statement from the Chairman of 
the Committee; the Directors’ remuneration 
policy report; and the Annual report on 
remuneration for 2013. The report also 
contains information relating to the 
directors’ remuneration for 2014 and 
additional information on directors’ 
share interests.
STATEMENT FROM PETER JOHNSON, CHAIRMAN OF THE 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
During late 2012 and 2013 we have, together with Deloitte LLP 
(‘Deloitte’), reviewed our long term incentive arrangements in the 
context of the overall remuneration package. Bunzl’s current Long 
Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) is due to expire in May 2014 and so the 
review included the development of appropriate replacement 
arrangements which would continue to align executive reward with 
returns to shareholders and support our strategy going forward. 
Since the introduction of the current LTIP, the business has 
performed consistently well and grown significantly with operating 
profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related 
and corporate costs growing in the 10 year period to 2013 from 
£183 million to £433 million (10% compound growth per annum 
over this period) without raising any new equity. When conducting 
the review, the Committee considered a number of key principles 
which are set out below:
• Our remuneration arrangements should be simple and 
transparent for both employees and shareholders.
• One of Bunzl’s main objectives is to build shareholder value. Our 
strategic focus places great importance on continuing to grow 
organically and by acquisition. The remuneration framework 
should be designed to reinforce the link between pay and 
performance and reward senior executives for delivering superior 
shareholder returns.
• Performance should be assessed against measures and targets 
that are relevant to Bunzl’s business and are stretching, whilst 
providing maximum clarity.
• A significant amount of Bunzl’s success can be attributed to the 
strong leadership of the management team. It is important that 
key individuals are retained and that we can attract new talent into 
the business by recruitment or acquisition. The competitiveness 
of the remuneration package we offer is key.
• Bunzl is an international business providing outsourcing solutions 
and value-added distribution across the Americas, Europe and 
Australasia. The remuneration framework should be structured 
in a way which will allow us to compete for talent across multiple 
geographies whilst also complying with UK corporate governance 
good practice. 
The conclusion of our review was that whilst the current 
remuneration structure has served the business well, there were 
a number of changes that needed to be made to ensure the 
remuneration framework continues to support the strategic 
direction of the business and further comply with good practice 
whilst addressing various matters previously raised by shareholder 
representative bodies. The principal change relates to the proposed 
introduction of a revised LTIP to be known as the 2014 LTIP.
Ov er vi ew 	 of 	 the 	 20 1 4 	 L TI P
Grants of executive share option (part A) and performance share 
(part B) awards will continue to be made on a biannual basis and 
performance will be measured over a three year performance 
period. The Committee considered whether a holding period post 
vesting would be appropriate but felt that the current three year 
performance period with no additional holding period was more 
suitable to Bunzl’s business cycle. For awards made after the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) in 2014, we are introducing clawback terms 
on both executive share option and performance share awards 
referred to on page 50. We have set out below the main design 
features of the proposed 2014 LTIP.
Peter 	 Joh nso n
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
‘OUR REMUNERATION POLICIES 
AND PRACTICES ARE DESIGNED 
TO REWARD MANAGEMENT 
FOR DELIVERING THE 
CONTINUAL STRATEGIC 
GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS.’
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 47
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT Executive share options (Part A)
• The maximum value of annual share option awards which can 
be granted under the 2014 LTIP rules to be reduced from 300% 
to 250% of base salary.
• Under the 2014 LTIP, executive share option awards for the 
directors will vest subject to a performance condition linked to the 
growth of the Company’s earnings per share over the performance 
period, with the introduction of scaled vesting as referred to on 
pages 50 and 64. The intrinsic value of an option will reduce 
compared with the current plan.
• To maintain the current expected value of the option element of 
the 2014 LTIP, the annual grant level will be increased from 150% 
to 200% of annual salary for the Chief Executive and by a similar 
percentage for the other executive directors. 
• It is no longer considered appropriate to measure performance 
against the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’) in the UK given that only 
17% of revenue and 25% of operating profit now relates to Bunzl’s 
UK & Ireland operations and these percentages are expected to 
decline further as the Group’s business continues to grow 
internationally. The Committee will review the growth targets 
annually to ensure that the performance conditions remain 
sufficiently challenging.
Performance shares (Part B)
• The maximum value of annual performance share awards which 
can be granted under the 2014 LTIP rules will be reduced from 
200% to 150% of base salary.
• There will be no change in the actual award levels for directors. 
The Chief Executive will continue to receive annual awards with 
a face value of 112.5% of base salary. 
• 50% of an award will continue to be subject to earnings per share 
growth performance over the performance period, but not relative 
to UK RPI as mentioned above, with scaled vesting as referred to 
on pages 50 and 64. 
• 50% of an award will be subject to relative Total Shareholder 
Return (‘TSR’) performance over the performance period. TSR 
performance will be measured against the constituents of the 
FTSE 50 – 150 with significant international operations, excluding 
companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural 
resources sectors. The vesting schedule will be unchanged 
from the 2004 LTIP as referred to on pages 50 and 64.
The earnings per share performance targets are determined, 
based on both historic and consensus forecast performance for the 
business, to be stretching yet achievable. In setting the proposed 
targets for 2014 the Committee has taken into consideration that the 
intrinsic value of a performance share is much higher than that of 
an executive share option and therefore that it is appropriate that 
a more challenging target be set.
Cha n ges 	 to 	 o ther 	 el emen t s 	 of 	 the 	 rem un er a ti o n 	 f r amewor k
When reviewing the proposed structure of the 2014 LTIP, we 
also conducted a review of other elements of the remuneration 
framework. In light of this we have doubled the shareholding 
guideline to 200% of annual salary for all executive directors 
to align further their interests with shareholders. 
As mentioned above the Committee also reviewed and discussed the 
appropriateness of the performance measures for the 2014 LTIP and 
whether the addition of other measures would be more appropriate. 
After full discussion the Committee decided that the use of earnings 
per share and TSR remained appropriate for a company such as 
Bunzl. It was felt that the principal measure of performance for the 
annual bonus should remain constant exchange rate earnings per 
share performance against the target for the year but that the annual 
bonus outcome will be modified based on the return on average 
operating capital performance for the year relative to a target level 
of return.
C o n s u lta tio n
As part of the process to develop the new remuneration 
arrangements we wrote to 19 of the Company’s principal 
shareholders representing around 60% of the shareholder base, 
as well as two major shareholder representative bodies, seeking 
their views with regard to our proposals. Subsequently I, the 
Secretary of the Remuneration Committee and the General Counsel 
and Company Secretary took part in a number of meetings and 
telephone conferences to gain feedback and answer questions. 
The vast majority of those consulted indicated that they were 
supportive of the Company’s directors’ remuneration policy.
Repor ti n g 	 a nd 	 d iscl osu re
We have restructured our reporting in line with the revised 
regulations and associated guidance relating to remuneration 
matters and have tried to make it as clear as possible and explain 
the rationale for the decisions that we have made during the year.
I look forward to receiving your support for both the annual 
report on remuneration and our directors’ remuneration policy 
for future years.
Peter 	 Joh nso n
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 February 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT
Bunzl continues to pursue its well defined strategy of developing 
the business through organic growth, consolidating the markets in 
which we compete through focused acquisitions in both existing and 
new geographies and continuously improving the efficiency of our 
operations. Bunzl’s business model relies on excellent customer 
and supplier relationships and the skills, knowledge and experience 
of its directors and employees. The Company’s remuneration policy 
supports this strategy by ensuring that the overall remuneration 
package is set at a competitive level whilst ensuring that additional 
reward is paid for high performance over a sustained period. This 
policy is designed to ensure the recruitment, retention and 
motivation of the executive directors and other senior executives 
over the long term.
The performance related elements of the remuneration package 
are designed to incentivise executives to meet key performance 
metrics which align their interests and remuneration with those of 
shareholders, for example targets relating to earnings per share and 
TSR. In setting such targets the Committee takes due account of the 
potential effect such targets could have on the attitude and behaviour 
of executives to risk within the business. In addition the Committee 
has the discretion to take into account performance on 
environmental, social and governance matters.
The following table summarises the proposed policy for the 
remuneration of executive directors effective from the 2014 AGM 
which, if approved by shareholders, will become binding until the 
AGM to be held in 2017. To aid shareholders’ understanding, 
explanations are included where appropriate on how this policy 
differs from the policy in operation for the 2013 financial year.
48 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED S a la r y
Purpose • recognise knowledge, skills and experience as well as reflect the scope and size of the role
• reward individual performance without encouraging undue risk
• promote the importance of environmental, social and governance issues
Operation • paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year
• reviewed annually, normally in December (with any changes usually effective from January)
• taking into consideration individual and Group performance, salary increases across the Group are benchmarked for 
appropriate salary levels using a comparator group of similarly sized companies with a large international presence
• pensionable
Maximum 
potential 
value
• salary increases are normally considered in relation to the salary increases of other employees in the Group and 
performance of the individual unless there has been a major change in role or responsibility or major market movement. 
The annual salaries for the executive directors for 2013 and 2014 are on pages 58 and 64 respectively
Performance 
metrics
• individual performance in the role, as well as the performance of the Group and achievements related to environmental, 
social and governance issues, are all taken into consideration
Ann u al 	 bo n us
Purpose • incentivise the attainment of annual corporate targets
• retain high performing employees
• align with shareholders’ interests
Operation • annual award based on financial targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year
• at the end of the performance period, which is the Group’s financial year from 1 January until 31 December, the Committee 
assesses the extent to which the performance measures have been achieved. The level of bonus for each measure is 
determined by reference to the actual performance relative to that measure’s performance targets, on a pro rata basis
• any bonus is paid as 50% in cash and 50% in shares (with the shares normally deferred for three years under the 
Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme (‘DASBS’)) 
• a clawback facility is in operation by which part or the full deferred bonus award may be reduced or cancelled to the 
extent that the value of the bonus originally awarded is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result of a 
material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the bonus was originally determined
• non-pensionable
Maximum 
potential 
value
• the annual on target bonus opportunity for Michael Roney and Brian May is 70% of salary with a threshold award of 49% 
of salary and a maximum award of 115% of salary and for Patrick Larmon is 65% of salary with a threshold award of 31% 
of salary and a maximum award of 110% of salary 
Performance 
metrics
• the principal measure for performance is the growth at constant exchange rates in the Company’s earnings per share 
adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance (‘eps’) against the 
relevant target
• the bonus derived from constant exchange rate eps performance will be increased or decreased according to the 
Company’s performance against the target return on average operating capital (‘RAOC’), referred to as the RAOC modifier 
• the use of eps and RAOC measures are seen as appropriate as they are two of Bunzl’s key performance indicators 
(‘KPIs’). The use of eps growth aligns the executive directors’ interests with those of the shareholders and the RAOC 
modifier ensures the continued focus on working capital management together with profit growth 
• bonus awards are at the Committee’s discretion and may take into account performance on environmental, social and 
governance matters as appropriate 
• Patrick Larmon has additional measures based on the profit before interest and tax (‘pbit’) and working capital 
employed in the business area for which he has direct responsibility (North America). The additional measures relating 
to pbit and working capital are relevant for Patrick Larmon as these are both KPIs of the business area he is responsible 
for running and these measures, together with other performance measures, are used to incentivise the management 
group in North America
• the Group RAOC modifier has been introduced as a performance metric to the executive directors’ bonus plan from  
1 January 2014 
• the performance metrics and targets are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate. The Committee retains the 
discretion to set alternative metrics as appropriate
• the current relevant performance metrics are: threshold (which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus); 
target; and maximum amount (the level at which the bonus is capped). These performance metrics are determined at 
the start of the year by reference to the Group’s annual budget. No elements of the bonus are guaranteed. As in previous 
years, the specific targets will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 49 Lo n g 	 ter m 	 i n c en tiv es
Purpose • incentivise growth in longer term eps and TSR
• align with shareholders’ interests
• recruit and retain senior employees
Operation • discretionary biannual grants of executive share option awards and performance share awards which vest subject to 
performance conditions measured over three years and subject to continuous Company service. There is no opportunity 
to retest
• a clawback facility is in operation under which part or the full amount of a vested award may be recovered, by reduction 
in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award, the vesting of any subsisting award or future share awards and/or 
a requirement to make a cash payment, to the extent that the value of a vested award is subsequently found to have 
been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the vesting was determined
• all awards are subject to the discretions contained in the relevant plan rules
Maximum 
potential 
value
Executive share options
• maximum annual award of 250% of salary 
• normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 167% and 200% of salary and the Committee 
would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders
Performance shares
• maximum annual award of 150% of salary 
• normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 94% and 112.5% of salary and the Committee 
would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders
Performance 
metrics
Performance and service conditions must be met over a three year performance period
Executive share options
• eps performance measure relates to the absolute growth in the Company’s eps against the targets set for the 
performance period 
• the vesting is scaled as follows:
 − no vesting for performance below the threshold target
 − 25% of an award will vest for achieving the threshold target
 − 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding the maximum target
 − for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale
• the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, 
reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant 
performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment
• the targets set out in the Remuneration report on page 61 relate to the previously approved 2004 LTIP. The targets set 
for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 64
Performance shares
• TSR performance measure (50% of the total award) compares a combination of both the Company’s share price 
and dividend performance during the performance period against a comparator group of the constituents of the 
FTSE 50 – 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas 
and natural resources sectors
• the other 50% of the award is subject to an eps performance measure which relates to the absolute growth in the 
Company’s eps against the targets set for the performance period
• the vesting for both performance measures is scaled as follows:
 − no vesting for performance below median performance (TSR) or the threshold target (eps)
 − 25% of an award will vest for achieving median performance (TSR) or the threshold target (eps)
 − 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding upper quartile performance (TSR) or the maximum target (eps)
 − for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale
• the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, 
reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant 
performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment
• the targets set out in the Remuneration report on page 61 relate to the previously approved 2004 LTIP. The targets set 
for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 64
50 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED All 	 em pl oy ee 	 share 	 pl a ns
Purpose • encourage employees including the executive directors to build a shareholding through the operation of all employee 
share plans such as the HM Revenue & Customs (‘HMRC’) approved Sharesave Scheme in the UK and the Internal 
Revenue Service (‘IRS’) approved Employee Stock Purchase Plan (US) (the ‘ESPP’) in the US 
Operation • the Sharesave Scheme has standard terms under which participants can normally enter a savings contract, over a 
period of either three or five years, in return for which they are granted options to acquire shares at a discount of up to 
20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option. Options 
are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted
• the ESPP provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Company’s shares in the market at a 15% 
discount to the market price. The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee 
with the employing company contributing the 15% discount 
• rules of both of the above plans were approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM
Maximum 
potential 
value
• in the UK, the Sharesave Scheme is linked to a contract for monthly savings within the HMRC limits over a period of 
either three or five years (currently £250 per month) 
• in the US, the ESPP allows the purchase in the market of shares within IRS limits (currently up to an annual maximum 
of 10% of remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower)
Performance 
metrics
• service conditions apply
Reti re m e n t 	 b e n e fi t s
Purpose • provision of competitive retirement benefits
• retain executive directors
Operation • all defined benefit pension plans in the Group have been closed to new entrants since 2003 with any new recruits being 
offered defined contribution retirement arrangements and/or a pension allowance
• legacy arrangements exist for one UK based executive director and the US based executive director as disclosed previously 
• pension contributions and allowances are normally paid monthly
Maximum 
potential 
value
• company pension contributions to defined contribution retirement arrangements or cash allowances are capped at 30% 
of annual salary
• benefits under the legacy UK defined benefit pension plan accrue at a rate of 2.4% on salary up to the notional 
pensionable salary cap (from 6 April 2014 £145,800 per annum)
Performance 
metrics
Not applicable
Other 	 ben efit s
Purpose • provision of competitive benefits which helps to recruit and retain executive directors
Operation • benefits may include a car allowance or a car which may be fully expensed, various insurances such as life, disability 
and medical and in some jurisdictions club expenses and other benefits provided from time to time
• some benefits may only be provided in the case of relocation, such as removal expenses, and in the case of an 
international relocation might also include fees for children’s schooling, home leave, tax equalisation and professional 
advice etc
Maximum 
potential 
value
• the value of benefits is based on the cost to the Company and varies according to individual circumstances. For example 
the cost of medical insurance varies according to family circumstances and the jurisdiction in which the family is based
Performance 
metrics
Not applicable
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 51 Shareh o ld i n g 	 req ui remen t
Purpose • strengthen the alignment between the interests of the executive directors and those of shareholders
Operation • Executives will be normally expected to retain shares through the exercise of awards under the DASBS and the LTIP 
until they attain the required holding. Three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the 
Company to achieve the required shareholding. It is recognised that a longer time period may be required for 
externally recruited executives to achieve the required shareholding
Maximum 
potential value
• retain shareholdings worth equal to at least 200% of annual salary. This does not include any holdings of deferred 
shares or vested but unexercised share options or performance shares
Performance 
metrics
Not applicable
Per for ma n c e 	 measu res 	 a nd 	 target s
The key measures used by the Committee for incentivising the executive directors are: eps modified by RAOC for the annual bonus and 
eps and relative TSR for the 2014 LTIP. The Committee considers that all of these measures are appropriate for incentive purposes: 
• Eps is one of Bunzl’s KPIs. The use of eps aligns the executive directors’ interests with those of shareholders. In addition, one of the 
executive directors, Patrick Larmon, President and Chief Executive Officer of North America, also has part of his annual bonus 
determined by additional measures relating to pbit and working capital which are relevant as these are two of the KPIs of the business 
area he is responsible for running
• RAOC is another of Bunzl’s KPIs. The RAOC modifier ensures continued focus on working capital and profit growth by rewarding efficient 
profit generation, taking into account acquisitions once they are established, and uses average capital employed rather than only capital 
at the end of the period
• Relative TSR provides an external assessment of the Company’s performance against similar sized companies listed in the UK. It also 
aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders
This combination of performance measures provides an important balance relevant to the Group’s business and market conditions as well 
as providing a common goal for the executive directors, senior management and shareholders. The Committee does not feel that the 
introduction of non-financial measures for the executive directors is appropriate at this time.
The Committee reviews performance targets on an annual basis taking into account the Company’s annual budgeting process, the economic 
environment in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates and external expectations.
Cha n ges 	 to 	 the 	 rem un er a ti o n 	 po l i c y 	 f rom 	 tha t 	 oper a ti n g 	 i n 	 20 1 3 	 a nd 	 20 1 2
As described above in the Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, during late 2012 and 2013 a review of the executive 
directors’ remuneration arrangements took place, particularly with regard to the proposed replacement of the 2004 LTIP. A number of 
changes have been made for implementation following the 2014 AGM to bring the arrangements in line with best practice. 
E l em ent Opera tio n Maxi m u m 	 po ten ti al 	 v al ue	 P er f o rm a nc e 	 m etr ic
Salary No change No change No change
Annual bonus No change No change Introduction of RAOC modifier 
Long term incentives Executive share options:
Increase of normal annual 
grants to:
Chief Executive:  
from 150% to 200%
Finance Director:  
from 140% to 187%
Other executive director: 
from 125% to 167%
Performance shares:
No change to normal 
annual grant levels
Clawback introduced
Executive share options:
Reduction of maximum 
grant from 300% to 250%  
of salary
Performance shares: 
Reduction of maximum 
grant from 200% to 150%  
of salary
Executive share options and performance shares:
UK RPI removed and absolute eps measure 
introduced
Executive share options:
Eps performance measure retained but vesting  
will vary on a straight line sliding scale
Performance shares:
No change to TSR measure
Comparator group changed to FTSE 50 – 150 
with significant international operations, excluding 
companies in financial, oil & gas and natural 
resources sectors
All employee share/
stock purchase plans
No change No change No change
Retirement benefits No change No change No change
Other benefits No change No change No change
Shareholding 
guidelines
No change Increased to 200% of 
annual salary
No change
52 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Di f feren c es 	 i n 	 rem un er a ti o n 	 po l i c y 	 for 	 e x ecu tiv e 	 d i rec tors 	 a nd 	 em pl oy ees 	 i n 	 gen er al
The main difference in remuneration policy between the executive directors and employees in general is the split of fixed and performance 
related pay such as bonus and long term incentives. Overall the percentage of performance related pay, in particular longer term incentive 
pay, is greater for the executive directors. This reflects that executive directors have more freedom to act and the consequences of their 
decisions are likely to have a broader and more far reaching time span of effect than those decisions made by employees with more limited 
responsibility. As a consequence only executive directors, Executive Committee members and other key employees (currently 22 people) are 
granted both executive share option and performance share awards. Approximately 300 senior managers are granted executive share option 
awards on an annual basis, which helps to provide a common focus for the management in the Company’s decentralised organisation 
structure, whereas the annual bonuses are related to the performance of individual operating units.
Bonus arrangements vary throughout the Group and are related to the specific role and the country in which the employee operates. 
The majority of bonus plans have quantitative targets but the performance measures and targets vary according to each specific role. 
Sales representatives often have high levels of annual bonus payments which may be commission based.
When there is a critical mass of employees within a country to make it cost effective to do so, to encourage wider employee share ownership 
an all employee share plan is offered. Currently plans are offered to all employees based in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, the 
Netherlands, US and UK. In France employees take part in profit sharing arrangements in accordance with local regulations. 
Retirement and other benefits offered to employees across the Group differ according to the country in which the job is based, as social 
provision and market norms differ, and the function and seniority of the relevant role. 
S ta temen t 	 of 	 c o nsider a ti o n 	 of 	 em pl o ymen t 	 c o nd i ti o ns 	 elsewhere 	 i n 	 the 	 G rou p
The Committee is provided annually with information on the salaries and proposed increases for the Executive Committee members and 
other senior direct reports of the Chief Executive, as well as data on the average salary increases within each geographical region within  
the Group. In addition the Committee reviews and agrees all grants of executive share option and performance share awards.
In 2014 employees across the Group have received, on average, salary increases in the range of 2% – 3%, dependent on geographical 
location with the exception being those employees based in Latin America and China where, due to inflation, current market salary 
increases are much higher. The actual increases received by employees have been based on each individual’s contribution and 
performance as well as the market competitiveness of the salary.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the directors’ remuneration policy set out in this part of the report.
Rec r ui tmen t 	 of 	 e x ecu ti v e 	 d i rec tors 	 – 	 a ppro a c h 	 to 	 rem un er a ti o n
For the ongoing stability and growth of the Group, it is important to secure, as necessary, the appointment of high calibre executives to  
the Board by either external recruitment or internal promotion. The overarching principles applied by the Committee in developing the 
remuneration package will be to set an appropriate base salary together with benefits and short and long term incentives taking into 
consideration the skills and experience of the individual, the complexity and breadth of the role, the particular needs and situation of the 
Group, internal relativities, the marketplace in which the executive will operate and an individual’s current remuneration package and 
location. In addition, the Committee recognises that it may need to meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate. 
To ensure consistency across the Board, the expected components of the package would be in line with the remuneration policy as set out on 
pages 49 to 52. In order to provide the Company with sufficient flexibility on the recruitment of an executive director, the Committee has set 
the maximum level of variable remuneration on recruitment at 427.5% of annual salary. This covers the maximum annual bonus, including 
the deferred annual share bonus award, and the maximum face value of any long term incentive awards. 
For an external appointment, the Committee may consider offering additional cash and/or share based elements to the remuneration 
package when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. Such elements, as appropriate, would be 
made under Section 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules and take account of any remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and 
would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration. Shareholders will be informed 
of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element or benefit awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to remain in place 
according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the new appointment. 
E x ecu tiv e 	 d i rec tors’ 	 ser vi c e 	 c o n tr a c t s
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months’ notice from the Company 
and six months’ notice from the executive. For Michael Roney and Brian May there is no predetermined compensation for termination of 
these contracts. Patrick Larmon’s contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment 
of 12 months’ base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings. The date of each service contract is noted in 
the table below.
Date of service contract
Michael Roney 1 September 2005
Brian May 9 December 2005
Patrick Larmon 1 January 2005
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 53 Po l i c y 	 o n 	 p a ymen t 	 for 	 dep ar tu re 	 f rom 	 of fic e
On termination of an executive director’s service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing director’s duty to mitigate his 
loss when determining the amount of compensation. The Committee’s policy in respect of the treatment of executive directors leaving the 
Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company taking into account the interests of shareholders:
C o m po n e n t	 
of 	 p a y
V o l un tar y 	 resig n a ti o n	 
or 	 ter m i n a ti o n 	 for 	 c a use
Dea th, 	 ill 	 heal th, 	 d isa bil i t y
(e x cl ud i n g 	 red und a n c y)
Dep ar tu re 	 o n
a g reed 	 ter ms
Base salary, 
pension and 
benefits
Paid for the proportion of the 
notice period worked and any 
untaken holidays pro rated to 
the leaving date
Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any untaken 
holidays pro rated to such date. In the case of ill health, a 
payment in lieu of notice may be made and, according to  
the circumstances, may be subject to mitigation. In such 
circumstances some benefits such as company car or medical 
insurance may be retained until the end of the notice period
Treatment will normally 
fall between the two 
treatments described in 
the previous columns, 
subject to the discretion 
of the Committee and 
the terms of any 
termination agreement
Annual bonus 
cash
Cessation of employment 
during a bonus year will 
normally result in no cash 
bonus being paid
Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after the 
year end but prior to the normal bonus payment date will 
result in cash and deferred bonus being paid and pro rated 
for the relevant portion of the financial year worked and 
performance achieved
Annual bonus 
deferred 
shares
Unvested deferred shares 
will lapse
In the case of the death of an executive, all deferred shares 
will be transferred to the estate as soon as possible after 
death. In all other cases, subject to the discretion of the 
Committee, unvested deferred shares will be transferred 
to the individual on a date determined by the Committee
Executive 
share options
Unvested executive share 
options will lapse
Approved options will vest in full on the cessation of 
employment and be exercisable for the following 12 months 
after which any unexercised options will lapse
Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested 
unapproved share options will normally be retained by the 
individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain 
subject to the relevant performance conditions. However in 
the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will 
determine the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date 
of death
Performance 
shares
Unvested performance 
shares will lapse
Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested 
performance shares will normally be retained by the 
individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain 
subject to the relevant performance conditions. However in 
the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will 
determine the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date 
of death
Options under 
Sharesave
As per HMRC regulations As per HMRC regulations
Other None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement fees
Notes 
a)  For share options granted under Part A of the 2004 LTIP, any unvested executive share options which are subject to the discretion of the Committee may vest in full 
on the termination date and be exercisable for the following 12 months following which any unexercised options will lapse.
b) The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company, e.g. for unfair dismissal etc, that might arise on termination.
Disc reti o ns 	 reta i n ed 	 b y 	 the 	 C om m i t tee 	 i n 	 oper a ti n g 	 the 	 i n c en tiv e 	 pl a ns
The Committee operates the Group’s various incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC and IRS 
rules where relevant. To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee may apply certain operational discretions. 
These include the following:
• selecting the participants in the plans;
• determining the timing of grants and/or payments;
• determining the quantum of grants and/or payments (within the limits set out in the policy table above);
• adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group;
• determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance;
54 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED • determining ‘good leaver’ status and the extent of vesting in the case of the share based plans;
• determining the extent of vesting of awards under share based plans in the event of a change of control;
• making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of 
capital and special dividends); and
• under the annual review of weighting of performance measures, setting targets for the annual bonus plan and 2014 LTIP from year to year.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to share based awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to 
consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are  
fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
Rem u nera tio n 	 o v er v ie w
The remuneration package comprises both core fixed elements (base salary, pension and other benefits) and performance based variable 
elements (cash bonus, the DASBS and the LTIP). The Committee has set a guideline that for on target performance approximately half of the 
remuneration package should be performance related. The structure of the remuneration packages for on target and stretch performance 
for each of the executive directors is illustrated in the bar charts below.
76% 24%
38% 24% 26% 12%
25% 39% 28% 8%
Stretch performance 
(Total £2,057,015)
Target performance 
(Total £1,360,265)
Brian May
Threshold performance 
(Total £678,015) 
77% 23%
39% 23% 26% 12%
27% 37% 28% 8%
Stretch performance 
(Total (£2,517,612)
Target performance 
(Total £1,709,337)
Patrick Larmon
Threshold performance 
(Total £867,912) 
78% 22%
37% 26% 26% 11%
24% 41% 28% 7%
Stretch performance 
(Total £3,745,792)
Target performance 
(Total £2,436,855)
Michael Roney
Threshold performance 
(Total £1,172,667) 
SALARY AND BENEFITS PENSION BONUS (CASH/DASBS) LTIP
Notes
a)  Salary represents annual salary for 2014. Patrick Larmon’s salary is paid in US dollars but has been translated at the exchange rate of £1: US$1.56. Benefits such 
as a car or car allowance and private medical insurance are as shown on page 58.
b)  Pension represents the cost of pension accrued in 2013 in the Defined Benefit Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Brian May, the value of the annual pension 
allowance for Michael Roney and Brian May, the contributions to the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Michael Roney and the total of 
Company contributions to Patrick Larmon’s 401K Plan, Retirement Savings Benefit (the ‘RSB’) and through the Defined Contribution Senior Executive Retirement 
Agreement (‘SERA’), further details of which are shown on page 60.
c)  Below threshold performance comprises salary, benefits and pension only with no bonus awarded and no LTIP awards vested.
d)  Target performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level (i.e. 70% of base salary comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS) 
and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 50% of performance shares will vest and that 50% of the share options will vest and deliver 30% of their face value in gain  
to the executives.
e)  Stretch performance comprises annual bonus awarded at maximum level (i.e. 115% of base salary for Michael Roney and Brian May and 110% of base salary  
for Patrick Larmon comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS) and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 100% of performance shares will  
vest delivering 100% of their face value in gain to the executive directors and 100% of share options will vest which will deliver 30% of their face value in gain to  
the executives.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 55 Leg a c y 	 ar r a n gemen t s
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Remuneration policy report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments 
entered into with current or former directors (that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports) or internally 
promoted future directors (in each case, such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share plans). Details of any payments  
to former directors will be set out in the Remuneration report as they arise.
Po l i c y 	 of 	 e x ecu tiv e 	 d i rec tors’ 	 e x ter n al 	 a ppo i n tmen t s
With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors  
of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them. 
No n- e x ecu tiv e 	 d i rec tors’ 	 ter ms 	 of 	 a ppo i n tmen t
On appointment of a new Chairman of the Board or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre 
of the individual and the prevailing fee rates of the other non-executive directors at that time.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment. The date of 
appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the length of service for each non-executive director are shown in the table below.
Date of
appointment
Date of last
re-appointment
at AGM
Length of
service as 
at 2014 AGM
Philip Rogerson 1 January 2010 17 April 2013 4 years 3 months
Ulrich Wolters* 1 July 2004 n/a n/a
Peter Johnson 1 January 2006 17 April 2013 8 years 3 months
David Sleath 1 September 2007 17 April 2013 6 years 7 months
Eugenia Ulasewicz 1 April 2011 17 April 2013 3 years
Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 17 April 2013 1 year 3 months
Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 17 April 2013 1 year
* Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
On termination, at any time, a non-executive director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid director’s fees but not to any other compensation.
Fees 	 po l i c y 	 for 	 Cha i r ma n 	 a nd 	 n o n- e x ecu tiv e 	 d i rec tors 
(the 	 ‘ N E D s’ )
Purpose • provision of a competitive fee to attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to oversee the 
implementation of the Company’s strategy
Operation • determined in light of market practice and with reference to time commitment and responsibilities associated with  
the roles
• annual fees are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year
• the senior independent director and Chairman 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are paid an extra fee to reflect their additional responsibilities
• the NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive benefits and do not participate in pension or incentive plans. 
Expenses incurred in respect of their duties as directors of the Company are reimbursed
• the NEDs’ fees are reviewed annually in January each year and the Chairman’s fee is reviewed biennially, the last date 
being February 2014
• the Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the NEDs’ fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive. The NEDs do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration; the Chairman’s 
fees are set by the Committee
Maximum 
potential 
value
• determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of £1,000,000 authorised by shareholders with reference to the 
Company’s Articles of Association
Performance 
metrics
Not eligible to participate in any performance related elements of remuneration
S ta temen t 	 of 	 c o nsider a ti o n 	 of 	 shareh o lder 	 vi ews
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative 
bodies more generally. In addition the Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders prior to making significant changes to  
its policy. 
56 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION FOR 2013
C om m i t tee 	 rem i t 	 a nd 	 mem bersh i p
The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2013: 
 
Date of 
appointment to
the Committee
Meetings  
eligible
to attend
Meetings  
attendance
Ulrich Wolters* 21 July 2004 1 1
Peter Johnson 18 January 2006 5 5
David Sleath 5 December 2007 5 5
Eugenia Ulasewicz 20 April 2011 5 5
Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 5 5
Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 4 4
* Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
The Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group Human Resources. No director plays any part in determining his or her 
remuneration. During the year ended 31 December 2013, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend 
meetings of the Committee, but were not present during any part of the meeting when their own remuneration was under consideration.
The terms of reference of the Committee have been formally adopted by the Board and are available for inspection in the Investor Centre 
section of the Company’s website, www.bunzl.com. The key responsibilities of the Committee include:
• ensuring that executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised to attract, retain and fairly reward them for their 
individual contribution to the Company and having due regard to the policies and practices applied to the rest of the employees within 
the Group;
• determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board including 
setting their individual remuneration packages as well as their level of remuneration and overseeing all the Company’s long term 
incentive plans;
• ensuring that remuneration is aligned with and supports the Company’s strategy and performance, having due regard to the shareholders 
and to the financial and commercial health of the Company, while at the same time not encouraging undue risk taking; and
• communicating and discussing any remuneration issues with the Company’s stakeholders as and when appropriate.
A dvisers 	 to 	 the 	 Rem un er a ti o n 	 C om m i t tee
In carrying out these responsibilities, the Committee seeks external remuneration advice as necessary. During the year the Committee 
received advice from Deloitte, PwC and New Bridge Street. Deloitte undertook a review of the long term incentive arrangements and made 
recommendations to the Committee on changes to the LTIP and other elements of remuneration as described in the Committee Chairman’s 
statement. PwC provided external survey data on directors’ remuneration and benefit levels. New Bridge Street drafted the rules of the 
2014 LTIP and provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to existing share 
option and performance share awards under the 2004 LTIP had been satisfied. The fees payable to each adviser, based on hourly rates, 
were: £48,000 (Deloitte), £19,065 (PwC) and £14,150 (New Bridge Street) for such work undertaken in 2013. In addition to the work 
undertaken on behalf of the Committee, Deloitte also provides the Company with some tax related services, PwC also provides the Company 
with some tax related and pre-acquisition due diligence services and New Bridge Street may from time to time also provide services to the 
Company on remuneration and benefit related matters that are not subject to review by the Committee. The Committee remains satisfied 
that the provision of these other services does not in any way compromise the independence of their advisers.
S ta temen t 	 of 	 v o ti n g 	 a t 	 the 	 20 1 3 	 A G M
Last year the remuneration report received a 98.37% shareholder vote in favour as set out below:
Votes cast Votes For % of shares voted Votes Against % of shares voted Votes Withheld
261,017,954 256,760,966 98.37 4,256,988 1.63 1,837,707
Notes
a)  The votes ‘For’ include votes given at the Company Chairman’s discretion.
b)  A vote ‘Withheld’ is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes ‘For’ or ‘Against’ the resolution. Votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ are expressed 
as a percentage of the votes cast.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 57 Si n g l e 	 to tal 	 fig u re 	 o f 	 rem un er a ti o n 	 20 1 3 	 (a ud i ted 	 i n for ma ti o n)
Executive directors
Salary
£000
Taxable benefits
£000
Bonus
£000
LTIP
£000
Pension
£000
Total
£000
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Michael Roney 870.0 845.0 16.7 16.4 906.5 650.6 1,964.5 1,737.4 261.0 253.5 4,018.7 3,502.9
Brian May 480.0 468.0 16.7 16.4 500.2 360.4 1,016.5 893.7 161.3 161.3 2,174.7 1,899.8
Patrick Larmon 634.0 603.8 18.2 16.5 540.9 518.6 1,068.6 950.2 199.7 232.3 2,461.4 2,321.4
Total 1,984.0 1,916.8 51.6 49.3 1,947.6 1,529.6 4,049.6 3,581.3 622.0 647.1 8,654.8 7,724.1
Non-executive directors
Board fees
£000
Committee
Chair/SID fees
£000
Total
£000
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Philip Rogerson 310.0 310.0 – – 310.0 310.0
Ulrich Wolters 21.0 61.5 – – 21.0 61.5
Peter Johnson 63.0 61.5 29.0 28.0 92.0 89.5
David Sleath 63.0 61.5 13.0 12.0 76.0 73.5
Eugenia Ulasewicz 63.0 61.5 – – 63.0 61.5
Jean-Charles Pauze 63.0 – – – 63.0 –
Meinie Oldersma  47.2 – – – 47.2 –
Total 630.2 556.0 42.0 40.0 672.2 596.0
Notes
a)  The figures above represent remuneration earned as directors during the relevant financial year including the bonus of which the cash element, 50% of the bonus, 
is paid in the year following that in which it is earned. The other 50% of the bonus shown above is deferred and conditionally awarded as shares under the rules of 
the DASBS. Shares relating to the 2012 deferred bonus were awarded in 2013 as shown in the table on page 65 and the shares relating to the 2013 deferred bonus 
will be awarded in 2014.
b)  The remuneration for Patrick Larmon is determined and paid in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year of £1: US$1.56 in 
respect of 2013 and £1: US$1.59 in respect of 2012.
c)  The long term incentives are in the form of awards under the 2004 LTIP which were granted in 2010 and 2011. See page 59 for details of the performance conditions 
applicable and for the valuation method applied to such awards. Long term incentive figures exclude any gain from the purchase of shares by Patrick Larmon 
through the ESPP described on page 51.
d)  Benefits provided for all executive directors are a car or car allowance and medical insurance coverage for them and their families. In addition to these benefits 
Patrick Larmon’s club fees are paid by the Company.
e) Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board on 17 April 2013. 
f) Meinie Oldersma was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2013. 
g) There were no payments made to former directors during the year and no payments were, or are due to be, made in respect of loss of office.
E x ecu tiv e 	 d i rec tors’ 	 a nn u al 	 sal ar y 	 (a ud i ted 	 i n for ma ti o n)
Executive directors’ salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2013 in accordance with normal policy and were increased taking into 
account the average salary increases for employees across the Group.
Salary from
1 January 
2013
Salary from
1 January 
2012
Increase in salary
2012 to 2013 
%
Michael Roney £870,000 £845,000 3.0
Brian May £480,000 £468,000 2.6
Patrick Larmon US$989,000 US$960,000 3.0
Executive directors’ salaries were also reviewed with effect from 1 January 2014 and the increases awarded are shown on page 64.
58 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED E x ecu tiv e 	 d i rec tors’ 	 e x ter n al 	 a ppo i n tmen t s
Michael Roney served as a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc throughout 2013 and retained fees of £68,000. Brian May served  
as a non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC throughout 2013 and retained fees of £60,468. Patrick Larmon does not hold any 
such appointments.
No n- e x ecu tiv e 	 d i rec tors’ 	 fees 	 (a ud i ted 	 i n for ma ti o n)
The Chairman’s fee is reviewed every two years and, as a result, no review of the fee took place in 2013. The fees for the non-executive 
directors were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2013 in accordance with normal policy.
With effect from
January 2013 
£
Fees paid
in 2012 
£
Increase in fees
2012 to 2013 
%
Chairman’s fee 310,000 310,000 –
Non-executive director fee 63,000 61,500 2.4
Supplements:  
Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 –
Audit Committee Chairman 13,000 12,000 8.3
Remuneration Committee Chairman 13,000 12,000 8.3
The Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2014 and the increases awarded are shown on page 65.
Per for ma n c e 	 a g a i nst 	 a nn u al 	 bo n us 	 target s 	 (a ud i ted 	 i n for ma ti o n)	
The annual bonus plan and DASBS operate as set out in the policy section on page 49. 100% of Michael Roney’s and Brian May’s and 25% of 
Patrick Larmon’s bonus potential in 2013 related to the growth in the Company’s constant exchange rate eps relative to budget. This resulted 
in a bonus payment between the target and maximum bonus opportunity. For Patrick Larmon, a further 75% of his bonus potential related 
to the pbit performance of North America which was modified by the achievement of North America’s return on average operating capital 
relative to the target set. Pbit performance for North America resulted in a bonus payment 1.2% above target and the return on average 
operating capital slightly exceeded target as a result of which the bonus related to North America’s performance was increased by a further 
0.8%. Accordingly the total payments under the annual bonus plan were:
Total bonus payment (cash and deferred shares) as a % of salary
2013
%
2012
%
2011
%
2010
%
2009
%
Michael Roney 104.2 77.0 114.0 81.6 52.2
Brian May 104.2 77.0 114.0 81.6 52.2
Patrick Larmon 85.3 85.9 110.0 76.7 54.2
The monetary values of the bonus payments for 2013 and 2012 are included in the table on page 58.
L TI P 	 g r a n t s / aw ards 	 wi th 	 per for ma n c e 	 per i ods 	 end i n g 	 i n 	 20 1 3 	 (a ud i ted 	 i n for ma ti o n)
Executive share options – LTIP Part A
Executive share option awards, granted three years previously, are due to vest on 3 March 2014 and 2 September 2014. The Committee 
assessed the relevant performance of the Company against the performance conditions. Eps (restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011)) 
growth was 38.02% for the three years ended 31 December 2013 which compared to an increase in RPI of 10.95% over the same period. Since 
the performance condition would have been satisfied if eps had grown by at least 20.22% over the period, all of the options will vest. Included 
in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 58 is the estimated value of these awards based on the difference between the grant 
price and the average of the Company’s closing mid-market share price for the three month period ended 31 December 2013 (1,372p).
Performance shares – LTIP Part B
Awards of performance shares were made to the executive directors on 1 April 2010 and 8 October 2010 with the three year performance 
periods being completed on 31 March 2013 and 30 September 2013 respectively. The Committee subsequently assessed the performance 
of the Company against the relevant performance conditions. The extent to which half of the awards would vest was subject to a performance 
condition based on eps growth relative to RPI. Eps growth was 28.4% for the three years ended 31 December 2012 compared to an increase 
in RPI of 13.2% over the same period. A quarter of the award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 25.7% over the period 
and the whole award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 46.3%. As a result of the Company’s actual growth in eps over 
the period, 35.0% of this part of the awards vested (17.5% of the full awards).
The extent to which the other half of the awards vested was based on the Company’s TSR performance against the relevant comparator 
group. For the April 2010 award, the Company ranked 12th out of the remaining 38 companies in the comparator group of companies, 
as a result of which 86.5% of this part of the award vested (43.3% of the full award) for performance between median and upper quartile. 
For the October 2010 award, the Company ranked 11th out of the remaining 37 companies in the comparator group of companies, as a 
result of which 89.9% of this part of the award vested (44.9% of the full award) for performance between median and upper quartile.
Accordingly 60.7% of the total performance shares awarded in April 2010 and 62.4% of the total performance shares awarded in October 2010 
vested in April and October 2013 respectively. Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 58 is the value of these vested 
awards at the closing mid-market share price on the dates of vesting, 8 April 2013 and 8 October 2013, which were 1,290p and 1,305p respectively. 
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 59 T o tal 	 pensi o n 	 en ti tl emen t s 	 (a ud i ted 	 i n for ma ti o n)
Defined benefit pension (DB) entitlements
Accrued 
benefits at 
31.12.13 per 
annum 
£
Change in
 transfer value 
of accrued 
benefits during 
the year 
£
Transfer value
of accrued
benefits at
 31.12.13
£
Pension
plan’s
 normal
retirement
age 
Additional
value
of pension on
early
retirement
Pension value 
in the year 
from DB
 scheme
Value of cash
allowance including
any company DC
and/or 401k
contributions
in 2013
Total
pension
2013
Michael Roney – – – – – – 261,000 261,000
Brian May 58,479 (159,428) 957,860 60 – 59,378 101,970 161,348
Patrick Larmon 15,738 (11,257) 153,923 65 – – 199,663 199,663
Notes
a)  The changes in the transfer values of accrued benefits have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant actuarial legislation 
and, in the case of Brian May, are net of his contributions of £12,609. The changes in the transfer values of accrued benefits for Brian May and Patrick Larmon 
include the effect of fluctuations in the transfer values due to factors such as changes in the assumptions used to value pension assets and, in particular, the higher 
assumed discount rates as a result of an increase in long dated gilt yields.
b)  Michael Roney receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary. He has chosen to join the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan (‘BPP’) and his 
contribution of 5% of base salary, up to the pensionable salary cap (notionally £141,000 for tax year 2013/2014 and £137,400 for tax year 2012/2013) is matched by the 
Company. During 2013 such contributions amounted to £7,005 (2012: £6,773) and this amount was deducted from his pension allowance. 
c)  Brian May, who joined the Group in the UK prior to the closure of the defined benefit sections of the BPP, is a member of the Bunzl Senior Pension Section of the BPP. 
His pension accrues at the rate of 2.4% per annum up to two thirds of the pensionable salary cap, as described above. The employee contribution rate is currently 
9% of pensionable salary. In addition to benefits from the BPP, Brian May receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary above the pensionable salary cap 
which permits him to make provision, of his own choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
d)  Patrick Larmon originally joined the US Plan, subject to IRS limits, which accrued at a rate of 1.67% per annum up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary 
less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years. Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000. On closure of the US 
Plan, Patrick Larmon chose to freeze his benefit and no further benefits have accrued. The decrease in transfer value shown in the table above is principally due to 
foreign exchange translation. Patrick Larmon is currently a member of a defined contribution plan, the Retirement Saving Benefit (‘RSB’). Contributions to the RSB 
are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related. The contributions are a percentage of base salary (maximum 5%) which is capped at 
US$200,000 per annum. The Company made contributions in respect of Patrick Larmon in 2013 of £6,410 (2012: £6,289). 
e)   In addition, Patrick Larmon receives a supplementary pension through a defined benefit Senior Executive Retirement Agreement (‘SERA’). Patrick Larmon’s SERA, 
which became fully accrued in 2012, provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement. In 2013 the Company paid all necessary 
expenses, due to changes in assumptions and other factors outside of the Company’s control such as change in market conditions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA 
which amounted to £47,490 (2012: £74,030). In 2007, this SERA arrangement was closed to new entrants and existing members’ benefits were frozen. A new defined 
contribution SERA (‘DC SERA’) was put in place for Patrick Larmon. During 2013 the contribution to the DC SERA amounted to £185,897 (2012: £182,390). 
f)   Patrick Larmon also participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings (401k) Plan. The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan. During 2013 
contributions for Patrick Larmon amounted to £7,356 (2012: £6,934).
L TI P 	 g r a n t 	 po l i c y	
Conditional awards of executive share options and performance shares are granted twice a year to executive directors and other senior 
executives. Executive share option awards are normally granted in February or March and August or September dependent on the date of 
announcement of the Company’s results. Performance share awards are normally granted in April and October each year. In 2013 executive 
share options were granted in February and August and for performance shares in April and October in accordance with the existing grant 
policy and performance conditions as detailed on pages 52 and 61 respectively.
L TI P 	 i n terest s 	 aw arded 	 d u r i n g 	 the 	 fi n a n ci al 	 y ear 	 (a ud i ted 	 i n for ma ti o n)
Plan Date of grant Basis of award
Face value
£’000
% vesting at 
threshold 
performance
Number
of shares
Performance 
period end date
Michael Roney LTIP Part A 28.02.13 75% of salary 657.2 100% 53,000 31.12.15
LTIP Part B 05.04.13 56.25% of salary 491.6 25% 38,500 31.03.16
LTIP Part A 30.08.13 75% of salary 653.1 100% 47,500 31.12.15
LTIP Part B 07.10.13 56.25% of salary 490.3 25% 37,000 30.09.16
Brian May LTIP Part A 28.02.13 70% of salary 341.0 100% 27,500 31.12.15
LTIP Part B 05.04.13 52.5% of salary 255.4 25% 20,000 31.03.16
LTIP Part A 30.08.13 70% of salary 336.9 100% 24,500 31.12.15
LTIP Part B 07.10.13 52.5% of salary 258.4 25% 19,500 30.09.16
Patrick Larmon LTIP Part A 28.02.13 62.5% of salary 390.6 100% 31,500 31.12.15
LTIP Part B 05.04.13 47% of salary 293.7 25% 23,000 31.03.16
LTIP Part A 30.08.13 62.5% of salary 391.9 100% 28,500 31.12.15
LTIP Part B 07.10.13 47% of salary 291.5 25% 22,000 30.09.16
Note
The face value of the awards is calculated using the closing mid-market share price on the day prior to the grant of the award. Options were awarded under LTIP 
Part A on 28 February and 30 August 2013 at a value of 1,240p and 1,375p per share respectively. Performance shares were awarded under LTIP Part B on 5 April 
and 7 October 2013 at a value of 1,277p and 1,325p per share respectively.
60 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Per for ma n c e 	 c o nd i ti o ns 	 for 	 20 1 3 	 aw ards
Executive share options
Executive share option awards may vest based solely on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the 
Company’s underlying financial performance) relative to UK inflation (RPI) over three years, based on the following sliding scale:
Face value of annual executive share options granted as a proportion of salary Total margin over UK inflation (RPI) after three years
First 150% of salary 9.3%
Next 75% of salary 12.5%
Next 75% of salary 19.1%
Performance shares
The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to 
exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance) relative to UK inflation (RPI) over three years, based 
on the following sliding scale:
Total margin over UK inflation (RPI) after three years Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below 12.5% Nil
12.5% 25%
Between 12.5% and 33.1% Pro rata between 25%–100%
33.1% or above 100%
The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Company’s TSR performance, a combination 
of both the Company’s share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance 
of a specified group of companies of similarly sized companies with large international presence. The comparator group consists of at 
least 40 UK based companies (excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors) that have substantial 
operations overseas and have at 30 September prior to the grant of the awards similar levels of revenue, profit and market capitalisation 
as Bunzl. The applicable comparator group for the LTIP Part B awards in October 2013 are shown below and will form the basis of the 
comparator group for the LTIP Part B awards in April 2014. 
Aggreko
Ashstead Group
ARM Holdings
Burberry Group
Carnival Corporation
Cobham
Computacenter
Croda International
Diageo
Dixons Retail
Easyjet
Experian
G4S
GKN
Hays
IMI
Inchcape
Informa
Inmarsat
Intercontinental Hotels Group
International Consolidated Airlines Group
Intertek Group
Johnson Matthey
Meggitt
Melrose
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels
Mondi
Pearson
Reckitt Benckiser Group
Rexam
SABMiller
SIG
Smith & Nephew
Smiths Group
Spectris
Tate & Lyle
Thomas Cook Group
Vesuvius
Weir Group
Wolseley
WPP
These performance share awards vest in line with the following vesting schedule:
TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below median Nil
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%–100%
Upper quartile or above 100%
Awards granted in 2011 and 2012 were subject to the same performance conditions as described above.
Sh a reh o lder 	 c o nsul ta ti o n
In 2012, the Chairman of the Committee met with one of the shareholder representative bodies to discuss the introduction of a performance 
condition on a sliding scale for the vesting of the share options. These views were taken into account in developing the proposals for the 
amendments to the remuneration arrangements outlined in the Committee Chairman’s statement on pages 47 and 48. In 2013, 19 major 
shareholders and two shareholder representative bodies were consulted on the proposed changes to the remuneration policy. The vast 
majority of those consulted indicated that they were supportive of the Company’s directors’ remuneration policy.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 61 Shareh o lder 	 d il u ti o n
In accordance with the Principles of Remuneration issued by the Association of British Insurers, the Company can satisfy awards to 
employees under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share 
capital (adjusted for share issuance and cancellation) in a rolling 10 year period. Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue 
(as newly issued shares or from treasury), 5% of its issued share capital (adjusted for share issuance and cancellation) to satisfy awards 
under executive (discretionary) plans.
As well as the LTIP, the Company operates various all employee share schemes as described on page 51. Newly issued shares are 
currently used to satisfy the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Scheme. Awards under the 
LTIP of executive options and performance shares are principally satisfied by shares delivered from the Employee Benefit Trust which 
buys shares on the market, unless security laws in relevant jurisdictions prevent this.
Limit on awards
Cumulative options and performance shares 
granted as a percentage of issued share capital 
as at 31 December 2013
(including those held in treasury)
10% in any rolling 10 year period 3.0%
5% in any rolling 10 year period (executive (discretionary) plans) 1.6%
S ta temen t 	 of 	 d i rec tors’ 	 shareh o ld i n g 	 a nd 	 share 	 i n terest s 	 (a ud i ted 	 i n for ma ti o n)
As at 31 December 2013, all executive directors and their connected persons owned shares outright at a level exceeding their required 
shareholding. In 2013 executive directors were required to hold 100% of their annual salary in the Company’s shares. The shareholding 
requirement is increasing in 2014 to 200% of their annual salary in the Company’s shares as described on page 52.
Actual share ownership as a percentage 
of salary at 31 December 2013 
at the closing mid-market price 
(1,450p)
Michael Roney 520%
Brian May 318%
Patrick Larmon 270%
Interests in shares and share options
The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the Company’s ordinary shares and share options at 31 December 2013 were:
Shares Options (LTIP Part A and Sharesave)
Total
interests held
Owned
outright
Unvested
and subject
to holding
period
(DASBS)
Unvested
and subject to
 performance
 conditions
(LTIP Part B)
Unvested
and subject to
performance
conditions
Unvested and
subject to
continued
employment
Vested
but not
exercised 
Michael Roney 312,263 117,672 289,000 385,500 1,948 270,000 1,376,383
Brian May 105,240 64,911 150,500 200,000 3,462 – 524,113
Patrick Larmon 117,838 82,766 163,500 218,000 – 203,500 785,604
Philip Rogerson 10,000 – – – – – 10,000
Peter Johnson 6,630 – – – – – 6,630
David Sleath 4,000 – – – – – 4,000
Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 – – – – – 4,000
Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 – – – – – 2,500
Meinie Oldersma 2,500 – – – – – 2,500
62 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Chief Executive’s pay in last five years (audited information)
The table below summarises the Chief Executive’s single figure for total remuneration, as shown on page 58, annual bonus and long term 
incentive payout as a percentage of maximum opportunity for 2013 and the previous four years.
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Single figure of remuneration £’000 1,943.2 2,314.2 3,394.1 3,502.9 4,018.7
Annual variable element award rates 
against maximum opportunity 45% 71% 99% 67% 91%
Long term incentive vesting rates 
against maximum opportunity
LTIP Part A (options) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
LTIP Part B (performance shares) 84% 65% 29% 45% 62%
Perc en ta ge 	 c ha n ge 	 i n 	 Ch i ef 	 E x ecu tiv e’ s 	 rem un er a ti o n
The table below sets out the increase in the salary, benefits and bonus of the Chief Executive and that of a Bunzl UK and US management 
population. This population has been selected for this comparison because it is considered to be the most relevant as these countries 
have the Group’s largest concentration of employees with a similarly structured remuneration package. Employees from businesses 
acquired by Bunzl in 2013 and leavers and joiners in either year have been removed from the data to prevent distortion.
Chief Executive
UK and US
management population
Percentage change 
(2013 vs 2012)
Percentage change 
(2013 vs 2012)
Salary 3% 5%
Benefits 1% 0%
Bonus 39% 3%
Notes
a) US and UK management population includes any promotional increases that occurred during either year
b) Bonus relates to the performance targets of the companies for which the relevant individuals work
Rel a tiv e 	 i m por ta n c e 	 of 	 spend 	 o n 	 p a y
The table below shows a comparison between the overall expenditure on pay and dividends paid to shareholders for 2013 and 2012 
(as stated in Note 21 and Note 17 to the financial statements on pages 103 and 98 respectively).
£ million unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 Percentage change
Overall expenditure on pay 509.4 442.0 15.2%
Dividend paid in the year 91.8 85.7 7.1%
Note
a) Overall expenditure on pay excludes employer’s social security costs.
b) Dividends paid in the year relate to the previous financial year’s interim and final dividends.
Per for ma n c e 	 g r a ph 	 a nd 	 ta bl e
Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 requires that the Company 
must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance of a 
hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity 
market index over a five year period. The Company’s TSR 
performance against the FTSE 350 Support Services Sector over a 
five year period commencing on 1 January 2009 is shown to the right.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 63
BUNZL 
FTSE 350 SUPPORT SERVICES
Source: Thomson Reuters datastream
2009 2010 201 1 2012 2013
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
260
280
300 20 1 4 	 R E M U N E R A TION 	 (A U D ITE D 	 I N FOR MA TION )
The remuneration policy will be implemented with effect from the 2014 AGM as follows:
S a la r y
The salary increases for the executive directors for 2014, which are in line with increases that have been implemented for other employees 
in the Group as discussed on pages 53, are as follows:
Salary from 
1 January 2014
Salary from 
1 January 2013
Increase in salary 
2013 to 2014 
%
Michael Roney £895,000 £870,000 2.9
Brian May £500,000 £480,000 4.2
Patrick Larmon $1,014,000 US$989,000 2.5
20 1 4 	 bo n us 	 target s
The structure for Michael Roney’s, Brian May’s and 25% of Patrick Larmon’s annual bonus for 2014 is described on page 49. The threshold 
for bonus payments on growth in constant exchange rate eps has been set above the actual result achieved in 2013 on a constant exchange 
rate basis. For Patrick Larmon the other 75% of his bonus will relate to the attainment of pbit performance of North America relative to 
budget which will be modified, positively or negatively, by the achievement of North America’s return on average operating capital relative 
to the target set. The relevant performance points are: threshold (which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus); target; and 
maximum amount (the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped). These performance points are determined at the start of the 
year by reference to the Group’s annual budget. No elements of the bonus are guaranteed. As in previous years, the specific performance 
points will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive.
Per for ma n c e 	 measu res 	 for 	 l o n g-ter m 	 i n c en tiv es 	 to 	 be 	 aw arded 	 i n 	 20 1 4
Grants of executive share options and performance shares awarded in February and April 2014 respectively will have the same performance 
conditions as those awarded in 2013 as shown on page 61. However, assuming that the proposed 2014 LTIP is approved by shareholders at 
the 2014 AGM, grants of executive share options and performance shares awarded to executive directors and senior executives in August 
and October 2014 will be subject to the following performance measures:
Executive options – LTIP Part A
Executive share options may vest based solely on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s 
underlying financial performance) over three years, based on the following sliding scale:
Absolute annual growth in the Company’s eps over a three year period Proportion of share option awards exercisable
Below 5% Nil
5% 25%
Between 5% and 8% Pro rata between 25%–100%
8% or above 100%
Performance shares – LTIP Part B
The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to 
exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance) over three years, based on the following sliding scale:
Absolute annual growth in the Company’s eps over a three year period Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below 6% Nil
6% 25%
Between 6% and 12% Pro rata between 25%–100%
12% or above 100%
The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Company’s TSR performance, a combination 
of both the Company’s share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance of 
a specified comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence. These performance share awards may vest 
based on the following sliding scale:
TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below median Nil
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%–100%
Upper quartile or above 100%
The comparator group for the April 2014 award will be the same as that used for the October 2013 award being a minimum of 40 companies 
of similar revenue, profit and market capitalisation to Bunzl, with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial 
services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors, as shown on page 61. For the October 2014 award the comparator group will be those 
companies in the FTSE 50 – 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural 
resources sectors.
64 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED No n- e x ecu tiv e 	 d i rec tors’ 	 fees 	 for 	 20 1 4 	 (a ud i ted 	 i n for ma ti o n)
The current fee structure for the non-executive directors is shown below:
With effect from 
1 January 2014 
£
Fees paid
in 2013 
£
Increase in fees
2013 to 2014 
%
Chairman’s fee 325,000 310,000 4.8
Non-executive director basic fee 64,500 63,000 2.4
Supplements:
 Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 –
 Audit Committee Chairman 14,000 13,000 7.7
 Remuneration Committee Chairman 14,000 13,000 7.7
Note
Prior to 2014 the Chairman’s fee was last increased in January 2012.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS 
Details of the executive director’s interests in outstanding share awards under the DASBS, LTIP and all employee share plans are 
set out below.
Defer red 	 share 	 aw ards 	 as 	 a t 	 3 1 	 Dec em ber 	 20 1 3
The outstanding awards granted to each director of the Company under the DASBS are set out in the table below. Further information 
relating to the deferred bonus is provided on page 49.
Shares held
at 1 January
2013
Shares
awarded
during 2013
Shares
vested 
during 2013
Total number
of award
shares at
31 December
2013
Normal
vesting date
Share price
at grant
p
Market price
at vesting
p
Monetary
value of
vested award
£000
Michael Roney 29,724 – 29,724 – 01.03.13 680.5 1,282 381
43,215 – – 43,215 01.03.14 760 – –
48,882 – – 48,882 01.03.15 962 – –
– 25,575 – 25,575 01.03.16 1,272 – –
Brian May 16,300 – 16,300 – 01.03.13 680.5 1,282 209
23,728 – – 23,728 01.03.14 760 – –
27,018 – 27,018 01.03.15 962 – –
– 14,165 – 14,165 01.03.16 1,272 – –
Patrick Larmon 23,268 – 23,268 – 01.03.13 680.5 1,266 295
28,372 – – 28,372 01.03.14 760 – –
33,349 – – 33,349 01.03.15 962 – –
– 21,045 – 21,045 01.03.16 1,272 – –
Note
 The deferred element of the 2013 annual bonus plan as shown on page 58 is not included in the table above as the appropriate number of shares have not yet been 
awarded. No shares lapsed during the year.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 65 LTIP
The tables below show the number of executive share options and performance shares held by the executive directors under the LTIP. 
Details of the relevant performance conditions of the LTIP are set out on page 61.
Executive share options – LTIP Part A
Options at
1 January
2013
Grant
date
Exercise
Price
p
Options
exercisable
between
Options at
31 December
2013
Michael Roney 99,500 27.08.09 585 27.08.12–26.08.19 99,500
89,500 25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13–24.02.20 89,500
81,000 03.09.10 746 03.09.13–02.09.20 81,000
85,500 03.03.11 724.5 03.03.14–02.03.21 85,500
76,500 02.09.11 812.5 02.09.14–01.09.21 76,500
66,000 01.03.12 962 01.03.15–28.02.22 66,000
57,000 31.08.12 1,116 31.08.15–30.08.22 57,000
– 28.02.13 1,240 28.02.16–27.02.23 53,000
– 30.08.13 1,375 30.08.16–29.08.23 47,500
Total 555,000 – – – 655,500
Brian May 33,000 28.02.08 721.5 28.02.11–27.02.18 –
42,500 29.08.08 700.5 29.08.11–28.08.18 –
46,000 25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13–24.02.20 –
41,500 03.09.10 746 03.09.13–02.09.20 –
44,500 03.03.11 724.5 03.03.14–02.03.21 44,500
39,500 02.09.11 812.5 02.09.14–01.09.21 39,500
34,500 01.03.12 962 01.03.15–28.02.22 34,500
29,500 31.08.12 1,116 31.08.15–30.08.22 29,500
– 28.02.13 1,240 28.02.16–27.02.23 27,500
– 30.08.13 1,375 30.08.16–29.08.23 24,500
Total 311,000 – – – 200,000
Patrick Larmon 43,000 01.09.06 652.5 01.09.09–31.08.16 –
47,000 01.03.07 659 01.03.10–28.02.17 –
45,000 31.08.07 684.5 31.08.10–30.08.17 –
44,500 28.02.08 721.5 28.02.11–27.02.18 –
45,500 29.08.08 700.5 29.08.11–28.08.18 –
56,500 26.02.09 564 26.02.12–25.02.19 56,500
54,500 27.08.09 585 27.08.12–26.08.19 54,500
48,500 25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13–24.02.20 48,500
44,000 03.09.10 746 03.09.13–02.09.20 44,000
46,500 03.03.11 724.5 03.03.14–02.03.21 46,500
41,500 02.09.11 812.5 02.09.14–01.09.21 41,500
36,000 01.03.12 962 01.03.15–28.02.22 36,000
34,000 31.08.12 1,116 31.08.15–30.08.22 34,000
– 28.02.13 1,240 28.02.16–27.02.23 31,500
– 30.08.13 1,375 30.08.16–29.08.23 28,500
Total 586,500 – – – 421,500
Notes
a) Executive share options were exercised during 2013 by:  
  (i)  Brian May on 7 November 2013 in respect of 33,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 721.5p, 42,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 700.5p, 46,000 
ordinary shares at an exercise price of 676.5p and 41,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 746p, at a market price of approximately 1,385p resulting in a 
gain of £1,100,963; and
  (ii)  Patrick Larmon on 25 February 2013 in respect of 43,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 652.5p and 47,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 659p 
at a market price of 1,221p resulting in a gain of £508,595. In addition Patrick Larmon exercised share options on 3 April 2013 in respect of 45,000 ordinary shares 
at an exercise price of 684.5p at a market price of 1,313p resulting in a gain of £282,825. Patrick Larmon also exercised share options on 11 November 2013 in 
respect of 44,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 721.5p at a market price of 1,409p resulting in a gain of £305,938 and on 14 November 2013 in respect 
of 45,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 700.5p at a market price of 1,397p resulting in a gain of £316,908.
b) The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2013 was 1,450p and the range during 2013 was 1,014p to 1,450p.
c) The performance conditions have been satisfied in relation to options granted prior to 2012 under the LTIP Part A.
66 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance shares – LTIP Part B
Awards
(shares)
held at
1 January
2013
Conditional
shares
awarded
during 2013
Award
date 
Market price
per share
at award
p 
Lapsed
awards
(shares)
during
2013
Exercised
awards
(shares)
during
2013
Market price
per share
at exercise
p
Value at
exercise
£000
Awards
(shares)
held at 31
December
2013
Michael Roney 63,000 – 01.04.10 721 24,734 38,266 1,285 492 –
60,000 – 08.10.10 759 22,560 37,440 1,322 495 –
64,500 – 08.04.11 725 – – – – 64,500
59,000 – 11.10.11 787 – – – – 59,000
48,000 – 05.04.12 990.5 – – – – 48,000
42,000 – 08.10.12 1,137 – – – – 42,000
– 38,500 05.04.13 1,277 – – – – 38,500
– 37,000 07.10.13 1,325 – – – – 37,000
Total 336,500 75,500 – – 47,294 75,706 – 987 289,000
Brian May 32,500 – 01.04.10 721 12,761 19,739 1,285 254 –
31,000 – 08.10.10 759 11,657 19,343 1,325 256 –
33,500 – 08.04.11 725 – – – – 33,500
30,500 – 11.10.11 787 – – – – 30,500
25,000 – 05.04.12 990.5 – – – – 25,000
22,000 – 08.10.12 1,137 – – – – 22,000
– 20,000 05.04.13 1,277 – – – – 20,000
– 19,500 07.10.13 1,325 – – – – 19,500
Total 174,500 39,500 – – 24,418 39,082 – 510 150,500
Patrick Larmon 34,500 – 01.04.10 721 13,545 20,955 1,282 269 –
32,500 – 08.10.10 759 12,221 20,279 1,322 268 –
35,000 – 08.04.11 725 – – – – 35,000
32,000 – 11.10.11 787 – – – – 32,000
26,500 – 05.04.12 990.5 – – – – 26,500
25,000 – 08.10.12 1,137 – – – – 25,000
– 23,000 05.04.13 1,277 – – – – 23,000
– 22,000 07.10.13 1,325 – – – – 22,000
Total 185,500 45,000 – – 25,766 41,234 – 537 163,500
Note
The closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares as at the vesting dates on 8 April 2013 and 8 October 2013 were 1,290p and 1,305p respectively.
All 	 em pl oy ees 	 share 	 sc heme
Sharesave Scheme
The table below shows the number of share options granted to the executive directors under the Sharesave Scheme. Details of the 
Sharesave Scheme are set out on page 51.
Options at
1 January
2013
Grant
date
Exercise
price
p
Options
exercisable between
Options at
31 December
2013
Michael Roney 1,948 27.03.12 770 01.05.17–31.10.17 1,948
Brian May 3,462 24.03.09 452 01.05.14–31.10.14 3,462
Peter 	 Joh nso n
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 February 2014
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 67 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The 
Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 16 April 2014 
at 11.00 am. The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting is set 
out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which 
explains the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
DIVIDENDS
An interim dividend of 10.0p was paid on 2 January 2014 in respect of 
2013 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 22.4p, making 
a total for the year of 32.4p per share (2012: 28.2p). Dividend details 
are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Subject 
to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 
16 April 2014, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2014 to those 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 May 2014.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 
ordinary shares of 32
1
∕ 7p each which rank pari passu in respect of 
participation and voting rights. The shares are in registered form, 
are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange. 
In addition, the Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt programme with Citibank N.A. under which the Company’s 
shares are traded on the over-the-counter (OTC) market in the form 
of American Depositary Receipts.
Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are 
set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
BU N Z L 	 G ROU P 	 G E N E R AL 	 E M PL O YE E 	 B E N E F IT 	 TRUS T
Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group 
General Employee Benefit Trust (‘the EBT’) which holds shares in 
respect of employee share options and awards that have not been 
exercised or vested. The current position is that the EBT abstains 
from voting in respect of these shares. The trustee has agreed to 
waive the right to dividend payments on shares held within the EBT. 
Details of the shares so held are set out in Note 16 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 31 December 2013 the directors had been notified by the 
following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more 
of the issued share capital of the Company.
Shareholder
Date of
notification
Number of
shares
% of issued
share capital
INVESCO plc 20.05.10 32,571,686 9.8
Cascade Investment, LLC 20.04.12 16,593,248 5.0
Lloyds Banking Group plc 27.05.10 16,425,039 4.9
Newton Investment 
Management Ltd 07.03.11 13,864,410 4.2
As at 24 February 2014 no further notifications have been received 
since the year end.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without 
prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company 
may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights 
and restrictions as set out in such resolution or (if there is no such 
resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision) as the 
Board may decide. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006 and of any resolution of the Company passed pursuant thereto 
and without prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, the 
Board is duly authorised to issue and allot, grant options over or 
otherwise dispose of the Company’s shares on such terms and 
conditions and at such times as it thinks fit. If at any time the share 
capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the 
rights attached to any class may be varied or abrogated by special 
resolution passed at a separate general meeting of such holders. 
Subject to the rights attached to any existing shares, rights attached 
to shares will be deemed to be varied by the reduction of capital paid 
up on the shares and by the allotment of further shares ranking in 
priority in respect of dividend or capital or which confer on the 
holders more favourable voting rights than the first-mentioned 
shares, but will not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the 
creation or issue of further shares.
POWER TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES
The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under 
the authorities granted at the 2013 Annual General Meeting to allot 
shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security 
into shares of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 
£35.6 million. At the same meeting authority was also granted to the 
directors to allot the Company’s shares for cash, up to a maximum 
nominal amount of approximately £5.7 million, without regard to the 
pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006. No such shares 
were issued or allotted under these authorities in 2013, nor is there 
any current intention to do so, other than to satisfy share options 
under the Company’s share option schemes and, if necessary, to 
satisfy the consideration payable for businesses to be acquired.
These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. The directors again propose to seek 
equivalent authorities at such Annual General Meeting.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES
Dealings in the Company’s ordinary shares by its directors, persons 
discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the 
Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject 
to the Company’s dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the 
Listing Rules published by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply 
to transfers of shares in the Company. The Board may refuse to 
register an instrument of transfer of any share which is not a fully 
paid share and of a certificated share at its discretion unless it is:
• lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at the offices of the 
Company’s registrar or such other place as the Board may specify 
and is accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it 
relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably 
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer;
• in respect of only one class of shares; and
• in favour of not more than four transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused 
in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules, 
and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of 
joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred 
exceeds four.
68 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION In addition, no instrument of transfer for certificated shares shall be 
registered if the transferor has been served with a restriction notice 
(as defined in the Company’s Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’)) 
after failure to provide the Company with information concerning 
certain interests in the Company’s shares required to be provided 
under the Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the 
Board to be pursuant to an arm’s length sale. The Board has the 
power to procure that uncertificated shares are converted into 
certificated shares and kept in certificated form for as long as 
the Board requires.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in any restriction of the transfer of shares or 
voting rights.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS
A member shall not be entitled to vote, unless the Board otherwise 
decides, at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any 
shares held by them if any call or other sums payable remain unpaid. 
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid. In addition, no member 
shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice 
after failure to provide the Company with information concerning 
certain interests in the Company’s shares required to be provided 
under the Companies Act 2006. Votes may be exercised in person or 
by proxy. The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of 
proxy forms of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before 
a poll is taken if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was 
demanded or during the meeting at which the poll was demanded 
if the poll is not taken straight away but is taken not more than 
48 hours after it was demanded.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company 
authority to purchase a maximum of 33,225,000 ordinary shares. 
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Company did not 
purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the 
authority granted at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and no shares 
have been purchased between 31 December 2013 and 24 February 
2014. On 4 December 2013 the Company cancelled a total number 
of 23,325,000 ordinary shares held in treasury and currently holds 
no treasury shares. The Company is therefore currently authorised 
to buy back 33,225,000 of its own shares pursuant to the existing 
shareholders’ authority which is due to expire at the conclusion 
of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The directors again 
propose to seek the equivalent authority at such Annual 
General Meeting.
DIRECTORS
Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened 
general meeting or appointed by the Board. Under the Articles, the 
minimum number of directors shall be two and the maximum shall 
be 15. In accordance with the Articles, each director is required to 
retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year 
after which he or she was appointed or last appointed and any 
director who has held office with the Company, other than 
employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years 
or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting is subject to annual  
re-appointment. The Board may also appoint a person willing to 
act as a director during the year either to fill a vacancy or as an 
additional director but so that the total number of directors shall 
not at any time exceed 15. However such appointee shall only hold 
office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred by 
company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove a 
director from office before the expiration of his or her period of office 
under the Articles.
The office of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles 
if the director:
• resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by all 
of the other directors who are not less than three in number; or
• is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the 
Board resolves that his or her office be vacated; or
• is absent without permission from Board meetings for six 
consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office  
be vacated; or
• becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors 
generally; or
• is prohibited by law from being a director; or
• ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of company 
law or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Biographical details of the current directors are set out on page 38.  
Jean-Charles Pauze and Meinie Oldersma were appointed to the 
Board with effect from 1 January 2013 and 1 April 2013 respectively 
and Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board on 17 April 2013. All of the 
other directors served throughout the year. Notwithstanding the 
retirement by rotation provisions in the Articles, each of the directors 
will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements. None of the directors was 
materially interested in any contract of significance with the 
Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 
2013. Information relating to the directors’ service agreements and 
their remuneration for the year and details of the directors’ share 
options under the Company’s share option schemes and awards 
under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share 
Bonus Scheme are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 47 to 67.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions 
given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the 
Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all powers 
of the Company. The Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, 
appoint any person or persons to be the agent or agents of the 
Company for such purposes and on such conditions as the 
Board determines.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the 
Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company 
Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of 
subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the 
Articles in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, 
the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a 
director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 69 AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES
Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution of 
the Company’s shareholders.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider 
community and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that 
respects the environment and social and community issues. Further 
information relating to the Company’s approach to these matters is 
set out in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 33 to 37.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet 
the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which 
they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal 
opportunity. The Group has standards of business conduct with 
which it expects all its employees to comply. Bunzl encourages 
involvement of its employees in the performance of the business 
in which they are employed and aims to achieve a sense of shared 
commitment. In addition to a regular magazine and the Company’s 
intranet, which provide a variety of information on activities and 
developments within the Group and incorporate half year and annual 
financial reports, announcements are periodically circulated to give 
details of corporate and staff matters together with a number of 
subsidiary or business area publications dealing with activities in 
specific parts of the Group.
It is the Group’s policy that disabled applicants should be considered 
for employment and career development on the basis of their 
aptitudes and abilities. Employees who become disabled during their 
working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and 
given help with rehabilitation and training.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS
The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, has 
a number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different 
counterparties, all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in 
substantially the same form and are prepayable at the option of the 
lender in the event of a change of control of the Company. Similar 
change of control provisions in relation to the Company are included 
in the US dollar and sterling bonds which have been entered into by 
Bunzl Finance plc and the Company and are also guaranteed by 
the Company.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
During 2013 no contributions were made for political purposes.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
• the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken 
as a director in order to make the director aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is 
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the 
Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by 
the directors.
STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Pages 1 to 37 inclusive consist of the strategic report and pages 38 to 
70 inclusive consist of the directors’ report. These reports have been 
drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, 
applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in 
connection with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by such law.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability 
of directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the 
strategic report and the directors’ report. Under English law, the 
directors would be liable to the Company, but not to any third party, if 
the strategic report or the directors’ report contain errors as a result 
of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment 
of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
The strategic report and the directors’ report were approved by 
the Board on 24 February 2014.
On behalf of the Board
P a u l 	 Hus se y
Secretary
24 February 2014
70 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Financial  
Statements
72 Consolidated income statement
73 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
74 Consolidated balance sheet
75 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
76 Consolidated cash flow statement
77 Notes
108 Company balance sheet
109 Notes to the Company financial statements
116 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
117 Independent auditor’s report
119 Five year review
120 Shareholder information
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 71 72 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
Notes
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Revenue 3 6,097.7 5,359.2
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs 3 414.4 352.4
Intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs 3 (82.3) (58.6)
Operating profit 3 332.1 293.8
Finance income 5 2.6 3.6
Finance cost 5 (44.8) (37.6)
Disposal of business – 4.0
Profit before income tax 289.9 263.8
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and disposal of business 372.2 318.4
Income tax 6 (83.1) (72.5)
Profit for the year attributable to the Company’s equity holders 206.8 191.3
Earnings per share attributable to the Company’s equity holders
Basic 7 63.5p 58.7p
Diluted 7 62.7p 58.3p
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1).
The Accounting policies and Notes on pages 77 to 107 form part of these consolidated financial statements. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 73
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Notes
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Profit for the year 206.8 191.3
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension schemes 20 26.9 (8.0)
Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 6 (10.1) 2.9
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 16.8 (5.1)
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss:
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (68.6) (47.5)
Gain taken to equity as a result of designated effective net investment hedges 14.4 18.5
Loss recognised in cash flow hedge reserve – (0.4)
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve to income statement 0.8 (1.0)
Tax on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 6 1.3 (0.7)
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (52.1) (31.1)
Other comprehensive expense for the year (35.3) (36.2)
Total comprehensive income attributable to the Company’s equity holders 171.5 155.1
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1). 74 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
AT 31 DECEMBER 2013
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Notes
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 118.8 111.1
Intangible assets 9 1,456.9 1,340.6
Derivative financial assets 6.2 8.2
Deferred tax assets 15 7.5 7.9
Total non-current assets 1,589.4 1,467.8
Inventories 10 645.1 581.5
Income tax receivable 0.7 0.3
Trade and other receivables 11 863.0 818.7
Derivative financial assets 0.2 2.2
Cash and deposits 23 73.1 81.2
Total current assets 1,582.1 1,483.9
Total assets 3,171.5 2,951.7
Equity
Share capital 16 107.2 114.2
Share premium 153.0 143.9
Translation reserve (45.4) 7.3
Other reserves 17.8 9.7
Retained earnings 707.3 610.4
Total equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders 939.9 885.5
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 855.8 599.2
Retirement benefit obligations 20 45.0 75.5
Other payables 24.8 28.7
Derivative financial liabilities 0.5 1.2
Provisions 14 23.8 21.3
Deferred tax liabilities 15 129.5 124.6
Total non-current liabilities 1,079.4 850.5
Bank overdrafts 23 26.3 25.4
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 46.5 204.9
Income tax payable 62.2 53.9
Trade and other payables 12 1,004.4 909.3
Derivative financial liabilities 0.8 0.9
Provisions 14 12.0 21.3
Total current liabilities 1,152.2 1,215.7
Total liabilities 2,231.6 2,066.2
Total equity and liabilities 3,171.5 2,951.7
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24).
Approved by the Board of Directors of Bunzl plc (Company registration number 358948) on 24 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by  
Michael Roney, Chief Executive and Brian May, Finance Director. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 75
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
Other reserves Retained earnings
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
£m
Cash flow 
hedge 
£m
Own 
shares 
£m
Earnings 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
At 1 January 2013 114.2 143.9 7.3 2.5 8.6 (1.4) (223.4) 833.8 885.5 
Profit for the year 206.8 206.8
Actuarial gain on pension schemes 26.9 26.9
Foreign currency translation differences for 
foreign operations (68.6) (68.6)
Gain taken to equity as a result of designated 
effective net investment hedges 14.4 14.4
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve  
to income statement 0.8 0.8
Income tax credit/(charge) on other 
comprehensive income 1.5 (0.2) (10.1) (8.8)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (52.7) 0.6 223.6 171.5
2012 interim dividend (28.8) (28.8)
2012 final dividend (63.0) (63.0)
Issue of share capital 0.5 9.1 9.6
Cancellation of treasury shares (7.5) 7.5 163.1 (163.1) –
Employee trust shares (50.1) (50.1)
Movement on own share reserves 10.4 (10.4) –
Share based payments 15.2 15.2 
At 31 December 2013 107.2 153.0 (45.4) 2.5 16.1 (0.8) (100.0) 807.3 939.9 
Other reserves Retained earnings*
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
£m
Cash flow 
hedge 
£m
Own 
shares 
£m
Earnings 
£m
Total 
equity* 
£m
At 1 January 2012 113.8 136.4 37.3 2.5 8.6 (0.3) (213.8) 722.2 806.7
Profit for the year 191.3 191.3
Actuarial loss on pension schemes (8.0) (8.0)
Foreign currency translation differences for 
foreign operations (47.5) (47.5)
Gain taken to equity as a result of designated 
effective net investment hedges 18.5 18.5
Loss recognised in cash flow hedge reserve (0.4) (0.4)
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve  
to income statement (1.0) (1.0)
Income tax (charge)/credit on other 
comprehensive income (1.0) 0.3 2.9 2.2 
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (30.0) (1.1) 186.2 155.1
2011 interim dividend (26.1) (26.1)
2011 final dividend (59.6) (59.6)
Issue of share capital 0.4 7.5 7.9
Employee trust shares (9.6) (9.6)
Share based payments 11.1 11.1 
At 31 December 2012 114.2 143.9 7.3 2.5 8.6 (1.4) (223.4) 833.8 885.5 
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1). 76 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
Notes
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before income tax 289.9 263.8
Adjustments:
 depreciation 25.9 23.0
 intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs 82.3 58.6
 share based payments 6.2 5.7
 disposal of business – (4.0)
Working capital movement 16.8 (22.4)
Finance income (2.6) (3.6)
Finance cost 44.8 37.6
Provisions (7.8) (6.4)
Retirement benefit obligations (7.3) (7.8)
Other (1.8) 4.6
Cash generated from operations before acquisition related costs 446.4 349.1
Cash outflow from acquisition related costs 24 (26.1) (20.2)
Income tax paid (80.3) (63.6)
Cash inflow from operating activities 340.0 265.3
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest received 1.5 2.2
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (26.5) (23.0)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 1.2 2.8
Purchase of businesses 24 (253.8) (234.5)
Cash outflow from investing activities (277.6) (252.5)
Cash flow from financing activities
Interest paid (40.5) (32.8)
Dividends paid (91.8) (85.7)
Increase in loans 116.3 123.8
Realised losses on foreign exchange contracts (9.7) (0.9)
Issue of ordinary shares to settle share options 9.6 7.9
Net purchase of employee trust shares (52.9) (11.6)
Cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (69.0) 0.7
Exchange loss on cash and cash equivalents (2.4) (2.7)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (9.0) 10.8
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 55.8 45.0
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (9.0) 10.8
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 23 46.8 55.8
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1). BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 77
NOTES
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 have been approved by the directors and prepared in 
accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and interpretations of the International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis (as 
referred to in the Financial review on page 29) and under the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items which are 
measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below. The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’).
The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments to standards, including any consequential amendments to other 
standards, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2013.
International Accounting Standard (‘IAS’) 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’
IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’
Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ – Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
Annual Improvements to IFRS 2009–2011 cycle
With the exception of the revisions to IAS 19, these have not had a material impact on the Group’s overall results and financial position.
Some of the prior year numbers have been restated following the adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’, which is effective for 
the 2013 financial year, as a result of which the expected return on assets and the interest charge on pension scheme liabilities have been 
replaced with a net finance cost based on the relevant discount rate. For the year ended 31 December 2012 the impact has been to increase 
the net finance cost by £5.5m, to reduce profit before income tax by £5.5m and reduce profit after tax by £4.0m. The actuarial loss has been 
reduced by £5.5m and the income tax credit on other comprehensive income has been reduced by £1.5m. Basic earnings per share in 2012 
decreased by 1.2p to 58.7p as a result.
For the acquisitions made in 2012, the fair value reallocation period remained open during 2013. In accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations’ the Group has adjusted in 2013 the fair values attributable to some of these acquisitions. The balance sheet at 31 December 
2012 has been revised accordingly (see Note 24 for further details). 
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied to all periods presented in the consolidated 
financial statements.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
a Basis of consolidation 
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its 
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date. The consideration paid or 
payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion, deferred consideration and payments which are contingent on the 
continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired. The excess of the consideration (excluding payments contingent on future 
employment) over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Payments that are contingent on future 
employment and transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement.
(ii) Associates
Associates are entities over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence. Associates are accounted for using the equity 
method and are recognised initially at cost. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the income and expenses 
of associates.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in 
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, unless they qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge 
accounting treatment, in which case the effective portion is recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expenses 
of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates. All resulting exchange differences, including exchange differences arising 
from the translation of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised directly in a 
separate component of equity. Differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate 
component of equity. 78 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
c Financial instruments 
Under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with 
subsequent measurement depending upon the classification of the instrument. IFRS 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Other financial 
assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost unless they are in a fair value hedging relationship. Derivative financial instruments are 
used to hedge exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
(i) Fair value hedge
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated and qualifies as a hedge of a recognised asset or liability, all changes in the fair value 
of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement. The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair 
value that is attributable to the risk being hedged with changes recognised in the income statement. 
(ii) Cash flow hedge
Where a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a hedge is used to hedge forecast transactions, any effective portion of the change 
in fair value is recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
(iii) Hedge of a net investment in foreign operations
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in foreign 
operations are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective such differences 
are recognised in the income statement.
d Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. 
e Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost less estimated residual value over the assets’ estimated remaining useful 
lives. This is applied at the following annual rates: 
Buildings 2% (or depreciated over life of lease if shorter than 50 years)
Plant and machinery 8%–33%
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 8%–33%
Freehold land Not depreciated
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method. As permitted by IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting 
Standards’, the Group has chosen to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ from 1 January 2004 and has elected not to restate previous 
business combinations. For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP. 
For acquisitions that occurred between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination in 
excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. For acquisitions that have occurred on or after 
1 January 2010, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination (excluding payments contingent on future employment and 
acquisition related costs) in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Goodwill is 
allocated to cash generating units and is tested annually for impairment. Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised immediately 
in the income statement.
(ii) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised on acquisition and recorded at fair value. These principally relate to 
customer relationships and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Amortisation is charged to the 
income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives (which range from 10 to 19 years). 
g Leases
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease. Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classified 
as finance leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that 
of the buildings due to the indefinite life of land. 
h Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed annually to determine if there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication 
exists, the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated. The recoverable amounts of assets carried at amortised cost are calculated as the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at appropriate pre-tax discount rates. The recoverable amounts of other assets are 
the greater of their fair value less the costs to sell and the value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present values using appropriate pre-tax discount rates. Impairment losses are recognised when the carrying amount 
of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, with impairment losses being recognised in the income statement.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 79
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
i Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
j Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, bank overdrafts and short term deposits with maturities of three months or less from 
the date the deposit is made. 
k Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at cost less any impairment losses. A provision for impairment is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables or uncertainty as to 
whether the Group will be able to collect all such amounts. 
l Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at cost. 
m Income tax
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except when it 
relates to items reflected in equity when it is recognised in equity.
Current tax reflects tax payable on taxable income for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and 
any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method providing for temporary differences arising between tax bases and carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary 
differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of 
assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profits and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent 
that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profit will be available against which any asset can be utilised. 
n Revenue
The Group is engaged in the delivery of goods to customers. Revenue from a sale is recognised in the income statement upon delivery  
of the relevant goods, which is the point in time at which the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are transferred.
Revenue is valued at invoiced amounts, excluding sales taxes, less estimated provisions for returns and trade discounts where relevant. 
Returns’ provisions and early settlement discounts are based on experience over an appropriate period whereas volume discounts are 
based on agreements with customers.
Revenue is not recognised if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the consideration due.
o Retirement benefit obligations
(i) Defined contribution pension schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense to the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit pension schemes
Pension liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and represent the difference between the fair value of scheme assets 
and the present value of scheme liabilities. Scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and 
discounted using the rate applicable to AA rated corporate bonds that have a similar maturity to the scheme liabilities.
Current service cost, past service cost/credit and gains and losses on any settlements and curtailments are credited or charged to the 
income statement. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent benefits are already vested. Net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability is included within finance cost and comprises interest income on scheme assets and interest cost on the defined benefit 
obligation. The net interest is calculated using the same discount rate that is used in calculating the defined benefit obligation, applied  
to the net defined liability at the start of the period. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income. 
p Investment in own shares
The cost of shares held either directly (treasury shares) or indirectly (employee benefit trust shares) is deducted from equity. Repurchased 
shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are sold or reissued 
subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised 
in retained earnings.
At each reporting date the Group remeasures the value of the shares held in the employee benefit trust to present them in the own shares 
reserve at the market value of those shares at reporting date. This is done through a reclassification from retained earnings to the own 
shares reserve. This movement has no effect on the actual numbers of shares held by the employee benefit trust. 80 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
q Share based payments
The Group operates equity settled share based compensation plans. Details of these plans are outlined in Note 16 and the Directors’ 
remuneration report. The total expected expense is based on the fair value of options and other share based incentives on the grant 
date calculated using a valuation model and is spread over the expected vesting period with a corresponding credit to equity. 
r Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event  
and where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions  
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than  
the unavoidable costs of meeting the Group’s obligations under the contract.
s Net debt
Net debt is defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings and the fair value of interest rate swaps on fixed interest rate borrowings,  
less cash and cash equivalents.
t Dividends
The interim dividend is recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity in the period in which it is paid and the final dividend 
in the period in which it is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES 
The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation 
required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The directors review the 
judgements and estimates on an ongoing basis with revisions to accounting estimates recognised in the period in which the estimates are 
revised and in any future periods affected. The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have risk of causing 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are set out below. The directors believe that the consolidated financial 
statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s performance and financial position. 
Where appropriate and practicable, sensitivities are disclosed in the relevant notes.
a Retirement benefit obligations
The cost of defined benefit pension schemes and the present value of the obligations relating thereto are determined using actuarial 
valuations appropriate for each country where defined benefit pension schemes are provided. The actuarial valuations involve making 
assumptions about discount rates, future salary increases, future pension increases and mortality rates. All assumptions are reviewed 
at each reporting date. In determining the appropriate discount rates, management considers the interest rates of corporate bonds with 
an AA rating in the relevant country. Future salary increases and future pension increases are based on expected future inflation rates 
for each country. Mortality rates are based on the relevant mortality tables for each country. Further details about the assumptions used 
are set out in Note 20. 
b Intangible assets
IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination. The methods used to value such intangible 
assets require the use of estimates including forecast performance and customer attrition rates. Future results are impacted by the 
amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions (including discount 
rates, timing and growth prospects) which are inherently subjective. Further details about the assumptions used are set out in Note 9.
c Acquisitions
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method based on the fair value of the consideration paid. Assets and liabilities are 
measured at fair value and the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities based on these fair values.
Determining the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions (including discount 
rates, asset lives and recoverability). Assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and the value of freehold properties is typically 
determined by qualified valuers on an open market basis.
d Tax
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions. Management is required to make judgements and estimates in 
determining the provisions for income taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements.  
Tax benefits are recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable income will be available in the future against which 
temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilised. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 81
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
The Group is currently assessing the potential impact of other new and revised standards and interpretations issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board that will be effective from 1 January 2014 and beyond. Based on the analysis to date, the Group does not 
anticipate that these will have a material impact on the Group’s overall results and financial position.
3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS
Year ended 31 December 2013
North 
America 
£m
Continental 
Europe 
£m
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
Rest of the 
World 
£m
Corporate 
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 3,401.7 1,151.5 1,018.5 526.0 6,097.7 
Operating profit/(loss) before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs 213.6 97.0 71.6 51.2 (19.0) 414.4
Intangible amortisation (12.6) (29.1) (7.1) (9.5) – (58.3)
Acquisition related costs (6.8) (3.5) (1.6) (12.1) – (24.0) 
Operating profit/(loss) 194.2 64.4 62.9 29.6 (19.0) 332.1
Finance income 2.6
Finance cost (44.8)
Profit before income tax 289.9
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation 
and acquisition related costs 372.2
Income tax (83.1) 
Profit for the year 206.8 
Capital expenditure 11.2 8.7 4.3 2.3 – 26.5 
Depreciation 7.8 11.1 4.0 2.8 0.2 25.9 
Year ended 31 December 2012
North 
America 
£m
Continental 
Europe 
£m
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
Rest of the 
World 
£m
Corporate 
£m
Total*
£m
Revenue 2,905.8 1,079.4 992.1 381.9 5,359.2
Operating profit/(loss) before intangible amortisation 
and acquisition related costs 184.6 87.5 65.2 33.2 (18.1) 352.4
Intangible amortisation (8.1) (27.7) (6.5) (5.4) – (47.7)
Acquisition related costs (4.4) (3.5) (0.4) (2.6) – (10.9) 
Operating profit/(loss) 172.1 56.3 58.3 25.2 (18.1) 293.8
Finance income 3.6
Finance cost (37.6)
Disposal of business 4.0 
Profit before income tax 263.8
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation, 
acquisition related costs and disposal of business 318.4
Income tax (72.5) 
Profit for the year 191.3 
Capital expenditure 6.9 9.1 2.9 4.0 0.1 23.0 
Depreciation 6.5 10.9 3.6 1.8 0.2 23.0 
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1).
Acquisition related costs for the year ended 31 December 2013 include transaction costs and expenses of £8.4m (2012: £6.9m), deferred 
consideration payments of £22.0m (2012: £8.4m) relating to the continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired and a 
credit of £6.4m (2012: £4.4m credit) from adjustments to previously estimated earn outs.
The Group is managed through four business areas based on geographic regions which represent the reporting segments under IFRS 8 
‘Operating Segments’. The revenue presented relates to external customers. Sales between the business areas are not material. Each of  
the business areas supplies a range of products to customers operating primarily in the foodservice, grocery, cleaning & hygiene, non-food 
retail, safety and healthcare market sectors. The performance of the four business areas is assessed by reference to operating profit before 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs and this measure also represents the segment results for the purposes of reporting in 
accordance with IFRS 8. Debt and associated interest is managed at a Group level and therefore has not been allocated across the business 
areas. In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 8, the Company’s chief operating decision maker is the Board of Directors. 82 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS CONTINUED
Within each of the four business areas, there are a number of further segments based on geography and market sector. These segments 
have been aggregated into the four business areas as shown above due to the similarity between them in terms of economic characteristics 
and also in respect of the nature of the products and services, types of customer and the methods used to distribute these products 
and services.
There are no customers who account for more than 10% of Group revenue. Customer dependencies are regularly monitored.
Revenue by market sector
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Foodservice 1,766.9 1,571.2
Grocery 1,648.3 1,574.0
Cleaning & hygiene 733.9 724.3
Non-food retail 696.9 447.6
Safety 624.7 455.7
Healthcare 418.6 378.3
Other 208.4 208.1
6,097.7 5,359.2
The Other category covers a wide range of market sectors, none of which is sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure.
At 31 December 2013
North 
America 
£m
Continental 
Europe 
£m
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
Rest of 
the World 
£m
Unallocated 
£m
Total 
£m
Segment assets 1,078.6 920.6 624.4 443.9 3,067.5
Unallocated assets 104.0 104.0
Total assets 1078.6 920.6 624.4 443.9 104.0 3,171.5
Segment liabilities 407.8 246.9 270.2 87.9 1,012.8
Unallocated liabilities 1,218.8 1,218.8 
Total liabilities 407.8 246.9 270.2 87.9 1,218.8 2,231.6 
At 31 December 2012
North* 
America 
£m
Continental* 
Europe 
£m
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
Rest of* 
the World 
£m
Unallocated* 
£m
Total* 
£m
Segment assets 1,006.4  921.9  597.7  317.7  2,843.7 
Unallocated assets 108.0 108.0 
Total assets 1,006.4  921.9  597.7  317.7 108.0 2,951.7 
Segment liabilities 364.9  240.1  256.3  88.0  949.3 
Unallocated liabilities 1,116.9 1,116.9
Total liabilities 364.9  240.1  256.3  88.0 1,116.9 2,066.2
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24).
Unallocated assets and liabilities include Corporate assets and liabilities, tax assets and liabilities, cash and deposits, borrowings, 
derivative assets and liabilities and pension scheme assets and liabilities. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 83
4 ANALYSIS OF OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES 
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Purchase of goods and changes in inventories 4,638.3 4,118.2
Employee costs (see Note 21) 570.2 494.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 25.9 23.0
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 58.3 47.7
Acquisition related costs 24.0 10.9
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.2) (0.2)
Rentals payable under operating leases and subleases 90.2 83.8
Lease and sublease income (0.8) (1.5)
Other operating expenses 359.7 288.8
Net operating expenses 5,765.6 5,065.4
2013 2012
Auditor’s remuneration
UK 
£m
Overseas 
£m
Total 
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas 
£m
Total 
£m
Audit of these financial statements 0.3 –  0.3 0.3 –  0.3 
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditor and 
its associates in respect of:
 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of 
the Company 0.4 1.6  2.0  0.3  1.3  1.6 
 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 –  0.1  0.1 –  0.1 
 Taxation compliance services –  0.1  0.1 –  0.1  0.1 
 Other tax advisory services –  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.3 
 All other services 0.1  0.4  0.5 –  0.8  0.8 
Total auditor’s remuneration 0.9  2.2  3.1  0.8  2.4  3.2 
Management believes that given the external auditor’s detailed knowledge of the Group’s operations, its structure and accounting policies 
and the importance of carrying out tax services and detailed pre-acquisition due diligence, it is often appropriate for this additional work  
to be undertaken by the external auditor rather than another firm of accountants. However other firms are also used by the Company to 
provide non-audit services and it is the Company’s policy to assess the services required on a case by case basis to ensure that the best 
placed adviser is retained.
The Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent non-executive directors, reviews and approves the level and type of non-audit 
work which the external auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work, to ensure that the auditor’s objectivity and independence 
are not compromised. Further information is set out in the Audit Committee’s report on pages 44 to 46.
5 FINANCE INCOME/(COST)
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Interest on deposits 0.8 0.8
Interest income from foreign exchange contracts 1.4 1.8
Other finance income 0.4 1.0
Finance income 2.6 3.6
Interest on loans and overdrafts (39.9) (33.2)
Interest expense from foreign exchange contracts (1.5) (1.0)
Interest charge on retirement benefit obligations (2.8) (3.3)
Fair value gain on US dollar bonds in a hedge relationship 2.0 5.7
Fair value loss on interest rate swaps in a hedge relationship (2.0) (5.7)
Foreign exchange gain/(loss) on intercompany funding 10.9 (8.7)
Foreign exchange (loss)/gain on external debt not in a hedge relationship (11.0) 8.9
Other finance expense (0.5) (0.3)
Finance cost (44.8) (37.6)
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1).
The foreign exchange gain/(loss) on intercompany funding arises as a result of foreign currency intercompany loans and deposits. This is 
substantially matched by external debt to minimise this foreign currency exposure in the income statement. 84 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
6 INCOME TAX 
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Current tax on profit
 current year 102.1 84.9
 prior years (10.2) (8.6)
 double tax relief – (0.1)
91.9 76.2
Deferred tax on profit
 current year (6.7) (2.3)
 prior years (2.1) (1.4)
(8.8) (3.7)
Income tax on profit 83.1 72.5
In assessing the underlying performance of the Group, management uses adjusted profit which excludes intangible amortisation,  
acquisition related costs and the profit on disposal of business. Similarly the tax effect of these items is excluded in monitoring  
the tax rate on the adjusted profit of the Group which is shown in the table below:
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Income tax on profit 83.1 72.5
Tax associated with intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and disposal of business 20.7 15.7
Tax on adjusted profit 103.8 88.2
Profit before income tax 289.9 263.8
Intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and disposal of business 82.3 54.6
Adjusted profit before income tax 372.2 318.4
Reported tax rate 28.7% 27.5%
Tax rate on adjusted profit 27.9% 27.7%
Tax on other comprehensive income and equity
Gross 
2013 
£m
Tax credit/
 (charge) 
2013
£m
Net 
2013 
£m
Gross 
2012* 
£m
Tax credit/
 (charge) 
2012*
£m
Net 
2012* 
£m
Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension schemes 26.9 (10.1) 16.8 (8.0) 2.9 (5.1)
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign 
operations (68.6) – (68.6) (47.5) – (47.5)
Gain taken to equity as a result of designated effective net 
investment hedges 14.4 1.5 15.9 18.5 (1.0) 17.5
Loss recognised in cash flow hedge reserve – – – (0.4) 0.1 (0.3)
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve to income 
statement 0.8 (0.2) 0.6 (1.0) 0.2 (0.8)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income (26.5) (8.8) (35.3) (38.4) 2.2 (36.2)
Dividends (91.8) – (91.8) (85.7) – (85.7)
Issue of share capital 9.6 – 9.6 7.9 – 7.9
Employee trust shares (50.1) – (50.1) (9.6) – (9.6)
Share based payments 6.2 9.0 15.2 5.7 5.4 11.1
Other comprehensive (expense)/income and equity (152.6) 0.2 (152.4) (120.1) 7.6 (112.5)
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1). BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 85
6 INCOME TAX CONTINUED
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The Group operates in many countries and is subject to income tax in many different jurisdictions. The expected tax rate is calculated as a 
weighted average of the tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The adjustments to the tax charge at the weighted 
average rate to determine the income tax on profit are as follows:
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Profit before income tax 289.9 263.8
Tax charge at weighted average rate (2013: 31.4%; 2012: 31.7%) 91.0 83.7
Effects of:
 gain on disposal not taxable – (1.0)
 adjustment in respect of prior years (12.3) (10.0) 
 non-taxable and non-deductible items 1.6 (1.3)
 other 2.8 1.1
Income tax on profit 83.1 72.5
Deferred tax in the income statement
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Accelerated capital allowances 1.0 0.6
Retirement benefit obligations (0.5) 0.8
Intangible assets (12.4) (11.2)
Share based payments (1.5) (0.1)
Provisions 1.5 (0.7)
Other 3.1 8.4
Deferred tax on profit (8.8) (2.2)
UK tax rate change
Following the enactment of legislation in the UK to reduce the corporation tax rate to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015,  
the UK deferred tax balances were reduced from 23% to 20%. The impact on the tax expense for the year was negligible.
7 EARNINGS PER SHARE 
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Profit for the year 206.8 191.3
Adjustment 61.6 38.9
Adjusted profit
†
268.4 230.2
Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue (million) 325.8 326.1
Dilutive effect of employee share plans (million) 4.0 1.9
Diluted weighted average ordinary shares (million) 329.8 328.0
Basic earnings per share 63.5p 58.7p
Adjustment 18.9p 11.9p
Adjusted earnings per share
†
82.4p 70.6p
Diluted basic earnings per share 62.7p 58.3p
Adjustment 18.7p 11.9p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
†
81.4p 70.2p
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1).
†
  Adjusted profit, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude the charge for intangible amortisation, 
acquisition related costs, the profit on disposal of business and the respective associated tax. The intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs, profit on disposal of business and the associated tax are items which are not taken into account by management when 
assessing the underlying performance of the business. Accordingly, such items are removed in calculating the adjusted earnings per  
share on which management assesses the performance of the Group.  86 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
2013
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
Beginning of year 75.2 98.9 109.4 283.5
Acquisitions 3.0 4.4 2.2 9.6
Additions 1.9 14.5 10.1 26.5
Disposals (1.7) (2.9) (3.5) (8.1)
Currency translation (0.1) (3.6) (1.7) (5.4) 
End of year 78.3 111.3 116.5 306.1 
Depreciation
Beginning of year 25.2 64.5 82.7 172.4
Charge in year 3.3 10.9 11.7 25.9
Disposals (1.2) (2.7) (3.2) (7.1)
Currency translation (0.6) (2.1) (1.2) (3.9) 
End of year 26.7 70.6 90.0 187.3 
Net book value at 31 December 2013 51.6 40.7 26.5 118.8 
2012
Land and 
buildings* 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total* 
£m
Cost 
Beginning of year 74.5 95.3 103.3 273.1
Acquisitions 3.2 4.0 0.6 7.8
Additions 2.0 8.9 12.1 23.0
Disposals (3.6) (5.5) (5.0) (14.1)
Currency translation (0.9) (3.8) (1.6) (6.3)
End of year 75.2 98.9 109.4 283.5
Depreciation
Beginning of year 24.1 63.5 76.5 164.1
Charge in year 2.7 8.2 12.1 23.0
Disposals (1.8) (5.1) (4.6) (11.5)
Currency translation 0.2 (2.1) (1.3) (3.2)
End of year 25.2 64.5 82.7 172.4
Net book value at 31 December 2012 50.0 34.4 26.7 111.1
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24).
The net book value of property, plant and equipment includes assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts totalling £8.7m 
(2012: £9.2m). Accumulated depreciation of these assets was £5.8m (2012: £4.8m). Future capital expenditure at 31 December 2013 
consisted of commitments not provided for of £0.6m (2012: £0.7m). BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 87
9 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
2013
£m
2012*
£m
Beginning of year 823.2 784.6
Acquisitions 97.4 64.5
Currency translation (19.6) (25.9)
End of year 901.0 823.2
Customer relationships
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 793.1 707.9
Acquisitions 111.1 111.5
Currency translation (17.0) (26.3)
End of year 887.2 793.1
Amortisation
Beginning of year 275.7 235.7
Charge in year 58.3 47.7
Currency translation (2.7) (7.7)
End of year 331.3 275.7
Net book value at 31 December 555.9 517.4
Total net book value of intangible assets at 31 December 1,456.9 1,340.6
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24).
Both goodwill and customer relationships have been acquired as part of business combinations. Customer relationships are amortised over 
their estimated useful lives which range from 10 to 19 years.
Impairment tests
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across cash generating units (‘CGUs’). 
A description of the Group’s principal activities is set out in the Chief Executive’s review. There is no significant difference in the nature of 
activities across different geographies. The identification of CGUs reflects the way in which the business is managed on a geographical 
basis. Given the similar nature of the activities of each CGU, a consistent methodology is applied across the Group in assessing CGU 
recoverable amounts. The recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less the costs to sell. The value in use is the 
present value of the cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU over a projection period together with a terminal value. The projection 
period is the time period over which future cash flows are predicted. The Group’s methodology is to use a projection period of five years 
being the maximum period over which detailed future cash flows for each CGU are prepared. For periods after this five year period, the 
methodology applies a long term growth rate to derive a terminal value. Cash flow expectations exclude any future cash flows that may arise 
from restructuring or other enhancements to the cash generating activities of the CGU and reflect management’s expectations of the range 
of economic conditions that may exist over the projection period. 
The value in use calculations are principally sensitive to revenue growth, including any significant changes to the customer base, 
achievability of future margins and the discount rate used in the present value calculation. The information used for valuation purposes 
takes into consideration past experience and the current economic environment with regard to customer attrition rates and additions to 
the customer base, the ability to introduce price increases and new products and experience in controlling the underlying cost base. This 
provides a long term growth rate which is consistent with the geographic segments in which the Group operates and management’s 
assessment of future operating performance and market share movements. The growth rate has been calculated based principally 
on current inflation rates of the relevant economies.
At 31 December 2013 North America, France Hygiene and UK Hospitality carried a significant amount of goodwill in comparison with the 
total value of the Group’s goodwill. At 31 December 2013 the carrying value of goodwill in respect of North America was £233.5m (2012: 
£224.8m as reported; £217.6m revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012, see Note 24). France Hygiene 
was £82.2m (2012: £80.2m) and UK Hospitality was £62.5m (2012: £62.5m). At 31 December 2013 the aggregate amount of goodwill 
attributable to the Group’s CGUs, excluding North America, France Hygiene and UK Hospitality, was £531.9m (2012: £462.9m). The remaining 
goodwill relates to CGUs which are not individually significant.
For North America, France Hygiene and UK Hospitality the weighted average growth rate used in 2013 was 2.5% (2012: 2.5%). A discount 
rate of 9% (2012: 8%) has been applied to the value in use calculations representing a pre-tax rate reflecting market assessments of the 
time value of money at the balance sheet date. Similar assumptions have been applied to the other CGUs but where appropriate the directors 
have considered alternative market risk assumptions to reflect the specific conditions arising in individual countries (with discount rates 
ranging from 9%–18%).  88 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
9 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Impairment testing is dependent on management’s estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future cash 
flows, the discount rates selected and expected long term growth rates. A key assumption on which value in use calculations are dependent 
relates to revenue growth including the impact of changes to the underlying customer base. This assumption is sensitive to customer 
attrition and the rate at which new customer relationships are introduced and established. 
Based on past experience and taking into account current market conditions, management has concluded that it is reasonable to assume 
that there will be no material deterioration in the customer base over the projection period which will significantly impact future cash flows 
and that no reasonably possible change in key assumptions would result in impairment in any of the Group’s CGUs. Should such a change 
occur, this would represent a triggering event to indicate that an impairment review may be necessary. In accordance with IAS 36 
‘Impairment of Assets’, a full impairment review would then be undertaken on the relevant assets within the CGU. Any such changes 
are monitored through normal monthly procedures.
10 INVENTORIES
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Goods for resale 645.1 581.5
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24).
£2.9m was written off inventories during the year (2012: £5.3m) due to obsolescence or damage. The inventories provision at 31 December 
2013 was £58.3m (2012: £55.6m). 
11 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Trade receivables 695.2 666.6
Prepayments and other receivables 167.8 152.1
863.0 818.7
The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December was:
Gross 
2013 
£m
 Provision 
2013 
£m
Gross 
2012 
£m
 Provision 
2012* 
£m
Current 542.9 0.4 517.5 2.9
0–30 days overdue 126.0 0.4 129.9 0.2
31–90 days overdue 28.4 1.3 24.4 2.1
Over 90 days overdue 13.8 13.8 9.7 9.7
711.1 15.9 681.5 14.9
The movement in the provision for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
 2013 
£m
 2012* 
£m
Beginning of year 14.9 13.8
Acquisitions 2.0 1.1
Charge 1.9 2.4
Utilised and unused (2.6) (1.9)
Currency translation (0.3) (0.5)
End of year 15.9 14.9
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24). BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 89
12 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES – CURRENT
 2013 
£m
 2012* 
£m
Trade payables 682.9 648.1
Other tax and social security contributions 23.8 22.2
Other payables 140.1 104.0
Accruals and deferred income 157.6 135.0
1,004.4 909.3
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24).
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Capital management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Group monitors the return on average operating capital employed and the return on invested capital as 
well as the level of total shareholders’ equity and the amount of dividends paid to ordinary shareholders. For the year ended 31 December 
2013, the return on average operating capital employed was 56.9% (2012: 56.5%, revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on 
acquisitions made in 2012, see Note 24), the return on invested capital was 17.9% (2012: 17.9%), the level of total shareholders’ equity 
at 31 December 2013 was £939.9m (2012: £885.5m) and the amount of dividends paid in the year ended 31 December 2013 was £91.8m 
(2012: £85.7m).
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of shareholders’ equity and bank and capital market borrowings. All of the borrowings  
are managed by a central treasury function and funds raised are lent onward to operating subsidiaries as required. The overall objective is 
to manage the funding to ensure the Group has a portfolio of competitively priced borrowing facilities to meet the demands of the business 
over time and, in order to do so, the Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources with a variety of maturity dates.
The Group’s businesses provide a high and consistent level of cash generation which helps fund future development and growth. The 
Group seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings 
and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital management during the year and the Group is not subject to any externally 
imposed capital requirements.
Treasury policies and controls
The Group has a centralised treasury department to control external borrowings and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency 
risks. Treasury policies have been approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of financial 
instruments that may be employed and the criteria for investing and borrowing cash. The Group uses derivatives to manage its foreign 
currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying business activities. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.  
The treasury department is subject to periodic independent review by the internal audit department. Underlying policy assumptions and 
activities are periodically reviewed by the executive directors and the Board. Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity 
are in place.
Hedge accounting
The Group designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes as either (a) a hedge of the fair value of a recognised 
asset or liability; (b) a hedge of the cash flow risk resulting from changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates; or (c) a hedge of a net 
investment in a foreign operation. The accounting treatment for hedges is set out in the financial instruments accounting policy in Note 2.
The Group tests the effectiveness of hedges on a prospective and retrospective basis to ensure compliance with IAS 39. Methods for testing 
effectiveness include dollar offset, critical terms and hypothetical derivatives.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group continually monitors net 
debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s requirements in the short, medium and long 
term and, in order to do so, arranges borrowings from a variety of sources. Additionally, compliance with debt covenants is monitored. 
During 2013 all covenants have been complied with.
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it comprising multi-currency credit facilities from the Group’s banks and US 
dollar and sterling bonds. An issue of fixed interest US dollar bonds of US$240.0m, which was agreed in 2012, was drawn down by the Group  
in April 2013. At 31 December 2013 the total bonds outstanding were £607.1m (2012: £618.9m) with maturities ranging from 2014 to 2024. 
During the year the Group also refinanced or agreed new banking facilities totalling £264.2m. The Group’s committed bank facilities mature 
between 2014 and 2018. At 31 December 2013 the available committed bank facilities totalled £886.7m (2012: £758.5m) of which £273.1m 
(2012: £169.2m) was drawn down.  90 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
The undrawn committed bank facilities available at 31 December were as follows:
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Expiring within one year 40.0 50.1
Expiring after one year but within two years 245.8 80.0
Expiring after two years 327.8 459.2
613.6 589.3
In addition the Group maintains overdraft and uncommitted facilities to provide short term flexibility. At 31 December 2013 loans totalling 
£0.8m were secured by fixed charges on property (2012: £0.8m).
The contractual maturity profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 December is set out in the tables below. The amounts 
disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and therefore include interest cash flows (forecast using LIBOR interest rates at 
31 December in the case of floating rate financial assets and liabilities). Derivative assets and liabilities have been included within the tables 
since they predominantly relate to derivatives which are used to manage the interest cash flows on the Group’s debt. Bank loans have been 
drawn under committed facilities and can be refinanced on maturity from these same facilities. Accordingly they have been aged based on 
the maturity dates of the underlying facilities. 
The tables below also compare the fair value and carrying amounts for financial assets and liabilities:
Contractual cash inflows/(outflows)
2013
Fair value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Total 
contractual 
cash flows 
£m
Within one 
year 
£m
After
 one year 
but within
 two years 
£m
After
 two years 
but within 
five years 
£m
After 
more than 
five years 
£m
Financial assets:
Cash and deposits 73.1 73.1 73.1 73.1 – – –
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables 695.2 695.2 695.2 695.2 – – –
Derivative financial instruments
Interest rate swaps 6.0 6.0 6.4 2.1 2.1 2.2 –
Foreign exchange contracts for net 
investment hedging 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 – – –
774.5 774.5 774.9 770.6 2.1 2.2 –
Financial liabilities: 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Bank loans (285.5) (285.4) (294.6) (14.8) (4.1) (275.7) –
US dollar and sterling bonds (635.7) (607.1) (761.3) (58.2) (61.2) (258.8) (383.1)
Bank overdrafts (26.3) (26.3) (26.3) (26.3) – – –
Other interest bearing loans 
and borrowings (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2) – –
Finance lease creditors (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) (0.4) (0.2) (0.5) –
Trade payables (682.9) (682.9) (682.9) (682.9) – – –
Other current payables (151.1) (151.1) (151.1) (151.1) – – –
Non-current payables (22.7) (22.7) (22.7) – (22.7) – –
Financial liabilities at fair value
US dollar bonds – – – – – – –
Derivative financial instruments
Cross currency interest rate swaps (9.2) (9.2) (9.5) (5.3) (4.2) – –
Foreign exchange contracts for  
cash flow hedging (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) – – –
(1,815.4) (1,786.7) (1,950.4) (939.7) (92.6) (535.0) (383.1) BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 91
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Contractual cash inflows/(outflows)
2012
Fair value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Total 
contractual 
cash flows 
£m
Within one 
year 
£m
After
 one year 
but within
 two years 
£m
After
 two years 
but within 
five years 
£m
After 
more than 
five years 
£m
Financial assets:
Cash and deposits 81.2 81.2 81.2 81.2 – – –
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables* 666.6 666.6 666.6 666.6 – – –
Derivative financial instruments
Interest rate swaps 10.2 10.2 11.8 5.2 2.2 4.1 0.3
758.0 758.0 759.6 753.0 2.2 4.1 0.3
Financial liabilities: 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Bank loans (175.7) (175.7) (180.4) (56.7) (1.6) (122.1) –
US dollar and sterling bonds (528.9) (472.2) (659.4) 117.6 (62.8) (278.3) (435.9)
Bank overdrafts (25.4) (25.4) (25.4) (25.4) – – –
Other interest bearing loans and 
borrowings (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) – – (0.3) –
Finance lease creditors (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) (0.3) (0.1) (0.2) –
Trade payables (648.1) (648.1) (648.1) (648.1) – – –
Other current payables* (113.5) (113.5) (113.5) (113.5) – – –
Non-current payables (26.4) (26.4) (26.4) – (26.4) – –
Financial liabilities at fair value
US dollar bonds (146.4) (146.7) (148.6) (148.6) – – –
Derivative financial instruments
Cross currency interest rate swaps (7.3) (7.3) (7.3) (0.6) (3.7) (3.0) –
Foreign exchange contracts for cash flow 
hedging (0.8) (0.8) (0.8) (0.8) – – –
Foreign exchange contracts for net 
investment hedging (2.7) (2.7) (2.7) (2.7) – – –
(1,676.1) (1,619.7) (1,813.5) (879.1) (94.6) (403.9) (435.9)
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24).
All financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value in the tables above have carrying amounts where the fair value component is, and has 
been throughout the year, a level two fair value measurement. Level two fair value measurements use inputs other than quoted prices that 
are observable for the relevant asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. The fair values of both financial assets and liabilities are 
calculated by discounting expected future cash flows using observable inputs and translating at the appropriate balance sheet date 
exchange rates. The Group has taken into account its own credit risk in the valuation of financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value.
Fair value gains and losses on interest rate caps impact the income statement immediately while all other financial assets and liabilities 
stated at fair value are in hedging relationships. 92 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Interest rate risk
The Group is funded by a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt. In addition, interest rate swaps and interest rate caps are used to manage 
the interest rate risk profile. At 31 December 2013 fixed rate debt of £607.1m (2012: £472.2m) related to fixed rate US dollar and sterling 
bonds stated at amortised cost with maturities ranging from 2014 to 2024.
At 31 December 2013, floating rate debt was comprised of £273.1m floating rate bank loans (2012: £174.3m). Bank loans are drawn for 
various periods of up to three months at interest rates linked to LIBOR.
The interest rate risk on the floating rate debt is managed using interest rate options. Borrowings with a notional principal of £60.0m were 
capped at 31 December 2013 (2012: £162.6m). Hedge accounting is not applied to the interest rate caps since the majority of their value is 
related to time value. The strike rates of these options are based on LIBOR repricing every three months.
After taking account of hedge relationships, a change of 1% in the interest rate forward curves on 31 December would have increased/
(decreased) profit before tax and equity for the year by the amounts shown below as a result of changes in the fair values of derivative 
assets and liabilities at that date:
Impact on profit before tax Impact on equity
+1% 
£m
–1% 
£m
+1% 
£m
–1% 
£m
2013 0.6 (0.1) 0.6 (0.1)
2012 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2
Foreign currency risk
The majority of the Group’s sales are made and income is earned in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. The Group does not 
hedge the impact of exchange rate movements arising on translation of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
Average rate Closing rate
 2013 2012 2013 2012
US dollar 1.56 1.59 1.66 1.63
Euro 1.18 1.23 1.20 1.23
For the year ended 31 December 2013, a movement of one cent in the US dollar and euro average exchange rates would have changed profit 
before tax by £1.0m and £0.3m respectively (2012: £0.8m and £0.3m) and profit before tax, intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs 
and disposal of business by £1.1m and £0.6m respectively (2012: £0.9m and £0.5m).
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the respective functional currencies of the Group’s operations and so transaction 
exposures are usually relatively limited. Where they do occur the Group’s policy is to hedge significant exposures of firm commitments for 
a period of up to one year as soon as they are committed using forward foreign exchange contracts and these are designated as cash flow 
hedges. However, the economic impact of foreign exchange on the value of uncommitted future purchases and sales is not hedged. As a 
result, sudden and significant movements in foreign exchange rates can impact profit margins where there is a delay in passing on to 
customers the resulting price increases. For the year ended 31 December 2013 all foreign exchange cash flow hedges were effective with 
a loss of £0.7m recognised in equity (2012: loss of £0.8m) which will affect the income statement during 2014.
The majority of the Group’s borrowings are effectively denominated in sterling, US dollars and euros, aligning them to the respective 
functional currencies of the component parts of the Group’s EBITDA. This currency profile is achieved using short term foreign exchange 
contracts, long term cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign currency debt. This currency composition minimises the impact of 
foreign exchange rates on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Cross currency interest rate swaps in a cash flow hedge relationship were effective during the year with a loss of £0.4m (2012: loss of £1.1m) 
being recognised in equity which will affect the income statement from 2014 to 2015. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 93
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
The currency profile of the Group’s net debt at 31 December is set out in the table below:
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Sterling 292.7 198.7
US dollar 388.2 365.3
Euro 149.9 114.4
Other 18.7 59.7
849.5 738.1
If a 10% strengthening or weakening of sterling had taken place on 31 December it would have increased/(decreased) profit before tax and 
equity for the year by the amounts shown below. The impact of this translation is much greater on equity than it is on profit before tax since 
equity is translated using the closing exchange rates and profit before tax is translated using the average exchange rates for the year. As a 
result the value of equity is more sensitive than the value of profit before tax to a movement in exchange rates on 31 December and the 
resulting movement in profit before tax is due solely to the translation effect on monetary items. This analysis assumes that all other 
variables, and in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Impact on profit before tax Impact on equity
+10% 
£m
–10% 
£m
+10% 
£m
–10% 
£m
2013 0.7 (0.8) (71.6) 87.5
2012 0.5 (0.7) (47.0) 57.6
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to a financial asset due to non-payment by the counterparty. The Group’s objective is to reduce its 
exposure to counterparty default by restricting the type of counterparty it deals with and by employing an appropriate policy in relation to 
the collection of financial assets.
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and deposits, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables which 
represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash 
and deposits (Note 23), derivative financial instruments (see page 90) and trade and other receivables (Note 11) is their carrying amount. 
Dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant combination of geographic presence and investment grade rating. The Group 
continually monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties and the credit exposure to each counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, the amounts represented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated 
by the Group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. Note 11 sets out an 
analysis of trade and other receivables and the provision for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. 94 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
14 PROVISIONS
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Current 12.0 21.3
Non-current 23.8 21.3
35.8 42.6
Properties 
2013 
£m
Claims 
2013 
£m
Total 
2013 
£m
Properties 
2012 
£m
Claims 
2012* 
£m
Total 
2012* 
£m
Beginning of year 17.1 25.5 42.6 19.2 29.2 48.4
Charge 0.5 2.4 2.9 1.1 4.8 5.9
Acquisitions 2.6 1.8 4.4 0.6 4.8 5.4
Disposal of business – – – – (4.0) (4.0)
Utilised or released (3.5) (9.9) (13.4) (3.7) (8.6) (12.3)
Currency translation (0.2) (0.5) (0.7) (0.1) (0.7) (0.8)
End of year 16.5 19.3 35.8 17.1 25.5 42.6
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24).
The properties provision includes provisions for vacant properties where amounts are held against liabilities for onerous lease 
commitments, repairs and dilapidations. These provisions cover the relevant periods of the lease agreements, up to the earliest  
possible termination date, which typically extend from one to 10 years. 
The Group has provisions for expected legal, environmental and other claims based on management’s best estimate at the balance sheet 
date of the probable loss likely to be incurred. It expects that these amounts, which are based on detailed plans or other known factors and 
take account of past experience for similar items, will be settled within the next one to five years.
The Group is a defendant in a number of legal proceedings incidental to its operations. While any litigation has an element of uncertainty, 
management does not expect that the outcome of such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s financial condition or results of operations. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 95
15 DEFERRED TAX 
 2013 2012*
Asset 
£m
Liability 
£m
Net 
£m
Asset 
£m
Liability 
£m
Net 
£m
Accelerated capital allowances 1.4 (7.7) (6.3) 1.8 (7.7) (5.9)
Defined benefit obligations 14.4 – 14.4 25.3 – 25.3
Intangible assets – (147.5) (147.5) – (146.8) (146.8)
Share based payments 13.6 – 13.6 8.6 – 8.6
Provisions 14.0 (1.2) 12.8 10.3 (1.2) 9.1
Inventories 9.2 (15.5) (6.3) 8.0 (15.0) (7.0)
Other 5.9 (8.6) (2.7) 8.6 (8.6) –
Deferred tax asset/(liability) 58.5 (180.5) (122.0) 62.6 (179.3) (116.7)
Set-off of tax (51.0) 51.0 – (54.7) 54.7 –
Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 7.5 (129.5) (122.0) 7.9 (124.6) (116.7)
Except as noted below, deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate of the country 
of operation.
The Company is able to control the dividend policy of its subsidiaries and, therefore, the timing of the remittance of the undistributed 
earnings of overseas subsidiaries. In general, the Company has determined either that such earnings will not be distributed in the 
foreseeable future or, where there are plans to remit those earnings, no tax liability is expected to arise. Deferred tax liabilities of  
£3.0m (2012: £2.5m) has been recognised in the exceptional case where distribution of earnings is both planned and expected to  
result in a tax liability. 
Deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences have only been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences 
where it is probable that these assets will be realised. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of unutilised tax losses of £9.0m 
(2012: £5.3m). The unutilised tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of unutilised capital losses of £96.1m (2012: £96.1m) as it is not considered probable that 
there will be suitable future taxable profits against which they can be utilised.
The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below:
 2013 
£m
 2012* 
£m
Beginning of year 116.7 113.5
Acquisitions 13.2 18.5
Credit to income statement (8.8) (3.7)
Recognised in other comprehensive income and equity 3.5 (5.7)
Reclassification to current tax (1.6) (2.4)
Currency translation (1.0) (3.5)
End of year 122.0 116.7
*Revised on adjustment to provisional fair values on acquisitions made in 2012 (see Note 24). 96 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
16 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
2013
£m
2012
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 32
1
⁄7p each 107.2 114.2
Number ordinary shares in issue and fully paid
Beginning of year 355,420,634 353,975,080
Cancelled – treasury shares (23,325,000) –
Issued – option exercises 1,419,599 1,445,554
End of year 333,515,233 355,420,634
The Company operates the following share plans for the benefit of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries relating to the acquisition 
of shares in the Company. Further details of the share plans operated by the Company are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report.
Sharesave Scheme (2011) 
The Sharesave Scheme (2011), approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, is approved by HM Revenue & Customs in 
the UK and is open to all UK employees, including UK based executive directors, who have completed at least three months of continuous 
service. It is linked to a contract for monthly savings of up to £250 per month over a period of either three or five years. Under the Sharesave 
Scheme (2011) options are granted to participating employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing shortly before the 
invitation to apply for the option. Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted.
The Sharesave Scheme (2011) replaced the Sharesave Scheme (2001) which was approved by shareholders at the 2001 Annual General 
Meeting. The Sharesave Scheme (2001) operates on a similar basis to the Sharesave Scheme (2011). Although there are a number of options 
outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme (2001), no further options have been granted under this Scheme since it expired in May 2011. 
International Sharesave Plan 
The International Sharesave Plan was introduced following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme (2001) by shareholders and was extended 
following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme (2011). The plan operates on a similar basis to both the Sharesave Scheme (2001) and the 
Sharesave Scheme (2011) as described above except that it is linked to a contract for monthly savings of approximately £250 per month (or 
equivalent in other currencies) over a period of three years.
Irish Sharesave Plan 
The Irish Sharesave Plan was also introduced following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme (2001) by shareholders and was extended 
following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme (2011). It is approved by the Irish Revenue Commissioners and operates on a similar basis 
to both the Sharesave Scheme (2001) and the Sharesave Scheme (2011) as described above except that it is linked to a contract for monthly 
savings of the euro equivalent of approximately £250 per month over a period of three years.
1994 Executive Share Option Scheme (‘1994 Scheme’)
The 1994 Scheme was approved by shareholders at the 1994 Annual General Meeting. No further options have been granted under the 1994 
Scheme since it expired in May 2004. A performance condition, based on the Company’s adjusted earnings per share growth relative to UK 
RPI inflation over three years, had to be satisfied before options would normally be exercisable. All such performance conditions relating to 
options granted under the 1994 Scheme were satisfied. As at 31 December 2013 no options remained outstanding under the 1994 Scheme.
Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
The LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and replaced the 1994 Scheme. The LTIP is divided into two parts.
Part A allows the Board to grant share options. In normal circumstances options granted are only exercisable if the relevant performance 
condition has been satisfied. Share options granted to date have a performance condition attached based on the Company’s adjusted 
earnings per share growth relative to UK RPI inflation over three years. 
Part B of the LTIP allows the Board to grant performance share awards which is a conditional right to receive shares in the Company for nil 
consideration. A performance share award will normally vest (i.e. become exercisable) on the third anniversary of its grant to the extent that 
the applicable performance condition has been satisfied. The extent to which performance share awards granted vest is normally partly 
subject to the Company’s total shareholder return performance and partly subject to the Company’s adjusted earnings per share growth 
relative to UK RPI inflation over three years.
The LTIP is due to expire in May 2014 and no further share options or performance share awards will be granted after that date.  
A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to adopt a revised LTIP to be known as the 2014 Long Term 
Incentive Plan (‘2014 LTIP’). Further details of the 2014 LTIP are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 97
16 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
Investment in own shares
The Company holds a number of its ordinary shares in an employee benefit trust. The principal purpose of this trust is to hold shares in  
the Company for subsequent transfer to certain senior employees and executive directors relating to options granted and awards made  
in respect of market purchase shares under the 1994 Scheme, the LTIP and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme (‘DASBS’). Details  
of such plans are set out above and in the Directors’ remuneration report. The assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been 
incorporated in the consolidated financial statements. Finance costs and administration charges are included in the income statement  
on an accruals basis. At 31 December 2013 the trust held 6,895,539 (2012: 4,348,175) shares, upon which dividends have been waived,  
with an aggregate nominal value of £2.2m (2012: £1.4m) and market value of £100.0m (2012: £43.9m). 
During the year 23,325,000 treasury shares with an aggregate nominal value of £7.5m were cancelled.
IFRS 2 disclosures
Options granted during the year have been valued using a stochastic model. The fair value per option granted during the year and the 
assumptions used in the calculations are as follows:
 2013 2012
Grant date 28.02.13–07.10.13 01.03.12–08.10.12
Share price at grant date (£) 12.61–13.61 9.73–11.28
Exercise price (£) nil–13.75 nil–11.16
Options granted during the year (shares) 3,569,284 3,985,922
Vesting period (years) 3–5 3–5
Expected volatility (%) 18–22 19–23
Option life (years) 3–10 3–10
Expected life (years) 3.0–6.1 3.0–6.7
Risk free rate of return (%) 0.3–2.0 0.2–1.2
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield (%) 2.0–2.2 2.4–2.7
Fair value per option (£) 1.43–3.29 0.94–4.88
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three to seven years. The expected life is the average expected period 
to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. 
The weighted average share price for options exercised by employees of the Company and its subsidiaries during the year was £13.24 
(2012: £10.30). The total charge for the year relating to share based payments was £6.2m (2012: £5.7m). After tax the total charge was 
£3.7m (2012: £3.3m).
Details of share options and performance share awards which have been granted and exercised, those which have lapsed during 2013 and 
those outstanding and available to exercise at 31 December 2013, in each case in respect of all options and awards, whether over new issue 
or market purchase shares, under the Sharesave Scheme (2001), Sharesave Scheme (2011), International Sharesave Plan, Irish Sharesave 
Plan, 1994 Scheme and LTIP Part A and Part B are set out in the following table:
Options 
outstanding Grants/awards Exercises Lapses* 
Options 
outstanding
Options 
available 
to exercise 
at 01.01.13 2013 2013 2013 at 31.12.13 31.12.13
Number Number Price (p) Number Price (p) Number Number Price (p) Number
Sharesave  
Scheme (2001) 541,751 – – 218,774 452-580 14,720 308,257 452-580 4,583
Sharesave  
Scheme (2011) 232,106 264,611 992 1,416 770-992 41,817 453,484 770-992 6,268
International 
Sharesave Plan 125,063 86,964 992 43,666 542-770 5,532 162,829 580-992 – 
Irish Sharesave Plan 19,262 10,110 992 4,161 542-770 2,400 22,811 770-992 – 
1994 Scheme 68,000 –  – 68,000 446-452 – – – – 
LTIP Part A 12,808,882 2,739,459  1,240-1,375 2,864,449 429-1,116 157,250 12,526,642 429-1,375 3,770,174
LTIP Part B 2,021,247 468,140 – 394,533 – 245,463 1,849,391 – 36,451
15,816,311 3,569,284 3,594,999 467,182 15,323,414 3,817,476
*Share option lapses relate to those which have either been forfeited or have expired during the year. 98 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
16 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
Weighted 
average 
fair value 
of options 
granted (£)
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
Sharesave Scheme 2.06 2.52
International Sharesave Plan 1.43 2.22
Irish Sharesave Plan 1.43 2.22
LTIP Part A 1.93 2.60
LTIP Part B 3.14 2.50
The outstanding share options and performance share awards are exercis able at various dates up to September 2023.
17 DIVIDENDS 
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 interim 26.1
2011 final 59.6
2012 interim 28.8 
2012 final 63.0 
Total 91.8 85.7
Total dividends per share for the year to which they relate are:
Per share
 2013 2012
Interim 10.0p 8.8p
Final 22.4p 19.4p
Total 32.4p 28.2p
The 2013 interim dividend of 10.0p per share was paid on 2 January 2014 and comprised £32.6m of cash. The 2013 final dividend of 22.4p per 
share will be paid on 1 July 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 May 2014.
18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Bank guarantees 0.4 0.2
19 DIRECTORS’ ORDINARY SHARE INTERESTS
The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the share capital of the Company at 31 December were:
2013 2012
Philip Rogerson 10,000 10,000
Michael Roney 312,263 312,263
Patrick Larmon 117,838 113,875
Peter Johnson 6,630 6,630
Brian May 105,240 105,240
David Sleath 4,000 4,000
Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 4,000
Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 –
Meinie Oldersma 2,500 –
564,971 556,008
Details of directors’ options over ordinary shares and awards made under the LTIP, Sharesave Scheme and DASBS are set out in the 
Directors’ remuneration report. Since 31 December 2013 Patrick Larmon has acquired interests in 664 ordinary shares as a result of his 
election to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan in respect of the interim dividend which was paid on 2 January 2014 and he has  
also acquired an interest in 319 ordinary shares pursuant to the Company’s US Employee Stock Purchase Plan. No other changes to the 
directors’ ordinary share interests shown in this note and the Directors’ remuneration report have taken place between 31 December 2013 
and 24 February 2014. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 99
20 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes in the UK, the US and other countries including both defined benefit and 
defined contribution schemes. The funds of the principal defined benefit schemes are administered by trustees and are held independently 
from the Group. Pension costs of defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally 
qualified actuaries. Full triennial actuarial valuations were last carried out on the UK defined benefit schemes in April 2012 and annual 
actuarial valuations are performed on the principal US defined benefit schemes. The valuation of the UK defined benefit schemes has been 
updated to 31 December 2013 by the Group’s actuaries. Contributions to all schemes are determined in line with actuarial advice and local 
conditions and practices. Scheme assets for the purpose of IAS 19 are stated at their bid value.
Characteristics
Europe
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes in Europe including the UK, France, the Netherlands and the Republic of 
Ireland. The Group’s principal defined benefit scheme in Europe is the UK scheme. The UK defined benefit scheme is a contributory defined 
benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The scheme has been closed to new members for over 10 years. 
The UK scheme is an HMRC registered pension scheme and is subject to standard UK pensions and tax law. This means that the payment of 
contributions and benefits are subject to the appropriate tax treatments and restrictions and the scheme is subject to the scheme funding 
requirements outlined in section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004.
In accordance with UK trust and pensions law, the pension scheme has a corporate trustee. Although the Company bears the financial cost 
of the scheme, the responsibility for the management and governance of the scheme lies with the trustee, which has a duty to act in the best 
interest of members at all times. The assets of the scheme are held in trust by the trustee who consults with the Company on investment 
strategy decisions. 
A de-risking strategy has been agreed for the scheme to reduce the mismatch between the assets and liabilities, whereby investments are 
switched from return seeking assets to liability matching assets as the funding improves, based on pre-agreed triggers. 
The last triennial review was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 5 April 2012 and showed that there was a deficit on the agreed funding 
basis. To address the deficit, the Company has agreed to contribute an additional £5.5m per year from April 2013 to March 2019. In 
comparison, in the year to April 2013, the Company paid £5.3m in shortfall contributions.
US
The US defined benefit scheme is a non-contributory defined benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. 
The scheme has been closed to new members for over 10 years. The assets of the scheme are held in trust by an independent custodian. 
The US scheme is a qualified pension scheme and is subject to standard regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, 
the Pension Protection Act 2006 and the Department of Labor and Internal Revenue reporting requirements. The scheme pays annual 
premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to insure the benefits of the scheme.
The Company has established a Retirement Scheme Investment Committee. The members of the Committee are the scheme fiduciaries 
and as such are ultimately responsible for the management of the scheme assets. The Committee performs the oversight function and 
will delegate the day-to-day management process to appropriate staff. A registered investment adviser advises the Committee regarding 
the investment of scheme assets. 
A de-risking strategy has been agreed for the scheme to reduce the mismatch between the assets and liabilities, whereby investments are 
switched from return seeking assets to liability matching assets as the funding improves, based on pre-agreed triggers.
The last annual review was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 1 January 2013 and showed that there was a required annual contribution 
of £2.4m. Bunzl plans to contribute £4.9m for the 2013 plan year to cover prudently this required contribution and anticipate future funding 
needs. In comparison, in the 2012 plan year, Bunzl paid a contribution of £4.3m.
Risks
The main risks to which the Company is exposed in relation to the defined benefit schemes are described below:
• Inflation risk — the majority of the UK scheme’s liabilities increase in line with inflation and, as a result, if inflation is greater than expected 
the liabilities will increase. The impact of high inflation is capped each year for the UK scheme’s benefits. The US scheme‘s liabilities are 
not directly tied to inflationary increases.
• Interest rate risk — a fall in bond yields will increase the value of the schemes’ liabilities. A proportion of both the UK and US schemes’ 
assets are invested in liability matching assets to mitigate bond yield and inflation risk.
• Mortality risk — the assumptions adopted by the Company make allowance for future improvements in life expectancy. However, if life 
expectancy improves at a faster rate than assumed, this would result in greater payments from the schemes and consequently increases  
in the schemes’ liabilities. The mortality assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis to minimise the risk of using an inappropriate 
assumption.
• Investment risk — the schemes invest in a diversified range of asset classes to mitigate the risk of falls in any one area of the investments.  
In the UK, the trustee implements partial currency hedging on the overseas assets to mitigate currency risk. 100 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
20 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
The risks above could lead to a material deficit in the schemes. Given the long term time horizon of the schemes’ cash flows, the 
assumptions used are uncertain and can be volatile from year to year. The Company and the trustees seek to mitigate actively the 
risks associated with the schemes.
A higher retirement benefit obligation could lead to additional funding requirements in future years. Any deficit measured on a funding 
valuation basis, which may differ from the actuarial valuation under IAS 19, will generally be financed over a period that ensures the 
contributions are appropriate to the Group and in line with the relevant regulations. 
Financial information
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements at 31 December were:
Amounts included in net operating expenses
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Defined contribution schemes 12.6 12.9
Defined benefit schemes 
 current service cost 6.6 5.4
 past service gain (0.1) –
Loss on settlement 0.3 –
Total operating charge 19.4 18.3
Amounts included in finance cost
Net interest 2.8 3.3
Total charge 22.2 21.6
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
 2013
£m
 2012
£m
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets included in net interest 18.6 20.8
Experience gain on scheme liabilities 0.1 4.7
Impact of changes in assumptions relating to the present value of scheme liabilities 8.2 (33.5)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension schemes 26.9 (8.0)
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1).
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses arising since 1 January 2004 recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at 
31 December 2013 was £84.0m (2012: £110.9m).
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries for the purposes of IAS 19 were:
Europe 2013 2012
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners (years) 22.5 22.5
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners (years) 24.3 24.2
US 
Longevity at age 65 for current and future pensioners (years) 20.2 20.2
Europe US
 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011
Rate of increase in salaries 4.1% 3.7% 3.8% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
Rate of increase in pensions 3.2% 2.9% 3.0% – – –
Discount rate 4.6% 4.5% 4.7% 4.9% 4.1% 5.1%
Inflation rate 2.4% 2.2% 2.3% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5%
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the 
timescales covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The impact on the net pension deficit as at 31 December 2013 of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions was:
Impact of change 
in inflation rate
Impact of change 
in discount rate
+0.25%
£m
–0.25%
£m
+0.25%
£m
–0.25%
£m
Europe 7.9 (8.4) (11.6) 12.4
US (0.1) 0.1 (3.8) 4.0  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 101
20 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
The market value of scheme assets and the present value of retirement benefit obligations at 31 December were:
Europe
2013
US
 2013
Total 
2013
£m £m £m
Equities 89.7 57.8 147.5
Bonds 150.5 31.4 181.9
Other 1.4 4.8 6.2 
Total market value of scheme assets 241.6 94.0 335.6 
Present value of funded obligations (258.8) (106.7) (365.5)
Present value of unfunded obligations (5.4) (9.7) (15.1) 
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (264.2) (116.4) (380.6) 
Deficit (22.6) (22.4) (45.0)
Deferred tax 6.8 7.6 14.4 
Net deficit (15.8) (14.8) (30.6) 
Europe US Total
2012 2012 2012
£m £m £m
Equities 123.1 45.4 168.5
Bonds 96.3 32.1 128.4
Other 3.1 3.8 6.9
Total market value of scheme assets 222.5 81.3 303.8
Present value of funded obligations (244.9) (117.4) (362.3)
Present value of unfunded obligations (6.1) (11.0) (17.1)
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (251.0) (128.4) (379.4)
Unrecognised past service cost – 0.1 0.1
Deficit (28.5) (47.0) (75.5)
Deferred tax 7.1 18.2 25.3
Net deficit (21.4) (28.8) (50.2) 102 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
20 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
Five year summary
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Total market value of scheme assets 335.6 303.8 272.3 258.0 223.1
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (380.6) (379.4) (346.7) (310.5) (283.1)
Unrecognised past service cost – 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2
Deficit (45.0) (75.5) (74.3) (52.3) (59.8)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities (0.2) (4.7) 0.4 1.2 1.2
Movement in deficit
2013 
£m
2012* 
£m
Beginning of year (75.5) (74.3)
Current service cost (6.6) (5.4)
Past service gain 0.1 –
Contributions 14.1 13.2
Net interest (2.8) (3.3)
Actuarial gain/(loss) 26.9 (8.0)
Loss on settlement (0.3) –
Currency and other movements (0.9) 2.3
End of year (45.0) (75.5)
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1).
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations
2013
£m
2012*
£m
Beginning of year 379.4 346.7
Current service cost 6.6 5.4
Past service gain (0.1) –
Interest costs 16.4 16.3
Contributions by employees 0.8 0.8
Settlement payments (0.6) –
Actuarial (gain)/loss (8.3) 28.8
Benefits paid (12.6) (12.0)
Loss on settlement 0.3 –
Currency translation (1.3) (6.6)
End of year 380.6 379.4
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets £m £m
Beginning of year 303.8 272.3
Interest income 13.6 13.0
Actuarial gain 18.6 20.8
Contributions by employer 14.1 13.2
Contributions by employees 0.8 0.8
Settlement payments (0.6) –
Benefits paid (12.6) (12.0)
Currency translation (2.1) (4.3)
End of year 335.6 303.8
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1).
The actual return on scheme assets was £32.2m (2012: £28.3m). 
The Group expects to pay approximately £14.1m in contributions to the defined benefit pension schemes in the year ending 31 December 2014.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2013 was approximately 19.8 years for Europe and 13.5 years 
for US.
The total retirement benefit obligations are divided between active (£135.0m), deferred members (£121.0m) and pensioners (£124.6m). BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 103
21 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES 
Average number of employees 2013 2012
North America 4,756 3,687
Continental Europe 3,408 3,447
UK & Ireland 3,456 3,314
Rest of the World 2,005 1,241
13,625 11,689
Corporate 50 49
13,675 11,738
Employee costs 
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Wages and salaries 483.8 418.0
Social security costs 60.8 52.7
Retirement benefit obligation costs 19.4 18.3
Share based payments 6.2 5.7
570.2 494.7
In addition to the above, acquisition related costs for the year ended 31 December 2013 include deferred consideration payments of £22.0m 
(2012: £8.4m) relating to the continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired.
Key management remuneration
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Salaries and short term employee benefits 5.9 5.2
Share based payments 1.9 1.4
Post employment benefits 1.0 1.0
8.8 7.6
The Group considers key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to be the directors of the Company and 
those members of the Executive Committee and the Managing Directors of the major geographic regions who are not directors of the Company. 
Directors’ emoluments
 2013 
£m
 2012 
£m
Non-executive directors 0.7 0.6
Executive directors:
 remuneration excluding performance related elements 2.4 2.3
 annual bonus 1.9 1.5
5.0 4.4
More detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments and long term incentives is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of share options during the year was £2.5m (2012: £4.1m). The aggregate 
market value of performance share awards exercised by directors under long term incentive schemes during the year was £2.0m (2012: 
£1.5m). The aggregate market value of shares exercised by directors under the DASBS was £0.9m (2012: £0.9m).
22 LEASE COMMITMENTS
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. These leases have varying 
terms and renewal rights. At 31 December the total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of 
the following periods were:
Land & 
buildings 
2013 
£m
 Other 
2013 
£m
Land & 
buildings 
2012 
£m
 Other 
2012 
£m
Within one year 53.2 21.0 53.0 21.1
Between one and five years 139.9 33.3 149.8 32.2
After five years 65.0 1.9 66.3 1.0
258.1 56.2 269.1 54.3
Total of future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases (0.2) – (0.3) –
  104 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
23 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND NET DEBT
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 73.1 77.0
Short term deposits repayable in less than three months – 4.2
Cash and deposits 73.1 81.2
Bank overdrafts (26.3) (25.4)
Cash and cash equivalents 46.8 55.8
Current liabilities (46.5) (204.9)
Non-current liabilities (855.8) (599.2)
Derivative assets – fair value of interest rate swaps on fixed interest rate borrowings 6.0 10.2
Interest bearing loans and borrowings (896.3) (793.9)
Net debt (849.5) (738.1)
Movement in net debt
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Beginning of year (738.1) (652.9)
Net cash outflow (113.2) (109.4)
Realised losses on foreign exchange contracts (9.7) (0.9)
Currency translation 11.5 25.1
End of year (849.5) (738.1)
24 ACQUISITIONS 
2013
The acquisitions completed in the year ended 31 December 2013 were McNeil Surgical, Vicsa Brasil, Labor Import, MDA, most of the 
Industrial & Safety division of Jeminex, TFS, Espomega, ProEpta, Wesclean Equipment & Cleaning Supplies, pka Klöcker, De Santis  
and SAS Safety.
McNeil Surgical, a business principally engaged in the sale of healthcare consumables and equipment to aged care facilities, hospitals 
and medical centres as well as to distributors throughout South Australia, was acquired on 31 January 2013. Vicsa Brasil, the proposed 
acquisition of which was agreed in December 2012, was acquired on 19 February 2013. The business is engaged in the sale of personal 
protection equipment throughout Brazil. Labor Import, which is principally engaged in the supply and distribution of own label medical 
and healthcare consumable products to distributors as well as to hospitals, clinics, laboratories and care homes throughout Brazil, 
was acquired on 1 March 2013. MDA, which is engaged in the procurement and fulfilment of promotional products and marketing point 
of sale materials for a variety of customers in the UK, principally in the food and drinks industries, was acquired on 15 March 2013. Three 
businesses which formed part of the Industrial & Safety division of Jeminex in Australia were acquired on 30 April 2013. The workwear and 
personal safety business distributes an extensive range of specialist personal protection equipment and workwear to the mining, resources, 
construction and general industrial sectors. The lifting, rigging and height safety business is principally engaged in the supply of lifting 
chains and ropes, slings and load restraints as well as the provision of accredited testing and repair services. The third business is involved 
in the supply of industrial packaging products to a variety of customers in different market sectors. TFS, a business engaged in the 
procurement and fulfilment of promotional products and marketing point of sale materials for customers in the UK across various market 
sectors, was acquired on 31 July 2013. Espomega, a business supplying a variety of safety products, including gloves and protective clothing, 
to distributors throughout Mexico, was acquired on 30 August 2013. ProEpta, a leading distributor of catering equipment throughout Mexico, 
principally to luxury hotels and restaurants, was acquired on 27 September 2013. Wesclean, a business principally engaged in the 
distribution of cleaning and hygiene equipment and supplies to a variety of customer markets throughout Western Canada, was acquired 
on 1 November 2013. pka Klöcker, a business based in Germany engaged in the sale to distributors of personal protection equipment, 
principally own label workwear, was acquired on 29 November 2013. De Santis, a business based in Brazil and principally engaged in the 
sale of personal protection equipment to end user customers in a number of different market sectors, was acquired on 20 December 2013. 
SAS Safety, a business specialising in the sourcing and sale of a variety of own label personal protection equipment, principally safety 
gloves, to distributors in the US was acquired on 23 December 2013. 
Acquisitions involving the purchase of the acquiree’s share capital or the relevant assets of the businesses acquired, have been accounted 
for under the acquisition method of accounting. Part of the Group’s strategy is to grow through acquisition. The Group has developed a 
process to assist with the identification of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the separate identification 
of intangible assets in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. This formal process is applied to each acquisition and involves an 
assessment of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with assistance provided by external valuation specialists where appropriate. 
Until this assessment is complete, the allocation period remains open up to a maximum of 12 months from the relevant acquisition date.  
At 31 December 2013 the allocation period for all acquisitions completed since 1 January 2013 remained open and accordingly the fair 
values presented are provisional.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 105
24 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
Adjustments are made to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the allocation period to the extent that further information and 
knowledge come to light that more accurately reflect conditions at the acquisition date. To date the adjustments made have impacted assets 
acquired to reflect more accurately the estimated realisable or settlement value. Similarly, adjustments have been made to acquired 
liabilities to record onerous commitments or other commitments existing at the acquisition date but not recognised by the acquiree. 
Adjustments have also been made to reflect the associated tax effects.
The consideration paid or payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion, deferred consideration and payments 
which are contingent on the continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired. IFRS 3 requires that any payments that are 
contingent on future employment are charged to the income statement. All other consideration has been allocated against the identified 
net assets, with the balance recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income 
statement. The acquisitions provide opportunities for further development of the Group’s activities and create enhanced returns. Such 
opportunities and the workforces inherent in each of the acquired businesses do not translate to separately identifiable intangible assets 
but do represent much of the assessed value that supports the recognised goodwill.
A summary of the effect of acquisitions completed in 2013 is detailed below:
Book value at 
acquisition 
£m
Provisional 
fair value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value 
of assets 
acquired 
£m
Intangible assets – 111.1 111.1 
Property, plant and equipment 11.6 (2.0) 9.6
Inventories 55.4 (4.2) 51.2
Trade and other receivables 51.3 (1.0) 50.3
Trade and other payables (34.2) (3.8) (38.0)
Net bank overdrafts (7.5) – (7.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (0.3) (4.1) (4.4)
Tax and deferred tax 0.3 (13.5) (13.2)
76.6 82.5 159.1
Goodwill 97.4
Consideration 256.5
Satisfied by:
 cash consideration 223.8
 deferred consideration 32.7
256.5
Contingent payments relating to continued employment of former owners 32.4
Net bank overdrafts acquired 7.5
Transaction costs and expenses 8.4 
Total committed spend in respect of current year acquisitions 304.8
Spend on acquisition committed as at 31 December 2012 (9.7) 
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions agreed in the current year 295.1 
The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisitions comprised:
Cash consideration 223.8
Net bank overdrafts acquired 7.5
Deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions 22.5 
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 253.8
Acquisition related costs 26.1
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 279.9 
Cash flow on acquisition related costs relates to £9.6m (2012: £5.4m) of transaction costs paid and £16.5m (2012: £14.8m) from payments 
relating to continued employment of former owners. 
Acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2013 contributed £129.5m to the Group’s revenue and £16.5m to the Group’s operating 
profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. 
The estimated contributions of businesses agreed to be acquired during the year to the results of the Group, as if the acquisitions had been 
made at the beginning of the year, are as follows:
£m
Revenue 281.1 
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs 37.5  106 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES CONTINUED
24 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
2012
The principal acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2012 were CDW Merchants, the redistribution business of Star Services 
International, FoodHandler, Zahav, Service Paper, Distrimondo, Indigo Concept Packaging, Atlas Health Care, McCordick Glove & Safety, 
Destiny Packaging, Vicsa Safety and Schwarz Paper Company.
CDW Merchants, a business principally engaged in the sale of retail gift packaging and visual merchandising solutions and products to 
the specialty retail and online retailing sectors throughout the US, was acquired on 21 February 2012. The Star Services International 
redistribution business, which is principally engaged in the supply of foodservice disposable products to wholesalers and redistributors 
throughout Queensland, Australia, was acquired on 27 April 2012. FoodHandler, a leading supplier of a variety of disposable gloves and other 
foodhandling products to the foodservice sector throughout the US, was acquired on 30 April 2012. Zahav, a leading distributor of packaging 
supplies to the foodservice sector throughout Israel was acquired on 30 April 2012. Service Paper, a business principally engaged in the 
distribution of disposable supplies to the grocery, foodservice, food processor and industrial packaging sectors throughout the Pacific 
Northwest in the US, was acquired on 11 June 2012. Distrimondo, a business principally engaged in the distribution of foodservice 
disposables and cleaning and hygiene products throughout Switzerland, was acquired on 29 June 2012. Indigo Concept Packaging, a 
business based in the UK and principally engaged in the sale of quality retail packaging products, was acquired on 3 October 2012. Atlas 
Health Care, a business principally engaged in the supply of medical consumables to the healthcare sector in South Australia, was acquired 
on 31 October 2012. McCordick Glove & Safety, a distributor of gloves and other personal protection equipment to a variety of industrial and 
retail customers as well as to redistributors, was acquired on 14 December 2012. Destiny Packaging, a leading distributor of flexible 
packaging supplies to fruit and vegetable growers in the US, was acquired on 20 December 2012. Vicsa Safety, a business specialising in the 
sourcing and sale of a variety of personal protection equipment throughout Chile, Peru, Argentina, Colombia and Mexico, was acquired on 
21 December 2012. Schwarz Paper Company, a business based in Chicago and principally engaged in the provision of consumables and 
supply chain solutions for the non-food retail and grocery sectors, was acquired on 28 December 2012.
The Company also entered into an agreement on 21 December 2012 to acquire Vicsa Brasil which distributes personal protection equipment 
throughout Brazil. Following clearance from the Brazilian Competition Authority, the acquisition was completed on 19 February 2013.
For the acquisitions made in 2012, the fair value reallocation period remained open during 2013. In accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business 
Combinations’ the Group has adjusted in 2013 the fair values attributable to some of these acquisitions. As a result, customer relationships 
have been increased by £16.8m, goodwill has been increased by £0.9m, other assets and liabilities have been decreased by £16.0m and 
deferred consideration has been increased by £1.7m. The balance sheet at 31 December 2012 has been revised accordingly.
A summary of the effect of the 2012 acquisitions is detailed below:
Book value at 
acquisition 
£m
Provisional
fair value
adjustments
in 2012
£m
Adjustments
made in
2013
£m
 Final
fair value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value 
of assets 
acquired 
£m
Intangible assets – 94.7 16.8 111.5 111.5
Property, plant and equipment 9.3 (1.2) (0.3) (1.5) 7.8
Inventories 81.0 (1.2) (6.1) (7.3) 73.7
Trade and other receivables 72.0 (0.2) (0.8) (1.0) 71.0
Trade and other payables (54.3) (5.1) (0.7) (5.8) (60.1)
Net bank overdrafts (21.8) – – – (21.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges – (2.3) (3.1) (5.4) (5.4)
Tax and deferred tax (0.2) (14.2) (5.0) (19.2) (19.4)
86.0 70.5 0.8 71.3 157.3
Goodwill 64.5
Consideration 221.8
Satisfied by:
 cash consideration 206.0
 deferred consideration 14.8
 other consideration 1.0
221.8
Contingent payments relating to continued employment 
of former owners 16.3
Net bank overdrafts acquired 21.8
Transaction costs and expenses 6.9
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions completed 266.8
Committed spend in respect of acquisition agreed but not completed by 31 December 2012 9.7
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions 276.5 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 107
24 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisitions comprised:
£m
Cash consideration 206.0
Net bank overdrafts acquired 21.8
Deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions 6.7
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 234.5
Acquisition related costs 20.2
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 254.7
Acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2012 contributed £111.3m to the Group’s revenue and £8.7m to the Group’s operating 
profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
The estimated contributions of acquired businesses to the results of the Group, as if the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the 
year, are as follows:
£m
Revenue 518.4 
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs 36.1 
25 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES 
The Group has identified the directors of the Company, the Group pension schemes and its key management as related parties for the 
purpose of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Details of the relevant relationships with these related parties are disclosed in the Directors’ 
remuneration report, Note 20 and Note 21 respectively.
26 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
Country of incorporation
Bunzl Australasia Holdings Pty Limited Australia
Bunzl Finance plc* England & Wales
Bunzl Holding Danmark A/S Denmark
Bunzl Distribution Spain SAU Spain
Bunzl Holdings France SNC France
Bunzl Outsourcing Services BV Netherlands
Bunzl UK Ltd England & Wales
Bunzl USA Holdings LLC USA
*Direct subsidiary undertaking of Bunzl plc.
The companies named above are the principal subsidiary undertakings of Bunzl plc at 31 December 2013, which are wholly owned, and are 
included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group. The investments in these companies, as shown above, relate to ordinary 
shares or common stock. The principal country in which each company operates is the country of incorporation. The principal activities of 
the Group are reviewed in the Chief Executive’s review. A full list of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next annual 
return filed at Companies House. 108 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
AT 31 DECEMBER 2013
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
Notes
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 3 0.5 0.6
Investments 4 654.6 654.6
655.1 655.2
Current assets
Debtors 5 268.8 398.0
Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 0.5
268.9 398.5
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (109.6) (109.0)
Net current assets 159.3 289.5
Total assets less current liabilities 814.4 944.7
Provisions 7 (2.3) (2.7)
Net assets 812.1 942.0
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8 107.2 114.2
Share premium account 9 153.0 143.9
Other reserves 9 5.6 5.6
Capital redemption reserve 9 16.1 8.6
Profit and loss account 9 530.2 669.7
Shareholders’ funds 812.1 942.0
Approved by the Board of Directors of Bunzl plc (Company registration number 358948) on 24 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by 
Michael Roney, Chief Executive and Brian May, Finance Director. 
The Accounting policies and Notes on pages 109 to 115 form part of these financial statements. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 109
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of Bunzl plc (‘the Company’) have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention 
and have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP. Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. 
In accordance with the exemption allowed by paragraph 5 (a) of Financial Reporting Standard (‘FRS’) 1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’, a cash flow 
statement has not been provided for the Company.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
a Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
b Investment in own shares
The cost of shares held either directly (treasury shares) or indirectly (employee benefit trust shares) is deducted from equity. Repurchased 
shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are subsequently sold or 
reissued, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised in 
retained earnings.
c Share based payments
The Company operates equity settled share based compensation plans for which the total expected expense is based on the fair value of 
options and other share based incentives on the grant date, calculated using a valuation model, and is spread over the expected vesting 
period with a corresponding credit to equity. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of options that are 
expected to vest. Details of the relevant plans are outlined in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Where the Company grants 
options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries these awards are accounted for by the Company as an additional investment 
in the relevant subsidiary equivalent to the equity settled share based payment charge recognised in the consolidated financial statements 
with the corresponding credit recognised directly in equity. Any payment made by the subsidiaries in respect of these arrangements is treated 
as a return of this investment. These costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’.
d Tangible fixed assets
All tangible fixed assets are included at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation. The profit or loss on sale of tangible fixed assets  
is calculated by reference to the carrying values of the assets. The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are periodically reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
e Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost less estimated residual value over the assets’ estimated remaining useful 
lives. This is applied at the following annual rates:
Buildings 2% (or depreciated over life of lease if shorter than 50 years) 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10%–33%
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Leases
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease. Leases in which the Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are 
classified as finance leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately 
from that of the buildings due to the indefinite life of land. 110 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
g Tax
The charge for tax is based on the profit or loss for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the 
treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except 
as otherwise required by FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’. 
h Retirement benefit obligations
The Company participates in a Group UK defined benefit scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. As the Company is 
unable to identify its share of scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, the Company treats contributions to the 
defined benefit scheme as if they were contributions to a defined contribution scheme in accordance with the exemptions permitted by FRS 
17 ‘Retirement Benefits’. As a result the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme 
in respect of the relevant accounting period.
i Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the 
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment 
under the guarantee. 
j Dividends
The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period in which it is paid and the final dividend in the period in which 
it is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
3 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 
Short 
leasehold 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
Beginning and end of year 0.5 2.8 3.3
Depreciation
Beginning of year 0.5 2.2 2.7
Charge in year – 0.1 0.1 
End of year 0.5 2.3 2.8 
Net book value at 31 December 2013 – 0.5 0.5 
Net book value at 31 December 2012 – 0.6 0.6  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 111
4 INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS
Investments in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m
Cost  
Beginning and end of year 700.2
 
Impairment provisions
Beginning and end of year 45.6 
 
Net book value at 31 December 2013 654.6 
Net book value at 31 December 2012 654.6 
The principal companies in which the Company’s interest at 31 December 2013 is more than 20% are as follows:
Country of incorporation
Bunzl Australasia Holdings Pty Limited Australia
Bunzl Finance plc* England & Wales
Bunzl Holding Danmark A/S Denmark
Bunzl Distribution Spain SAU Spain
Bunzl Holdings France SNC France
Bunzl Outsourcing Services BV Netherlands
Bunzl UK Ltd England & Wales
Bunzl USA Holdings LLC USA
*Direct subsidiary undertaking of Bunzl plc.
5 DEBTORS
 2013
£m
 2012
£m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 261.1 390.0
Prepayments and other debtors 1.1 1.4
Corporation tax 6.4 6.1
Deferred tax 0.2 0.5
268.8 398.0 112 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
6 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade creditors 0.2 0.3
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 101.1 100.7
Other tax and social security contributions 1.6 1.4
Accruals and deferred income 6.7 6.6
109.6 109.0
7 PROVISIONS
2013
£m
2012
£m
Beginning of year 2.7 8.7
Utilised or released (0.4) (6.0)
End of year 2.3 2.7
The provisions relate to properties, where amounts are held against liabilities for onerous lease commitments, repairs and dilapidations 
and other claims.
8 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
 2013
£m
 2012
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 32
1
⁄7p each 107.2 114.2
Number of ordinary shares in issue and fully paid
Beginning of year 355,420,634 353,975,080
Cancelled – treasury shares (23,325,000) –
Issued – option exercises 1,419,599 1,445,554
End of year 333,515,233 355,420,634
The Company operates a number of share plans, for the benefit of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries relating to the acquisition 
of shares in the Company, which are described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 113
8 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED 
FRS 20 disclosures
Options granted to employees of the Company during the year have been valued using a stochastic model. The fair value per option granted 
during the year and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows:
 2013 2012
Grant date 28.02.13–07.10.13 01.03.12–08.10.12
Share price at grant date (£) 12.61–13.61 9.73–11.28
Exercise price (£) nil–13.75 nil–11.6
Options granted during the year (shares) 525,997 632,328
Vesting period (years) 3–5 3–5
Expected volatility (%) 18–22 19–23
Option life (years) 3–10 3–10
Expected life (years) 3.0–6.1 3.0–6.2
Risk free rate of return (%) 0.3–1.8 0.2–1.2
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield (%) 2.16–2.24 2.40–2.70
Fair value per option (£) 1.78–3.29 0.94–4.88
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three to seven years. The expected life is the average expected period 
to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The weighted average share price for options exercised by employees of the Company during the year was £13.33 (2012: £10.17). The total 
Company charge for the year relating to share based payments was £1.3m (2012: £1.1m). 
Details of share options and awards to employees of the Company which have been granted and exercised, those which have lapsed during 
2013 and those outstanding and available to exercise at 31 December 2013, in each case in respect of all options and awards, whether over 
new issue or market purchase shares, under the Sharesave Scheme (2001), Sharesave Scheme (2011) and Long Term Incentive Plan Part A 
and Part B are set out in the following table:
Options 
outstanding Grants/awards Exercises Lapses*
Options 
outstanding 
Options 
available 
to exercise 
at 01.01.13
†
2013 2013 2013 at 31.12.13 31.12.13
Number Number Price (p) Number Price (p) Number Number Price (p) Number
Sharesave Scheme (2001) 37,731 – – 8,929 542-578 1,996 26,806 452-580 –
Sharesave Scheme (2011) 9,772 11,497 992 – – 3,154 18,115 770-992 –
LTIP Part A 1,705,345 323,900 1,240-1,375 370,366 568-746 6,000 1,652,879 585-1,375 492,979
LTIP Part B 927,804 190,600 – 175,582 – 108,182 834,640 – 21,876
2,680,652 525,997 554,877 119,332 2,532,440 514,855
†
  Options outstanding at 1 January 2013 have been adjusted to include any options held by individuals whose employment has transferred 
from a wholly owned subsidiary to the Company and to exclude any options held by individuals whose employment has transferred from 
the Company to a wholly owned subsidiary, in each case during 2013.
*Share option lapses relate to those which have either been forfeited or have expired during the year.
Weighted
average
fair value
of options
granted (£)
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life (years)
Sharesave Scheme 2.08 2.85
LTIP Part A 1.88 2.46
LTIP Part B 3.14 2.50 
The outstanding options and awards are exercis able at various dates up to September 2023. 114 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
9 CAPITAL AND RESERVES 
Share 
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Profit and loss account
Total
£m
Own
shares
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
At 1 January 2013 114.2 143.9 5.6 8.6 (223.4) 893.1 942.0 
Issue of share capital 0.5 9.1 9.6
Treasury shares cancelled (7.5) 7.5 163.1 (163.1) –
Employee trust shares (50.1) (50.1)
Movement on own share reserves 10.4 (10.4) –
Share based payments 1.3 1.3
Profit for the year 1.1 1.1
2012 interim dividend (28.8) (28.8)
2012 final dividend (63.0) (63.0) 
At 31 December 2013 107.2 153.0 5.6 16.1 (100.0) 630.2 812.1 
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented 
in these financial statements.
Included within own shares are ordinary shares of the Company held by the Group in an employee benefit trust. The principal purpose of  
this trust is to hold shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to certain senior employees and executive directors relating to options 
granted and awards made in respect of market purchase shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Deferred Annual Share  
Bonus Scheme. Details of such plans are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration  
report. The assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been incorporated in the consolidated financial statements. Finance costs 
and administration charges are included in the income statement on an accruals basis. At 31 December 2013 the trust held 6,895,539  
(2012: 4,348,175) shares, upon which dividends have been waived, with an aggregate nominal value of £2.2m (2012: £1.4m) and market  
value of £100.0m (2012: £43.9m). 
During the year 23,325,000 treasury shares with an aggregate nominal value of £7.5m were cancelled. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 115
10 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
2013 2012
£m £m
Profit for the year 1.1 197.5
Dividends (91.8) (85.7)
(90.7) 111.8
Issue of share capital 9.6 7.9
Employee trust shares (50.1) (9.6)
Share based payments 1.3 5.7
Net (decrease)/increase in shareholders’ funds (129.9) 115.8
Opening shareholders’ funds 942.0 826.2
Closing shareholders’ funds 812.1 942.0
The Company had no other recognised gains or losses in the year ended 31 December 2013 or the year ended 31 December 2012.
11 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Borrowings by subsidiary undertakings totalling £874.3m (2012: £778.2m) which are included in the Group’s borrowings have been 
guaranteed by the Company. 
12 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The remuneration of the directors of the Company is disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements and the Directors’ 
remuneration report.
13 EMPLOYEE NUMBERS AND COSTS
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including directors) during the year was 41 (2012: 41).
The aggregate employee costs relating to these persons were:
2013 2012
£m £m
Wages and salaries 7.5 7.6
Social security costs 1.6 1.0
Share based payments 1.3 1.1
Pension costs 1.0 0.9
11.4 10.6
14 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
The Company has identified the directors of the Company, the UK pension scheme and its key management as related parties for the 
purpose of FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Details of the relevant relationships with these related parties are disclosed in the Directors’ 
remuneration report, Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements and Note 21 of the consolidated financial statements respectively. 116 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing the Group and parent 
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with UK GAAP and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing both the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK GAAP has been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company 
financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Annual Report and financial statements comply with the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom’s Financial 
Conduct Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an annual  
financial report.
We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge:
•  the Group and parent company financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting 
standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Annual Report and financial statements include a fair review of  
the development and performance of the business and the position  
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks  
and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
Michael Roney   Brian May
Chief Executive   Finance Director 
24 February 2014 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 117
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC ONLY
OPINION AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT
1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Bunzl plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Group and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash 
flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and related notes. In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
In arriving at our audit opinion on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatements that had the greatest effect on our audit 
were as follows:
The risk Our response
Business combination accounting – goodwill and intangible assets recognised in 2013 of £208.5m
Refer to page 45 (Audit Committee report), page 77 (accounting policy) and pages 104 to 107 (financial disclosures)
Given the acquisitive nature of the Group, accounting for acquisitions 
is considered a significant audit risk due to the judgements involved. 
Any error made in the identification and/or valuation of acquired 
intangibles gives rise to an equal, compensating error in goodwill. 
Whereas acquired intangibles are amortised in the income 
statement, goodwill is carried at cost with only impairment losses 
affecting the income statement.
Our audit procedures in this area included assessing the 
competency of the external experts used by the Group to value 
significant acquired intangibles. We challenged, through our own 
experience, the methodology and assumptions used, in particular 
those relating to the growth and discount rates used to determine 
the present value of the cash flow projections. We also assessed 
whether the Group’s disclosures about the business combinations 
are appropriate and in accordance with relevant accounting 
standards. 
Goodwill and intangibles – value at 31 December 2013 of £1,456.9m
Refer to page 45 (Audit Committee report), page 78 (accounting policy) and pages 87 to 88 (financial disclosures)
The recoverability of these assets, which are spread across multiple 
geographies and economies, is dependent on individual businesses 
acquired sustaining sufficient profitability in the future. Due to the 
inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future 
cash flows, which are the basis of the assessment of recoverability, 
this is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit is 
concentrated on.
In this area our audit procedures included, among others, using our 
own valuation specialist to assist us in evaluating the judgements 
and methodologies used by the Group, in particular those relating 
to the discount rate used to determine the present value of the cash 
flow projections. We compared the Group’s assumptions to 
externally derived data, as well as to our own assessments, 
in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth, 
competition, cost inflation and discount rates and applied 
sensitivities in assessing whether the Group’s assessments were 
too conservative or optimistic. We also assessed whether the 
Group’s disclosures reflected appropriately the outcome of its 
impairment testing. 
Tax – total tax charge of £83.1m, income tax payable of £62.2m
Refer to page 45 (Audit Committee report), page 79 (accounting policy) and pages 84 to 85 (financial disclosures)
Tax provisioning is considered a significant audit risk due to the 
Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities 
of international tax legislation and the time taken for tax matters 
to be agreed with the local tax authorities.
The directors are required to make judgements and estimates 
in determining the liability for income taxes recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Using the knowledge and experience of our own tax specialists, both 
at a Group and component level, we challenged the appropriateness 
of the directors’ judgements and estimates in relation to tax liabilities 
including the range of possible amounts that may be assessed under 
tax laws, likely settlement based on the latest correspondence with 
the relevant tax authorities and the complexity of tax legislation. We 
also assessed whether the Group’s tax disclosures are appropriate 
and in accordance with relevant accounting standards. 118 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC ONLY CONTINUED
The risk Our response
Retirement benefit obligations – £45.0m
Refer to page 45 (Audit Committee report), page 79 (accounting policy) and pages 99 to 102 (financial disclosures)
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension schemes. 
Significant estimates are made in valuing the Group’s post-
retirement defined benefit schemes and small changes in 
assumptions and estimates used to value the Group’s net pension 
deficit would have a significant effect on the results and financial 
position of the Group.
Using the knowledge and experience of our own actuarial specialists, 
we challenged the key assumptions and estimates applied to 
membership data to determine the Group’s net deficit including 
discount rate, inflation rate and mortality/life expectancy. This included 
a comparison of these key assumptions against externally derived data. 
We also considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect 
of the sensitivity of the deficits to these assumptions. 
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of 
our audit 
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set 
at £15m. This has been determined with reference to a benchmark 
of Group profit before taxation (of which it represents 5.2%), which 
we consider to be one of the principal considerations for members 
of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected 
and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit 
with a value in excess of £0.75m in addition to other audit 
misstatements below that threshold that we believed warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component 
audit teams at 35 components in North America, Continental Europe, 
UK & Ireland and Rest of the World. In addition, specified audit 
procedures were performed by five components in the United 
Kingdom and Continental Europe. These Group procedures covered 
99% of total Group revenue; 98% of Group profit before taxation and 
98% of total Group assets.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at all the key 
reporting components of the Group were all performed to local 
materiality levels. These local materiality levels were set individually 
for each component and agreed with the Group audit team and 
ranged from £53,000 to £12.8m. 
Detailed instructions were sent to all the auditors in these locations. 
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be 
addressed by the component auditors (which included the relevant 
risks of material misstatement detailed above) and set out the 
information required to be reported back to the Group audit team. 
The Group audit team visited the following locations: North America, 
UK, Chile and Denmark. Telephone meetings were also held with the 
auditors at these locations and the majority of the other locations 
that were not physically visited.
4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ 
report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which 
we are required to report by exception
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based 
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified 
other information in the Annual Report that contains a material 
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, 
a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the 
knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial 
statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee report on page 44 does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the directors’ statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going 
concern; and
• the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 39 to 43 
relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope of report and responsibilities
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website 
at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely 
to the Company’s members as a body and is subject to important 
explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, 
published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, 
which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should 
be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Michael Maloney (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square, London
24 February 2014 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 119
FIVE YEAR REVIEW
 2013 2012* 2011* 2010* 2009*
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 6,097.7 5,359.2 5,109.5 4,829.6 4,648.7
Operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs 414.4 352.4 335.7 306.7 295.7
Intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs (82.3) (58.6) (56.4) (51.0) (41.8)
Operating profit 332.1 293.8 279.3 255.7 253.9
Finance income 2.6 3.6 3.5 3.5 2.1
Finance cost (44.8) (37.6) (37.0) (37.9) (42.3)
Disposal of business – 4.0 (56.0) – –
Profit before income tax 289.9 263.8 189.8 221.3 213.7
Profit before income tax, intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs and disposal of business 372.2 318.4 302.2 272.3 255.5
Income tax (83.1) (72.5) (68.8) (65.1) (66.4)
Profit for the year 206.8 191.3 121.0 156.2 147.3
Basic earnings per share 63.5p 58.7p 37.3p 48.2p 43.9p
Adjusted earnings per share 82.4p 70.6p 67.6p 59.7p 55.4p
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’ (see Note 1). 120 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2014
Annual General Meeting 16 April
Results for the half year to 30 June 2014 26 August
2015
Results for the year to 31 December 2014 February
Annual Report circulated March
Dividend payments are normally made on these dates:
Ordinary shares (final) 1 July
Ordinary shares (interim) 2 January
ANALYSIS OF ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS
At 31 December 2013 the Company had 5,397 (2012: 5,429) 
shareholders who held 333.5 million (2012: 355.4 million) ordinary 
shares between them, analysed as follows:
Size of holding
Number of 
shareholders
% of issued
 share capital
0 – 10,000 4,784 2
10,001 – 100,000 363 4
100,001 – 500,000 159 10
500,001 – 1,000,000 37 8
1,000,001 and over 54 76
5,397 100
REGISTRAR
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions  
Bridgwater Road  
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
Telephone +44 (0) 870 889 3257  
Fax +44 (0) 870 703 6101 
Email webcorres@computershare.co.uk 
Website www.computershare.com
INVESTOR CENTRE
Shareholders can manage their shareholding online at 
www.investorcentre.co.uk. The Investor Centre is our registrar’s 
easy to use website, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, where 
the following services are available:
• change of address;
• view share balance information; 
• join the dividend reinvestment plan; and
• view dividend payment and tax information.
In order to register for the Investor Centre, shareholders will need 
their shareholder reference number which can be found on either 
their share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
DIVIDEND PAYMENT BY BACS
Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into their bank 
or building society account using the Bankers’ Automated Clearing 
Service (‘BACS’). This means that dividends will be in the account on 
the same day the dividend payment is made. Shareholders will receive 
their tax vouchers by post. To use this method of payment please 
contact our registrar on +44 (0) 870 889 3257 or visit the Investor 
Centre website. Please note that this option will not override any 
existing dividend scheme mandate, which would need to be revoked 
in writing.
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
The Company operates a dividend reinvestment plan which allows 
shareholders to use the whole of their cash dividend to buy additional 
shares in the Company, thereby increasing their shareholding. 
Shareholders can apply to join the plan online in the Investor Centre 
or can contact the Company’s registrar to request the terms and 
conditions of the plan and a printed mandate form.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt 
(ADR) programme that trades on the over-the-counter (OTC) market 
in the US. Citibank N.A. acts as the Depositary Bank.
Telephone Citibank New York +1 212 723 5435
Citibank London +44 (0) 20 7500 2030 
Email citiadr@citi.com 
Website www.citi.com/dr
GLOBAL PAYMENTS SERVICE
Shareholders may if they wish have their dividend payments paid 
directly into their bank account in certain foreign currencies. Please 
contact the Company’s registrar on +44 (0) 870 889 3257 to request 
further information about the currencies for which this service 
is available.
SHARE DEALING
Bunzl plc shares can be traded through most banks and 
stockbrokers. The Company’s registrar also offers an internet  
and telephone dealing service. Further details can be found at 
www.computershare.com/dealing/uk or by telephoning  
+44 (0) 870 703 0084.
SHAREGIFT
Sometimes shareholders have only a small holding of shares which 
may be uneconomical to sell. Shareholders who wish to donate these 
shares to charity can do so through ShareGift, an independent 
charity share donation scheme (registered charity no. 1052686). 
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained from ShareGift 
on +44 (0) 20 7930 3737 or at www.sharegift.org.
SHAREHOLDER SECURITY
Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited 
financial advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of 
free company reports. More detailed information about this can 
be found at www.fca.org.uk in the Consumers section. Details of  
any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses 
will be included in Company mailings. 
AUDITOR
KPMG Audit Plc
STOCKBROKERS
J.P. Morgan Cazenove  
Citigroup
COMPANY SECRETARY
Paul Hussey
REGISTERED OFFICE
York House 
45 Seymour Street 
London W1H 7JT 
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7725 5000 
Fax +44 (0) 20 7725 5001
Website www.bunzl.com 
Registered in England no. 358948
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Annual Report contains certain statements about the future 
outlook for the Group. Although the Company believes that the 
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements 
about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause 
actual outcomes and results to be materially different. Printed on Amadeus 50 Silk which is produced using  
50% recycled post-consumer waste and 50% wood fibre  
from fully sustainable forests with FSC
®
 certification.  
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF). Printed  
in the UK by Pureprint using their 
®
 and 
® 
environmental printing technology and vegetable inks were  
used throughout. Pureprint is a Carbon Neutral
®
 company.  
Both the manufacturing mill and the printer are registered  
to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are 
Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
Designed and produced by  York House
45 Seymour Street
London W1H 7JT
www.bunzl.com
