 Annual Report 2014
KEEPING  
BUSINESSES  
MOVING We are a focused  
and successful 
international distribution 
and outsourcing group 
keeping businesses 
moving across the 
Americas, Europe 
and Australasia. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
01 Financial highlights
02 Group at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
08 Business model and strategy
10 Organic growth
11 Operating model efficiencies
12 Acquisition growth
14 Key performance indicators
18 Chief Executive’s review
30 Financial review
34 Principal risks and uncertainties
37 Corporate responsibility
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
42 Board of directors
43 Corporate governance report
48 Audit Committee report 
52 Directors’ remuneration report 
73 Other statutory information
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
76 Consolidated income statement
77  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
78 Consolidated balance sheet
79  Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
80  Consolidated cash flow 
statement
81 Notes
113 Company balance sheet
114  Notes to the Company financial 
statements
120  Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
121  Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Bunzl plc
127 Five year review
128 Shareholder information
The Annual Report can be downloaded online.  
To find out more visit www.bunzl.com We support our customers all over the 
world with a variety of products that are 
essential for the successful operation 
of their businesses.
By outsourcing the purchasing, 
consolidation and delivery of a broad 
range of everyday items, our customers 
are able to focus on their core businesses, 
achieve purchasing efficiencies and 
savings, free up working capital, improve 
distribution capabilities, reduce carbon 
emissions and simplify their internal 
administration.
REVENUE  
 £6,156.5m +7%
(2013: £6,097.7m)
Growth at constant exchange rates 
(Actual exchange rates +1%)
OPERATING PROFIT  
 £341.8m +9%
(2013: £332.1m)
Growth at constant exchange rates 
(Actual exchange rates +3%)
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT* 
 £429.8m +10%
(2013: £414.4m)
Growth at constant exchange rates 
(Actual exchange rates +4%)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
 £299.8m +10%
(2013: £289.9m)
Growth at constant exchange rates 
(Actual exchange rates +3%)
ADJUSTED PROFIT*  
BEFORE INCOME TAX 
 £387.8m +11%
(2013: £372.2m)
Growth at constant exchange rates 
(Actual exchange rates +4%)
BASIC EARNINGS  
PER SHARE  
 64.5p +8%
(2013: 63.5p)
Growth at constant exchange rates 
(Actual exchange rates +2%)
ADJUSTED EARNINGS  
PER SHARE*  
86.2p +11%
(2013: 82.4p)
Growth at constant exchange rates 
(Actual exchange rates +5%)
DIVIDEND PER SHARE  
35.5p +10%
(2013: 32.4p)
* Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
Changes at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating the results 
for 2013 at the average exchange rates used for 2014.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 01
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GROUP AT A GLANCE
We provide a one-stop-shop distribution and outsourcing service across 
27 countries, supplying a broad range of internationally sourced non-food 
products to a variety of market sectors.
Where we operate
  28%  13%  11%  12%  26%
FOODSERVICE
Non-food consumables, 
including food packaging, 
disposable tableware, 
guest amenities, catering 
equipment, cleaning 
products and safety 
items, to hotels, 
restaurants, contract 
caterers, food processors 
and the leisure sector.
GROCERY 
Goods not for resale 
(items which are used 
but not actually sold), 
including food packaging, 
films, labels and cleaning 
and hygiene supplies, 
to grocery stores, 
supermarkets and 
retail chains.
CLEANING & HYGIENE
Cleaning and hygiene 
materials, including 
chemicals and hygiene 
paper, to cleaning and 
facilities management 
companies and 
industrial and 
healthcare customers.
RETAIL 
Goods not for resale, 
including packaging and 
other store supplies and 
a full range of cleaning 
and hygiene products, 
to department stores, 
boutiques, office 
supply companies, 
retail chains and home 
improvement chains.
SAFETY
A complete range of 
personal protection 
equipment, including 
hard hats, gloves, boots, 
ear and eye protection 
and other workwear, 
to industrial and 
construction markets.
Our market sectors
% OF 2014 REVENUE
NORTH 
AMERICA
• Revenue increased 5%  
at constant exchange rates.
• Adjusted operating profit* up  
5% at constant exchange rates.
• Operating margin* unchanged  
at 6.3%.
• Return on operating capital down  
from 61.2% to 59.6%. 
CONTINENTAL 
EUROPE
• Revenue up 5% at constant  
exchange rates.
• Adjusted operating profit* increased 
12% at constant exchange rates.
• Improvement in operating margin*  
from 8.4% to 9.0%.
• Return on operating capital up  
from 47.5% to 52.3%.
Read more about North America on page 20 Read more about Continental Europe on page 22
REVENUE
£3,372.1m
REVENUE
£1,146.3m
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT*
£211.1m 
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT*
£103.2m
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. 
55%
of 2014 revenue
19%
of 2014 revenue
02 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014   3%  7%
HEALTHCARE
Disposable healthcare 
consumables, including 
gloves, swabs, gowns 
and bandages, and other 
healthcare related 
equipment to hospitals, 
care homes and other 
facilities serving the 
healthcare sector.
Market environment
GROWTH DRIVERS
• Increasing trend to 
outsourcing.
• Global legislative trends for 
health & safety and the 
environment.
• Favourable demographics 
in healthcare.
• Underlying growth in key 
sectors including:
 − Foodservice – away from 
home;
 − Cleaning & hygiene 
– away from home;
 − Safety – increased 
legislation;
 − Healthcare – demographics.
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
• No one does what we do, 
on our scale, across our 
international markets.
• Expertise in making 
successful acquisitions.
• Global sourcing capabilities.
• Bunzl’s national distribution 
networks.
CUSTOMERS
• Strong national, regional 
and local customer base.
• Working with national and 
international leading 
companies.
• Aligned with customer 
growth.
• Focus on customer service.
OTHER
A variety of product 
ranges to other end  
user markets such 
as government 
and education 
establishments.
UK &  
IRELAND
• Revenue increased 6% at  
constant exchange rates. 
• Adjusted operating profit* up 
12% at constant exchange rates.
• Increase in operating margin*  
from 7.0% to 7.4%.
• Return on operating capital  
improved from 98.8% to 111.7%.
REST OF  
THE WORLD
• Revenue up 21% at constant  
exchange rates.
• Adjusted operating profit* increased 
24% at constant exchange rates.
• Increase in operating margin*  
from 9.7% to 9.9%.
• Return on operating capital down  
from 47.1% to 41.8%.
Read more about UK & Ireland on page 24 Read more about Rest of the World on page 26
REVENUE
£1,078.5m
REVENUE
£559.6m
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT*
£80.1m
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT*
£55.5m
17%
of 2014 revenue
9%
of 2014 revenue
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 03 RESULTS
Despite mixed macroeconomic conditions persisting throughout 
the year in many of the countries where we operate and challenging 
market conditions continuing to affect some of our sectors, I am 
pleased to report another excellent set of results at constant exchange 
rates. Significant currency translation movements, principally in the 
US dollar and euro, reduced the constant exchange Group growth 
rates by between 6% and 7%.
Group revenue increased to £6,156.5 million (2013: £6,097.7 million), 
and adjusted operating profit before intangible amortisation and 
acquisition related costs was £429.8 million (2013: £414.4 million). 
Adjusted earnings per share before intangible amortisation and 
acquisition related costs were 86.2p (2013: 82.4p).
At constant exchange rates revenue increased by 7%, due to organic 
growth of 3% combined with the impact of acquisitions, and adjusted 
operating profit rose by 10% as the Group operating margin improved 
from 6.8% to 7.0%. Adjusted earnings per share were up 11%. 
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 24.5p. This brings 
the total dividend for the year to 35.5p, up 10% compared to 2013. 
Shareholders will again have the opportunity to participate in our 
dividend reinvestment plan.
STRATEGY
Our consistent and proven strategy of developing the business 
through organic growth, consolidating our markets through 
focused acquisitions and continuously improving the efficiency 
of our operations has delivered another successful year of growth for 
the Group with all four business areas ahead of 2013 in both revenue 
and profits at constant exchange rates. 
Organic growth is achieved by continually redefining and deepening 
our commitment to our customers. By enabling our customers to 
outsource to Bunzl the purchasing, consolidation and distribution 
of a broad range of goods not for resale, they are able to benefit 
by achieving purchasing efficiencies and savings while at the 
same time freeing up working capital, improving their distribution 
capabilities, reducing carbon emissions and simplifying their 
internal administration. 
Acquisition activity continued at a good pace throughout 2014. 
Including Tillman, which we agreed to acquire in December 2014 and 
completed at the beginning of January 2015, we made 17 acquisitions 
with a total committed spend of £211 million, thereby adding 
annualised revenue of over £220 million. These acquisitions have 
helped to strengthen our position in many of the market sectors 
that we serve. 
INVESTMENT
Over time we have steadily invested in the business to support our 
growth strategy and to expand and enhance our asset base. During 
the year we have extended and improved our warehouses and opened 
new ones, both as a result of acquisitions and by consolidating our 
existing warehouse footprint. Our ability to serve our customers in 
the most efficient and appropriate manner is critical to our success 
and, as a result, we continuously upgrade our IT systems as we 
integrate new businesses into the Group and increase the 
functionality of our existing operations, thereby enhancing our 
customer offering.
14 13 12 11 10 09 08 06 07 05
2.9
3.3
3.6
4.2
4.6
4.8
5.1
5.4
6.1
6.2
14 13 12 11 10 09 08 06 07 05
203
226
243
281
296
307
336
352
414
430
04 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Revenue £bn
05 continuing operations
£6.2bn
Adjusted operating profit* £m
05 continuing operations
* Before amortisation and acquisition related costs.
£430m CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Sustainable business practice is important to Bunzl and refining 
our processes and operations to ensure improvements in this 
area is ongoing. Our ability to measure the improvement in our 
performance relies on the availability of high quality data for our key 
indicators and in this regard our environmental and accident data are 
now both subject to external assurance. We continue to engage with 
our suppliers to encourage them to adopt appropriate sustainable 
practices and ensure compliance with regulations. In this connection, 
our quality assurance/quality control team based in Shanghai 
regularly undertakes supplier audits to assist our suppliers in 
meeting our required standards.
EMPLOYEES
Although we are a large group, we strive to preserve the advantages 
and style of a small business, maintaining a flat organisation 
structure with decentralised decision making and clear lines of 
responsibility. In this way we are able to provide a responsive and 
tailored service offering to our customers. Bunzl is a service 
business and accordingly our employees across the world are our 
ambassadors. We are therefore very grateful for the knowledge, 
experience and continued enthusiasm shown by our employees who 
have played an important part in our strong performance. Further, 
we have welcomed a number of new employees through acquisitions 
we have made. In our view, the retention of employees post 
acquisition is key to the successful integration of newly acquired 
businesses and to bring in new ideas and improved processes that 
can then be applied elsewhere in the Group. 
BOARD
Peter Johnson, who has served as a non-executive director since 
2006, will be retiring after the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
in April 2015. During his time he has also served as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and senior independent director. We thank 
Peter for his guidance and wise counsel over many years and he will 
leave the Board with our gratitude and best wishes for the future. 
Vanda Murray was appointed as a non-executive director with effect 
from February 2015. Based in the UK, Vanda is presently a non-
executive director of Exova Group plc, Manchester Airports Holdings 
Limited, Microgen plc, where she is Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, and Fenner PLC, where she is the senior independent 
director. She was previously Chief Executive Officer of Blick plc 
from 2001 to 2004 and subsequently the UK Managing Director of 
Ultraframe PLC from 2004 to 2006. She was appointed OBE in 2002 
for Services to Industry and to Export and has over 20 years of senior 
management experience across a range of industrial, manufacturing 
and support services sectors in Europe, the US and Asia which will 
be of great value to Bunzl as we continue to expand and develop. 
Upon Peter’s retirement in April, Vanda will become Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and David Sleath, who was appointed as 
a non-executive director in September 2007 and is Chairman of the 
Audit Committee, will assume the role of senior independent director.
Philip Rogerson
Chairman 
23 February 2015
Read more about our key performance indicators on pages 14 and 15
14 13 12 11 10 09 08 06 07 05
38.2
41.1
44.4
51.8
55.4
59.7
67.6
70.6
82.4
86.2
14 13 12 11 10 09 08 06 07 05
643
710
742
757
675
777
884
1,167
1,450
1,820
443
578
627
542 482
616
676
852
1,014
1,367
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 05
‘  As a focused organisation we have once 
again demonstrated the strength of our 
customer proposition and shown our 
ability to grow and develop across our 
international portfolio of businesses.’
Adjusted earnings per share p
05–12 restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011)
86.2p
Share price range p
1,367p – 1,820p ADAPTING TO  
CHANGING MARKET 
CONDITIONS AND 
CUSTOMER NEEDS
06 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 We do business in 
multiple regions within 
varied market sectors 
which makes us adaptable 
enough to withstand shifts 
and changes in demand. 
Growing both organically 
and through acquisitions, 
we are a balanced and 
resilient business.
6+ SECTORS
BALANCED PORTFOLIO
Read more about our acquisition growth  
on pages 12 and 13
ADAPTING TO  
CHANGING MARKET 
CONDITIONS AND 
CUSTOMER NEEDS
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 07 ONE-STOP-SHOP 
FOR NON-FOOD 
CONSUMABLES
CUSTOMER BENEFITS
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
RELIABILITY
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
RESOURCES
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
RELIABILITY
RESOURCES
KNOWLEDGE
INVESTMENTS
EXPERTISE
EFFICIENCIES
SOURCE
CONSOLIDATE
DELIVER
08 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY
For many years we have followed a well established and successful business model and 
pursued a consistent and proven strategy. By doing so we have delivered strong growth 
across our selected international markets as we have looked to develop both in existing 
and new geographies.
WE SOURCE
We source and procure branded, own brand 
and unbranded products globally, working 
with both multinational and local suppliers, 
to ensure that our customers have access 
to the best and most suitable products to 
meet their needs.
WE CONSOLIDATE
By applying our resources and consolidating 
a broad range of products into our extensive 
warehousing infrastructure, we are able 
to offer our customers a one-stop-shop 
solution which reduces or eliminates many 
of the hidden costs of self-distribution.
WE DELIVER
We offer several delivery options, including 
direct store delivery, cross dock and 
warehouse replenishment programmes, on 
a local, regional, national and international 
basis, to ensure that our customers get their 
products when and where they are needed.
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
Our shareholders have 
enjoyed significant returns 
on their investment over 
time with sustained growth 
in Bunzl’s share price and 
year-on-year increases 
in dividends.
CUSTOMER BENEFITS
Our customers benefit  
from a lower cost of doing 
business by reducing or 
eliminating many of the 
hidden costs of in-house 
procurement and 
distribution and reducing 
carbon emissions.
Our business model BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 09
By following a strategy of focusing on our strengths and consolidating the markets in which 
we compete, we are able to create long term shareholder value.
Our strategy building blocks
Our strategy
UNIQUE BUSINESS MODEL
Our supply chain management and  
one-stop-shop offering allows our customers 
to focus on their core businesses more 
effectively and at the same time reduce their 
working capital and carbon emissions. 
BALANCED BUSINESS PORTFOLIO
We have a geographically balanced and 
diversified business portfolio operating 
across 27 countries.
EXPERIENCED MANAGEMENT
 Our executive directors and business area 
heads have extensive experience in managing 
the Group’s businesses with an average 
of 17 years’ service with Bunzl.
OPERATIONAL FOCUS
 With a decentralised operational structure, 
our management are able to focus on our 
customers’ needs while retaining full 
responsibility for the financial performance 
of their businesses.
ACQUISITION STRATEGY AND  
TRACK RECORD
 Our acquisition strategy is to seek out those 
businesses that satisfy key criteria, including 
having good financial returns in resilient and 
growing markets, while at the same time 
providing opportunities to extract further 
value as part of the Bunzl Group.
STRONG FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE
Since 2004 we have delivered consistently 
good results with very high returns on capital 
and operating cash flow conversion.
ATTRACTIVE MARKETS
We operate across six core fragmented 
markets sectors, many of which are 
growing and resilient to challenging 
economic conditions.
ACQUISITION 
GROWTH 
Since 2004 we have made 
100 acquisitions with an 
average annual spend 
of £183 million, adding 
average annualised 
revenue of £261 million.
OPERATING 
MODEL  
EFFICIENCIES
We continually strive  
to make our businesses 
more efficient and 
environmentally friendly 
by investing in new IT 
systems and warehouse 
facilities and implementing 
best practice operational 
procedures.
 ORGANIC  
GROWTH 
We achieve organic growth 
by applying our resources 
and expertise to enable 
customers to outsource 
to Bunzl the purchasing, 
consolidation and 
delivery of a broad range 
of products, thereby 
enabling them to achieve 
efficiencies and savings.
Read more on page 10
To find out how we are making progress on our strategic priorities through our key performance indicators, see pages 14 and 15
Read more on pages 12 and 13 Read more on page 11 10 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Case study – product development
Smart, simple, safe solutions
WHAT BUNZL DID TO GROW THE BUSINESS 
FoodHandler is a leading supplier of high quality disposable 
products to the foodservice sector in the US that was purchased 
by Bunzl in 2012. Through the use of patented and proprietary 
technology, over the last three years FoodHandler has increased 
its sales through the design and development of a variety of new, 
innovative products. These include hybrid technology gloves 
and a single glove dispensing system, that have improved food 
safety standards by cutting down on cross-contamination, and 
antimicrobial paper that extends the shelf life of fresh food by 
two to three days. These types of creative sales and marketing 
initiatives have enabled FoodHandler to grow and enhance its 
penetration in the key markets that it serves.
Case study – customer development
Supporting customers as they expand
WHAT BUNZL DID TO GROW THE BUSINESS 
Bunzl began providing outsourcing solutions to a large facilities 
management company in the UK in 2002. During the first year 
of operation, annual revenue reached £5 million as we provided 
cleaning and hygiene supplies in support of their contract 
cleaning business. Over the last 12 years, as the customer 
has developed and grown its business, we have been able 
to extend our own business by expanding the product range 
supplied into catering and healthcare related products.  
By doing so, we have steadily increased our annual sales  
to over £18 million today, with in excess of 85,000 deliveries  
being made each year to more than 8,000 delivery points.
ORGANIC GROWTH
Growing Bunzl organically, either by expanding and developing our business with existing 
customers or by gaining new business with additional customers, is an integral part of our 
strategy to enhance shareholder value.
‘ We provide our customers with peace 
of mind by listening to their needs 
and understanding their requirements 
whilst providing dedicated account 
management and exceptional service.’
  Paul Budge 
Managing Director UK & Ireland
ALIGNED WITH CUSTOMER GROWTH
BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS
One of the greatest opportunities for organic sales growth comes 
from building long term relationships with existing customers. 
By being both flexible and reliable and by providing excellent levels 
of service, we gain our customers’ trust and confidence to meet 
their future needs over a sustained period of time through a broad 
and effective product and service offering.
ACQUIRING NEW CUSTOMERS
We are constantly striving to expand and gain market share 
by winning business with new customers. Our well established 
business model allows us to show potential customers that we can 
apply our resources and expertise to reduce or eliminate many of 
the hidden costs of in-house procurement and distribution or satisfy 
their requirements more cost-effectively than their current suppliers.
EXPANDING OUR OFFERING
Once we have established a good relationship with a particular 
customer and successfully demonstrated that we are able to improve 
their operational efficiency, we endeavour to increase our levels of 
business with that customer by extending the range of products and 
services we supply. This can be achieved by expanding our offering 
to other parts of their business, where we might not have previously 
been a recognised supplier, or by increasing the type and variety 
of products which are available to them, whether branded or own 
brand. We do this either by extending the range of products within 
a particular category or adding new categories of products to those 
already supplied, often by optimising cross-selling opportunities 
across other Bunzl businesses.
EXPANDING OUR PRODUCT RANGE BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11
WAREHOUSE LIGHTING
Recent improvements in lighting 
technology have meant we are able to 
make significant savings in electricity 
costs by installing energy efficient 
and environmentally friendly lighting 
systems either by retrofitting existing 
warehouses or requiring landlords of 
new facilities to provide such lighting 
as part of the warehouse fit out.
ROUTING AND SAFETY SYSTEMS
By installing state-of-the-art routing 
and safety systems in our facilities and 
delivery vehicles, we are able to plan 
our delivery routes to minimise the 
distances travelled and encourage safe 
and efficient driving practices, thereby 
reducing fuel and other transport costs 
which represent a significant part of our 
operating expenses.
CONSOLIDATING WAREHOUSES
As warehouse lease terms come to an 
end, we are often able to consolidate our 
warehouse footprint in a particular area 
by closing a number of smaller and less 
efficient facilities and relocating our 
operations into a single, larger and more 
efficient building while at the same time 
improving the working conditions for 
our employees.
GLOBAL PURCHASING
With the annual cost of the goods we 
sell exceeding £4.6 billion, our global 
scale provides substantial purchasing 
synergies with our international suppliers 
which many of our smaller competitors 
are unable to achieve and which we are 
able to share with our customers in the 
form of more competitive selling prices.
SHARING BEST PRACTICE
As we have continued to expand 
internationally, we are increasingly 
making use of our collective resources, 
experience and expertise to share 
best practice across the Group and 
collaborate between our different 
businesses in order to maximise our 
potential opportunities to grow and 
develop in the most cost-effective way.
IT SYSTEMS
Systems are critical to our ability to serve 
our customers in the most cost-effective 
and efficient manner and accordingly 
we are continually improving and 
upgrading our IT systems in order to 
increase functionality and enhance 
customer service and thereby maintain 
our leadership position in the marketplace.
OPERATING MODEL EFFICIENCIES
We are continually looking to refine and develop our processes and procedures to make our operations 
more efficient. By doing so, we are able to gain a competitive advantage, by offering our customers more 
cost-effective solutions, while at the same time improve our profitability.
SAFETY SCALE INVESTMENT
SAVINGS EFFICIENCIES DEVELOPMENT 12 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
ACQUISITIONS
Case study – Latin America
Extending the operational footprint
WHAT BUNZL DID TO GROW THE BUSINESS 
Prior to 2008 our only business in Latin America was a relatively 
small operation serving the grocery sector in Mexico. Having 
conducted a detailed market study of the potential to develop 
our business more widely in the region, we entered the safety 
market in Brazil through the purchase of Prot-Cap in 2008 and 
strengthened our position in this sector with the acquisition of 
AM Supply in 2010 and Danny in 2011. Over the next two years 
we expanded our business in Brazil into the cleaning & hygiene 
and healthcare sectors while at the same time entering the 
foodservice sector in Mexico and extending our safety business 
into Chile, Colombia, Peru, Argentina and Mexico through the 
acquisition of Vicsa Safety. By the end of 2014 we had made 
12 acquisitions in the region and now operate in six countries 
across four market sectors.
FOOTPRINT
ACQUISITION GROWTH
Expanding and developing the Group through acquiring businesses is also a key component 
of our growth strategy. Historically, approximately two thirds of our year-on-year increase 
in earnings has been achieved through an ongoing programme of focused and targeted 
acquisitions in both new and existing geographies.
Acquisition growth track record
COMMITTED ACQUISITION SPEND £M ANNUALISED ACQUISITION REVENUE £M
Acquisition growth year by year
‘ Our ability to find the right targets 
in the right markets at the right time 
has enabled us to build a substantial 
regional business over the last seven 
years and establish a strong platform 
for future growth.’
 Rodrigo Mascarenhas
 Managing Director Latin America 
CONTINUING OUR  
GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION
FROM 1 TO 6 COUNTRIES
12 ACQUISITIONS SINCE 2008
2008 2014
COUNTRIES
YEAR
302
129
162
197
123
126
185
277
295
211
6
14 13 12 11 10 09 08 05 04 06 07
430
270
386
225
151 154
204
281
518
223
27
14 13 12 11 10 09 08 05 04 06 07
2004 2006 2005 2003 2007
12
2
22
8
21
9
18
7
14
7 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 13
Case study – Spain
Developing in a new country
WHAT BUNZL DID TO GROW THE BUSINESS 
Although we had progressively expanded our business in 
Continental Europe since 1994, we did not enter the Spanish 
market until 2007 with the acquisition of Iberlim, a cleaning 
and hygiene distributor based near Barcelona. Between 2008 
and 2011 our business in Spain grew rapidly with two further 
acquisitions in the cleaning & hygiene sector, an entry into the 
foodservice sector and the purchase of two businesses serving 
the safety sector. Including Quirumed, a healthcare business 
based in Valencia which was acquired in January 2015, we have 
made seven acquisitions in Spain over the last eight years and 
now operate in four market sectors.
SECTOR SPLIT 2014 (PRO FORMA)
 Cleaning & Hygiene
 Safety
 Foodservice
 Healthcare
SECTOR ENTRY
Acquisition strategy
KEY ACQUISITION PARAMETERS
In considering potential acquisition opportunities, we only target 
those businesses which meet the specific parameters that fit our 
business model and growth strategy. These include businesses:
• that sell business to business (‘B2B’);
• with a consolidated ‘not-for-resale’ product offering;
• in resilient and growing markets;
• with a fragmented customer base;
• which operate in markets with scope for consolidation 
and synergies;
• whose products represent a small % of total customer spend;
• that have opportunities for ‘own label’ products; and
• with attractive financial returns.
ACQUISITION TYPES
There are two different types of acquisition that we undertake 
depending on whether we are already present in the country  
or market sector in which the target business is operating:
• Anchor
 − new geographies; or
 −  new market sectors.
• Bolt-on
 − existing geographies; or
 −  existing market sectors.
Opportunity for growth
GROWTH IN EXISTING COUNTRIES 
Unlike many industries which are characterised by a relatively small 
number of large businesses, the markets in which we compete are 
very fragmented. As a result, there are numerous opportunities 
for us to develop through acquisitions in those countries where we 
already have a presence. We do this either by extending our existing 
operations in a particular market sector or by acquiring a business 
in a sector in which we do not currently operate within that country.
GROWTH IN NEW COUNTRIES
In 1992, the business which now comprises the continuing operations 
of the Bunzl Group was only operational in the US and Australia. 
By 1997 the business had expanded through acquisitions into seven 
countries and grew further to cover 12 countries by 2003. The 
development of the Group since then is shown in the timeline below. 
We are now a truly international business with operations in 27 
countries but there are a number of potentially attractive countries 
where we do not yet have a presence. In evaluating whether to enter 
a new country through acquisition, we consider a number of different 
criteria including a detailed analysis of our market sectors, the local 
macroeconomic indicators and the ease of doing business in, and the 
political risks and business practices associated with, the particular 
country under review.
‘ After an initial anchor acquisition  
in 2007, which has been followed by  
the successful integration of six further 
bolt-on acquisitions, we have developed  
a national business in Spain with annual 
revenue in excess of €100 million.’
 Frank van Zanten
 Managing Director Continental Europe
ACQUIRED BUSINESSES  
CONTINUE TO FEEL ‘LOCAL ’
FROM 0 TO 4 SECTORS
7 ACQUISITIONS SINCE 2007
YEAR
17%
38%
25%
20%
2007 2008 2011 2015
2009 2011 2010 2008 2012 2014 2013
23
7
23
2
23
9
23
10
27
13
27
11
27
17 Organic growth
Organic revenue growth %
Increase in revenue for the year 
excluding the impact of currency 
translation, acquisitions during the 
first 12 months of ownership and 
disposal of business.
Organic operating margin %
Current year operating margin 
excluding the impact of acquisitions 
during the first 12 months of ownership 
compared to the prior year operating 
margin restated at constant 
exchange rates.
Acquisition growth
Acquisition spend £m
Consideration paid and payable, 
together with net debt assumed, 
in respect of businesses acquired 
or agreed to be acquired during 
the year.
Annualised revenue  
from acquisitions £m
Estimated revenue which would have 
been contributed by acquisitions made 
or agreed to be made during the year if 
such acquisitions had been completed 
at the beginning of the relevant year.
Operating model efficiencies
Operating margin %
Ratio of adjusted operating profit 
(being operating profit before 
intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs and disposal of 
business) to revenue.
Return on average  
operating capital %
Ratio of adjusted operating profit 
(being operating profit before 
intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs and disposal of business) 
to the average of the month end 
operating capital employed, being 
tangible fixed assets, inventories and 
trade and other receivables less trade 
and other payables.
14 12 13 11
4.0
2.6
2.0
2.7
14 12 13 11
185
277
295
211
14 12 13 11
6.6 6.6
6.8
7.0 
14 13
6.8 6.8
14 12 13 11
204
518
281
223
14 12 13 11
57.4
56.5 56.9
57.7
14 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
We use the following key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) to measure our progress 
in delivering the successful implementation of our strategy and to monitor and drive 
performance. These KPIs reflect our strategic priorities of developing the business 
through organic and acquisition led growth and improving the efficiency of our 
operations as well as other financial and environmental metrics.  Financial Non-financial
Adjusted earnings per share p
Adjusted profit for the year (being 
the profit for the year before intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related 
costs and disposal of business and 
associated tax) divided by the weighted 
average ordinary shares in issue. 
2011 and 2012 have been restated 
on adoption of IAS 19 (Revised 2011) 
‘Employee Benefits’.
Scope 1 carbon emissions 
Tonnes of CO
2
 per £m revenue
Measured in accordance with the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol applying 
Defra conversion factors.
Free cash flow £m
Cash generated from operations before 
acquisition related costs less net 
capital expenditure, interest and tax.
Scope 2 carbon emissions 
Tonnes of CO
2
 per £m revenue
Measured in accordance with the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol applying 
Defra conversion factors.
Return on invested  
capital %
Ratio of adjusted operating profit 
(being operating profit before  
intangible amortisation, acquisition 
related costs and disposal of business) 
to the average of the month end 
invested capital (being equity after 
adding back net debt, retirement benefit 
obligations, cumulative intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related costs 
and amounts written off intangible 
assets, net of the related tax).
Fuel usage 
Litres per £000 revenue
Diesel, petrol and LPG used  
in the Group’s own vehicles.
14 12 13 11
67.6
70.6
82.4
86.2
14 12 13 11
275
235
302
277 
14 12 13 11
17.3
17.9 17.9
17.6
14 12 13 11
17.7
15.8
15.5
◊ 15.7
†
14 12 13 11
5.3
4.6
5.3
◊
5.2
†
14 12 13 11
6.1
5.6
5.1
◊
5.0
†
12 months to 30 September
12 months to 30 September
12 months to 30 September
◊ Included in the external auditors’ limited assurance scope referred to on page 36 of the 2013 Annual Report.
†
 Included in the external auditors’ limited assurance scope referred to on page 41.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 15 16 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
INCREASED 
EFFICIENCY 
THROUGH GLOBAL 
PURCHASING 
EXPERTISE  Read more about our operating model  
efficiencies on page 11
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 17
INCREASED 
EFFICIENCY 
THROUGH GLOBAL 
PURCHASING 
EXPERTISE 
Our global network 
enables us to share expert 
knowledge for the benefit 
of all our businesses. 
Best practice increases 
efficiency across the Group, 
from achieving purchasing 
synergies to operating our 
warehouses in the most 
cost-effective way.
27 COUNTRIES
SHARED KNOWLEDGE 18 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
2014 has proved to be another successful year for the Group due to a 
combination of good organic growth and the impact from acquisitions 
made in 2013 as well as those businesses purchased during the year.
The overall negative translation effect of currency movements has 
significantly decreased the reported Group growth rates of both 
revenue and profit. As in previous years, the operations, including 
the relevant growth rates, are reviewed below at constant exchange 
rates to remove the distorting impact of these currency movements. 
Changes in the level of revenue and profits at constant exchange 
rates have been calculated by retranslating the results for 2013 at the 
average rates used for 2014. Unless otherwise stated, all references 
in this review to operating profit are to adjusted operating profit 
(being operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs). 
Revenue increased 7% (1% at actual exchange rates) to £6,156.5 
million and operating profit was £429.8 million, an increase of 10% 
(4% at actual exchange rates). The percentage growth in operating 
profit was greater than that of revenue due to the improvement in 
Group operating margin by 20 basis points to 7.0% as a result of 
increases in the operating margin in Continental Europe, UK & 
Ireland and Rest of the World. 
In North America revenue rose 5% (down 1% at actual exchange 
rates) due to good organic revenue growth and the impact of 
acquisitions completed in both 2013 and 2014, while operating profit 
also increased 5% (down 1% at actual exchange rates). Revenue in 
Continental Europe rose 5% (unchanged at actual exchange rates) 
as a result of improved organic revenue growth and the impact of 
acquisitions, with operating profit up 12% (6% at actual exchange 
rates) as margins improved by 60 basis points to 9.0%. In UK & 
Ireland revenue was up 6% (6% at actual exchange rates) due to the 
impact of strong organic growth and acquisitions, but operating profit 
rose 12% at both constant and actual exchange rates as margins 
improved by a further 40 basis points during the year to 7.4%. In Rest 
of the World revenue increased 21% (6% at actual exchange rates) 
and operating profit was up 24% (8% at actual exchange rates), 
principally due to strong organic revenue growth and the substantial 
impact of acquisitions in Latin America.
Basic earnings per share were 8% higher (2% at actual exchange 
rates) at 64.5p. Adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating the 
effect of intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs, were 
86.2p, an increase of 11% (5% at actual exchange rates). The return 
on average operating capital increased from 56.9% to 57.7% and 
return on invested capital was 17.6%, a slight decrease from 2013 
as improved returns in the underlying business were offset by 
the adverse impact of recent acquisitions and exchange rates.
Our operating cash flow continued to be strong with the ratio of 
operating cash flow before acquisition related costs to operating 
profit at 95%. The net debt to EBITDA ratio increased marginally 
to 1.9 times compared to 1.8 times as at the previous year end. 
Sustainable business practice is emphasised through our ongoing 
Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) programmes. During the year we 
undertook a detailed employee survey and were pleased that over 
70% of our employees responded and that 93% of respondents ‘enjoy 
working for Bunzl’. Our continued focus on operational excellence 
allows us to reduce our environmental impact by consolidating our 
warehouse footprint and, where necessary, introducing more 
sustainable practices to the businesses we acquire. 
ACQUISITIONS
Acquisitions are a key component of the Group’s growth strategy. 
Our committed spend in 2014 was £211 million as we made 17 
transactions in total, including Tillman which we agreed to acquire 
in December 2014 and completed at the beginning of January 2015.
At the end of January 2014 we acquired Bäumer and its related 
company Protemo in Germany. The businesses had aggregated 
revenue of £10 million in 2014 and represent our first step into the 
cleaning and hygiene and healthcare sectors in Germany. Oskar 
Plast, which sells a variety of disposable packaging products to 
customers throughout the Czech Republic, including retail food 
chains, food processors and other distributors, was acquired in 
February and has expanded our operations in the Czech Republic. 
Revenue was £12 million in 2014.
In March we completed four acquisitions. Lamedid, a business 
principally engaged in the supply and distribution throughout Brazil 
of own label medical and healthcare consumable products to 
hospitals, clinics and laboratories as well as to distributors, had 
revenue in 2014 of £13 million. It has significantly increased the size 
of our healthcare business in Brazil, the Group having entered the 
healthcare sector there with the acquisition of Labor Import in 2013. 
Although relatively small, the purchase of Nelson Packaging, a 
business principally engaged in the distribution of packaging and 
cleaning and hygiene supplies to end users in the commercial and 
industrial market sectors, has provided additional scale to our 
business in New Zealand. Revenue was £3 million in 2014. Plast 
Techs, which is engaged in the sale of a variety of foodservice and 
cleaning and hygiene supplies to distributors throughout Southern 
California and had revenue of £14 million in 2014, complements our 
existing business in the region and has provided access to additional 
product lines. The purchase of Tecno Boga represents a significant 
expansion of our operations in Chile, being a country that we entered 
with the acquisition of Vicsa Safety at the end of 2012. The business  
is a leading supplier of own label protective footwear, principally to 
distributors, and had revenue of £23 million in 2014.
Allshoes, a distributor of both branded and own brand safety and 
work shoes to a variety of wholesalers as well as to retailers, 
principally in the Netherlands but also in Belgium, was acquired in 
May. It represents an important development for our safety business 
in the Netherlands as it extends our product range in the safety 
shoes sector and provides cross-selling opportunities with Majestic, 
our existing personal protection equipment business in the Benelux 
region which specialises in the supply of gloves and workwear.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 19
Management team
Managers from across the Group meet regularly to review 
performance, discuss trends affecting our businesses and seek 
further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
Brian May 
Finance Director
Paul Hussey 
General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
Frank van Zanten 
Managing Director 
Continental Europe
Patrick Larmon 
President and CEO 
North America
Paul Budge 
Managing Director  
UK & Ireland
Rodrigo Mascarenhas 
Managing Director  
Latin America
Celia Baxter 
Director of Group 
Human Resources
Andrew Mooney 
Director of Corporate 
Development
Kim Hetherington 
Managing Director 
Australasia
Revenue in 2014 was £18 million. Also in May we acquired JPLUS, 
a Brazilian business with revenue of £12 million in 2014 principally 
engaged in the distribution of cleaning and hygiene supplies and 
disposable products to a variety of end user customers, particularly 
in the contract cleaning and healthcare sectors. This acquisition 
expands the geographical coverage of our cleaning and hygiene 
supplies business in Brazil. 
365 Healthcare, which had revenue of £12 million in 2014, was 
acquired at the end of June. The business is engaged in the 
distribution of own brand healthcare products to a variety of 
customers in the UK and Ireland and has expanded our product 
offering of medical consumables to the healthcare sector. At the 
end of July we purchased Premiere Products, a cleaning and hygiene 
supplies distributor in the UK principally servicing customers in 
the facilities management and education sectors. The business 
has extended the breadth of our own brand product offering and 
has further strengthened our cleaning and hygiene supplies business 
in the UK. Revenue was £4 million in 2014. We acquired two safety 
businesses in the UK also at the end of July. Lee Brothers, which 
had revenue of £11 million in 2014, supplies a variety of personal 
protection equipment and workplace consumables to customers 
largely in the construction and engineering sectors. Guardsman, 
which had revenue of £9 million in 2014, is engaged in the sale 
of safety equipment and workwear to customers in various 
manufacturing industries as well as the construction and 
engineering sectors. Together these businesses have further 
extended our safety business in the UK.
At the end of September we completed the acquisition of De Ridder, 
a specialist distribution business based in the Netherlands and 
engaged in the supply of a wide range of products principally to 
prisons, police stations and other detention centres. Revenue in 2014 
was £6 million. We acquired the business of Victoria Healthcare 
Products in November. Based near Melbourne, Australia, the 
business had revenue of £2 million in 2014 and supplies a variety 
of healthcare consumable products for people in the community 
and to residential care facilities. 
In North America our operations in Canada were further expanded 
with the purchase of Acme Supplies, a cleaning and hygiene supplies 
business based in Vancouver Island, at the beginning of December. 
Revenue in 2014 was £9 million. Our marketing services business in 
the UK was expanded in December with the purchase of POS Direct. 
Based in Leicester and with revenue of £4 million in 2014, the 
business manages and supplies a variety of point of sale and 
marketing materials. At the end of December we entered into an 
agreement to acquire Tillman, which supplies a variety of personal 
protection equipment, principally gloves, to distributors throughout 
the US who supply customers operating in the welding and industrial 
sectors. The acquisition was completed at the beginning of January 
2015. With revenue of £61 million in 2014, the purchase of Tillman 
represents another important development for the Group‘s safety 
business in the US. 
Today we are announcing two more acquisitions. Quirumed, which 
had revenue of £15 million in 2014, represents our first move into 
the healthcare sector in Spain while Jan-Mar, based in Toronto with 
revenue of £6 million in 2014, has further extended our cleaning and 
hygiene supplies business in Canada.
PROSPECTS
Bunzl’s strong market position and the ongoing benefit from 
acquisitions is expected to lead to further growth at constant 
exchange rates in each of our business areas in 2015 despite variable 
macroeconomic conditions across the countries in which we operate. 
In North America the impact of organic growth and recent 
acquisitions should result in a good performance. Even though 
the economic outlook remains challenging in Continental Europe, 
we expect to see continued growth this year. UK & Ireland should 
progress as a result of further organic growth and the contribution 
from acquisitions made in 2014. Although Rest of the World is likely 
to experience more difficult trading conditions due to exchange rate 
volatility and the slowdown in the resource sectors, it should 
continue to grow.
The pipeline of potential acquisitions remains promising. Discussions 
are ongoing with various targets and we expect to complete further 
transactions as the year progresses.
The Board is confident that Bunzl’s well positioned businesses will 
develop further and that the prospects for the Group are positive.
Michael Roney
Chief Executive 
23 February 2015 20 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
NORTH  
AMERICA
OVERVIEW
Growth %
£m 2014 2013 Reported
Constant 
exchange
Revenue 3,372.1 3,401.7 (1) 5
Adjusted operating 
profit* 211.1 213.6 (1) 5
Operating margin* 6.3% 6.3%
Return on  
operating capital 59.6% 61.2%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
In North America revenue increased by 5% to £3,372.1 million due 
to organic revenue growth with new and existing customers and 
additional sales provided by acquisitions made in both 2013 and 2014. 
Each of these acquisitions has allowed us to expand our product and 
service offerings through their unique capabilities and strong market 
presence. With the operating margin stable, the operating profit also 
increased 5% to £211.1 million.
Our largest business, which serves the grocery sector, was impacted 
by the severe winter weather which affected much of the US in the 
first quarter of the year but continued to experience sales growth in 
an environment of mergers and acquisitions, expansion and channel 
diversification amongst our customer base. During 2014 we renewed 
several supply agreements with national and regional grocery 
wholesalers and retailers. At the same time we maintained strong 
business relationships with many long term customers, including 
some of the largest supermarket chains and discount supercentres 
in the US and Canada, although margins came under pressure. To 
promote our capabilities within the grocery sector, we launched our 
‘Think Big’ branding campaign targeting executive leadership. The 
campaign’s message emphasises our ability to help our customers’ 
decision makers decrease costs and reduce the levels of inventories 
while increasing revenues through better merchandising and 
category management.
Our business serving the retail sector continued to drive strong 
organic growth. We secured a substantial new agreement with a 
leading North American home improvement retailer and expanded 
business with existing customers. Our unique ability to deliver a 
combination of custom store supply programmes, branded 
packaging, display solutions and fixture consolidation services has 
allowed us to solidify our position as a preferred business partner 
for retailers seeking a one-stop-shop to serve all of their locations. 
Both our grocery and retail sector customers value the advantages 
we provide through our customised distribution platform, including 
our product and sourcing expertise, high fill rates and bespoke 
reporting capabilities as well as the reliable delivery service provided 
by our own large transport fleet which together give us a real 
competitive advantage.
Our redistribution business, which serves distributors in the 
foodservice, cleaning and hygiene and safety sectors, was also 
affected by the unfavourable weather conditions early in the year. 
In a competitive and challenging market, the business experienced 
a slight increase in revenue as a result of the impact of recent 
acquisitions. We are working to stimulate sales growth by increasing 
our marketing activities, expanding our category management 
initiatives and adding complementary businesses to extend our 
product range and market reach. With our ‘R3 Factor’ branding 
campaign, we engaged with our foodservice and cleaning and 
hygiene distribution customers about the advantages of using our 
coast-to-coast branch network as their ‘virtual warehouse’. This 
provides our customers with access to an unmatched range of 
products and supply chain services they can leverage to increase 
their sales and profitability while managing their working capital 
more efficiently. In addition, our expanded category management 
practice positions us well to use our distribution expertise to help 
customers rationalise their inventories, manage their warehouse 
space more effectively and gain a competitive advantage. The 
acquisition in March of Plast Techs, a supplier of foodservice and 
cleaning and hygiene products to distributors in Southern California, 
has augmented our redistribution business in the region while 
providing access to additional product lines.
SAS Safety, which we acquired in December 2013, and Tillman, which 
was purchased at the beginning of 2015, have significantly broadened 
our range of own brand personal protection equipment solutions and 
allowed us to expand into the industrial, automotive and welding 
distribution markets. FoodHandler expanded its food safety product 
line with several exclusive innovative products and has become a 
one-stop-shop for foodservice operators. Additionally, our expertise 
in creating and distributing imported and domestic own brand 
products allows us to provide our customers across all sectors with 
a range of value solutions that meet their particular specifications 
and budgets.
Our business supplying the food processor sector experienced 
revenue growth by increasing sales to existing customers and 
acquiring new customers. Our national accounts team provided 
greater focus on selling our value to key customers while offering 
centralised management for our customers’ extensive operations. 
We also introduced a range of technical packaging that helps food 
processors preserve product freshness and taste. We continue to 
serve all sectors of the food processing industry, including meat 
and home meal processors, bakeries, fresh produce providers 
and speciality food purveyors.
3 ACQUISITIONS
+5% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
DRIVING INNOVATIONS ‘ Our extensive experience 
in making successful 
acquisitions has once 
again brought additional 
innovation and expertise 
which have helped to 
develop and expand 
our business further.’
 Patrick Larmon
 President and CEO North America
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 21
In the agriculture sector, our business grew as a result of our 
ability to provide a wider range of products to produce growers, 
packers and shippers across North America. With our expertise 
in customised flexible and rigid packaging design and distribution, 
we are able to help our agriculture customers meet the rising 
demand from health-conscious consumers who are increasing 
their consumption of fresh produce.
In the convenience store sector, we experienced strong organic 
growth, primarily due to new programmes distributing 
consumable products through our largest convenience store 
wholesale customer.
In Canada the acquisition of Wesclean in 2013 has helped us to 
increase our sales in the cleaning and hygiene sector during the 
year and our acquisition of Acme Supplies in December 2014 has 
further increased our presence in this sector. In Mexico, ProEpta, 
which we also acquired in 2013, has expanded our reach in the 
hospitality sector and has increased revenue by providing 
products for prominent national and international customers.
3 ACQUISITIONS
+5% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
DRIVING INNOVATIONS 4 ACQUISITIONS
+12% increase in adjusted operating  
profit at constant exchange rates
REDUCING COSTS
22 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
CONTINENTAL 
EUROPE
OVERVIEW
Growth %
£m 2014 2013 Reported
Constant 
exchange
Revenue 1,146.3 1,151.5 0 5
Adjusted operating 
profit* 103.2 97.0 6 12
Operating margin* 9.0% 8.4%
Return on  
operating capital 52.3% 47.5%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
Revenue in Continental Europe rose by 5% to £1,146.3 million and 
operating profit improved 12% to £103.2 million with the operating 
margin increasing from 8.4% to 9.0%. Organic revenue growth for 
the year was relatively low as macroeconomic conditions continued 
to be difficult throughout the region, but further improvements to 
gross margins and careful operating cost management contributed 
to a strong increase in underlying profitability. This has been 
supplemented by the full year impact of the acquisition in November 
2013 of pka Klöcker and by the acquisitions in 2014 of Bäumer, 
Oskar Plast, Allshoes and De Ridder. 
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business saw a slight decline in 
sales as good performances in the healthcare, food processor and 
industrial sectors were offset by lower sales to contract cleaners 
who continue to struggle in the difficult economic environment. 
However, a combination of an improvement in gross margins and a 
reduction in operating costs resulted in a significant improvement 
in operating profit. Our personal protection equipment business both 
increased sales and reduced costs such that it also delivered strong 
operating profit growth.
In the Netherlands, sales improved in the food processor, retail, 
healthcare and cleaning and hygiene sectors but sales declined in 
the grocery sector, due to customer consolidation, and in the hotel, 
restaurant and catering (‘horeca’) sector, which continues to be 
under pressure in the local market. Gross margins improved, 
operating costs were tightly managed and a further two businesses 
successfully migrated to our IT system. Sales continued to grow 
strongly at our safety products business as it gained new customers 
and market share and also benefited from growth with new products. 
Together with improved margins due to an increasing share of own 
brand products, this led to substantially higher operating profits. 
Both Allshoes and De Ridder, which were acquired during the year, 
have traded as expected and are integrating well into the Group.
In Belgium, sales grew well in the cleaning and hygiene sector due 
to growth with both existing and new customers, and also increased 
in the grocery sector despite our customers facing continued 
competition from a number of lower cost grocery chains. Although 
margins were under pressure, costs were stable and the sales 
growth therefore led to an improved level of overall profits.
In Germany, sales in our main business have grown significantly 
in the hotel sector and with smaller regional accounts leading to 
a healthy increase in operating profit and our workwear business, 
pka Klöcker, which was acquired in 2013, has traded well. A number 
of significant synergies have been realised in Bäumer, the cleaning 
and hygiene business that was purchased in January 2014.
In Switzerland, sales have increased with a good performance in 
particular in the retail sector. Gross margins were stable and costs 
were well controlled which resulted in operating profit being ahead 
of the previous year. 
In Denmark, sales declined slightly as disappointing performances 
in the retail and redistribution sectors could not be completely offset 
by good sales growth of horeca products, personal protection 
equipment and packaging. Sales to the public sector were stable. 
However, gross margins improved and costs were further reduced 
such that operating profit increased.
In Spain, trading conditions continued to improve and we recorded 
good growth in our cleaning and hygiene business. Gross margins 
were stable and operating profit progressed well. We also generated 
excellent growth in our personal protection equipment businesses 
due to exports and better domestic sales. Gross margins were also 
slightly better and operating profit improved significantly.
In Central Europe, sales grew strongly, particularly in Hungary 
where both our retail and cleaning and hygiene/personal protection 
equipment businesses performed well. Gross margins were stable 
despite ongoing margin pressure and cost increases were kept to 
a minimum such that operating profit rose. Oskar Plast, which we 
acquired in February 2014, and our existing Czech retail business 
are in the process of being fully integrated which will lead to a 
number of synergies.
In Israel, both of our businesses saw lower sales and profits due to 
difficult market conditions, particularly in our business supplying the 
bakery sector. Our business supplying the horeca sector successfully 
relocated to a new purpose-built facility. ‘ The efficiency and profitability of the 
businesses we acquire are improved by 
retaining the key management and by 
Bunzl providing the necessary financial 
discipline, support and investment.’
 Frank van Zanten
 Managing Director Continental Europe
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 23 5 ACQUISITIONS
+12% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
DEVELOPING RELATIONSHIPS
24 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
UK &  
IRELAND
OVERVIEW
Growth %
£m 2014 2013 Reported
Constant 
exchange
Revenue 1,078.5 1,018.5 6 6
Adjusted operating 
profit* 80.1 71.6 12 12
Operating margin* 7.4% 7.0%
Return on  
operating capital 111.7% 98.8%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
In UK & Ireland revenue increased 6% to £1,078.5 million and 
operating profit rose 12% to £80.1 million. While our markets are 
highly competitive and customers are discerning and looking at all 
items of spend in great detail seeking to reduce cost, underlying 
demand has grown which has helped us to deliver strong growth. 
The detailed work that has been undertaken since the economic 
downturn to reduce our overhead cost base and also to manage 
margins closely has helped to increase the operating margin over 
recent years and the margin improved further in 2014 rising from 
7.0% to 7.4%.
In a number of our businesses we have continued to build actively 
on our private label programme as we seek to reduce costs 
for customers, enhance our own margins and maintain a quality 
offering. As a consequence we have seen the sales of our private 
label products grow well. During the year we launched a complete 
range of glassware and crockery as well as new ranges of medical 
consumables, cleaning chemical dispensers and compostable and 
recyclable paper cups.
In safety supplies, we have seen a pick-up in construction activity 
during the year and have been successful in winning new business 
with a number of major companies. The acquisition of both Lee 
Brothers and Guardsman has given us access to a number of new key 
customers and both businesses have integrated into the Group well. 
In cleaning and hygiene supplies, the market has continued to be 
resilient although there has been further consolidation amongst our 
customer base. The acquisition of Premiere Products in July has 
proved to be a very good fit with our existing operations in this sector.
As has been widely reported, there has been a fair degree of market 
turmoil in the grocery sector. In this environment we are pleased to 
have maintained our levels of sales and profitability by continuing to 
assist our customers as their models evolve. This means that we are 
now offering more flexible supply solutions to help our customers 
move to omni-channel retailing in the form of direct deliveries to 
smaller retail outlets and also to support their online offerings. 
As our customers constantly seek to reduce their costs, we have 
focused on our procurement competence and successfully reduced 
our input costs during the year. Scotland introduced a minimum 
5p tax on single use carrier bags in 2014 and England will follow 
in October 2015. This has to date, and will in future, reduce the 
demand for such carrier bags but we are anticipating that this 
will be largely offset by increased use of reusable ‘bags for life’ 
which we also supply. Our specialist retail packaging business has 
performed well through winning business with a number of new 
customers and continuing to develop our offering to enhance the 
presentation of customers’ brands. Our sales offices in Hong Kong 
and Shenzhen, China have proved to be very attractive to global 
branded customers and have helped to strengthen existing 
relationships and bring good opportunities for the future 
development of our business.
In our marketing services businesses, point of sale activity was 
strong, particularly in the consumer goods and grocery retail 
sectors, and also due to the FIFA World Cup. During the year we 
consolidated the number of facilities from six down to three with 
new warehouses in Blackburn and Rugby. These new facilities are 
of good quality and, in addition to being more efficient to service our 
customers, also provide a much improved working environment for 
our employees. In December 2014 we extended our offering in this 
area with the acquisition of POS Direct. 
There has been strong growth in our hospitality supplies business. 
As markets have recovered, a number of customers have 
commenced investment and refurbishment programmes. We also 
achieved good sales of catering equipment supplied in response to 
the government initiative of Universal Infant Free School Meals 
and a broader range of foodservice products provided during the 
Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. We continued to focus on the 
high street coffee and quick service restaurant market and have 
experienced good growth with existing customers and also added 
a number of new customers to our portfolio. Part of our strategy 
in this high volume and low margin market is to reduce the size of 
our operating platform. In 2014 we have consolidated our national 
distribution centre and two branches into a single 165,000 square 
foot facility in the West Midlands.
Our healthcare supplies businesses have continued to operate in 
a market with ongoing hospital spending constraints and reduced 
subsidies for care homes. Despite this, we have enjoyed good growth 
through securing increased supply to private hospitals and gaining 
business with four additional hospital trusts. The acquisition in June 
of 365 Healthcare, which specialises in drapes and gowns used in 
operating theatres, has proved to be a strong addition to our private 
label medical consumables offering. In our existing private label 
business, there have been good results from resourcing and 
subsequently launching new products in response to customers’ 
needs to reduce costs. We have continued to raise our profile in the 
care home sector with increased marketing activity and product 
range development, while also actively seeking to assist customers 
in complying with care quality regulations.
In Ireland the economy has continued to improve and we have 
benefited particularly from growth in the Dublin hotel market and 
the investment and refurbishment programmes that have started 
once again. Having taken the measures to reduce our cost base in 
previous years, we now have a much stronger foundation to operate 
from in Ireland which has produced substantially improved results 
in a well managed and controlled business. ‘ Through further 
development of 
customer relationships 
and by meeting and 
exceeding our 
customers’ needs, 
our organic revenue 
growth has returned 
to its highest level 
since 2007.’
 Paul Budge
 Managing Director UK & Ireland
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 25 5 ACQUISITIONS
+24% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
BUILDING ON SUCCESS
26 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
REST OF  
THE WORLD
OVERVIEW
Growth %
£m 2014 2013 Reported
Constant 
exchange
Revenue 559.6 526.0 6 21
Adjusted operating 
profit* 55.5 51.2 8 24
Operating margin* 9.9% 9.7%
Return on  
operating capital 41.8% 47.1%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
In Rest of the World revenue increased 21% to £559.6 million and 
operating profit rose 24% to £55.5 million with the results being 
impacted significantly by the effect of recent acquisitions,  
particularly in Latin America. 
Our operations in Latin America have performed well despite weaker 
macroeconomic conditions and considerable volatility in the foreign 
exchange markets in several countries which has caused some 
margin pressure within our businesses. All of our businesses have 
strong market positions focused on creating value-added solutions 
for our customers and we continue to be well positioned to expand 
our operations further, both organically and through acquisition.
In Brazil our safety businesses had another successful year. Our new 
state-of-the-art distribution centre for Protcap in the metropolitan 
area of São Paulo has started operating and will be a critical platform 
for our future growth for many years to come. Protcap experienced 
weaker demand from the end user sector during the last quarter 
of the year as many customers postponed investment decisions in 
anticipation of economic adjustments to be implemented following 
the recent Presidential elections in Brazil. Protcap’s new Manaus 
branch has opened as scheduled in an important location. Based 
in a free trade zone, the new branch is strategically placed for a 
number of local manufacturing customers in the region. Danny and 
Vicsa Brasil both had a very strong year with significant synergies 
achieved as a result of streamlining our portfolio of brands across 
both businesses.
In our cleaning and hygiene supplies business there was pressure 
on margins due to the highly competitive environment in this sector. 
However the acquisition of JPLUS in May has increased our market 
presence and enabled us to realise a number of synergies. The 
new business has integrated well and is performing above our 
initial expectations.
The businesses serving the healthcare sector in Brazil produced 
good results despite the uncertainty caused by the Presidential 
elections and new legislation which affected the import of certain 
product lines. Labor Import performed strongly and Lamedid, 
which we acquired in March, also had a very good year. The business 
is integrating as planned and is starting to develop synergies 
with Labor Import.
In the rest of Latin America, Vicsa Safety, our safety business with 
operations in Chile, Argentina, Colombia, Peru and Mexico, had an 
excellent year despite a very soft trading environment in its main 
market in Chile which put margins under pressure. New customers 
and continuous product development were key to the overall strong 
performance.
Our ability to service the safety sector in Chile was enhanced with the 
acquisition of Tecno Boga in March. The business is a market leader 
in the supply of safety shoes. Although faced with difficult market 
conditions as a result of a decline in the mining sector, the business 
performed well and has been successfully integrated into the Group.
In Mexico, our glove safety business Espomega, which we acquired 
in 2013, has also been able to maintain its margins despite much 
volatility in the local market and very soft demand in the short term 
caused by a slowdown in the construction sector. The business is 
however well placed for when the economy starts to recover.
In Australia, the economy continues to be adversely affected by 
the slowdown following the mining investment boom and the fall  
in global commodity prices. This resources slowdown has had a 
direct impact on a number of our major customers supplying into 
these sectors which in turn has reduced demand for the products  
we supply. 
Our largest business, Outsourcing Services, which supplies the 
healthcare, cleaning, catering and retail sectors, while impacted by 
market conditions, performed well with an improvement in revenue 
and operating profit as it continued to develop its position as a 
consolidator and supplier of disposable consumables throughout 
Australia and New Zealand. Whilst facing challenging trading 
conditions, the business has been able to offset some of the effects 
of the downturn across its customer base with a number of large 
customer wins. The business has continued to develop a good 
position in the healthcare sector, in particular to the aged care and 
private hospital markets, where we supply a wide range of disposable 
and medical consumables. In November we acquired a small 
business, Victoria Healthcare Products, which is a niche supplier of 
medical consumables and wound care products into the community 
and residential care markets. This has created an opportunity for our 
business in a section of our existing market where we previously did 
not have a strong presence.
Our food processor business, which is a major national supplier into 
the Australian and New Zealand food industry, delivered another 
improved performance with higher revenue and operating profit. We 
made good progress expanding the business into non-meat and other 
food processors and have invested in additional specialist resources 
to help drive these opportunities. This has benefited the business 
which has won a number of major customers in this market. Our 
ongoing focus will be to continue to develop this strategy and further 
consolidate our position as a leading national supplier into this 
sector. In March, we acquired Nelson Packaging, a packaging and 
cleaning and hygiene supplies company based in the South Island of 
New Zealand. This business has a strong presence in the processor  ‘ We are able to obtain 
an enhanced competitive 
advantage by optimising 
a variety of different 
synergies through 
sharing best practice 
across the Group and 
utilising our global 
purchasing scale.’
 Kim Hetherington
 Managing Director Australasia
‘ Our well established 
business model, which allows 
the companies we acquire to 
operate on a decentralised 
basis, provides an attractive 
option for owners looking to 
sell their businesses.’
 Rodrigo Mascarenhas
 Managing Director Latin America
5 ACQUISITIONS
+24% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
BUILDING ON SUCCESS
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 27
and industrial markets in this region and has been a good addition 
to our business, providing further scale, expertise and distribution 
capabilities as we develop in the New Zealand market.
Our industrial and safety supplies business has been impacted 
the most by the slowdown in the mining and other resource sectors 
with its performance adversely affected as a result, leading to a 
lower level of operating profit at a reduced profit margin. To help 
offset this, we have taken a proactive approach to consolidate a 
number of facilities and made a number of structural changes to 
support the business performance in the current environment and 
reposition it for growth. We have also benefited from having access 
to and working with the wider Bunzl businesses. We have adopted 
a number of better purchasing, operational and technology 
initiatives, which are helping to improve our competitive position 
and efficiency. Although the market conditions have impacted 
volumes, the business has been successful in winning a number 
of major new customers. This has created potential to build on 
our strong product range offering and our market position as we 
continue to develop opportunities in the more resilient market 
sectors and regions.  28 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
BUILDING AND 
DEVELOPING 
LONG TERM 
RELATIONSHIPS BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 29
BUILDING AND 
DEVELOPING 
LONG TERM 
RELATIONSHIPS
REDUCING WASTE
CONSOLIDATING
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
By outsourcing the 
purchasing, consolidation 
and distribution of 
everyday items, our 
customers are able 
to focus on their core 
businesses, saving 
them time and money. GROUP PERFORMANCE
Revenue increased to £6,156.5 million (2013: £6,097.7 million),  
up 7% at constant exchange rates and up 1% at actual exchange 
rates, reflecting organic growth of 2.7% and the benefit of 
acquisitions. Adjusted operating profit (being operating profit before 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs) increased to 
£429.8 million (2013: £414.4 million), an increase of 10% at constant 
exchange rates and 4% at actual exchange rates, as a result of the 
revenue growth and the adjusted operating profit margin increasing 
from 6.8% to 7.0% due to the impact of higher margin acquisitions. 
Currency translation had a negative impact of between 6% and 7% 
on the results for the year, principally due to the strengthening of 
sterling against all of our major currencies. 
Intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs were up 
£5.7 million to £88.0 million due to a £3.6 million increase in 
intangible amortisation and a £2.1 million increase in acquisition 
related costs.
The net interest charge of £42.0 million was £0.2 million lower 
than 2013 at actual exchange rates but up £1.5 million at constant 
exchange rates due to higher average net debt from the funding of 
acquisitions, partly offset by a lower interest charge on the Group’s 
pension deficit.
Adjusted profit before income tax (being profit before income tax, 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs) was £387.8 
million (2013: £372.2 million), up 11% at constant exchange rates 
and 4% at actual exchange rates, principally due to the growth in 
adjusted operating profit.
TAX
A tax charge at a rate of 27.4% (2013: 27.9%) has been provided  
on the adjusted profit before income tax. Including the impact of 
intangible amortisation of £61.9 million, acquisition related costs 
of £26.1 million and the associated deferred and current tax of 
£17.1 million, the overall tax rate is 29.7% (2013: 28.7%). The 
underlying tax rate of 27.4% is higher than the nominal UK rate of 
21.5% for 2014 principally because many of the Group’s operations 
are in countries with higher tax rates.
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Profit after tax of £210.7 million was up £3.9 million, primarily 
due to a £9.7 million increase in operating profit, partly offset 
by a £6.0 million increase in the tax charge.
EARNINGS
The weighted average number of shares increased to 326.6 million 
from 325.8 million due to employee share option exercises partly offset 
by shares being purchased from the market into the Group’s employee 
benefit trust. Earnings per share were 64.5p, up 8% on 2013 at constant 
exchange rates and 2% at actual exchange rates. After adjusting for 
intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and the associated 
tax, adjusted earnings per share were 86.2p, an increase on 2013 of 
11% at constant exchange rates and 5% at actual exchange rates. 
Intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and associated 
tax are items which are not taken into account by management 
when assessing the results of the business as they do not relate to 
the underlying operating performance. Accordingly, such charges 
are removed in calculating the adjusted earnings per share on 
which management assesses the performance of the Group. 
DIVIDENDS
An analysis of dividends per share for the years to which they relate 
is shown below:
2014 2013 Growth
Interim dividend (p) 11.0 10.0 10%
Final dividend (p) 24.5 22.4 9%
Total dividend (p) 35.5 32.4 10%
Dividend cover (times)* 2.4 2.5 
*Based on adjusted earnings per share. 
ACQUISITIONS
The acquisitions made or agreed to be made in 2014 were Bäumer 
and its related company Protemo, Oskar Plast, Lamedid, Nelson 
Packaging, Plast Techs, Tecno Boga, Allshoes, JPLUS, 365 
Healthcare, Lee Brothers, Premiere Products, Guardsman, 
De Ridder, Victoria Healthcare Products, Acme Supplies, POS Direct 
and Tillman. The acquisition of Tillman was agreed on 30 December 
2014 and completed on 2 January 2015. Annualised revenue and 
adjusted operating profit of the businesses acquired (excluding 
Tillman) were £162.7 million and £20.6 million respectively. The 
estimated annualised revenue including Tillman is £223.3 million. 
A summary of the effect of acquisitions is as follows:
£m
Fair value of assets acquired 76.9 
Goodwill 36.2 
Consideration 113.1
Satisfied by:
cash consideration 107.1 
deferred consideration 6.0 
113.1 
Contingent payments relating to the retention  
of former owners 19.1 
Net bank overdrafts acquired 8.9 
Transaction costs and expenses 4.1 
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions 
completed in the current year 145.2
Spend on acquisition committed as at 31 December 2014 65.8
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions  
agreed in the current year 211.0
30 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
FINANCIAL REVIEW The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisitions comprised:
£m
Cash consideration 107.1
Net bank overdrafts acquired 8.9
Deferred consideration in respect of prior year 
acquisitions 38.1
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 154.1
Acquisition related costs* 14.0
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 168.1
* Cash flow on acquisition related costs relates to £3.5 million of transaction costs paid 
and £10.5 million from payments relating to the retention of former owners.
CASH FLOW
Cash generated from operations before acquisition related costs 
was £431.6 million, a £14.8 million decrease from 2013, primarily 
due to a working capital outflow in 2014 of £15.6 million compared to 
a £16.8 million inflow in 2013 partly offset by a £15.4 million increase 
in adjusted operating profit. The working capital outflow in 2014 is 
due to an increase in inventories offset by favourable movements in 
receivables and payables, with underlying working capital excluding 
acquisitions and exchange increasing by 3% in line with organic sales 
growth. The Group’s free cash flow of £276.5 million was down £25.3 
million from 2013, primarily due to the £14.8 million decrease in cash 
generated from operations and a £9.5 million increase in the cash 
outflow relating to tax. After payment of dividends of £105.6 million in 
respect of 2013 (2013: £91.8 million in respect of 2012), an acquisition 
cash outflow of £168.1 million (2013: £279.9 million) and a £21.8 
million outflow on employee share schemes (2013: £43.3 million), 
the net cash outflow was £19.0 million (2013: £113.2 million outflow). 
The summary cash flow for the year was as follows: 
£m
Cash generated from operations* 431.6
Net capital expenditure (23.9)
Operating cash flow* 407.7
Operating cash flow* to adjusted operating profit
†
95%
 
Net interest (41.4)
Tax (89.8)
Free cash flow 276.5
Dividends (105.6)
Acquisitions (168.1)
Employee share schemes (21.8)
Net cash outflow (19.0)
*Before acquisition related costs.
† 
Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
BALANCE SHEET
Return on average operating capital increased to 57.7% from 56.9% 
in 2013, with the impact of the lower return on operating capital from 
acquisitions being more than offset by improvements in the return on 
operating capital in the rest of the Group. Return on invested capital 
of 17.6% was slightly down from 17.9% in 2013 as improved returns 
in the underlying business were offset by the lower return on recent 
acquisitions and exchange rate movements. Intangible assets 
increased by £21.9 million to £1,478.8 million, reflecting goodwill and 
customer relationships arising on acquisitions in the year of £112.2 
million, partly offset by an amortisation charge of £61.9 million and 
a reduction of £28.4 million due to exchange. The Group’s pension 
deficit of £70.3 million at 31 December 2014 was £25.3 million 
higher than at 31 December 2013, largely due to an actuarial loss of 
£30.1 million. The actuarial loss arose as a result of the impact of a 
£61.4 million increase in the present value of scheme liabilities from 
changes in assumptions, principally lower discount rates, partly 
offset by the actual return on scheme assets being £31.3 million 
higher than expected.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.9 times (2013: 1.8 times). The 
movements in shareholders’ equity and net debt during the year 
were as follows:
Shareholders’ equity £m
At 1 January 2014 939.9
Profit for the year 210.7
Dividends (105.6)
Currency (38.6)
Actuarial loss on pension schemes (net of tax) (22.1)
Share based payments 18.6
Employee share options (19.0)
At 31 December 2014 983.9
Net debt £m
At 1 January 2014 (849.5)
Net cash outflow (19.0)
Currency (8.9)
At 31 December 2014 (877.4)
Net debt to EBITDA (times) 1.9
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 31
‘ Our long term track record of strong 
cash generation has enabled us to pay a 
growing dividend over the past 22 years 
and to support our growth strategy by 
making acquisitions and reinvesting  
in the underlying business.’ 32 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
EXCHANGE RATES
Average 2014 2013
US$: £ 1.65 1.56
€: £ 1.24 1.18
C$: £ 1.82 1.61
Brazilian real: £ 3.87 3.38
A$: £ 1.83 1.62
Closing 2014 2013
US$: £ 1.56 1.66
€: £ 1.29 1.20
C$: £ 1.81 1.76
Brazilian real: £ 4.14 3.91
A$: £ 1.91 1.85
GROUP TAX STRATEGY
The Group’s tax strategy is principally focused on ensuring 
compliance with the legal obligations of all countries in which it 
operates. This extends to filings, payments and disclosures to tax 
authorities. In alignment with the commercial and economic activity 
of the business, the Group manages its taxes so as to maximise value 
for its shareholders in a way that does not adversely impact its 
reputation as a responsible taxpayer. The Board has approved the 
Group’s tax strategy and regularly reviews the Group’s tax risks.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to 
maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business.
The Group monitors the return on average operating capital 
employed and the return on invested capital as well as the level 
of total shareholders’ equity and the amount of dividends paid to 
ordinary shareholders. 
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of shareholders’ 
equity, bank borrowings and US private placement notes. All of the 
borrowings are managed by a central treasury function and funds 
raised are lent onward to operating subsidiaries as required. The 
overall objective is to manage the funding to ensure the Group has 
a portfolio of competitively priced borrowing facilities to meet the 
demands of the business over time and, in order to do so, the Group 
arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources with a 
variety of maturity dates.
The Group’s businesses provide a high and consistent level of cash 
generation which helps fund future development and growth. The 
Group seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the higher 
returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and 
the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital 
management during the year and the Group is not subject to any 
externally imposed capital requirements.
TREASURY POLICIES AND CONTROLS
The Group has a centralised treasury department to control external 
borrowings and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency 
risks. Treasury policies have been approved by the Board and cover 
the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of financial 
instruments that may be employed and the criteria for investing and 
borrowing cash. The Group uses derivatives to manage its foreign 
currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying business 
activities. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. 
The treasury department is subject to periodic independent review 
by the internal audit department. Underlying policy assumptions and 
activities are periodically reviewed by the executive directors and the 
Board. Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity 
are in place.
HEDGE ACCOUNTING
The Group designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for 
accounting purposes as either (a) a hedge of the fair value of 
a recognised asset or liability; (b) a hedge of the cash flow risk 
resulting from changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates; or 
(c) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. The Group tests 
the effectiveness of hedges on a prospective and retrospective basis 
to ensure compliance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement’. Methods for testing effectiveness include dollar 
offset, critical terms and hypothetical derivatives.
LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its 
financial obligations as they fall due. The Group continually monitors 
net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that sufficient facilities 
are in place to meet the Group’s requirements in the short, medium 
and long term and, in order to do so, arranges borrowings from a 
variety of sources. Additionally, compliance with the Group’s biannual 
debt covenants is monitored on a monthly basis. The principal 
covenant limits are net debt to operating profit before depreciation, 
intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs (‘EBITDA’) of 
no more than 3.5 times and interest cover of no less than 3.0 times. 
Sensitivity analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts 
to assess their impact on covenants and net debt. During 2014 all 
covenants have been complied with and based on current forecasts 
it is expected that such covenants will continue to be complied with 
for the foreseeable future.
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it 
comprising multi-currency credit facilities from the Group’s banks 
and US private placement notes in US dollars, sterling and euros. 
Fixed interest US private placement notes of $252.0 million  
and €35.0 million were drawn down by the Group during 2014.  
At 31 December 2014 the total US private placement notes 
outstanding were £793.2 million (2013: £607.1 million) with  
maturities ranging from 2015 to 2026. During the year the Group also 
refinanced or agreed new banking facilities totalling £358.1 million. 
The Group’s committed bank facilities mature between 2016 and 
2020. At 31 December 2014 the available committed bank facilities 
totalled £917.0 million (2013: £886.7 million) of which £136.5 million 
(2013: £273.1 million) was drawn down. The committed facilities 
maturity profile at 31 December 2014 is set out in the chart on 
page 33. 
INTEREST RATE RISK
The Group is funded by a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt. 
In addition, interest rate swaps and interest rate caps are used to 
manage the interest rate risk profile. At 31 December 2014 fixed 
rate debt of £635.7 million (2013: £607.1 million), related to fixed 
rate US private placement notes, was stated at amortised cost  
with maturities ranging from 2015 to 2024.
At 31 December 2014 floating rate debt comprised £136.5 million of 
floating rate bank loans (2013: £273.1 million) and £173.6 million of 
fixed rate US dollar private placement notes with maturities in 2025 
and 2026 which have been swapped to floating rates using interest 
rate swaps (2013: £nil). Bank loans are drawn for various periods of 
up to three months at interest rates linked to LIBOR. The interest rate 
swaps reprice every three months.  Committed facilities maturity profile 
2015–2026 £m
 Bank facilities – undrawn
 Bank facilities – drawn
  US private placement notes denominated in US dollars, 
sterling and euros
23 26 25 24 22 21 20 19 18 16 17 15
71
65
61
55
32
150
69
50
87
90
108
34
420
69
48
33
61
106
101
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 33
The interest rate risk on the floating rate debt is managed using 
interest rate options. Borrowings with a notional principal of 
£45.5 million were capped at 31 December 2014 (2013: £60.0 million). 
Hedge accounting is not applied to the interest rate caps since the 
majority of their value is related to time value. The strike rates of 
these options are based on LIBOR repricing every three months.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
The majority of the Group’s sales are made and income is earned in 
US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. The Group does not 
hedge the impact of exchange rate movements arising on translation 
of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates. For the year 
ended 31 December 2014, a movement of one cent in the US dollar 
and euro average exchange rates would have changed profit before 
income tax by £0.9 million and £0.4 million respectively and adjusted 
profit before income tax by £1.0 million and £0.6 million respectively.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the 
respective functional currencies of the Group’s operations and so 
transaction exposures are usually relatively limited. Where they do 
occur, the Group’s policy is to hedge significant exposures of firm 
commitments for a period of up to one year as soon as they are 
committed using forward foreign exchange contracts and these are 
designated as cash flow hedges. However, the economic impact of 
foreign exchange on the value of uncommitted future purchases and 
sales is not hedged. As a result, sudden and significant movements 
in foreign exchange rates can impact profit margins where there is 
a delay in passing on to customers the resulting price increases.
The majority of the Group’s borrowings are effectively denominated 
in sterling, US dollars and euros, aligning them to the respective 
functional currencies of the component parts of the Group’s EBITDA. 
This currency profile is achieved using short-term foreign exchange 
contracts, long term cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign 
currency debt. This currency composition minimises the impact of 
foreign exchange rates on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to a financial asset due to 
non-payment by the relevant counterparty. The Group’s objective is 
to reduce its exposure to counterparty default by restricting the type 
of counterparty it deals with and by employing an appropriate policy 
in relation to the collection of financial assets.
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and deposits, 
derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables 
which represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in 
relation to financial assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk 
for these financial assets is their carrying amount.
Dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant combination 
of geographic presence and suitable credit rating. The Group 
continually monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties and the 
credit exposure to each counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, the amounts represented in the 
balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, 
estimated by the Group’s management based on prior experience 
and their assessment of the current economic environment.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations 
of credit risk.
GOING CONCERN
Details of the Group’s activities, developments and performance are 
set out on pages 4 to 33 and the Principal risks and uncertainties  
are set out on pages 34 and 35. This Financial review summarises 
the Group’s financial performance, balance sheet and cash flows and 
provides information on its treasury policies, exposure to financial 
risks, debt profile and funding headroom. Note 13 to the consolidated 
financial statements provides further details of the Group’s debt 
profile, capital management policy, treasury policies and controls, 
hedging activities and financial instruments and its policies and 
exposures to liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks. 
The Group has significant financial resources, a well established 
and fragmented customer base, strong supplier relationships and 
a diverse geographic presence. As a consequence, the directors 
believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks 
successfully. Based on the expected future profit generation, cash 
conversion and current facilities’ headroom over the 12 months to 
March 2016, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. For this reason the directors believe it is 
appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements.
Brian May
Finance Director
23 February 2015 34 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
RISK OVERVIEW
The effective identification, management and mitigation of risks and 
uncertainties across the Group are an integral part of delivering the 
Group’s strategic objectives. The ‘Risk management and internal 
control’ section of the Corporate governance report on pages 46 and 
47 includes further information on the specific procedures designed 
to identify, manage and mitigate business risk which could have a 
material impact on the Group’s business, financial condition or 
results of operations. 
The Company’s risk management framework provides a consistent 
methodology by which every business and business area, the 
Executive Committee and ultimately the Board assess the risks 
that the Group faces against a defined set of probability and impact 
criteria. In assessing impact, the following criteria are considered: 
business continuity; health, safety and the environment; regulatory; 
reputational; and financial. The probability and impact of each risk 
is assessed on two bases. The first, defined as Gross Risk, is the 
probability and impact of a risk if none of the mitigating actions or 
internal controls designed to reduce either the probability or the 
impact of a risk occurring were in place. The second, defined as 
Net Risk, is the residual probability and impact of a risk assuming 
that the mitigating actions and internal controls operated as 
intended in an effective way.
Using this framework, every business documents their key risks 
in a consistent reporting format which specifically identifies the 
mitigating activities, relevant controls and related assurance 
activities for each significant risk. Management then consolidates 
the risk information at both a business area and Group level 
using the same reporting format, culminating in the Group risk 
assessment. The Executive Committee then reviews the Group risk 
assessment, the relevant controls and other steps taken to mitigate 
the risks identified and the assurance procedures in place over 
such controls with a view to determining any further actions required 
in order to reduce the levels of risk to acceptable levels. The risk 
assessment is then submitted for review and approval by the Board. 
THE RISK PROFILE
The Group operates in many business environments and across a 
number of geographies in which risks and uncertainties exist, not 
all of which are necessarily within the Company’s control. The risks 
identified in the 2013 Annual Report remain those of most concern to 
the business at the end of 2014. The principal risks and uncertainties 
faced by the Group and the steps taken to mitigate such risks and 
uncertainties are detailed below. This summary is not intended to 
be exhaustive and is not presented in order of potential probability 
or impact.
Bunzl has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the 
likelihood and consequences of risks and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their 
impact to acceptable levels. It also identifies the assurance activities relating to the relevant 
mitigating actions. 
Market risks Mitigating factors
Competitive pressures
The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces 
competition from international companies as well as national, regional 
and local companies in the countries in which it operates. Increased 
competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers 
could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder the Group’s growth 
potential. This could result from: customer pressure on sales volumes 
or margins; the loss of customers due to service or pricing issues; 
increased price competition; customers and suppliers dealing directly 
with one another; or unforeseen changes in the competitive landscape 
due to the introduction of disruptive technologies or changes in routes 
to market.
The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service 
levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their needs 
and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a national 
presence in the markets in which the Group operates and maintaining 
strong relationships with a variety of different suppliers thereby 
enabling the Group to offer a broad range of products to its customers, 
including own brand products. The Group also regularly reviews the 
competitive environment in which it operates.
Product price changes
The purchase price of products distributed by the Group can fluctuate 
from time to time, thereby potentially affecting the results of operations. 
There could be significant increases in the cost of specific products 
leading to a diminution in margins if cost increases cannot be passed 
on in full to customers or substitute products sourced from elsewhere. 
Potential causes could include changes in the input costs of products 
purchased through commodity price inflation. In addition, a period of 
commodity price deflation may lead to reductions in the price and value 
of the Group’s products where sales prices are indexed or if competitors 
reduced their selling prices. If this was to occur, the Group’s revenue 
and, as a result, its profits, could be reduced and the value of inventory 
held in stock may not be fully recoverable.
The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price increases 
from its suppliers to its customers and to source its products from 
a number of different suppliers so that it is not dependent on any 
one source of supply for any particular product. Increased focus 
on the Group’s own import programmes and brands, together with 
the reinforcement of the Group’s service and product offering to 
customers, helps to minimise the impact of price deflation. The 
Group also mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued inventory 
in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels efficiently 
and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
The Group uses its considerable experience in sourcing and selling 
products to manage prices during periods of both inflation and deflation 
in order to minimise the impact on operating margins.
Economic environment
The Group’s business is partially dependent on general economic 
conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets. 
A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse 
effect on the Group’s business and results of operations.
The Group’s operations and its customer base are diverse, with a 
variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which it 
competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient to 
economic downturns. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 35
Financial risks Mitigating factors
Foreign exchange
The majority of the Group’s sales are made and income is earned in US 
dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. The Group does not hedge 
the impact of exchange rate movements arising on translation of 
earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
As a result, movements in exchange rates may have a material 
translation impact on the Group’s reported results.
The Group is also subject to transaction exposures where products are 
purchased in one currency and sold in another. As a result movements 
in exchange rates may adversely impact both operating margins and  
the value of the Group’s net assets.
The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical spread outweigh 
the associated risks.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the functional 
currency of the Group’s operations. As a result, transaction exposures 
are usually limited and exchange rate fluctuations have minimal effect 
on the quality of earnings unless there is a sudden and significant 
adverse movement of a foreign currency in which products are 
purchased which may lead to a delay in passing on to customers 
the resulting price increases. The Group undertakes some forward 
purchasing of foreign currencies for identified exposures to reduce 
the impact of short term volatility.
The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates and related hedging activity 
is regularly monitored by senior management. The Group’s approach to 
managing foreign exchange risk is reviewed annually by the Board. 
Financial liquidity and debt covenants
The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet its 
trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth, to make 
acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise, and to pay dividends 
to shareholders. There is a risk that the Group may be unable to obtain 
the necessary funds when required or that such funds will only be 
available on unfavourable terms.
The Group’s borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply 
with certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt 
and interest cover. A breach of these covenants could result from 
a significant and rapid deterioration in the business’s performance, 
foreign exchange rate fluctuations or the failure to manage working 
capital levels. Ultimately this could result in a significant proportion 
of the Group’s borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources 
and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure 
that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and 
that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s requirements 
in the short, medium and long term.
Compliance with the Group’s biannual debt covenants is monitored on a 
monthly basis based on the management accounts. Sensitivity analyses 
using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess their impact 
on covenants.
Operational risks Mitigating factors
Acquisitions 
A significant portion of the Group’s historical growth has been achieved 
through the acquisition of businesses and the Group’s growth strategy 
includes additional acquisitions. Although the Group operates in a 
number of fragmented markets which provide future acquisition 
opportunities, there can be no assurance that the Group will be able 
to make acquisitions in the future. There is also a risk that not all of 
the acquisitions made will be successful due to the loss of key people 
or customers after the acquisition, deterioration in the economic 
environment of the acquired business or the failure to perform 
adequate pre-acquisition due diligence or appropriately manage 
the post-acquisition integration of the business. 
In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms 
compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this will 
lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the intangible 
assets attributed to that acquisition.
The Group’s acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses which 
operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive advantage 
and which have good growth opportunities. The Group continually 
reviews acquisition targets and has established processes and 
procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence 
and post-acquisition integration.
The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an acquisition 
through the recruitment and retention of high quality and appropriately 
incentivised management combined with effective strategic planning, 
investment in resources and infrastructure and regular reviews of 
performance by both business area and Group management.
Business continuity
The Group would be adversely affected if any of its major distribution 
facilities was destroyed or damaged or there was a significant failure 
of its information systems resulting from either hardware failure or 
a cybersecurity breach. 
The Group seeks to reduce the impact of destruction of, or damage to, 
facilities through the use of multi-site facilities with products stocked 
in more than one location. The impact of information systems’ failure 
is mitigated through regular renewal of hardware, layered security 
measures and disaster recovery plans which are periodically tested 
and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations
The international nature of the Group’s operations exposes it to 
potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws 
and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation 
to the supply of defective products or breaches of their contractual 
arrangements. The sourcing of products from lower cost countries 
increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any potential 
losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious market 
sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and mitigate 
against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary. 
The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance 
and quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with 
defective products.
The Financial review on pages 30 to 33 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements include information relating to the Group’s risk 
management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments. COMMITTED TO 
SUSTAINABLE 
SUCCESS
SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS
36 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
COMMUNITY SUPPORT HEALTH AND SAFETY BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 37
We encourage our suppliers to set similar corporate responsibility standards 
to ourselves while our consolidated delivery and product solutions assist our 
customers in meeting their sustainability goals.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
BUSINESS CONTEXT
We are a focused and successful international distribution and 
outsourcing group with operations across the Americas, Europe and 
Australasia. By outsourcing the purchasing, consolidation and delivery 
of a broad range of everyday items, our customers are able to focus on 
their core businesses, achieve purchasing efficiencies and savings, 
free up working capital, improve distribution capabilities, reduce 
carbon emissions and simplify their internal administration.
We do not manufacture any products but as part of our business 
strategy we source and procure branded, own brand and unbranded 
products globally. These products are then consolidated into our 
extensive global warehouse infrastructure, giving our customers a 
one-stop-shop solution to help reduce or eliminate the hidden costs 
of self-distribution and reduce their environmental impact. We also 
offer several delivery options to ensure our customers get their 
products when and where they are needed.
Sourcing
We source everyday essential non-food items for a number of market 
sectors including grocery, foodservice, cleaning & hygiene, safety, 
retail and healthcare. We liaise closely with our suppliers so that we 
are able to offer a full range of items which satisfy our customers’ 
demands, including offering alternative products which reduce 
environmental impact and thereby climate change. Our quality 
assurance/quality control department based in Shanghai monitors 
and works with our key suppliers in Asia to ensure that appropriate 
corporate responsibility (‘CR’) standards are in place.
Consolidation
We have an extensive footprint of warehouse facilities across four 
continents. As a result, our broad range of products are never far 
from where they need to be, allowing us to facilitate our customers’ 
needs quickly and easily, as well as reducing the number of deliveries 
to our customers, thereby cutting fuel usage, carbon emissions  
and administration. 
Distribution
With our fleets of delivery vehicles and third party carriers, we are 
able to get products to our customers in a timely manner. Our flexible 
delivery service allows our customers to increase the efficiency and 
competitiveness of their operations.
As well as day-to-day operations, our business relies on developing 
strong and stable relationships with all of our stakeholders. We 
believe in managing our business with integrity, making sustainable, 
long term decisions.
STRATEGY, FRAMEWORK AND MATERIALITY 
We believe that positive actions with respect to CR are not only 
desirable in their own right but are also of potential economic and 
commercial benefit to the Group. A strong reputation for CR can 
provide business advantage and contribute to shareholder value. 
Conversely, perceived weakness in CR may damage our reputation 
and cause risks. Bunzl’s good practice in sustainability has been 
recognised by its FTSE4Good listing and Carbon Disclosure Project 
(‘CDP’) score. Details of our strategy and framework in relation  
to CR can be found on the Bunzl plc website in the Responsibility 
section at www.bunzl.com.
Materiality
Understanding our material issues is important to enable us to 
manage our CR related impacts and stakeholder relationships 
effectively. It also helps to focus our resources, engagement and 
reporting activities by addressing those issues most material to 
our business. Our current areas of focus are:
• business conduct/code of ethics: training to ensure everyone 
understands our standards;
• employees: engaging through clear communication using a variety 
of channels, as well as provision of training and development 
opportunities;
• health & safety: improving safety in the warehouses and on our 
vehicles and ensuring that everyone takes personal responsibility 
for this;
• environment: reducing our and our customers’ impacts on the 
environment by reducing carbon emissions and promoting the 
reduction of waste and providing innovative products to meet our 
customers’ needs, for example environmentally friendly packaging; 
• community: providing support by encouraging employee fund 
raising, donating to charitable projects that benefit our employees 
and the communities we work in and by donating stock and cash to 
charitable organisations and good causes; and
• suppliers: responsible sourcing, working as partners with  
our suppliers to encourage high levels of CR and ethical  
trading initiatives.
These issues are governed by a policy framework, which is approved 
and monitored by the Board, with implementation at a business 
area level.
BUSINESS CONDUCT/CODE OF ETHICS
The Group’s business conduct/code of ethics policy is disseminated to 
every employee as a guide to how employees are expected to conduct 
themselves both from a corporate and individual perspective. The 
policy clearly states that employees should avoid conflicts of interest, 
provides guidance on the giving and receiving of gifts and entertainment, 
prohibits illegal payments as well as political donations and 
reinforces the need to comply with laws, rules and regulations, 
protect confidential information and company assets and maintain 
high standards in relationships with our customers and suppliers.
No material breaches of our business conduct/code of ethics policy 
were recorded in 2014. However, some minor incidents relating to 
employee conduct, such as theft or misuse of the Group’s property, 
did occur and were dealt with during the normal course of business 
using Group human resource (‘HR’) policies and procedures. Nine 
(2013: seven) calls/letters were received through our confidential 
whistle blowing process, ‘Speak Up’, none of which raised any 
issues of material concern.
Performance against 2014 objectives
• Our CR policies, processes, controls and monitoring (‘CR Framework’) 
were last updated in 2011. During 2014 we undertook a review of the 
CR Framework taking into account feedback provided by various 
bodies who report on Bunzl’s CR practices and performance. As a 
result, no fundamental changes were made to the CR Framework 
but a number of amendments were made to the CR policy and 
some of our controls and monitoring processes were refreshed 
and re-emphasised, particularly in areas related to our supply 
chain. For further details see the Suppliers section on page 40.  38 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
• In light of the above review, we delayed the launch of our new 
e-learning module on competition law and refreshed the whole 
suite of nine tailored e-learning modules, including modules which 
provide an overview of the business conduct/code of ethics policy 
and anti-bribery issues such as facilitation payments and gifts 
and entertainment. In addition we have added a further module 
on cybersecurity. Finally we refreshed the posters which are 
displayed in all our facilities to advertise our whistle blowing 
facility – ‘Speak Up’.
2015 objectives
• All directors, managers, sales representatives and purchasing 
staff to undertake again all of the e-learning modules within the 
suite. Selective modules such as introduction to CR, environment, 
health & safety and cybersecurity to be viewed more widely.
• Continue to work with our supply chain to encourage our suppliers 
to maintain similar CR standards to those maintained by Bunzl.
EMPLOYEES
Bunzl currently operates in 27 countries worldwide. We are a service 
provider, not a manufacturer and, as such, our business relies heavily 
on the skills and experience of our employees. We pride ourselves on 
the fact that we run our businesses locally with local managers. We 
do not unfairly discriminate and we respect human rights. We seek to 
recruit the right people who are passionate about our business and to 
provide opportunities for people to progress within the organisation 
on the basis of their skills, experience and aptitude. We believe 
that to get the best from people we need to respect each other and 
encourage honest, straightforward communication. Our acquisition 
pipeline continues to be a valuable source of management talent for 
the Group and the completion of a number of acquisitions during the 
year has brought further highly skilled people into Bunzl. Details of 
the Group’s workforce diversity at 31 December 2014 are set out in 
the pie charts on page 39.
Human rights
Bunzl adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (‘UDHR’) 
and upholds the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work policies, 
defined by the International Labour Organization, as well as local 
laws. The majority of countries in which Bunzl operates have their 
own laws banning child labour and promoting human rights. 
We monitor the age of our workforce across the world to ensure 
compliance and identify any potential succession issues. In the 
US some of our operations, particularly in the north east, are 
represented by trade unions with which we have negotiated pay 
contracts. Bunzl does not restrict any of its employees in any of the 
countries in which it operates from joining a trade union if they wish 
to do so. We also work closely with our suppliers to ensure that they 
at least meet internationally recognised minimum requirements for 
workers’ welfare and conditions of employment, as defined by the 
International Labour Organization or the Ethical Trading Initiative. 
Performance against 2014 objectives
• The Group’s annual voluntary turnover (‘Turnover’), that is the 
percentage of employees resigning from the Group, in 2014 was 
10.5% (2013: 7.5%). Turnover levels have increased principally 
in both North America and UK & Ireland reflecting improved 
economic conditions rather than any intrinsic reasons related to 
the Group. As reported previously, considering the profile of our 
workforce, the 2013 Turnover was thought to be artificially low due 
to the prevailing economic conditions in many of the countries in 
which we operate. Sickness absence has remained relatively flat 
year on year. Sickness absence rates remain appreciably higher in 
Continental Europe than any other part of the Group. No underlying 
issues of concern have been identified and the higher levels are 
thought to be attributable to the social network rather than any 
intrinsic reasons relating to the Group.
• The average number of employees employed by the Group has 
risen in the year principally due to acquisitions. The number of 
females at senior management level has increased slightly to 10% 
(2013: 9%). In February 2015 another female non-executive director 
was appointed to the Board. From 1 May 2015 the Board will 
comprise seven males and two females. During the year we 
launched a women’s network and are currently considering piloting 
some further development and training exclusively for women.
• Our Group employee engagement survey, which we periodically 
carry out, was conducted in September 2014. We were pleased 
with our overall response rate of 72% and an engagement index 
score of 74% against a benchmark of 72%. Of those employees who 
responded, 93% reported that they ‘enjoyed working for Bunzl’. 
2015 objectives
• Continue to monitor key HR measures such as voluntary turnover, 
sickness absence, training days, workforce gender and age mix and, 
as appropriate, take action to address any issues that may arise.
• Feed back the results of the employee engagement survey and 
develop action plans as appropriate.
HEALTH & SAFETY
The health and safety of our employees and other stakeholders 
is a priority. Although we try to minimise the risks which occur, 
particularly relating to the operation of our warehouses and vehicles, 
incidents relating to manual handling, slipping and tripping remain 
the highest causes of accidents. Regretfully in the 2014 reporting 
period there were two fatalities (2013: one) both resulting from road 
traffic accidents. In October 2013 a driver from UK & Ireland was 
killed when he was involved in a multi-vehicle collision and in May 
2014 a third party died when their car collided head on with a Bunzl 
truck in North America. Bunzl has been advised that the drivers of 
other vehicles involved have been prosecuted in relation to both of 
these incidents. We continue to undertake a number of activities to 
improve the safety of our employees including extending the use of 
vehicle telematics to monitor driver performance, closure of older 
premises and other site improvements, purchase of new equipment 
and training programmes for managers and staff to raise awareness 
of safety issues. Our Safety Observations Programme, introduced 
initially in North America, seeks to ensure the implementation of 
safe working practices. As part of our 2014 employee survey we 
asked whether employees perceived that Bunzl took their health 
and safety seriously and 85% of respondents scored us positively 
in this area. We will be using the results of the survey to identify 
whether there are any particular areas on which we need to focus.
Performance against 2014 objectives
• The 2014 target was to reduce the Group accident incidence rate 
by 3% and the Group accident severity rate by 5% from the 2013 
accident rates:
 − for the year ended 30 September 2014 our accident incidence 
rate reduced by 19%; and
 − for the same period our accident severity rate reduced by 3%. 
The accident incidence rate improved in excess of the target in all 
business areas. North America and Latin America improved their 
severity rate in excess of the target but unfortunately performance 
in Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Australasia deteriorated. 
The Bunzl Risk Management Committee reviews safety performance 
of the Group and reports quarterly to the Board. A number of actions 
have been instigated, including site visits, communication programmes, 
and in some areas the recruitment of additional technical health 
and safety professionals to focus further our programmes of 
improvement. Details of our performance from 2011 to 2014 are 
provided in the bar charts on page 39. The accident data provided is 
for the whole Group including acquisitions made during the relevant 
reporting period. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 39
2015 objectives
• Reduce the Group accident incidence rate by 3% from 2014.
• Reduce the Group accident severity rate by 5% from 2014.
ENVIRONMENT
We seek to prevent, mitigate and remediate the harmful effects of 
Bunzl’s operations on the environment. To ameliorate our impact on 
and exposure to climate change, our facilities operate worldwide to 
Group standards, we promote environmental awareness throughout 
the business and our branch network mitigates against the effects 
of extreme local climate conditions. Our reported environmental 
data includes all businesses that are subsidiaries of the Group for 
financial reporting purposes, with the exception of those recent 
acquisitions where there has been insufficient opportunity for the 
acquired businesses to adopt our reporting guidelines, in which case 
the revenue from those businesses is not included when calculating 
the indexed emissions. Bunzl had no significant environmental 
incidents in 2014.
Water usage is principally confined to workplace cleaning and 
hygiene purposes. If we lease a purpose built site, wherever possible 
the specification includes water harvesting to minimise further our 
use and, on some large sites where there are extensive outstanding 
periods on the lease term, we will investigate the cost-effectiveness 
of implementing water harvesting. We continue to measure water 
usage across a sample of our sites worldwide and our usage per 
employee is largely unchanged since the 2011 water audit. 
ISO 14001 accreditation was renewed in a number of locations  
during the year. To date all sites in UK & Ireland and Australasia,  
with the exception of the most recent acquisitions, and many sites  
in Continental Europe are accredited. By revenue this represents 
approximately 30% of the Group.
Performance against 2014 objectives
Greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 October to 30 September
Tonnes of CO 2 e
Base year 2010 2013
◊
2014
†
Scope 1 95,249 89,397 93,641
Scope 2 28,757 30,465 31,204
Total gross emissions 124,006 119,862 124,845
Total carbon emissions  
per £m revenue 26.3 20.8 20.9
◊ Included in the external auditors’ limited assurance scope referred to on page 36 of 
the 2013 Annual Report.
†
 Included in the external auditors’ limited assurance scope referred to on page 41.
• Our target for 2014 was to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon 
emissions relative to revenue by 26% from 2010, our base year. 
This data covers around 99% of the Group by revenue. During 
the reporting period, 17 acquisitions were completed adding total 
revenue of c. £121 million. 12 of these acquisitions, representing 
87% of this revenue, are included in the 2014 carbon emissions 
data from the date of acquisition. 
• Scope 1: emission rates per £m of revenue have increased 
between 2013 and 2014 by 1% (see the KPI bar chart on page 15) 
representing a decrease from 2010, our base year, of 22%. In 2014 
the contribution of fuel for transportation to Bunzl’s Scope 1 
emissions decreased slightly to around 84% (2013: 85%). The level 
of fuel consumed per £000 of revenue decreased between 2013 
and 2014 by 2% (see the KPI bar chart on page 15). As part of our 
strategy of operational efficiency we continually review the routing 
and efficiency of our fleet and will transfer to third party carriers 
where this is shown to be more beneficial from a cost and carbon 
emissions perspective. We focus on improved fuel efficiency 
through regular renewal of our fleet, driver training and the use of 
telematics providing in-cab feedback on performance. Many of the 
Average number  
of employees 
By business area
 North America (5,194)
  Continental Europe (3,472)
 UK & Ireland (3,569)
 Rest Of The World (2,322)
Total workforce 
Gender split at 31 Dec 2014
 Male (9,299)
 Female (4,991)
Senior management 
Gender split at 31 Dec 2014
 Male (343)
 Female (39)
Board composition 
8 male, 1 female
Waste 
Tonnes per £m revenue
 Incinerated waste
 General waste
 Recovered/recycled waste
Incidence rate
Average number of  incidents 
per month  per 100,000 
employees
Severity rate
Average number of  days  
lost per month  per 
100,000 employees
35%
65%
10%
90%
13 14 12
0.08 0.14
0.16
1.14
0.93
1.30
0.73
1.73
0.80
16%
24%
36%
24%
159
140
135
109
†
13 14 12 11 13 14 12 11
3,552
3,446
3,514
3,421
†
†
 Included in the external auditors’ limited assurance scope referred to on page 41. 40 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
businesses acquired since 2010 do not operate their own transport 
fleets. Gas consumption has increased by around 18% against 
the previous year. North America consumes more than 80% of 
the gas used by the Group and in 2014 their consumption increased 
by 35%. The majority of this increase related to acquisitions, 
either reporting for the first time or due to the full year impact of 
acquisitions made in the previous year, as well as the very harsh 
winter weather conditions in North America in early 2014. The 
remainder was due to extensions in warehouse capacity to enable 
us to service the organic growth within our business. These 
increases far outweighed the substantial reductions in gas 
consumption made in Continental Europe and UK & Ireland due 
to milder weather compared with the previous year, as well as 
steps taken to improve energy efficiency. We continue to focus 
on improving energy consumption, taking measures which include 
replacement and maintenance of boilers and heating systems 
and thermostatically controlling individual radiators. 
• Scope 2: emission rates per £m of revenue decreased between 
2013 and 2014 by 2% (see the KPI bar chart on page 15) and from 
2010, our base year, have decreased by 15%. Although there 
was an increase in units of electricity consumed as the result of 
acquisitions either reporting for the first time or due to the full year 
effect of acquisitions made in 2013, this was offset by our continued 
investment in energy improvement projects. In relation to such 
projects, as we lease most of our facilities we need to ensure that 
there is an appropriate level of payback on the capital expenditure 
required and in the time remaining on the lease. Where it has 
been shown to be cost-effective, we have installed energy efficient 
lighting, making use of the technical advancements available 
which reduce the cost of such programmes. In North America 
wherever possible we negotiate with our landlords to make such 
improvements a condition of lease renewal. Our new facility at 
Birch Coppice in the UK is designed to make maximum use of 
daylight and we are seeing substantial reductions in electricity as 
a result of this combined with its up-to-date lighting system. Other 
projects include installation of high frequency energy chargers, 
voltage optimisation and the purchase of more efficient chargers 
for our material handling equipment. In addition, we have run 
successful ‘Switch off’ campaigns where we have involved our 
staff in conserving electricity and this has resulted in savings 
being made even in those facilities where physical site 
improvements have not yet been implemented. 
• Waste data covers around 95% (2013: 96%) of the Group by revenue. 
When calculating the index, the revenue has been amended to 
take account of those businesses in Latin America, Israel and 
Australasia that are not currently reporting. We continue to 
increase waste segregation facilities and staff are encouraged to 
work towards zero waste to landfill both in our warehouses and 
offices. We have reduced the amount of virgin packaging purchased 
by the Group by reusing transit packaging wherever possible. 
The accuracy of the waste to landfill data varies depending 
on the waste contractor and wherever possible we appoint 
contractors who are able to weigh waste at the point of collection. 
• Scope 3: we have sought to develop our Scope 3 carbon emissions 
reporting in line with our CR reporting guidelines. While much 
progress has been made, we have found it difficult to obtain 
suitable and consistent data from our third party carriers. We have 
now identified a methodology which we will implement throughout 
the Group and are in the process of developing the 2014 footprint 
to form a baseline for future years.
2015 objectives
• Using the 2010 data as the baseline, reduce the Scope 1 carbon 
emissions by 25% (3% from 2014 to 2015) and the Scope 2 carbon 
emissions by 17% (2% from 2014 to 2015).
• Complete the development of a Scope 3 carbon emissions report 
in line with the Group’s reporting guidelines. 
• Implement the requirement of the Energy Saving Opportunity 
Scheme (ESOS) as appropriate.
• More closely integrate the environmental reporting with our 
financial reporting processes. 
COMMUNITY
Although Bunzl’s operations are international, our strength is 
in the local nature of our businesses. In keeping with this ethos, 
we particularly support the fund raising activities championed by 
our employees locally. This is supplemented by donations made at 
Group level to charities predominantly in the fields of healthcare, 
disability and the environment as well as benevolent societies to 
support projects in communities where our operations are based. 
Where possible and appropriate, Bunzl also looks to donate stock 
free of charge (‘in-kind’). Group wide, Bunzl donated a total of 
£572,000 (2013: £580,000) to charities in 2014, up 3% at constant 
exchange rates. This does not include in-kind donations or employee 
fund raising. 
SUPPLIERS
Price is only one factor in our purchasing decisions and matters such 
as quality, availability, our customers’ preferences and our policies 
are also taken into account. The vast majority of our products are 
sourced locally by our businesses but many products are sourced 
elsewhere if it is appropriate to do so. In 2014 less than 20% 
(2013: 18%) of our products were sourced from lower cost countries. 
Each business area is responsible for implementing appropriate 
processes to assess key suppliers’ compliance with the relevant CR 
standards and to monitor performance and improvements against 
such standards. Bunzl focuses on its key suppliers to ensure that 
they meet the same CR standards we have set for ourselves. We have 
written to those suppliers that provide us with 50% of our products by 
value to update them on our CR aspirations and to encourage them to 
adopt a similar approach.
To assist the business areas, we have our own quality assurance/
quality control team based in Shanghai whose main aim is to perform 
regular audits of our suppliers in Asia to ensure that they meet 
international standards, as well as testing the factories’ production 
capabilities and their quality assurance and quality control systems. 
Employees’ terms and conditions of work, customer service,  
hygiene management systems and their policies and practices on 
environmental issues are also checked. Our policy is that all our 
suppliers meet internationally recognised minimum requirements 
for workers’ welfare and conditions of employment, as defined by  
the International Labour Organization or the Ethical Trading Initiative. 
During 2014 the team has continued to grow and has further refined 
its CR audit programme to categorise suppliers appropriately in 
relation to their standards and practices. 
Suppliers who are unable to meet all the requirements after an initial 
assessment/audit are given the opportunity to comply fully within 
a period which is deemed appropriate for the circumstances. If a 
serious breach is identified following assessment, an action plan is 
documented and the supplier is expected to commit to addressing all 
the areas where discrepancies have been identified. The process of 
improvement via this method is principally reliant on the commitment 
of the supplier’s management team/owner/agent to ensure that all  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 41
areas are addressed. If we have reason to believe that the supplier 
is not making sufficient or committed progress, this could lead to a 
suspension in the relationship until such time that we are confident 
that all areas are being satisfactorily addressed. Bunzl companies 
reserve the right to cease a relationship with a supplier if it is found 
that unacceptable practices are being employed at any sites used for 
producing or sourcing Bunzl products. Such practices include use 
of child labour, forced or bonded labour as well as physical abuse or 
discipline and intimidation. To enhance the processes further, from 
2015 any suppliers that are being monitored and assessed due to 
identification of a serious breach will also be reported to the Board 
and their progress tracked.
During 2014 we continued to liaise with suppliers and refined and 
introduced a process to ensure that any paper or wood based 
products are from sustainable sources in compliance with the 
relevant timber regulations.
For more information on all of Bunzl’s CR policies and activities 
please visit the Responsibility section of www.bunzl.com.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
We engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) to undertake a 
limited assurance engagement, reporting to Bunzl plc only, using 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (‘ISAE’) 3000: 
‘Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
Financial Information’ and ISAE 3410: ‘Assurance Engagements on 
Greenhouse Gas Statements’ over the three KPIs on page 15 and 
the data on page 39, in each case that has been highlighted with the 
symbol ‘†’. They have provided an unqualified opinion in relation 
to the relevant KPIs and data and their full assurance opinion is 
available in the Responsibility section of our website, www.bunzl.com.
A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than 
a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk 
assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, 
and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. In 
order to reach their opinion, PwC performed a range of procedures 
including making enquiries of relevant Bunzl management, and 
evaluating the design of the key structures, systems, processes 
and controls for managing, recording and reporting the selected 
information. This included analysing and visiting three sites selected 
on the basis of their inherent risk and materiality to the Group, 
to understand the key processes and controls for reporting site 
performance data and to obtain supporting information. Finally 
PwC performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis 
of the selected information in relation to the three sites.
Non-financial performance information, including greenhouse gas 
quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations than 
financial information. It is important to read the selected corporate 
responsibility information contained in this Annual Report in the 
context of PwC’s full limited assurance opinion and the Company’s 
Corporate Responsibility Performance Reporting Guidelines which 
are also available in the Responsibility section of our website.
RISKS 
The Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 34 and 35 
details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a 
material impact on the Group’s business, financial condition or 
results of operations. Although many CR risks are not seen as 
principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk analysis a 
number of CR risks which could impact the Group’s business have 
been identified and these are set out below together with the steps 
taken by management to mitigate such risks:
Risk Mitigating factors
CR compliance failures
Lack of adherence to the Group’s CR policies could result in a  
variety of issues including those relating to inappropriate business 
practices, accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of 
waste or carbon emissions.
The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures 
(including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption) in place 
throughout the business as well as an established reporting 
framework.
Loss of key employees
The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on 
strong customer and supplier relationships which are built up 
locally. Stability of key relationship roles amongst the Group’s 
employees is therefore important.
The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive 
packages, development opportunities and career progression. 
Voluntary staff turnover is measured on a monthly basis, which 
enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities/unavailability of staff
Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather 
conditions. This could result in some of the Group’s facilities being 
affected or employees being unable to attend for work.
The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more 
than one location as a result of which the Group usually has the 
ability to distribute products from nearby facilities. Business 
continuity plans are in place to minimise the impact of any 
such issues.
Suppliers’ non-compliance with good CR practices
The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international 
suppliers across the world. The failure of one of the Group’s key 
suppliers to adhere to recognised CR standards could affect the 
Group’s reputation.
The Group’s key suppliers are principally publicly owned 
multinational organisations with high standards of operations. 
Suppliers are monitored by the Group’s purchasing departments 
and the quality assurance/quality control department based in 
China audits many suppliers throughout Asia. Key suppliers are 
made aware of the Group’s CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business 
environment as previously outlined in this report. 1 PHILIP ROGERSON # (AGE 70)
Appointed to the Board in January 2010 and became Chairman in 
March 2010. Chairman of the Nomination Committee. He was an 
executive director of BG plc (formerly British Gas plc) from 1992 to 
1998, latterly as Deputy Chairman. Since then he has held a number 
of non-executive directorships and was Chairman of Aggreko plc 
from 2002 to 2012 and Carillion plc from 2005 until 2014. He is 
currently Chairman of De La Rue plc. 
2 MICHAEL RONEY # (AGE 60)
Chief Executive since 2005 having been a non-executive director 
since 2003. After holding a number of senior general management 
positions within Goodyear throughout Latin America and then Asia, 
he became President of their Eastern European, African and Middle 
Eastern businesses and subsequently Chief Executive Officer of 
Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe BV. He was a non-executive director 
of Johnson Matthey Plc from 2007 until 2014 and is currently 
a non-executive director of Brown-Forman Corporation. 
3 PETER JOHNSON *†#• (AGE 67)
Non-executive director since 2006, senior independent director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Having spent most of his 
earlier career in the motor industry, he joined Inchcape plc in 1995, 
became Chief Executive in 1999 and was Chairman from 2006 until 
2009. He was the senior independent non-executive director of Wates 
Group Limited from 2011 until 2013 and was Chairman of The Rank 
Group Plc from 2007 until 2011. He will retire from the Board 
following the Annual General Meeting on 15 April 2015.
4 PATRICK LARMON (AGE 62)
Executive director since 2004 and President and Chief Executive 
Officer, North America. Having joined Bunzl in 1990 when Packaging 
Products Corporation, of which he was an owner, was acquired, 
he held various senior management positions over 13 years before 
becoming President of North America in 2003 and additionally 
assuming the role of Chief Executive Officer in 2004.
5 BRIAN MAY (AGE 50)
Finance Director since 2006. A chartered accountant, he qualified 
with KPMG and joined Bunzl in 1993 as Internal Audit Manager. 
Subsequently he became Group Treasurer before taking up the 
role of Finance Director, Europe & Australasia in 1996 and Finance 
Director designate in 2005. He is a non-executive director of 
United Utilities Group PLC and United Utilities Water PLC. 
6 DAVID SLEATH *†#• (AGE 53)
Non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee since 
2007 and senior independent director from April 2015. Formerly a 
Partner and Head of Audit and Assurance for the Midlands region 
of Arthur Andersen, he subsequently became Finance Director 
of Wagon plc before joining SEGRO plc, the European industrial 
property group, where he was Group Finance Director from 2006 
and has been Chief Executive since 2011.
7 EUGENIA ULASEWICZ *†#• (AGE 61)
Non-executive director since 2011. After holding a number of senior 
retail positions with Bloomingdale’s, Galeries Lafayette and Saks 
Fifth Avenue, she joined Burberry Group plc and was President of 
Burberry, Americas, one of three global regions of Burberry Group 
plc which includes North and Latin Americas, from 1998 until 2013. 
She is a non-executive director of Signet Jewelers Limited and 
Vince Holding Corp.
8 JEAN-CHARLES PAUZE *†#• (AGE 67)
Non-executive director since January 2013. Having previously held a 
number of senior positions with PPR Group, Strafor Facom Group and 
Alfa Laval Group in France and Germany, he was Chairman and Chief 
Executive of Rexel SA from 2002 until 2012. He is presently Chairman 
of Europcar Groupe SA and Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of 
CFAO SA and IMCD Group NV.
9 MEINIE OLDERSMA *†#• (AGE 55) 
Non-executive director since April 2013. With over 20 years’ 
experience in the technology distribution sector, he held a variety 
of senior positions with Ingram Micro and served as Chief Executive 
and President of their China Group and Managing Director of their 
business in Northern Europe before joining 20:20 Mobile Group 
Limited where he was Chief Executive from 2008 until 2014. He is 
Chairman of Kondor Limited and a non-executive director of the 
Supervisory Board of Smallsteps BV.
10 VANDA MURRAY *†#• (AGE 54) (NOT PICTURED)
Non-executive director since February 2015 and Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee from April 2015. Formerly Chief Executive 
Officer of Blick plc from 2001 to 2004, she subsequently became UK 
Managing Director of Ultraframe PLC from 2004 to 2006 and was 
appointed OBE in 2002 for Services to Industry and Export. She is 
presently a non-executive director of Exova Group plc, Manchester 
Airports Holdings Limited, Microgen plc, where she is Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, and Fenner PLC where she is senior 
independent director. 
*  Member of the Audit Committee
†  Member of the Remuneration Committee
#  Member of the Nomination Committee
• Independent director
42 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1 Philip Rogerson 
Chairman
4 Patrick Larmon 
Executive director
7 Eugenia Ulasewicz 
Non-executive 
director
2 Michael Roney 
Chief Executive
5 Brian May 
Finance Director
8 Jean-Charles Pauze 
Non-executive 
director
3 Peter Johnson 
Non-executive 
director
6 David Sleath 
Non-executive 
director
9 Meinie Oldersma 
Non-executive 
director INTRODUCTION
Bunzl’s corporate governance framework is designed to facilitate 
effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that can 
safeguard shareholders’ interests and sustain the success of the 
Company over the longer term. In order to achieve this the Company 
is committed to high standards of corporate governance. In 
September 2012 the Financial Reporting Council published the 2012 
edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’), a copy of 
which is available at www.frc.org.uk. This contains broad principles 
together with more specific provisions which set out standards of 
good practice in relation to Board leadership and effectiveness, 
accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders. This 
report describes how these principles have been applied by the 
Company during the year ended 31 December 2014. The Financial 
Reporting Council published a revised edition of the Code in 
September 2014 which will apply to the Company for the year ending 
31 December 2015. The Company has sought to reflect the revisions 
to the Code in its practices and will aim to comply fully with the 
revised Code in 2015. However all references to the Code in this 
report relate to the 2012 edition of the Code.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
It is the Board’s view that for the year ended 31 December 2014 the 
Company has been fully compliant with all of the relevant provisions 
set out in the Code applicable to this reporting period. The Company’s 
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, are required to review 
whether this statement reflects the Company’s compliance with 
those provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Listing 
Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect 
such compliance. No such report has been made. 
BOARD COMPOSITION
As at 31 December 2014, the Board was made up of nine members 
comprising a Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other executive 
directors and five non-executive directors. As at the date of this 
report the Board was made up of 10 members following the 
appointment of Vanda Murray as a non-executive director with effect 
from 1 February 2015. Peter Johnson, who has been a non-executive 
director since 2006, will retire from the Board following the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting on 15 April 2015. Brief biographical details 
of the directors are given on page 42. None of the Company’s 
non-executive directors had any previous connection with the 
Company or its executive directors on appointment to the Board  
and all of them are considered by both the Board and the criteria  
set out in the Code to be independent. The Chairman and each of the 
non-executive directors have a breadth of strategic, management 
and financial experience gained in each of their own fields in a range 
of multinational businesses. In accordance with the terms of the 
Code each of the directors, with the exception of Peter Johnson who 
retires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, will be 
subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
THE ROLE OF THE BOARD
To ensure directors maintain overall control over strategic, financial 
and operational and compliance issues, the Board meets regularly 
throughout the year and has formally adopted a schedule of matters 
which are required to be brought to it for decision. Key aspects of the 
Board’s role include:
• setting the Group’s strategic aims and ensuring that the Company 
has the necessary capabilities to deliver the Group’s strategy;
• reviewing the Group’s operating performance and approving the 
Group’s financial results;
• reviewing and approving larger capital expenditure and acquisition/
divestment proposals and material increases to borrowing and 
loan facilities; and
• overseeing the Group’s risk management and internal controls 
processes and procedures.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been 
agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters:
• the primary job of the Chairman is to be responsible for the 
leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all 
aspects of its role while the Chief Executive is responsible for the 
leadership and the operational and performance management 
of the Company within the strategy agreed by the Board.
• the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the 
business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders. 
• the Chairman:
 − takes overall responsibility for the composition and capability 
of the Board and its Committees;
 − consults regularly with the Chief Executive and is available on a 
flexible basis to provide advice, counsel and support to the Chief 
Executive; and 
 − ensures corporate governance is conducted in accordance with 
current best practice, as appropriate to the Group.
• the Chief Executive:
 − manages the executive directors and the Group’s management 
and day-to-day activities;
 − prepares and presents to the Board the strategy for growth in 
shareholder value;
 − sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the 
agreed strategy;
 − ensures that the Group has in place appropriate risk 
management and control mechanisms; and
 − communicates with the Company’s shareholders and analysts 
on a day-to-day basis as necessary (subject to an overview of 
such matters by the Chairman).
The Chief Executive is also the designated member of the Board 
responsible for environmental, social and governance matters 
and reports to the Board in relation to such matters.
Peter Johnson is currently the senior independent director and 
is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or 
Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact  
is inappropriate. He is also available to the other directors should 
they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with the 
Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the 
Chairman. Upon Peter Johnson’s retirement in April 2015, David 
Sleath, who was appointed as a non-executive director in September 
2007 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee, will assume the role 
of senior independent director.
The non-executive directors play a key role in corporate governance 
and accountability through both their attendance at Board meetings 
and their membership of the various Board Committees. The 
non-executive directors bring a broad and diverse range of business 
and financial expertise and experience to the Board which 
complements and supplements the experience of the executive 
directors. This enables them to evaluate information provided and 
constructively challenge management’s viewpoints, assumptions 
and performance.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 43
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board has appointed Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees, all of which comply with the provisions of the Code and 
play an important governance role through the detailed work they 
carry out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them. Briefing 
papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in 
advance of each meeting and, in respect of the Audit Committee, 
made available to the other directors. Further information relating 
to the Board Committees is set out below.
INFORMATION AND SUPPORT
Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the 
Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, 
who maintains a rolling programme of items for discussion by the 
Board to ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and other 
key issues are considered at the appropriate time. The Board is 
supplied with full and timely information, including detailed 
financial information, to enable the directors to discharge their 
responsibilities. To enable informed decision making, briefing papers 
are prepared and circulated to directors approximately one week 
before the scheduled Board meeting. All directors have access to 
the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is tasked with 
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and the Board 
is fully briefed on relevant legislative, regulatory and corporate 
governance developments. Directors may also take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense where they judge this 
to be necessary in the furtherance of their duties to discharge their 
responsibilities as directors. 
The Board meets formally at least seven times a year and the Board 
calendar is planned to ensure that the directors discuss a wide range 
of topics throughout the year. Normally at least two Board meetings 
a year are held at or near Group locations in the UK and overseas 
where the directors have the opportunity to meet and interact with 
senior executives from different businesses within the Group’s 
portfolio as well as observe the operations in situ. During 2014  
a number of the Group’s senior executives made presentations to  
the Board about a variety of different and diverse topics including 
reviews of potential acquisition opportunities, the post-acquisition 
performance of businesses acquired in prior years, the Group’s 
financing facilities and treasury policies and health and safety 
performance metrics. 
In addition to regular Board meetings, the directors meet annually 
to review and discuss the Group’s overall strategy. As part of this 
process, presentations are made by the Chief Executive and the 
heads of each of the business areas together with the Director of 
Corporate Development. 
All new directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board, 
including meetings with senior management and visits to some  
of the Group’s locations. They also receive a detailed information 
pack which includes details of directors’ duties and responsibilities, 
procedures for dealing in Bunzl’s shares and a number of other 
governance related issues. Directors are continually updated on 
the Group’s businesses and their markets and the changes to the 
competitive and regulatory environments in which they operate.
Training and development needs of the Board are kept under review 
and directors attend external courses where it is considered 
appropriate for them to do so.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or 
could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly 
may conflict, with the Company’s interests. In accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006, the Company’s Articles of Association allow 
the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise 
and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational and/
or transactional conflicts which are then considered by the Board 
and, if considered appropriate, authorised accordingly. A director is 
not however permitted to participate in such considerations or to vote 
in relation to their own conflicts.
The Board has considered and authorised a number of potential 
situational conflicts all of which relate to the holding of external 
directorships and have been entered on the Company’s conflicts 
register. No actual conflicts have been identified during the year. 
The Board considers that these procedures operate effectively.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive 
directors and is chaired by David Sleath who, as Chief Executive and 
formerly Group Finance Director of SEGRO plc and as a fellow of 
the ICAEW, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant 
financial experience as required by the Code. While the other 
directors are not members of the Committee, they normally attend 
meetings of the Committee by invitation together with the Head of 
Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors. The 
Secretary to the Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary. 
Further details about the Audit Committee and the work undertaken 
by it during the year and prior to the publication of the Group’s results 
for 2014 are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 48 to 51. 
Members’ attendance at the Committee meetings held during the 
year is set out in the table on page 45. The terms of reference of the 
Committee, which were reviewed and revised by the Board during 
the year following a recommendation made by the Committee, 
are available on the Company’s website, www.bunzl.com.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent 
non-executive directors and is currently chaired by the senior 
independent director, Peter Johnson. Upon Peter Johnson’s 
retirement in April 2015, Vanda Murray, who was appointed as a 
non-executive director in February 2015, will assume the role of 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee. While neither the Chairman of 
the Company nor the Chief Executive are members of the Committee, 
they normally attend meetings by invitation except when the 
Committee is considering matters concerning themselves. The 
Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group Human 
Resources. Further details of the Remuneration Committee, the 
Company’s remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out 
in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 52 to 72. Members’ 
attendance at the Committee meetings held during the year is 
set out in the table on page 45. The terms of reference of the 
Committee, which were reviewed during the year, are available 
on the Company’s website.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Composition
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Company, 
who chairs the Committee (unless the Committee is dealing with the 
matter of succession of the Chairman of the Company), the Chief 
Executive and all of the non-executive directors. In accordance  
with the provisions of the Code, the majority of the members are 
independent non-executive directors. The Secretary to the 
Committee is Paul Hussey, Company Secretary.
Role
The Committee’s principal role is to consider, and make 
recommendations to the Board concerning, the composition of the 
Board and its Committees including proposed appointees to the 
Board, whether to fill any vacancies that may arise or to change 
the number of Board members. It is the Committee’s role to ensure 
that the Board and its Committees maintain the appropriate balance 
of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity to ensure their 
continued effectiveness. 
44 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee’s responsibilities include:
• reviewing the structure, size and composition (including the  
skills, knowledge, experience and diversity) of the Board and 
making recommendations to the Board with regard to any 
proposed changes;
• nominating, for the approval of the Board, appropriate individuals 
to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise having considered 
candidates with relevant experience from a wide range of 
backgrounds; and
• succession planning, taking into account the challenges and 
opportunities facing the Company and the background, skills and 
expertise that will be required on the Board in the future, and 
reviewing annually management succession planning processes 
in relation to the Company’s senior executives.
The Committee meets as necessary throughout the year to discharge 
its responsibilities. An external search consultancy which does not 
have any other connection with the Company is retained by the 
Company to assess potential candidates to be considered as 
prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate, 
executive directors. This process was adopted in relation to the 
appointment of Vanda Murray as a non-executive director with effect 
from 1 February 2015, further details of which are set out below.
Activities
The Committee met on four occasions during 2014. Members’ 
attendance at those meetings is set out in the table opposite.
One of the Committee’s main responsibilities during the year was the 
process of identifying and selecting a new non-executive director. 
Having taken account of the existing skills, knowledge, experience 
and diversity of the Board, the Committee prepared and agreed a 
detailed specification for the role and appointed an external search 
consultancy, Lygon Group, to assist the Committee in the recruitment 
process. Lygon Group does not provide any other services to, or have 
any connection with, the Company. In particular the Committee were 
keen to find a successful senior business executive with extensive 
international management experience. As a potential non-executive 
director, it was important that the chosen candidate was able to play 
a supportive role to the executive management team while at the 
same time provide strategic input into the Company’s direction  
and development. It was also a requirement that the prospective 
director could provide wise counsel and independence of mind  
and to challenge management constructively by offering impartial, 
independent and objective advice. All members of the Committee 
had the opportunity to meet the preferred candidate before a final 
recommendation was made to the Board. Following a thorough 
process Vanda Murray was recommended to the Board to be 
appointed as an independent non-executive director. This 
recommendation was unanimously approved by the Board with  
Vanda Murray being appointed with effect from 1 February 2015.  
The Board also accepted the Committee’s recommendation that 
Vanda Murray be appointed to each of the three Board Committees 
and that she should assume the role of Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee upon Peter Johnson’s retirement in April 2015.
The Committee also reviewed and took account of the balance of 
skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board, the time 
commitment expected of the non-executive directors and the 
conclusions of the formal evaluation process which was carried 
out when considering and recommending the nomination of 
directors for re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. 
In particular the Committee reviewed the performance of 
David Sleath, who was appointed to the Board in September 2007. 
The Committee believes that he continues to be effective and to 
demonstrate strong independence in character and judgement 
in the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities as a 
director. Consequently the Committee is satisfied that, despite his 
length of tenure, he remains independent. Additionally, the Board 
accepted the Committee’s recommendation that David Sleath should 
be appointed as the Company’s senior independent director following 
Peter Johnson’s retirement.
The Chief Executive presented his annual management succession 
plan to the Committee. The Company recognises that having the right 
directors and senior management is crucial for the Group’s success 
and it is a key task of the Committee to ensure that the Company has 
a robust and continuous succession planning process over both the 
medium to long term to ensure that there is the right mix and skills 
available as the Company evolves. 
As part of the review of the composition of the Board and the 
succession planning process, both the Board and the Committee 
recognise the importance of gender diversity throughout the Group. 
As at the date of this report, two of the 10 Board members (moving to 
two of the nine Board members following Peter Johnson’s retirement 
in April 2015) and one of the five Executive Committee members are 
female. The Committee aims to have a Board with a broad range 
of skills, backgrounds, experience and diversity and, while the 
Committee will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that the 
best people are appointed for the relevant roles, the Committee 
recognises the benefits of greater diversity and will continue to 
take account of this when considering any particular appointment. 
However, the primary responsibility of the Committee in selecting 
and recommending candidates to the Board when making new 
appointments is to ensure the strength of the Board’s composition 
and the overriding aim is to always select and recommend the best 
candidate for the position. Further information about the Company’s 
workforce diversity is set out on page 39.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which were reviewed by 
the Board during the year, are set out on the Company’s website. 
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE
The following table shows the attendance in 2014 of directors at 
Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which 
they were members:
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Number of meetings 9 5 3 4
Philip Rogerson 9 4
Michael Roney 9 4
Patrick Larmon 9
Peter Johnson 9 5 3 4
Brian May 9
David Sleath 9 5 3 4
Eugenia Ulasewicz 9 5 3 4
Jean-Charles Pauze 9 5 3 4
Meinie Oldersma 9 5 3 4
In addition to the directors named above, Vanda Murray was 
appointed as a non-executive director and a member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees with effect from 
1 February 2015. 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for 
the Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen by 
the Chairman. This includes individual discussions between the 
Chairman and each director when their individual training and 
development needs are reviewed. Led by the senior independent 
director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman 
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 45 present at least annually to appraise the Chairman’s performance 
including a review of his other commitments to ensure that he is 
able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his 
responsibilities effectively. The Chairman also periodically holds 
meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive 
directors present. All of these processes were carried out 
satisfactorily during the year. 
In accordance with the requirements of the Code an external 
performance evaluation was carried out in 2012 and the results were 
subsequently presented to the Board. The facilitator of the external 
evaluation, Lintstock, does not provide any other services to, or have 
any other connection with, the Company. Although the Code only 
requires that the evaluation of the Board and its Committees should 
be externally facilitated at least every three years, the Board has 
decided to appoint Lintstock to carry out a performance evaluation 
each year and accordingly external evaluations were completed in 
both 2013 and 2014. By doing so, the Board is able to ensure that 
there is consistency and continuity in the evaluation process and 
the presentation of the results from one year to the next. Following 
the evaluation which was carried out in 2014, the Board identified 
a number of key priorities in order to improve the Board’s 
performance, including:
• allowing more time for discussion on the key strategic issues 
facing the Group both as part of the Board’s annual strategy 
review and at other times of the year as appropriate;
• continuing the focus of the Nomination Committee on the 
management succession plans for the Group, including in 
particular maintaining the Board’s exposure to the Group’s 
senior management below Board level;
• increasing the focus on both the opportunities and threats 
presented by future developments in technology and digital 
marketing activities and how these might best be developed 
in order to maintain the continuing success of the Group; and
• arranging for more external speakers to present to the Board 
from time to time on specific topics of interest.
As a result of the overall performance evaluation process carried 
out in 2014, the Board concluded that both it and its Committees 
are operating effectively. 
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING
The responsibilities of the directors in respect of the preparation 
of the Group and parent company financial statements are set out 
on page 120 and the auditors’ report on pages 121 to 126 includes 
a statement by the external auditors about their reporting 
responsibilities. As set out on page 33, the directors are of the 
opinion that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. 
The process of preparing the Annual Report has included  
the following:
• comprehensive reviews undertaken at different levels in the  
Group in order to ensure the accuracy, consistency and overall 
balance of the Annual Report; and
• verification procedures, both internally and by the external 
auditors, to deal with the factual content of the Annual Report.
From the information and assurance provided by the ongoing work of 
the internal audit department, the reviews conducted by the external 
auditors in relation to both the half year and full year results, the 
Board’s understanding of the Group’s business and the information 
provided by the senior executive management team, the Board 
considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for 
identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the 
Group’s system of internal control relating to those risks. However, 
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. In accordance with Principle C.2 of the 
Code and the related guidance, the Company has established the 
procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating, managing and mitigating significant risks to 
the Group and for determining the nature and extent of the significant 
risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives. The 
directors confirm that such procedures have been in place for the 
year ended 31 December 2014 and up to the date of approval of these 
financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
Further information relating to how the directors maintain overall 
control over all significant strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance issues is set out in the ‘Role of the Board’ section on 
page 43.
In addition, the Board has delegated to an Executive Committee, 
consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other 
functional managers, the responsibility for identifying, evaluating and 
monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding how these are 
managed and to establish a system of internal control appropriate 
to the business environments in which the Group operates. The 
principal features of this system include:
• a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control 
system through a tiered management structure with clearly 
defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
• clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment 
and acquisitions;
• strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared 
annually by the business areas and approved by the Board;
• formal standards of business conduct (including a code of ethics 
and whistle blowing procedure) based on honesty, integrity, fair 
dealing and compliance with the local laws and regulations of 
the countries in which the Group operates;
• a well established consolidation and reporting system for the 
statutory accounts and monthly management accounts;
• continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production 
of timely and accurate management information relating to the 
operation of the Group’s businesses; and
• detailed manuals covering Group accounting policies and policies 
and procedures for the Group’s treasury operations supplemented 
by internal control procedures at a business area level.
46 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the 
effectiveness of the internal control system and to identify, 
manage and mitigate business risk are listed below:
• central management holds regular meetings with business area 
management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues 
including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the 
business areas and the policies and procedures by which these 
risks are managed; 
• the Executive Committee meets twice per month and also reviews 
the outcome of the discussions held at business area meetings on 
internal control and risk management issues;
• the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee 
discussions on internal control and risk management issues which 
ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability;
• each business area, the Executive Committee and the Board carry 
out an annual fraud risk assessment;
• actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts  
and the previous year and explanations obtained for all  
significant variances;
• all treasury activities, including in relation to the management of 
foreign exchange exposures and Group borrowings, are reported 
and reviewed monthly;
• the Group’s bank balances around the world are monitored on a 
weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally;
• the internal audit department periodically reviews individual 
businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve 
controls and follows up to ensure that management implements 
the recommendations made. The internal audit department’s work 
is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are 
reported to Group and business area management as well as 
to the Audit Committee and the external auditors;
• an annual self-assessment of the status of internal controls 
measured against a prescribed list of minimum standards is 
performed by every business and action plans are agreed where 
remedial action is required; 
• the Audit Committee, which comprises all of the independent 
non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly 
throughout the year. Further details of the work of the Committee, 
which includes a review of the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal financial controls and the assurance procedures relating 
to the Company’s risk management system, are set out in the  
Audit Committee report on pages 48 to 51;
• regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to 
assess the risks throughout the Group;
• a management committee, which oversees issues relating 
principally to environment, health & safety, insurance and business 
continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices 
and monitors their implementation;
• risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress 
against objectives established by each business area are 
periodically carried out; and
• developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually 
monitored by Group management in association with  
external advisers.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of 
the system of internal control and risk management in operation 
during 2014.
The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the 
financial statements. The audit includes the review and evaluation of 
the system of internal financial control and the data contained in the 
financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit 
opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with 
the half year results announced normally at the end of August and 
the annual results announced normally at the end of February. 
In addition the Company has historically published two interim 
management statements a year as required by the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules (‘the DTRs’). Although with effect from  
7 November 2014 the DTRs no longer require interim management 
statements to be published by listed companies, it is the Board’s 
current intention to continue to issue interim management 
statements on a voluntary basis in order to keep the Company’s 
shareholders and the financial markets periodically updated on 
the Company’s trading performance outside of the regulatory 
announcements made in relation to the half year and annual results.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with 
representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board 
the views of major shareholders. Additional forms of communication 
include presentations of the half year and annual results. The 
Chairman and the senior independent director and the other non-
executive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on 
request. The Board also periodically reviews and discusses analysts’ 
and brokers’ reports and surveys of shareholder opinions conducted 
by the Company’s own brokers.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at  
least 20 working days before the meeting. All shareholders are 
encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited 
to ask questions at the meeting and are given the opportunity to  
meet all of the directors informally. Shareholders unable to attend 
are encouraged to vote using the proxy card mailed to them or 
electronically as detailed in the Notice of Meeting. Shareholders 
are given the option to withhold their vote on the proxy form. As in 
previous years, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting each 
of the resolutions put to the meeting will be taken on a poll rather 
than on a show of hands as directors believe that a poll is more 
representative of shareholders’ voting intentions because 
shareholder votes are counted according to the number of shares 
held and all votes tendered are taken into account. The results of the 
poll will be publicly announced and made available on the Company’s 
website as soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board
Paul Hussey
Secretary
23 February 2015
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 47 STATEMENT FROM DAVID SLEATH,  
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
I am pleased to present our Audit Committee report for 2014, the 
purpose of which is to give shareholders an overview of the operation 
and scope of the Committee’s function and to report on its activities 
undertaken over the past year.
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council includes a number of provisions relating 
to the role and reporting requirements of Audit Committees and 
accordingly this report has been prepared in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the 2012 edition of the Code which applied 
to the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
Throughout 2014 our activities continued to be focused on the 
integrity of the financial reporting and the related controls of the 
Group. The Committee has a clearly defined role in the corporate 
governance framework of listed companies and acts independently 
of management to ensure that the interests of our shareholders 
are properly protected in relation to financial reporting and audit 
integrity and the Company’s risk management and internal 
control environment.
A key aspect of the Committee’s work during the year was to  
initiate and oversee a competitive tender process for the external 
audit, further details of which are set out in the report that  
follows. Having done so, the Company subsequently appointed 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) as auditors to succeed KPMG 
Audit Plc (‘KPMG’]. The transition to the new audit firm has gone well. 
PwC have settled in quickly, having been in position for the 2014  
half year review, and have invested significant time in learning about 
the Group and its businesses. The Committee is pleased with their 
progress to date and the insights which they have brought to the  
audit process.
The significant accounting matters considered by the Committee 
were the accounting for business combinations, the carrying value 
of goodwill and other intangible assets, taxation, defined benefit 
pension scheme obligations, supplier rebates and provisions. These 
are discussed in detail in our report below and the Committee is 
satisfied that these matters have been accounted for appropriately.
The role of Audit Committees is constantly changing and, as a result, 
we will continue to keep our agenda under review to ensure that it 
addresses the right issues going forward.
ROLE
The Committee’s principal role is to ensure that the Company has 
effective governance over the Group’s financial reporting, including 
the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both the 
internal and external audit functions and the management of the 
Group’s systems of internal control, business risks and related 
compliance activities. In particular the Committee is responsible for:
• monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements 
of the Group and the significant financial reporting judgements 
contained in them;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal  
financial controls;
• reviewing the process for the management of risk and reviewing 
the assurance procedures over controls designed to manage 
key risks;
• overseeing the Company’s internal audit activities;
• reviewing the appropriateness of the Company’s relationship 
with the external auditors, including the auditors’ independence, 
the terms of engagement and fees for the audit and the provision 
of non-audit services;
• initiating and supervising a competitive tender process for the 
external audit as may be required from time to time;
• making recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment of the external auditors; and
• developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the 
external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The Committee’s terms of reference were reviewed and revised by 
the Board at the end of 2014 following a recommendation made by 
the Committee to take account of the changes made to the role of 
Audit Committees introduced by the Competition & Markets Authority 
Order with effect from 1 January 2015. Pursuant to the Order and the 
revised terms of reference, the Committee is now solely responsible 
for negotiating and agreeing the external auditors’ fee, the scope of 
the statutory audit and initiating and supervising a competitive tender 
process for the external audit where it is appropriate to do so and to 
make recommendations to the Board as to the external auditors’ 
appointment pursuant to any such process. The current version of 
the Committee’s terms of reference is available on the Company’s 
website, www.bunzl.com.
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent 
access to the services of the Company’s internal audit function and 
to the external auditors and may obtain outside professional advice 
as necessary. Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external 
auditors have direct access to me as the Chairman of the Committee 
and I held a number of meetings with each of them during the year 
outside formal Committee meetings.
48 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ACTIVITIES
As Chairman of the Committee, I hold preparatory discussions with 
the Company’s senior management, the Head of Internal Audit and 
the external auditors prior to Committee meetings to discuss the 
items to be considered at the Committee meetings. In addition, 
separate discussions are held between the Committee and the 
Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without management 
present. I also attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any 
shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committee’s 
activities. The Committee met on five occasions during the year  
and members’ attendance at those meetings is set out in the table  
on page 45. 
The Committee’s activities included:
• overseeing a competitive tender process for the position of the 
Company’s external auditors;
• following completion of the competitive tender process, making 
recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of 
the external auditors and approving the remuneration and terms 
of engagement of the auditors including the audit strategy and 
planning process for the current financial year; 
• receiving and considering reports from management and the 
external auditors in relation to the half yearly financial report 
and the annual financial statements;
• reviewing the half yearly financial report and the annual financial 
statements and the formal announcements relating thereto;
• receiving and considering reports from the Head of Internal Audit 
in relation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function 
and reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme 
for the year;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial 
controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Company’s 
risk management systems;
• reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, 
raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial 
reporting or other matters and receiving periodic reports relating 
to the matters raised through such arrangements;
• reviewing, and making a recommendation to the Board to change, 
the Committee’s terms of reference;
• reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness following an externally 
facilitated performance evaluation;
• reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditors and  
the internal audit function following completion of detailed 
questionnaires by both the Board and senior management  
within the Company;
• reviewing and approving the level and nature of non-audit work 
which the external auditors performed during the year, including 
the fees paid for such work; 
• reviewing the principal tax risks applicable to the Company and 
the steps taken to manage such risks; and
• as part of an ongoing programme to review specific areas relating 
to financial reporting matters within the Group’s businesses, 
receiving and considering a presentation about the finance function 
and control environment within the Group’s operations in Brazil. 
Following each Committee meeting, I report any significant findings 
to the Board and copies of the minutes of the Committee meetings 
are circulated to all of the directors and to the external auditors.
EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER AND APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS
In considering whether to recommend to the Board the appointment 
or re-appointment of the external auditors, the Committee takes into 
account the tenure of the auditors in addition to the results of its 
review of the effectiveness of the external auditors and considers 
whether there should be a full tender process either as a result 
of that review or as may be required by the relevant regulations. 
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committee’s 
choice of external auditors.
KPMG (or its predecessor firms) had been the Company’s external 
auditors since 1986 and was responsible for the audit of the 
Company’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
In line with the new provision introduced in the 2012 edition of the 
Code and the report of the UK Competition Commission which 
required listed companies to tender the external audit at least once 
every 10 years, during the early part of 2014 the Board accepted a 
recommendation from the Committee that the Company should carry 
out such a tender during 2014 with a view to the successful firm 
performing the external audit for the year ending 31 December 2014. 
In order to comply with good governance practice and given KPMG’s 
length of tenure as the Company’s auditors and the then current 
regulatory environment which was expected to impose an 
obligation on listed companies to rotate their auditors periodically 
(such obligation having subsequently been made a mandatory 
requirement), following a recommendation from the Committee 
the Board decided that it intended to appoint a new audit firm as 
the Company’s external auditors following the tender process.  
As a result KPMG was not invited to participate in the process. 
Following the agreement of a detailed timetable and step plan, a 
formal Invitation to Tender document was issued to those audit firms 
determined by the Committee to have the appropriate international 
expertise and resources to carry out effectively the external audit  
of the Company and its subsidiaries.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 49
‘ The Committee will remain focused on 
the audit, assurance and risk processes 
within the business, as well as financial 
reporting itself, and will continue to evolve 
its activities in line with the regulatory 
framework and market practice for 
Audit Committees.’ 50 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
The detailed responses to the Invitation to Tender were then 
assessed and reviewed against agreed criteria and each of the 
audit firms made presentations in May 2014. The Committee 
subsequently recommended to the Board that PwC be appointed as 
the external auditors in succession to KPMG. Following approval by 
the Board, the appointment was duly notified to shareholders and to 
the Financial Reporting Council and became effective on 19 May 2014. 
PwC’s fees for the audit for the year ending 31 December 2014 
were considered and agreed by the Committee as part of the 
tender process.
Having been appointed during the year, PwC have expressed 
their willingness to continue as auditors of the Company and 
the Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that a 
resolution proposing the re-appointment of PwC as external auditors 
be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SIGNIFICANT 
ACCOUNTING MATTERS
During the year and prior to the publication of the Group’s results 
for 2014, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2014 half yearly financial 
report, the 2014 Annual Report (including the financial statements), 
the 2014 annual results news release and the reports from the 
external auditors, PwC, on the outcomes of their half year review  
and audit relating to 2014. 
As part of its work, the Committee considered the following 
significant accounting issues, matters and judgements in relation 
to the Group’s financial statements:
Accounting for business combinations
For business combinations, the Group has a long-standing process 
for the identification of the fair values of the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed including separate identification of intangible 
assets using external valuation specialists where required. The 
Committee reviewed this process and discussed with management 
and the external auditors the methodology and assumptions used 
to value the assets and liabilities of the significant acquisitions 
completed in 2014. The Committee concluded that it was satisfied 
with management’s valuations of these assets and liabilities, 
including the degree to which such valuations are supported by 
professional advice from external advisers. 
The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘CGUs’) and is tested 
annually for impairment. The Committee critically reviewed and 
discussed management’s report on the impairment testing of the 
carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets of each CGU 
and considered the external auditors’ testing thereof including the 
sensitivity of the outcome of impairment testing to the use of different 
discount rates. After due challenge and debate, the Committee 
concluded that it was satisfied with the assumptions and judgements 
applied in relation to such testing and agreed that there was no 
impairment to goodwill or other intangible assets. Details of the  
key assumptions and judgements used are set out in Note 9 to the 
financial statements.
Taxation 
The Committee reviewed a report and received a presentation from 
the Head of Tax highlighting the principal tax risks that the Group 
faces, the tax strategy and a detailed risk assessment relating to 
the tax risks identified including the judgements underpinning the 
provisions for potential tax liabilities. The Committee also reviewed 
the results of the external auditors’ assessment of provisions for 
income taxes and, having done so, was satisfied with the key 
judgements made by management. 
Defined benefit pension scheme obligations
The Committee considered reports from management and the 
external auditors in relation to the valuation of the defined benefit 
pension schemes and reviewed the key actuarial assumptions 
used in calculating the defined benefit pension liabilities, especially 
in relation to discount rates, inflation rates and mortality/life 
expectancy. The Committee discussed the reasons for the increase 
in the net pension deficit and was satisfied that the assumptions 
used were appropriate and were supported by independent actuarial 
specialists. Details of the key assumptions used are set out in 
Note 20 to the financial statements.
Supplier rebates
The Group has various rebate arrangements with a number of 
suppliers. Some of these arrangements are based on the volume 
of products purchased and others are based on the volume of 
products sold. The recognition of supplier rebate income from these 
arrangements may involve the requirement for some estimates to be 
made about whether certain conditions related to such rebate income 
have been, or will be, met. In reviewing the consolidated financial 
statements, the Committee considered a report from management 
in relation to the key financial controls over supplier rebates, the 
accounting treatment for each type of rebate, the value of the 
different types of rebates in the income statement for the year and 
the value of supplier rebate income receivables at the year end. 
The Committee discussed the findings of the external auditors in this 
area and discussed with management the supplier rebate accounting 
process. Having done so, the Committee concluded that it was 
satisfied with the Group’s supplier rebate accounting process for 
the year and with the value of rebate income recognised. 
Provisions
The Group holds a number of provisions relating to properties 
(including liabilities for onerous lease commitments, repairs and 
dilapidations) and actual and anticipated legal, environmental and 
other claims. The Committee reviewed reports from management 
and the external auditors concerning the significant provisions held 
for such matters including any provisions with notable movements 
and those provisions requiring a greater degree of judgement. 
The Committee considered the background to such provisions and 
discussed with management the judgements applied in determining 
the value of provisions required. The Committee enquired of 
management and the external auditors as to the existence of other 
matters potentially requiring a provision to be made. The Committee 
concluded that it was satisfied with the value of provisions carried.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS’ INDEPENDENCE AND EFFECTIVENESS
The Committee ensures that the external auditors remain 
independent of the Company and receives written confirmation 
from the external auditors as to whether they consider themselves 
independent within the meaning of their own internal and the relevant 
regulatory and professional requirements. Key members of the audit 
team rotate off the Company’s audit after a specific period of time.
In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditors is not compromised, the Committee has also 
pre-approved the non-audit service categories that can be provided 
by the external auditors and agreed monetary amounts for each 
service category that can be provided by them, subject to a maximum 
individual engagement value. Certain categories of services are 
prohibited under the ethical standards of the Accounting Practices 
Board. A permitted service requires specific authorisation from the 
Committee or myself as the Committee Chairman where it does not 
fall within the pre-approved categories or where its value exceeds 
the maximum pre-approved individual engagement value. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 51
Such non-audit service categories which are pre-approved 
principally comprise tax services and further assurance services 
relating to pre-acquisition due diligence and other duties carried 
out in respect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses. It is the 
Company’s policy to assess the services required on a case by case 
basis to ensure that the most appropriate adviser is retained. As a 
result the Committee believes that it is sometimes appropriate for 
this additional work to be carried out by the Company’s auditors. 
However other firms are also used by the Company to provide 
non-audit services if such other firms are thought to be best placed 
to undertake the work involved. Details of the fees paid to the 
external auditors in 2014 in respect of the audit and for non-audit 
services are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
During 2014 the Committee carried out a review of the effectiveness 
of the external audit process carried out in relation to the audit of the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. As part 
of this review, the Committee considered feedback on the audit 
gathered through a detailed survey which was completed by each 
of the directors and members of the Company’s senior management 
team at both Group and business area levels. The survey covered a 
total of 27 different aspects of the audit process grouped under four 
separate headings; the robustness of the audit process, the quality 
of delivery, the quality of reporting and the quality of people and 
service. Each respondent was asked to award a rating on a scale 
of 1 to 5 for each aspect reviewed and to provide any additional 
comments they wished to make in relation to the questions raised. 
The Committee discussed the findings of the survey and their overall 
assessment of the work of the auditors. The Committee will carry 
out a similar effectiveness review in 2015 in relation to the audit 
of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
As mentioned above, the Committee is responsible for reviewing 
on behalf of the Board the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
financial controls and the assurance procedures relating to the 
Company’s risk management system. These controls and procedures 
are designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure of the 
Company to meet its business objectives and, as such, provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. During the year, the Committee monitors the 
effectiveness of the internal financial controls framework through 
reports from the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the 
external auditors. In particular the Committee considered the scope 
and results of work of the internal audit function, the findings of the 
external auditors in relation to the year end audit, the assessment 
of fraud risk carried out by management, the controls over the 
Company’s financial consolidation and reporting system, the 
treasury controls, the tax risks and the processes for setting 
strategic plans and budgets and for monitoring the ongoing 
performance of the Company. 
In relation to the risk management system, the Committee reviewed 
the process by which significant risks had been identified by 
management and the Board, the key controls and other processes 
designed to manage and mitigate such risks and the assurance 
provided by the internal audit function, the external auditors and 
other oversight from management and the Board.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Company has an internal audit department which comprises 
eight in-house auditors, including the Head of Internal Audit who 
reports jointly to me, in my capacity as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, and the Finance Director. The scope of work of the 
internal audit function covers all systems and activities of the Group. 
Work is prioritised according to the Company’s risk profile with  
the annual audit plan being approved by the Committee each year. 
Internal audit reports are regularly provided to the Committee which 
include details of the audit findings, and the relevant management 
actions required in order to address any issues arising therefrom, as 
well as updates on the progress made by management in addressing 
any outstanding recommendations from previously reported findings. 
In addition, the internal audit function reports on any significant 
issues relating to the processes for controlling the activities of  
the Group and the adequacy and effectiveness of such processes. 
Together the work of the internal audit function provides the 
Committee with a further means of monitoring the processes and 
actions to manage and mitigate those risks identified as posing the 
greatest threat to the Company.
A review by the Committee of the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function was carried out during the year. The Committee considered 
the results of a detailed questionnaire completed by each of the 
directors and those members of the senior management team who 
interact with the internal audit department and discussed generally 
the work of the internal audit department, the adequacy of resources 
and the skills and capabilities of the internal audit team.
David Sleath
Chairman of the Audit Committee
23 February 2015 52 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
This report has been prepared on behalf of and 
has been approved by the Board. It complies 
with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (as amended) (the ‘Regulations’), 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial 
Conduct Authority Listing Rules and takes into 
account the accompanying Directors’ Remuneration 
Reporting Guidance and the relevant policies of 
shareholder representative bodies. This report 
is presented in three main sections: an annual 
statement from the Chairman of the Committee; the 
Directors’ remuneration policy report as approved 
by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’); and the Annual report on remuneration for 
2014. The report also contains information relating 
to the directors’ remuneration for 2015 and additional 
information on directors’ share interests.
STATEMENT FROM PETER JOHNSON,  
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Our strategic focus places great importance on continuing to grow 
organically and by acquisition in support of one of Bunzl’s main 
objectives, which is to build shareholder value, and this has once 
again been demonstrated in 2014. The remuneration framework 
is designed to reinforce the link between pay and performance 
and reward senior executives for delivering superior shareholder 
returns. The Committee considers that the current remuneration 
arrangements are simple and transparent for both employees and 
shareholders and that performance is assessed against measures 
and targets that are relevant to Bunzl’s business and are stretching, 
while providing maximum clarity.
A significant amount of Bunzl’s success can be attributed to the 
strong leadership of the management team. Bunzl is an international 
business providing outsourcing solutions and value-added 
distribution across the Americas, Europe and Australasia. It is 
important that key individuals are retained and that we can attract 
new talent into the business by recruitment or acquisition. The 
competitiveness of the remuneration package we offer is therefore 
key. The remuneration framework is structured in a way that allows 
us to compete for talent across multiple geographies while also 
complying with UK corporate governance good practice. 
During 2013 we reviewed the remuneration structure which had 
served the business well over many years. Having done so, we made 
a number of changes to ensure the remuneration framework 
continued to support the strategic direction of the business and 
further comply with good practice, while addressing various matters 
previously raised by shareholder representative bodies. The principal 
change related to the introduction of a revised Long Term Incentive 
Plan (‘LTIP’) to be known as the 2014 LTIP. The policy report that 
describes the individual elements of remuneration was approved at 
the 2014 AGM for a period of three years until April 2017. No changes 
to the policy are being proposed for 2015. However for ease of 
reference we have included the policy report once again in the 2014 
Annual Report although, in accordance with the 2013 regulations, 
we will only be inviting shareholders to approve the Annual report 
on remuneration for 2014 at the 2015 AGM. 
The 2014 LTIP was also approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM 
for a 10 year period. Executive share options and performance shares 
were awarded using this plan in August and October respectively. 
The 2014 LTIP provides a clawback facility under which part or 
the full amount of a vested award may be recovered in certain 
circumstances. A clawback provision is already in place for the 
annual bonus in relation to unvested shares under the Deferred 
Annual Share Bonus Scheme (‘DASBS’). 
During the year the Committee reviewed the appropriateness 
of the performance conditions relating to the options and awards 
to be granted under the 2014 LTIP. Taking due consideration of the 
prevailing economic and market conditions, the Committee decided 
that the performance conditions as published in the Annual report 
on remuneration for 2013 were still suitably stretching for the 
2014 grant of options and performance share awards. Further the 
Committee reviewed the key performance indicators (‘KPIs’) for 
the 2014 annual bonus and it was agreed that adjusted earnings per 
share and return on average operating capital performance for the 
year relative to a target level of return were still appropriate and that 
the target levels were stretching without encouraging inappropriate 
levels of risk.
The Committee considers that the out-turn of our incentive plans, 
appropriately reflects Bunzl’s performance in 2014. For example, 
for the Chief Executive the annual bonus was 85% of the maximum 
opportunity, which equated to 98% of his annual salary and 100% 
of executive share options and 89% of performance shares vested. 
During 2014, Bunzl’s total shareholder return (‘TSR’) performance 
continued to rise against a flat performance by the FTSE Support 
Services sector and the share price reached an all-time high. 
The Committee has not exercised any discretion to adjust 
performance targets as a result of events that have taken 
place during the year.
Peter Johnson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 February 2015 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 53
‘ The out-turn of our incentive plans in 2014 
appropriately reflects our performance 
while the targets set are sufficiently 
stretching without encouraging 
inappropriate levels of risk.’
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT
Bunzl continues to pursue its well defined strategy of developing the business through organic growth, consolidating the markets in which 
we compete through focused acquisitions in both existing and new geographies and continuously improving the efficiency of our operations. 
Bunzl’s business model relies on excellent customer and supplier relationships and the skills, knowledge and experience of its directors 
and employees. The Company’s remuneration policy supports this strategy by ensuring that the overall remuneration package is set at a 
competitive level while ensuring that additional reward is paid for high performance over a sustained period. This policy is designed to 
ensure the recruitment, retention and motivation of the executive directors and other senior executives over the long term.
The performance related elements of the remuneration package are designed to incentivise executives to meet key performance metrics 
which align their interests and remuneration with those of shareholders, for example targets relating to earnings per share and TSR. 
In setting such targets the Committee takes due account of the potential effect such targets could have on the attitude and behaviour of 
executives to risk within the business. In addition the Committee has the discretion to take into account performance on environmental, 
social and governance matters.
The following table summarises the policy for the remuneration of executive directors approved at and effective from the 2014 AGM which 
is binding until the AGM to be held in 2017. 
Salary
Purpose • recognise knowledge, skills and experience as well as reflect the scope and size of the role
• reward individual performance without encouraging undue risk
• promote the importance of environmental, social and governance issues
Operation • paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year
• reviewed annually, normally in December (with any changes usually effective from January)
• taking into consideration individual and Group performance, salary increases across the Group are  
benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a comparator group of similarly sized companies with a large 
international presence
• pensionable
Maximum 
potential value
• salary increases are normally considered in relation to the salary increases of other employees in the Group and 
performance of the individual unless there has been a major change in role or responsibility or major market 
movement. The annual salaries for the executive directors for 2014 and 2015 are on pages 63 and 69 respectively
Performance 
metrics
• individual performance in the role, as well as the performance of the Group and achievements related to 
environmental, social and governance issues, are all taken into consideration 54 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Annual bonus
Purpose • incentivise the attainment of annual corporate targets
• retain high performing employees
• align with shareholders’ interests
Operation • annual award based on financial targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year
• at the end of the performance period, which is the Group’s financial year from 1 January until 31 December, the 
Committee assesses the extent to which the performance measures have been achieved. The level of bonus for 
each measure is determined by reference to the actual performance relative to that measure’s performance 
targets, on a pro rata basis
• any bonus is paid as 50% in cash and 50% in shares (with the shares normally deferred for three years under 
the DASBS) 
• a clawback facility is in operation by which part or the full deferred bonus award may be reduced or cancelled to 
the extent that the value of the bonus originally awarded is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result 
of a material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the bonus was originally determined
• non-pensionable
Maximum 
potential value
• the annual on target bonus opportunity for Michael Roney and Brian May is 70% of salary with a threshold award 
of 49% of salary and a maximum award of 115% of salary and for Patrick Larmon is 65% of salary with a threshold 
award of 31% of salary and a maximum award of 110% of salary 
Performance 
metrics
• the principal measure for performance is the growth at constant exchange rates in the Company’s earnings per 
share adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance (‘eps’) 
against the relevant target
• the bonus derived from constant exchange rate eps performance will be increased or decreased according 
to the Company’s performance against the target return on average operating capital (‘RAOC’), referred to 
as the RAOC modifier 
• the use of eps and RAOC measures are seen as appropriate as they are two of Bunzl’s KPIs. The use of eps 
growth aligns the executive directors’ interests with those of the shareholders and the RAOC modifier ensures 
the continued focus on working capital management together with profit growth 
• bonus awards are at the Committee’s discretion and may take into account performance on environmental, 
social and governance matters as appropriate 
• Patrick Larmon has additional measures based on the profit before interest and tax (‘pbit’) and working capital 
employed in the business area for which he has direct responsibility (North America). The additional measures 
relating to pbit and working capital are relevant for Patrick Larmon as these are both KPIs of the business area he 
is responsible for running and these measures, together with other performance measures, are used to incentivise 
the management group in North America
• the performance metrics and targets are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate. The Committee 
retains the discretion to set alternative metrics as appropriate
• the current relevant performance metrics are: threshold (which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus); 
target; and maximum amount (the level at which the bonus is capped). These performance metrics are determined 
at the start of the year by reference to the Group’s annual budget. No elements of the bonus are guaranteed. As in 
previous years, the specific targets will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 55
Long term incentives
Purpose • incentivise growth in longer term eps and TSR
• align with shareholders’ interests
• recruit and retain senior employees
Operation • discretionary biannual grants of executive share option awards and performance share awards which vest subject 
to performance conditions measured over three years and subject to continuous Company service. There is no 
opportunity to retest
• a clawback facility is in operation under which part or the full amount of a vested award may be recovered, by 
reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award, the vesting of any subsisting award or future share 
awards and/or a requirement to make a cash payment, to the extent that the value of a vested award is subsequently 
found to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the vesting 
was determined
• all awards are subject to the discretions contained in the relevant plan rules
Maximum 
potential value
Executive share options
• maximum annual award of 250% of salary 
• normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 167% and 200% of salary and the Committee 
would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders
Performance shares
• maximum annual award of 150% of salary 
• normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 94% and 112.5% of salary and the Committee 
would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders
Performance 
metrics
Performance and service conditions must be met over a three year performance period
Executive share options
• eps performance measure relates to the absolute growth in the Company’s eps against the targets set for the 
performance period 
• the vesting is scaled as follows:
 − no vesting for performance below the threshold target
 − 25% of an award will vest for achieving the threshold target
 − 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding the maximum target
 − for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale
• the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 
LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant 
performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment
• the targets set out in the Remuneration report on page 66 relate to the previously approved 2004 LTIP. The targets 
set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 67 
Performance shares
• TSR performance measure (50% of the total award) compares a combination of both the Company’s share price and 
dividend performance during the performance period against a comparator group of the constituents of the FTSE 
50 – 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural 
resources sectors
• the other 50% of the award is subject to an eps performance measure which relates to the absolute growth in the 
Company’s eps against the targets set for the performance period
• the vesting for both performance measures is scaled as follows:
 − no vesting for performance below median performance (TSR) or the threshold target (eps)
 − 25% of an award will vest for achieving median performance (TSR) or the threshold target (eps)
 − 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding upper quartile performance (TSR) or the maximum target (eps)
 − for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale
• the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 
LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant 
performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment
• the targets set out in the Remuneration report on page 66 relate to the previously approved 2004 LTIP. The targets 
set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 67 56 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
All employee share plans
Purpose • encourage employees including the executive directors to build a shareholding through the operation of all employee 
share plans such as the HM Revenue & Customs (‘HMRC’) tax advantaged Sharesave Scheme in the UK and the 
Internal Revenue Service (‘IRS’) approved Employee Stock Purchase Plan (US) (‘ESPP’) in the US 
Operation • the Sharesave Scheme has standard terms under which participants can normally enter a savings contract, over a 
period of either three or five years, in return for which they are granted options to acquire shares at a discount of up 
to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option. 
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted
• the ESPP provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Company’s shares in the market at a 15% 
discount to the market price. The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee 
with the employing company contributing the 15% discount 
• rules of both of the above plans were approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM
Maximum 
potential value
• in the UK, the Sharesave Scheme is linked to a contract for monthly savings within the HMRC limits over a period of 
either three or five years (currently £250 per month and rising to £500 per month for invitations to be made in 2015 
and thereafter) 
• in the US, the ESPP allows the purchase in the market of shares within IRS limits (currently up to an annual 
maximum of 10% of remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower)
Performance 
metrics
• service conditions apply
Retirement benefits
Purpose • provision of competitive retirement benefits
• retain executive directors
Operation • all defined benefit pension plans in the Group have been closed to new entrants since 2003 with any new recruits 
being offered defined contribution retirement arrangements and/or a pension allowance
• legacy arrangements exist for one UK based executive director and the US based executive director as 
disclosed previously 
• pension contributions and allowances are normally paid monthly
Maximum 
potential value
• company pension contributions to defined contribution retirement arrangements or cash allowances are capped 
at 30% of annual salary
• benefits under the legacy UK defined benefit pension plan accrue at a rate of 2.4% on salary up to the notional 
pensionable salary cap (from 6 April 2015 £149,400 per annum)
Performance 
metrics
Not applicable BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 57
Other benefits
Purpose • provision of competitive benefits which helps to recruit and retain executive directors
Operation • benefits may include a car allowance or a car which may be fully expensed, various insurances such as life, 
disability and medical and in some jurisdictions club expenses and other benefits provided from time to time
• some benefits may only be provided in the case of relocation, such as removal expenses, and in the case of 
an international relocation might also include fees for children’s schooling, home leave, tax equalisation and 
professional advice etc
Maximum 
potential value
• the value of benefits is based on the cost to the Company and varies according to individual circumstances. For 
example the cost of medical insurance varies according to family circumstances and the jurisdiction in which the 
family is based
Performance 
metrics
Not applicable
Shareholding requirement
Purpose • strengthen the alignment between the interests of the executive directors and those of shareholders
Operation • executives will be normally expected to retain shares through the exercise of awards under the DASBS and the 
LTIP until they attain the required holding. Three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within 
the Company to achieve the required shareholding. It is recognised that a longer time period may be required for 
externally recruited executives to achieve the required shareholding
Maximum 
potential value
• retain shareholdings worth equal to at least 200% of annual salary. This does not include any holdings of deferred 
shares or vested but unexercised share options or performance shares
Performance 
metrics
Not applicable
Performance measures and targets
The key measures used by the Committee for incentivising the executive directors are: eps modified by RAOC for the annual bonus and eps 
and relative TSR for the 2014 LTIP. The Committee considers that all of these measures are appropriate for incentive purposes. 
• Eps is one of Bunzl’s KPIs. The use of eps aligns the executive directors’ interests with those of shareholders. In addition, one of the 
executive directors, Patrick Larmon, President and Chief Executive Officer of North America, also has part of his annual bonus determined 
by additional measures relating to pbit and working capital which are relevant as these are two of the KPIs of the business area he is 
responsible for running.
• RAOC is another of Bunzl’s KPIs. The RAOC modifier ensures continued focus on working capital and profit growth by rewarding efficient 
profit generation, taking into account acquisitions once they are established, and uses average capital employed rather than only capital 
at the end of the period.
• Relative TSR provides an external assessment of the Company’s performance against similar sized companies listed in the UK. It also 
aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders.
This combination of performance measures provides an important balance relevant to the Group’s business and market conditions as 
well as providing a common goal for the executive directors, senior management and shareholders. The Committee does not feel that the 
introduction of non-financial measures for the executive directors is appropriate at this time.
The Committee reviews performance targets on an annual basis taking into account the Company’s annual budgeting process, the economic 
environment in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates and external expectations.
Changes to the remuneration policy
A number of changes to the Company’s remuneration policy were implemented following the 2014 AGM in accordance with the remuneration 
policy approved by shareholders to bring the arrangements in line with best practice. No changes to this remuneration policy are proposed 
for 2015. 58 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors and employees in general
The main difference in remuneration policy between the executive directors and employees in general is the split of fixed and performance 
related pay such as bonus and long term incentives. Overall the percentage of performance related pay, in particular longer term incentive 
pay, is greater for the executive directors. This reflects that executive directors have more freedom to act and the consequences of their 
decisions are likely to have a broader and more far reaching time span of effect than those decisions made by employees with more limited 
responsibility. As a consequence only executive directors, Executive Committee members and other key employees (currently 21 people) 
are granted both executive share option and performance share awards. Approximately 300 senior managers are granted executive share 
option awards on an annual basis, which helps to provide a common focus for management in the Company’s decentralised organisation 
structure, whereas the annual bonuses are related to the performance of individual operating units.
Bonus arrangements vary throughout the Group and are related to the specific role and the country in which the employee operates. 
The majority of bonus plans have quantitative targets but the performance measures and targets vary according to each specific role. 
Sales representatives often have high levels of annual bonus payments which may be commission based.
When there is a critical mass of employees within a country to make it cost-effective to do so, to encourage wider employee share ownership, 
an all employee share plan is offered. Currently plans are offered to all employees based in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, the 
Netherlands, US and UK. In France employees take part in profit sharing arrangements in accordance with local regulations. 
Retirement and other benefits offered to employees across the Group differ according to the country in which the job is based, as social 
provision and market norms differ, and the function and seniority of the relevant role. 
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
The Committee is provided annually with information on the salaries and proposed increases for the Executive Committee members and 
other senior direct reports of the Chief Executive, as well as data on the average salary increases within each geographical region within 
the Group. In addition the Committee reviews and agrees all grants of executive share option and performance share awards.
In 2015 employees across the Group have received, on average, salary increases in the range of 1.5% – 3.0%, dependent on geographical 
location with the exception being those employees based in Latin America and China where, due to inflation, current market salary increases 
are much higher. The actual increases received by employees have been based on each individual’s contribution and performance as well as 
the market competitiveness of the salary.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the directors’ remuneration policy set out in this part of the report.
Recruitment of executive directors – approach to remuneration
For the ongoing stability and growth of the Group, it is important to secure, as necessary, the appointment of high calibre executives to 
the Board by either external recruitment or internal promotion. The overarching principles applied by the Committee in developing the 
remuneration package will be to set an appropriate base salary together with benefits and short and long term incentives taking into 
consideration the skills and experience of the individual, the complexity and breadth of the role, the particular needs and situation of the 
Group, internal relativities, the marketplace in which the executive will operate and an individual’s current remuneration package and 
location. In addition, the Committee recognises that it may need to meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate. 
To ensure consistency across the Board, the expected components of the package would be in line with the remuneration policy as set out on 
pages 53 to 57. In order to provide the Company with sufficient flexibility on the recruitment of an executive director, the Committee has set 
the maximum level of variable remuneration on recruitment at 427.5% of annual salary. This covers the maximum annual bonus, including 
the deferred annual share bonus award, and the maximum face value of any long term incentive awards. 
For an external appointment, the Committee may consider offering additional cash and/or share based elements to the remuneration 
package when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. Such elements, as appropriate, would be 
made under Section 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules and take account of any remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and 
would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration. Shareholders will be informed of 
any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element or benefit awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to remain in place 
according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the new appointment. 
Executive directors’ service contracts
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months’ notice from the Company 
and six months’ notice from the executive. For Michael Roney and Brian May there is no predetermined compensation for termination of 
these contracts. Patrick Larmon’s contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 
12 months’ base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings. The date of each service contract is noted in the 
table below.
Date of service contract
Michael Roney 1 September 2005
Brian May 9 December 2005
Patrick Larmon 1 January 2005 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 59
Policy on payment for departure from office
On termination of an executive director’s service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing director’s duty to mitigate his 
loss when determining the amount of compensation. The Committee’s policy in respect of the treatment of executive directors leaving the 
Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company taking into account the interests of shareholders:
Component 
of pay
Voluntary resignation 
or termination for cause
Death, ill health, disability
(excluding redundancy)
Departure on
agreed terms
Base salary, 
pension and 
benefits
Paid for the proportion of 
the notice period worked 
and any untaken holidays 
pro rated to the leaving date
Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any 
untaken holidays pro rated to such date. In the case of 
ill health, a payment in lieu of notice may be made and, 
according to the circumstances, may be subject to 
mitigation. In such circumstances some benefits such as 
company car or medical insurance may be retained until 
the end of the notice period
Treatment will normally 
fall between the two 
treatments described in 
the previous columns, 
subject to the discretion 
of the Committee and the 
terms of any termination 
agreement
Annual bonus 
cash
Cessation of employment 
during a bonus year will 
normally result in no cash 
bonus being paid
Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after 
the year end but prior to the normal bonus payment date 
will result in cash and deferred bonus being paid and 
pro rated for the relevant portion of the financial year 
worked and performance achieved
Annual bonus 
deferred shares
Unvested deferred shares 
will lapse
In the case of the death of an executive, all deferred 
shares will be transferred to the estate as soon as 
possible after death. In all other cases, subject to the 
discretion of the Committee, unvested deferred shares 
will be transferred to the individual on a date determined 
by the Committee
Executive share 
options
Unvested executive share 
options will lapse
Tax advantaged options will vest in full on the cessation 
of employment and be exercisable for the following 
12 months after which any unexercised options will lapse
Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested 
non-tax advantaged share options will normally be 
retained by the individual for the remainder of the 
vesting period and remain subject to the relevant 
performance conditions. However in the case of the 
death of an executive, the Committee will determine the 
extent of vesting within 12 months of the date of death
Performance 
shares
Unvested performance 
shares will lapse
Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested 
performance shares will normally be retained by the 
individual for the remainder of the vesting period and 
remain subject to the relevant performance conditions. 
However in the case of the death of an executive, the 
Committee will determine the extent of vesting within 
12 months of the date of death
Options under 
Sharesave
As per HMRC regulations As per HMRC regulations
Other None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement fees
Notes 
a)  For share options granted under Part A of the 2004 LTIP, any unvested executive share options which are subject to the discretion of the Committee may vest in full on 
the termination date and be exercisable for the following 12 months following which any unexercised options will lapse.
b) The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company, e.g. for unfair dismissal etc, that might arise on termination.
Discretions retained by the Committee in operating the incentive plans
The Committee operates the Group’s various incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC and IRS 
rules where relevant. To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee may apply certain operational discretions. 
These include the following:
• selecting the participants in the plans;
• determining the timing of grants and/or payments;
• determining the quantum of grants and/or payments (within the limits set out in the policy table above); 60 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
• adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group;
• determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance;
• determining ‘good leaver’ status and the extent of vesting in the case of the share based plans;
• determining the extent of vesting of awards under share based plans in the event of a change of control;
• making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of 
capital and special dividends); and
• under the annual review of weighting of performance measures, setting targets for the annual bonus plan and 2014 LTIP from year to year.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to share based awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to 
consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are 
fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
Remuneration overview
The remuneration package comprises both core fixed elements (base salary, pension and other benefits) and performance based variable 
elements (cash bonus, the DASBS and the LTIP). The Committee has set a guideline that for on target performance approximately half of the 
remuneration package should be performance related. The structure of the remuneration packages for on target and stretch performance 
for each of the executive directors is illustrated in the bar charts below.
76% 24%
38% 24% 26% 12%
25% 39% 28% 8%
Stretch performance 
(Total £2,129,992)
Target performance 
(Total £1,407,705)
Brian May
Threshold performance  
(Total £703,442) 
98% 2%
42% 28% 29% 1%
27% 43% 29% 1%
Stretch performance 
(Total £2,365,822)
Target performance 
(Total £1,516,616)
Patrick Larmon
Threshold performance 
(Total £657,992) 
78% 22%
37% 26% 26% 11%
24% 41% 28% 7%
Stretch performance 
(Total £3,858,077)
Target performance 
(Total £2,509,652)
Michael Roney
Threshold performance 
(Total £1,207,327) 
Salary and benefits Pension Bonus (Cash/DASBS) LTIP
Notes
a)  Salary represents annual salary for 2015. Patrick Larmon’s salary is paid in US dollars but has been translated at the exchange rate of £1: US$1.65. Benefits such as a car 
or car allowance and private medical insurance are as shown on page 63.
b)  Pension represents the cost of pension accrued in 2014 in the Defined Benefit Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Brian May, the value of the annual pension allowance for 
Michael Roney and Brian May, the contributions to the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Michael Roney and the total of Company contributions to 
Patrick Larmon’s 401K Plan and Retirement Savings Benefit (the ‘RSB’). No further contributions were made through the Defined Contribution Senior Executive Retirement 
Agreement (‘SERA’), further details of which are shown on page 65. Although there has been no change to the remuneration policy related to Patrick Larmon, the effect of the 
cessation of payments to the SERA has been to alter the relevant percentages of his remuneration package shown above.
c)  Below threshold performance comprises salary, benefits and pension only with no bonus awarded and no LTIP awards vested.
d)  Target performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level (i.e. 70% of base salary comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS) and, for 
the LTIP, an assumption that 50% of performance shares will vest and that 50% of the share options will vest and deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
e)  Stretch performance comprises annual bonus awarded at maximum level (i.e. 115% of base salary for Michael Roney and Brian May and 110% of base salary for Patrick Larmon 
comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS) and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 100% of performance shares will vest delivering 100% of their face 
value in gain to the executive directors and 100% of share options will vest which will deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 61
Legacy arrangements
The Remuneration policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and, by doing so, authority was given to the Company to 
honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors (that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration 
reports) or internally promoted future directors (in each case, such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share plans).  
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Remuneration report as they arise.
Policy of executive directors’ external appointments
With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors 
of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them. 
Non-executive directors’ terms of appointment
On appointment of a new Chairman of the Board or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre 
of the individual and the prevailing fee rates of the other non-executive directors at that time.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment. The date of 
appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the length of service for each non-executive director are shown in the table below.
Date of 
appointment
Date of last 
re-appointment 
at AGM
Length of 
service as at 
2015 AGM
Philip Rogerson 1 January 2010 16 April 2014 5 years 3 months
Peter Johnson 1 January 2006 16 April 2014 9 years 3 months
David Sleath 1 September 2007 16 April 2014 7 years 7 months
Eugenia Ulasewicz 1 April 2011 16 April 2014 4 years
Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 16 April 2014 2 years 3 months
Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 16 April 2014 2 years
Notes
a)  Peter Johnson will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
b)  Vanda Murray was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 February 2015.
On termination, at any time, a non-executive director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid director’s fees but not to any other compensation.
Fees policy for Chairman and non-executive directors (the ‘NEDs’)
Purpose • provision of a competitive fee to attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to oversee the 
implementation of the Company’s strategy
Operation • determined in light of market practice and with reference to time commitment and responsibilities associated with 
the roles
• annual fees are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year
• the senior independent director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are paid an extra fee to 
reflect their additional responsibilities
• the NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive benefits and do not participate in pension or incentive plans. 
Expenses incurred in respect of their duties as directors of the Company are reimbursed
• the NEDs’ fees are reviewed annually in January each year and the Chairman’s fee is reviewed biennially, the last 
date being February 2014
• the Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the NEDs’ fees on the recommendation of the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive. The NEDs do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration; the 
Chairman’s fees are set by the Committee
Maximum 
potential value
• determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of £1,000,000 authorised by shareholders with reference to the 
Company’s Articles of Association
Performance 
metrics
• not eligible to participate in any performance related elements of remuneration
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative 
bodies more generally. In addition the Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders prior to making significant changes to 
its policy. In 2013 consultation was conducted with 19 major shareholders and two shareholder representative bodies with regard to the 
proposed changes to the remuneration policy and the introduction of a new long term incentive plan. This policy and the 2014 LTIP were 
approved at the 2014 AGM.  62 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION FOR 2014
Committee remit and membership
The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2014: 
Date of 
appointment to 
the Committee
Meetings 
eligible 
to attend
Meetings 
attendance
Peter Johnson 18 January 2006 3 3
David Sleath 5 December 2007 3 3
Eugenia Ulasewicz 20 April 2011 3 3
Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 3 3
Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 3 3
Notes
a)  Peter Johnson will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
b)  Vanda Murray was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company and as a member of the Committee with effect from 1 February 2015 and will assume the role of Chair 
of the Committee upon Peter Johnson’s retirement.
The Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group Human Resources. No director plays any part in determining his or her 
remuneration. During the year ended 31 December 2014, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend 
meetings of the Committee, but were not present during any part of the meeting when their own remuneration was under consideration.
The terms of reference of the Committee have been formally adopted by the Board and are available for inspection in the Investor Centre 
section of the Company’s website, www.bunzl.com. The key responsibilities of the Committee include:
• ensuring that executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised to attract, retain and fairly reward them for their 
individual contribution to the Company and having due regard to the policies and practices applied to the rest of the employees within 
the Group;
• determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board including setting 
their individual remuneration packages as well as their level of remuneration and overseeing all the Company’s long term incentive plans;
• ensuring that remuneration is aligned with and supports the Company’s strategy and performance, having due regard to the shareholders 
and to the financial and commercial health of the Company, while at the same time not encouraging undue risk taking; and
• communicating and discussing any remuneration issues with the Company’s stakeholders as and when appropriate.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
In carrying out these responsibilities, the Committee seeks external remuneration advice as necessary. During the year the Committee 
received advice from PwC and New Bridge Street. PwC provided external survey data on directors’ remuneration and benefit levels. New 
Bridge Street drafted the rules of the 2014 LTIP and provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance 
conditions attached to existing share option and performance share awards under the 2004 LTIP had been satisfied. The fees payable to 
each adviser, based on hourly rates, were: £13,500 (PwC) and £9,750 (New Bridge Street) for such work undertaken in 2014. In addition to 
the work undertaken on behalf of the Committee, PwC, who were appointed from May 2014 as the Company’s external auditors, also provide 
the Company with some tax related and pre-acquisition due diligence services and New Bridge Street may from time to time also provide 
services to the Company on remuneration and benefit related matters that are not subject to review by the Committee. The Committee 
remains satisfied that the provision of these other services does not in any way compromise the independence of their advisers.
Statement of voting at the 2014 AGM
Last year the remuneration policy received a 97.79% shareholder vote in favour, the remuneration report received a 97.81% shareholder vote 
in favour and the 2014 LTIP received a 96.30% shareholder vote in favour as set out below:
Votes cast Votes For % of shares voted Votes Against % of shares voted Votes Withheld
Remuneration policy 264,349,297 258,510,901 97.79 5,838,396 2.21 600,455
Remuneration report 264,348,918 258,552,082 97.81 5,796,836 2.19 600,834
2014 LTIP 264,349,875 254,558,125 96.30 9,791,750 3.70 593,655
Notes
a)  The votes ‘For’ include votes given at the Company Chairman’s discretion.
b)  A vote ‘Withheld’ is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes ‘For’ or ‘Against’ the resolution. Votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ are expressed as a percentage 
of the votes cast. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 63
Single total figure of remuneration 2014 (audited information)
Executive directors
Salary
£000
Taxable benefits
£000
Bonus
£000
LTIP
£000
Pension
£000
Total
£000
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Michael Roney 895.0 870.0 16.8 16.7 877.1 906.5 2,560.4 2,333.4 268.5 261.0 4,617.8 4,387.6
Brian May 500.0 480.0 16.8 16.7 490.0 500.2 1,328.9 1,207.6 171.6 161.3 2,507.3 2,365.8
Patrick Larmon 614.5 634.0 17.0 18.2 428.4 540.9 1,408.5 1,268.9 13.2 199.7 2,481.6 2,661.7
Total 2,009.5 1,984.0 50.6 51.6 1,795.5 1,947.6 5,297.8 4,809.9 453.3 622.0 9,606.7 9,415.1
Non-executive directors
Board fees
£000
Committee
Chair/SID fees
£000
Total
£000
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Philip Rogerson 325.0 310.0 – – 325.0 310.0
Peter Johnson 64.5 63.0 30.0 29.0 94.5 92.0
David Sleath 64.5 63.0 14.0 13.0 78.5 76.0
Eugenia Ulasewicz 64.5 63.0 – – 64.5 63.0
Jean-Charles Pauze 64.5 63.0 – – 64.5 63.0
Meinie Oldersma 64.5 47.2 – – 64.5 47.2
Total 647.5 609.2 44.0 42.0 691.5 651.2
Notes
a)  The figures above represent remuneration earned as directors during the relevant financial year including the bonus of which the cash element, 50% of the bonus, is paid in 
the year following that in which it is earned. The other 50% of the bonus shown above is deferred and conditionally awarded as shares under the rules of the DASBS. Shares 
relating to the 2013 deferred bonus were awarded in 2014 as shown in the table on page 70 and the shares relating to the 2014 deferred bonus will be awarded in 2015.
b)  Benefits provided for all executive directors are a car or car allowance and medical insurance coverage for them and their families. In addition to these benefits Patrick 
Larmon’s club fees are paid by the Company.
c)  The long term incentives are in the form of awards under the 2004 LTIP which were granted in 2011 and 2012. See page 64 for details of the performance conditions applicable 
and for the valuation method applied to such awards. Long term incentive figures exclude any gain from the purchase of shares by Patrick Larmon through the ESPP described 
on page 56. 
d)  The figures shown in relation to 2013 for the LTIP have been restated from those figures shown in the 2013 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the relevant grant 
price and the value of the LTIP awards on the actual date of vesting on 3 March 2014 and 2 September 2014 at the closing mid-market share price of 1,543p and 1,664p 
respectively. Consequently the 2013 total figures have also been restated to reflect the change in the LTIP valuations.
e)  The remuneration for Patrick Larmon is determined and paid in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year of £1: US$1.65 in respect of 2014 
and £1: US$1.56 in respect of 2013.
f)   There were no payments made to former directors during the year and no payments were, or are due to be, made in respect of loss of office.
g)  In addition to the remuneration paid to directors in 2013 shown above, Ulrich Wolters, who retired as non-executive director during the year, received remuneration of £21,000 
in respect of the period 1 January 2013 to 30 April 2013, the date of his retirement.
Executive directors’ annual salary (audited information)
Executive directors’ salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2014 in accordance with normal policy and were increased taking into 
account the average salary increases for employees across the Group.
Salary from
1 January 
2014
Salary from 
1 January 
2013
Increase in salary
2013 to 2014
%
Michael Roney £895,000 £870,000 2.9
Brian May £500,000 £480,000 4.2
Patrick Larmon US$1,014,000 US$989,000 2.5
Executive directors’ salaries were also reviewed with effect from 1 January 2015 and the increases awarded are shown on page 69.
Executive directors’ external appointments
Michael Roney served as a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc until 23 July 2014 and retained fees of £38,285 and of  
Brown–Forman Corporation from 27 March 2014 and retained fees of US$19,667 and was awarded 2,490 deferred stock units which will  
be paid to him upon completion of his service subject to the terms of the Deferred Stock Unit programme for non-employee directors.  
Brian May served as a non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC throughout 2014 and retained fees of £75,350. Patrick Larmon 
does not hold any such appointments. 64 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Non-executive directors’ fees (audited information)
The Chairman’s fee is reviewed every two years and the last review was in 2014. The fees for the non-executive directors were reviewed with 
effect from 1 January 2014 in accordance with normal policy.
With effect from 
January 2014
£
Fees paid
in 2013
£
Increase in fees
2013 to 2014
%
Chairman’s fee 325,000 310,000 4.8
Non-executive director fee 64,500 63,000 2.4
Supplements: 
Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 –
Audit Committee Chairman 14,000 13,000 7.7
Remuneration Committee Chairman 14,000 13,000 7.7
The non-executive directors’ fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2015 and the increases awarded are shown on page 70.
Performance against annual bonus targets (audited information) 
The annual bonus plan and DASBS operate as set out in the policy section on page 54. All of Michael Roney’s and Brian May’s and 25% of 
Patrick Larmon’s bonus potential in 2014 related to the growth in the Company’s constant exchange rate eps relative to budget which was 
modified by the achievement of the Group’s RAOC relative to budget. This resulted in a bonus payment between the target and maximum 
bonus opportunity. Eps performance was 5% above target and RAOC was 3% above target. For Patrick Larmon, a further 75% of his bonus 
potential related to the pbit performance of North America which was modified by the achievement of North America’s return on average 
operating capital relative to the target set. Pbit performance for North America resulted in a bonus payment 1.6% below target and the 
return on average operating capital slightly exceeded target as a result of which the bonus related to North America’s performance was 
increased by 1.1%. Accordingly the total payments under the annual bonus plan were:
Total bonus payment (cash and deferred shares) as a % of salary
2014 
%
2013 
%
2012 
%
2011 
%
2010 
%
Michael Roney 98.0 104.2 77.0 114.0 81.6
Brian May 98.0 104.2 77.0 114.0 81.6
Patrick Larmon 69.7 85.3 85.9 110.0 76.7
The monetary values of the bonus payments for 2014 and 2013 are included in the table on page 63.
LTIP grants/awards with performance periods ending in 2014 (audited information)
Executive share options – LTIP Part A
Executive share option awards, granted three years previously, are due to vest on 1 March 2015 and 31 August 2015. The Committee assessed 
the relevant performance of the Company against the performance conditions. Eps (restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011)) growth 
was 27.52% for the three years ended 31 December 2014 which compared to an increase in RPI of 7.56% over the same period. Since the 
performance condition would have been satisfied if eps had grown by at least 16.83% over the period, all of the options will vest. Included 
in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 63 is the estimated value of these awards based on the difference between the grant 
price and the average of the Company’s closing mid-market share price for the three month period ended 31 December 2014 (1,702p).
Performance shares – LTIP Part B
Awards of performance shares were made to the executive directors on 8 April 2011 and 11 October 2011 with the three year performance 
periods being completed on 31 March 2014 and 30 September 2014 respectively. The Committee subsequently assessed the performance of 
the Company against the relevant performance conditions. The extent to which half of the awards would vest was subject to a performance 
condition based on eps growth relative to RPI. Eps growth was 38.02% for the three years ended 31 December 2013 compared to an increase 
in RPI of 10.95% over the same period. A quarter of the award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 23.44% over the 
period and the whole award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 44.05%. As a result of the Company’s actual growth 
in eps over the period, 78.07% of this part of the awards vested (39.04% of the full awards).
The extent to which the other half of the awards vested was based on the Company’s TSR performance against the relevant comparator 
group. For the April 2011 award, the Company ranked first out of the remaining 36 companies in the comparator group of companies, as a 
result of which 100% of this part of the award vested (50% of the full award) for performance above the upper quartile. For the October 2011 
award, the Company ranked seventh out of the remaining 34 companies in the comparator group of companies, as a result of which 100% of 
this part of the award vested (50% of the full award) for performance above upper quartile.
Accordingly 89.04% of the total performance shares awarded in April and October 2011 vested in April and October 2014 respectively. 
Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 63 is the value of these vested awards at the closing mid-market share 
price on the dates of vesting, 8 April 2014 and 13 October 2014, which were 1,612p and 1,546p respectively.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 65
Total pension entitlements (audited information)
Defined benefit pension (DB) entitlements
Pension
plan’s
 normal
retirement
age
Additional
value
of pension 
on early
retirement
£
Pension 
value in the 
year from 
DB scheme
£
Value of cash
allowance including
any company DC
and/or 401k
contributions
in 2014
£
Total
pension
2014
£
Michael Roney – – – 268,500 268,500
Brian May 60 – 64,995 106,620 171,615
Patrick Larmon 65 – – 13,152 13,152
Notes
a)  Michael Roney receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary. He has chosen to join the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan (‘BPP’) and his contribution 
of 5% of base salary, up to the pensionable salary cap (notionally £145,800 for tax year 2014/2015 and £141,000 for tax year 2013/2014) is matched by the Company. During 2014 
such contributions amounted to £7,230 (2013: £7,005) and this amount was deducted from his pension allowance. 
b)  Brian May, who joined the Group in the UK prior to the closure of the defined benefit sections of the BPP, is a member of the Bunzl Senior Pension Section of the BPP. His pension 
accrues at the rate of 2.4% per annum up to two thirds of the pensionable salary cap, as described above. The employee contribution rate is currently 9% of pensionable salary. 
c)  In addition to benefits from the BPP, Brian May receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary above the pensionable salary cap which permits him to make provision, of his 
own choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
d)  Patrick Larmon originally joined the US Plan, subject to IRS limits, which accrued at a rate of 1.67% per annum up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less the 
primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years. Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000. On closure of the US Plan, Patrick 
Larmon chose to freeze his benefit and no further benefits have accrued. Patrick Larmon is currently a member of a defined contribution plan, the Retirement Saving Benefit 
(‘RSB’). Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related. The contributions are a percentage of base salary (maximum 5%) which 
is capped at US$200,000 per annum. The Company made contributions in respect of Patrick Larmon in 2014 of £6,061 (2013: £6,410). 
e)  In addition, Patrick Larmon receives a supplementary pension through a defined benefit Senior Executive Retirement Agreement (‘SERA’). Patrick Larmon’s SERA, which 
became fully accrued in 2012, provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement. In 2013 the Company paid all necessary expenses, due to 
changes in assumptions and other factors outside of the Company’s control such as change in market conditions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA which amounted to £47,268 
(2013: £47,490). In 2007, this SERA arrangement was closed to new entrants and existing members’ benefits were frozen. A new defined contribution SERA (‘DC SERA’) was put 
in place for Patrick Larmon and the final contribution of £185,897 was paid to the DC SERA in 2013. 
f)   Patrick Larmon also participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings (401k) Plan. The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan. During 2014 contributions for 
Patrick Larmon amounted to £7,091 (2013: £7,356).
LTIP grant policy 
Conditional awards of executive share options and performance shares are granted twice a year to executive directors and other senior 
executives. Executive share option awards are normally granted in February or March and August or September dependent on the date of 
announcement of the Company’s results. Performance share awards are normally granted in April and October each year. In 2014 executive 
share options were granted in February and performance share awards were granted in April under the 2004 LTIP in accordance with the 
previous grant policy and performance conditions as detailed on pages 57 and 66 respectively. Executive share options were also granted 
in August and performance share awards were granted in October under the 2014 LTIP in accordance with the policy and performance 
conditions as approved at the 2014 AGM as detailed on pages 57 and 67 respectively. 
LTIP interests awarded during the financial year (audited information)
Plan Date of grant Basis of award
Face value 
£000
% vesting at
 threshold 
performance
Number 
of shares
Performance 
period end date
Michael Roney 2004 LTIP Part A 27.02.14 75% of salary 673.4 100% 43,000 31.12.16
2004 LTIP Part B 04.04.14 56.25% of salary 505.9 25% 31,500 31.03.17
2014 LTIP Part A 29.08.14 100% of salary 895.9 100% 54,600 31.12.16
2014 LTIP Part B 06.10.14 56.25% of salary 504.6 25% 31,600 30.09.17
Brian May 2004 LTIP Part A 27.02.14 70% of salary 352.4 100% 22,500 31.12.16
2004 LTIP Part B 04.04.14 52.5% of salary 265.0 25% 16,500 31.03.17
2014 LTIP Part A 29.08.14 95% of salary 475.9 100% 29,000 31.12.16
2014 LTIP Part B 06.10.14 52.5% of salary 263.5 25% 16,500 30.09.17
Patrick Larmon 2004 LTIP Part A 27.02.14 62.5% of salary 399.3 100% 25,500 31.12.16
2004 LTIP Part B 04.04.14 47% of salary 297.1 25% 18,500 31.03.17
2014 LTIP Part A 29.08.14 95% of salary 582.6 100% 35,500 31.12.16
2014 LTIP Part B 06.10.14 52.5% of salary 333.8 25% 20,900 30.09.17
Note
The face value of the awards is calculated using the closing mid-market share price on the day prior to the grant of the award. Options were awarded under the 2004 LTIP Part A 
on 27 February 2014 and the 2014 LTIP Part A on 29 August 2014 at a value of 1,566p and 1,641p per share respectively. Performance shares were awarded under the 2014 LTIP 
Part B on 4 April 2014 and the 2014 LTIP on 6 October 2014 at a value of 1,606p and 1,597p per share respectively. 66 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Performance conditions for 2014 awards
The performance conditions for the executive share options and performance shares awarded under the 2004 LTIP in February and April 2014 
were as detailed below.
Executive share options – LTIP Part A
Executive share option awards may vest based solely on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the 
Company’s underlying financial performance) relative to UK inflation (RPI) over three years, based on the following sliding scale:
Face value of annual executive share options granted as a proportion of salary Total margin over UK inflation (RPI) after three years
First 150% of salary 9.3%
Next 75% of salary 12.5%
Next 75% of salary 19.1%
Performance share awards – LTIP Part B
The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted 
to exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance) relative to UK inflation (RPI) over three years, 
based on the following sliding scale:
Total margin over UK inflation (RPI) after three years Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below 12.5% Nil
12.5% 25%
Between 12.5% and 33.1% Pro rata between 25%–100%
33.1% or above 100%
The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Company’s TSR performance, a combination 
of both the Company’s share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance 
of a specified group of companies of similarly sized companies with large international presence. The comparator group consists of at least 
40 UK based companies (excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors) that have substantial 
operations overseas and have at 30 September prior to the grant of the awards similar levels of revenue, profit and market capitalisation 
as Bunzl. The applicable comparator group for the 2004 LTIP Part B awards in April 2014 are shown below. 
Aggreko Hays Reckitt Benckiser Group
Ashstead Group IMI Rexam
Arm Holdings Inchcape SABMiller
Burberry Group Informa SIG
Carnival Corporation Inmarsat Smith & Nephew
Cobham Intercontinental Hotels Group Smiths Group
Computacenter International Consolidated Airlines Group Spectris
Croda International Intertek Group Tate & Lyle
Diageo Johnson Matthey Thomas Cook Group
Dixons Retail Meggitt Vesuvius
Easyjet Melrose Weir Group
Experian Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Wolseley
G4S Mondi WPP
GKN Pearson
These performance share awards vest in line with the following vesting schedule:
TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below median Nil
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%–100%
Upper quartile or above 100%
Awards granted in 2012 and 2013 were subject to the same performance conditions as described above. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 67
The performance conditions for the executive share options and performance shares awarded under the 2014 LTIP to the Company’s 
executive directors, Executive Committee members and selected key employees in August and October 2014 were as detailed below.
Executive options – LTIP Part A
Executive share options may vest based solely on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s 
underlying financial performance) over three years, based on the following sliding scale:
Absolute annual growth in the Company’s eps over a three year period Proportion of share option awards exercisable
Below 5% Nil
5% 25%
Between 5% and 8% Pro rata between 25%–100%
8% or above 100%
Performance share awards – LTIP Part B
The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Company’s eps growth (adjusted to 
exclude items which do not reflect the Company’s underlying financial performance) over three years, based on the following sliding scale:
Absolute annual growth in the Company’s eps over a three year period Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below 6% Nil
6% 25%
Between 6% and 12% Pro rata between 25%–100%
12% or above 100%
The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Company’s TSR performance, a combination 
of both the Company’s share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance of 
a specified comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence. These performance share awards may vest 
based on the following sliding scale:
TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable
Below median Nil
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%–100%
Upper quartile or above 100%
The applicable comparator group for the October 2014 awards were those companies in the FTSE 50 – 150 with significant international 
operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors.
Shareholder dilution
In accordance with The Investment Association Principles of Remuneration, the Company can satisfy awards to employees under all its share 
plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital (adjusted for share issuance 
and cancellation) in a rolling 10 year period. Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue (as newly issued shares or from treasury), 5% 
of its issued share capital (adjusted for share issuance and cancellation) to satisfy awards under executive (discretionary) plans.
As well as the LTIP, the Company operates various all employee share schemes as described on page 56. Newly issued shares are currently 
used to satisfy the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Scheme. Awards under the LTIP of executive 
options and performance shares are principally satisfied by shares delivered from the Employee Benefit Trust which buys shares on the 
market, unless security laws in relevant jurisdictions prevent this.
Limit on awards
Cumulative options and performance shares 
granted as a percentage of issued share capital 
as at 31 December 2014
(including those held in treasury)
10% in any rolling 10 year period 2.0%
5% in any rolling 10 year period (executive (discretionary) plans) 1.2% 68 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information)
As at 31 December 2014, all executive directors and their connected persons owned shares outright at a level exceeding their required 
shareholding of 200% of their annual salary. 
Actual share ownership as a percentage
of salary at 31 December 2014 
at the closing mid-market price
(1,764p)
Michael Roney 615%
Brian May 371%
Patrick Larmon 348%
Interests in shares and share options
The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the Company’s ordinary shares and share options at 31 December 2014 were:
Shares Options (LTIP Part A and Sharesave)
Total
interests held
Owned
outright
Unvested
and subject
to holding
period
(DASBS)
Unvested
and subject to
 performance
 conditions
(LTIP Part B)
Unvested
and subject to
performance
conditions
Unvested
subject to
continued
employment 
Vested
but not
exercised 
Michael Roney 312,263 103,272 228,600 321,100 1,948 162,000 1,129,183
Brian May 105,240 57,081 119,500 167,500 1,197 – 450,518
Patrick Larmon 121,216 70,397 135,900 191,000 – 132,000 650,513
Philip Rogerson 10,000 – – – – – 10,000
Peter Johnson 6,630 – – – – – 6,630
David Sleath 4,000 – – – – – 4,000
Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 – – – – – 4,000
Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 – – – – – 2,500
Meinie Oldersma 2,500 – – – – – 2,500
Performance graph and table
Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 requires that the Company 
must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance of a 
hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity 
market index over a six year period. The Company’s TSR performance 
against the FTSE 350 Support Services Sector over a six year period 
commencing on 1 January 2009 is shown to the right.
Chief Executive’s pay in last six years (audited information)
The table below summarises the Chief Executive’s single total figure of remuneration, as shown on page 63, annual bonus and long term 
incentive payout as a percentage of maximum opportunity for 2014 and the previous five years.
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Single total figure of  
remuneration £000 1,943.2 2,314.2 3,394.1 3,502.9 4,387.6 4,617.8
Annual variable element award rates 
against maximum opportunity 45% 71% 99% 67% 91% 85%
Long term incentive vesting rates 
against maximum opportunity
LTIP Part A (options) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
LTIP Part B (performance shares) 84% 65% 29% 45% 62% 89%
Note
The single total figure of remuneration in relation to 2013 has been restated from the figure shown in the 2013 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the grant price 
and the value of the relevant LTIP awards on the actual date of vesting as detailed in Note d) to the table of the single total figure of remuneration 2014 on page 63.
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Source: Thomson Reuters datastream
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Bunzl
FTSE 350 support services BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 69
Percentage change in Chief Executive’s remuneration
The table below sets out the increase in the salary, benefits and bonus of the Chief Executive and that of a Bunzl UK and US management 
population. This population has been selected for this comparison because it is considered to be the most relevant as these countries have 
the Group’s largest concentration of employees with a similarly structured remuneration package. Employees from businesses acquired 
by Bunzl in 2014 and leavers and joiners in either year have been removed from the data to prevent distortion.
Chief Executive
UK and US
management population
Percentage change
(2014 vs 2013)
Percentage change
(2014 vs 2013)
Salary 3% 4%
Benefits 1% 6%
Bonus (3)% (3)%
Notes
a) US and UK management population includes any promotional increases that occurred during either year.
b) Bonus relates to the performance targets of the companies for which the relevant individuals work.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows a comparison between the overall expenditure on pay and dividends paid to shareholders for 2014 and 2013 (as stated 
in Note 21 and Note 17 to the financial statements on pages 107 and 102 respectively).
£ million unless otherwise stated 2014 2013 Percentage change
Overall expenditure on pay 534.0 509.4 5%
Dividend paid in the year 105.6 91.8 15%
Notes
a) Overall expenditure on pay excludes employer’s social security costs.
b) Dividends paid in the year relate to the previous financial year’s interim and final dividends.
2015 REMUNERATION (AUDITED INFORMATION)
The remuneration policy was implemented with effect from the 2014 AGM and continues to apply in 2015 as follows:
Salary
The salary increases for the executive directors for 2015, which are in line with increases that have been implemented for other employees 
in the Group as discussed on page 58, are as follows:
Salary from
1 January 2015
Salary from
1 January 2014
Increase in salary
2014 to 2015
%
Michael Roney £922,000 £895,000 3.0
Brian May £515,000 £500,000 3.0
Patrick Larmon US$1,036,000 US$1,014,000 2.2
2015 bonus targets
The structure for Michael Roney’s, Brian May’s and 25% of Patrick Larmon’s annual bonus for 2015 is described on page 54. The threshold 
for bonus payments on growth in constant exchange rate eps has been set above the actual result achieved in 2014 on a constant exchange 
rate basis. For Patrick Larmon the other 75% of his bonus will relate to the attainment of pbit performance of North America relative to 
budget which will be modified, positively or negatively, by the achievement of North America’s return on average operating capital relative 
to the target set. The relevant performance points are: threshold (which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus); target; and 
maximum amount (the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped). These performance points are determined at the start of the 
year by reference to the Group’s annual budget. No elements of the bonus are guaranteed. As in previous years, the specific performance 
points will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive. 70 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Performance measures for long term incentives to be awarded in 2015
Grants of executive share options and performance shares awarded to executive directors and senior executives in 2015 will be subject to 
the same performance conditions as those executive share options and performance share awards granted in August and October 2014 
respectively as detailed on page 67.
Non-executive directors’ fees for 2015 (audited information)
The Chairman’s fee is reviewed every two years and as a result no review of the fee took place in 2015. The non-executive directors’ fees were 
reviewed with effect from 1 January 2015. The current fee structure for the non-executive directors is shown below:
With effect from
1 January 2015 
£
Fees paid
in 2014 
£
Increase in fees
2014 to 2015 
%
Chairman’s fee 325,000 325,000 –
Non-executive director basic fee 66,000 64,500 2.3
Supplements:
Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 –
Audit Committee Chairman 15,000 14,000 7.1
Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 14,000 7.1
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS 
Details of the executive directors’ interests in outstanding share awards under the DASBS, LTIP and all employee share plans are set 
out below.
Deferred share awards as at 31 December 2014
The outstanding awards granted to each director of the Company under the DASBS are set out in the table below. Further information 
relating to the deferred bonus is provided on page 54.
Shares held
at 1 January
2014
Shares
awarded
during 2014
Shares
vested 
during 2014
Total number
of award
shares at
31 December
2014
Normal
vesting date
Share price
at grant
p
Market price
at vesting
p
Monetary
value of
vested award
£000
Michael Roney 43,215 – 43,215 – 01.03.14 760 1,554 671
48,882 – – 48,882 01.03.15 962 – –
25,575 – – 25,575 01.03.16 1,272 – –
– 28,815 – 28,815 01.03.17 1,573 – –
Brian May 23,728 – 23,728 – 01.03.14 760 1,554 369
27,018 – – 27,018 01.03.15 962 – –
14,165 – 14,165 01.03.16 1,272 – –
– 15,898 – 15,898 01.03.17 1,573 – –
Patrick Larmon 28,372 – 28,372 – 01.03.14 760 1,554 441
33,349 – – 33,349 01.03.15 962 – –
21,045 – – 21,045 01.03.16 1,272 – –
– 16,003 – 16,003 01.03.17 1,573 – –
Note
The deferred element of the 2014 annual bonus plan as shown on page 63 is not included in the table above as the appropriate number of shares have not yet been awarded. 
No shares lapsed during the year. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 71
LTIP
The tables below show the number of executive share options and performance shares held by the executive directors under the LTIP.  
Details of the relevant performance conditions of the LTIP are set out on pages 66 and 67.
Executive share options – LTIP Part A
Options at
1 January
2014
Grant
date
Exercise
price
p
Options
exercisable
between
Options at
31 December
2014
Michael Roney 99,500 27.08.09 585 27.08.12–26.08.19 –
89,500 25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13–24.02.20 –
81,000 03.09.10 746 03.09.13–02.09.20 –
85,500 03.03.11 724.5 03.03.14–02.03.21 85,500
76,500 02.09.11 812.5 02.09.14–01.09.21 76,500
66,000 01.03.12 962 01.03.15–28.02.22 66,000
57,000 31.08.12 1,116 31.08.15–30.08.22 57,000
53,000 28.02.13 1,240 28.02.16–27.02.23 53,000
47,500 30.08.13 1,375 30.08.16–29.08.23 47,500
– 27.02.14 1,566 27.02.17-26.02.24 43,000
– 29.08.14 1,641 29.08.17-28.08.24 54,600
Total 655,500 – – – 483,100
Brian May 44,500 03.03.11 724.5 03.03.14–02.03.21 –
39,500 02.09.11 812.5 02.09.14–01.09.21 –
34,500 01.03.12 962 01.03.15–28.02.22 34,500
29,500 31.08.12 1,116 31.08.15–30.08.22 29,500
27,500 28.02.13 1,240 28.02.16–27.02.23 27,500
24,500 30.08.13 1,375 30.08.16–29.08.23 24,500
– 27.02.14 1,566 27.02.17-26.02.24 22,500
– 29.08.14 1,641 29.08.17-28.08.24 29,000
Total 200,000 – – – 167,500
Patrick Larmon 56,500 26.02.09 564 26.02.12–25.02.19 –
54,500 27.08.09 585 27.08.12–26.08.19 –
48,500 25.02.10 676.5 25.02.13–24.02.20 –
44,000 03.09.10 746 03.09.13–02.09.20 44,000
46,500 03.03.11 724.5 03.03.14–02.03.21 46,500
41,500 02.09.11 812.5 02.09.14–01.09.21 41,500
36,000 01.03.12 962 01.03.15–28.02.22 36,000
34,000 31.08.12 1,116 31.08.15–30.08.22 34,000
31,500 28.02.13 1,240 28.02.16–27.02.23 31,500
28,500 30.08.13 1,375 30.08.16–29.08.23 28,500
– 27.02.14 1,566 27.02.17-26.02.24 25,500
– 29.08.14 1,641 29.08.17-28.08.24 35,500
Total 421,500 – – – 323,000
Notes
a) Executive share options were exercised during 2014 by: 
  (i)  Michael Roney on 7 March 2014 in respect of 99,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 585p, at a market price of 1,576p resulting in a gain of £986,045. In addition 
Michael Roney exercised share options on 15 May 2014 in respect of 89,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 676.5p, at a market price of 1,689.5p resulting in a gain 
of £906,635. Michael Roney also exercised share options on 21 November 2014 in respect of 81,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 746p, at a market price of 
approximately 1,755p resulting in a gain of £817,451;
  (ii)  Brian May on 6 June 2014 in respect of 44,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 724.5p, at a market price of approximately 1,683p resulting in a gain of £426,647. 
In addition Brian May exercised share options on 25 November 2014 in respect of 39,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 812.5p, at a market price of approximately 
1,767p resulting in a gain of £377,065; and
  (iii)  Patrick Larmon on 10 March 2014 in respect of 56,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 564p, at a market price of 1,595p resulting in a gain of £582,515. In addition 
Patrick Larmon exercised share options on 6 May 2014 in respect of 28,516 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 585p, at a market price of approximately 1,670p resulting 
in a gain of £309,409. Patrick Larmon also exercised share options on 21 October 2014 in respect of 25,984 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 585p, at a market price of 
approximately 1,648p resulting in a gain of £276,169 and on 2 December 2014 in respect of 48,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 676.5p, at a market price of 
approximately 1,776p resulting in a gain of £533,247.
b)  The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2014 was 1,764p and the range during 2014 was 1,367p to 1,820p.
c)  The performance conditions have been satisfied in relation to options granted prior to 2013 under the 2004 LTIP Part A.
d)  Executive share options granted in February 2014 and earlier have been granted under the 2004 LTIP Part A. Executive share options granted in August 2014 have been granted 
under the 2014 LTIP Part A. 72 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
Performance shares – LTIP Part B
Awards
(shares)
held at
1 January
2014
Conditional
shares
awarded
during 2014
Award
date
Market price
per share
at award
p
Lapsed
awards
(shares)
during
2014
Exercised
awards
(shares)
during
2014
Market price
per share
at exercise
p
Value at
exercise
£000
Awards
(shares)
held at 31
December
2014
Michael Roney 64,500 – 08.04.11 725 7,073 57,427 1,617 929 –
59,000 – 11.10.11 787 6,470 52,530 1,546 812 –
48,000 – 05.04.12 990.5 – – – – 48,000
42,000 – 08.10.12 1,137 – – – – 42,000
38,500 – 05.04.13 1,277 – – – – 38,500
37,000 – 07.10.13 1,325 – – – – 37,000
– 31,500 04.04.14 1,606 – – – – 31,500
– 31,600 06.10.14 1,597 – – – – 31,600
Total 289,000 63,100 – – 13,543 109,957 – 1,741 228,600
Brian May 33,500 – 08.04.11 725 3,674 29,826 1,617 482 –
30,500 – 11.10.11 787 3,345 27,155 1,546 420 –
25,000 – 05.04.12 990.5 – – – – 25,000
22,000 – 08.10.12 1,137 – – – – 22,000
20,000 – 05.04.13 1,277 – – – – 20,000
19,500 – 07.10.13 1,325 – – – – 19,500
– 16,500 04.04.14 1,606 – – – – 16,500
– 16,500 06.10.14 1,597 – – – – 16,500
Total 150,500 33,000 – – 7,019 56,981 – 902 119,500
Patrick Larmon 35,000 – 08.04.11 725 3,838 31,162 1,617 504 –
32,000 – 11.10.11 787 3,509 28,491 1,546 440 –
26,500 – 05.04.12 990.5 – – – – 26,500
25,000 – 08.10.12 1,137 – – – – 25,000
23,000 – 05.04.13 1,277 – – – – 23,000
22,000 – 07.10.13 1,325 – – – – 22,000
– 18,500 04.04.14 1,606 – – – – 18,500
– 20,900 06.10.14 1,597 – – – – 20,900
Total 163,500 39,400 – – 7,347 59,653 – 944 135,900
Notes
a) The closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares as at the vesting dates on 8 April 2014 and 13 October 2014 were 1,612p and 1,546p respectively.
b)  Performance share awards granted in April 2014 and earlier have been granted under the 2004 LTIP Part B. Performance share awards granted in October 2014 have been 
granted under the 2014 LTIP Part B.
All employees share scheme
Sharesave Scheme
The table below shows the number of share options granted to the executive directors under the Sharesave Scheme. Details of the Sharesave 
Scheme are set out on page 56.
Options at
1 January
2014
Grant
date
Exercise
price
p
Options
exercisable between
Options at
31 December
2014
Michael Roney 1,948 27.03.12 770 01.05.17–31.10.17 1,948
Brian May 3,462 24.03.09 452 01.05.14-31.10.14 –
– 21.03.14 1,253 01.05.19–31.10.19 1,197
Peter Johnson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 February 2015 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 73
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The 
Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 15 April 2015 
at 11.00 am. The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting is set 
out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which 
explains the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
DIVIDENDS
An interim dividend of 11.0p was paid on 2 January 2015 in respect of 
2014 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 24.5p, making 
a total for the year of 35.5p per share (2013: 32.4p). Dividend details 
are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Subject 
to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 
15 April 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2015 to those 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 May 2015.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 
ordinary shares of 32
1
⁄7p each which rank pari passu in respect of 
participation and voting rights. The shares are in registered form, 
are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange. 
In addition, the Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt programme with Citibank N.A. under which the Company’s 
shares are traded on the over-the-counter (OTC) market in the form 
of American Depositary Receipts.
Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are set 
out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
BUNZL GROUP GENERAL EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST
Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group 
General Employee Benefit Trust (‘the EBT’) which holds shares in 
respect of employee share options and awards that have not been 
exercised or vested. The current position is that the EBT abstains 
from voting in respect of these shares. The trustee has agreed to 
waive the right to dividend payments on shares held within the EBT. 
Details of the shares so held are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS
As at 31 December 2014 the directors had been notified by the 
following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more 
of the issued share capital of the Company.
Shareholder
Date of
 notification
Number of
shares
% of issued
share capital
Massachusetts Financial 
Services Company 07.10.14 33,452,090 10.0
Cascade Investment LLC 20.04.12 16,593,248 5.0
As at 23 February 2015 no further notifications have been received 
since the year end.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without 
prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company 
may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights 
and restrictions as set out in such resolution or (if there is no such 
resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision) as the 
Board may decide. Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006 and of any resolution of the Company passed pursuant thereto 
and without prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, the 
Board is duly authorised to issue and allot, grant options over or 
otherwise dispose of the Company’s shares on such terms and 
conditions and at such times as it thinks fit. If at any time the share 
capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the 
rights attached to any class may be varied or abrogated by special 
resolution passed at a separate general meeting of such holders. 
Subject to the rights attached to any existing shares, rights attached 
to shares will be deemed to be varied by the reduction of capital paid 
up on the shares and by the allotment of further shares ranking in 
priority in respect of dividend or capital or which confer on the 
holders more favourable voting rights than the first-mentioned 
shares, but will not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation 
or issue of further shares.
POWER TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES
The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under 
the authorities granted at the 2014 Annual General Meeting to allot 
shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security 
into shares of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 
£35.76 million. At the same meeting authority was also granted to 
the directors to allot the Company’s shares for cash, up to a maximum 
nominal amount of approximately £5.36 million, without regard to the 
pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006. No such shares 
were issued or allotted under these authorities in 2014, nor is there 
any current intention to do so, other than to satisfy share options 
under the Company’s share option schemes and, if necessary, to 
satisfy the consideration payable for businesses to be acquired.
These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. The directors again propose to seek 
equivalent authorities at such Annual General Meeting.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES
Dealings in the Company’s ordinary shares by its directors, persons 
discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the 
Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject 
to the Company’s dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the 
Listing Rules published by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, 
apply to transfers of shares in the Company. The Board may refuse 
to register an instrument of transfer of any share which is not a fully 
paid share and of a certificated share at its discretion unless it is:
• lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at the offices of the 
Company’s registrar or such other place as the Board may specify 
and is accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it 
relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably 
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer;
• in respect of only one class of shares; and
• in favour of not more than four transferees. 74 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused 
in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules, 
and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of 
joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred 
exceeds four.
In addition, no instrument of transfer for certificated shares shall be 
registered if the transferor has been served with a restriction notice 
(as defined in the Company’s Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’)) 
after failure to provide the Company with information concerning 
certain interests in the Company’s shares required to be provided 
under the Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the 
Board to be pursuant to an arm’s length sale. The Board has the 
power to procure that uncertificated shares are converted into 
certificated shares and kept in certificated form for as long as 
the Board requires.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in any restriction of the transfer 
of shares or voting rights.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS
A member shall not be entitled to vote, unless the Board otherwise 
decides, at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any 
shares held by them if any call or other sums payable remain unpaid. 
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid. In addition, no member 
shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice 
after failure to provide the Company with information concerning 
certain interests in the Company’s shares required to be provided 
under the Companies Act 2006. Votes may be exercised in person or 
by proxy. The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of 
proxy forms of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before 
a poll is taken if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was 
demanded or during the meeting at which the poll was demanded 
if the poll is not taken straight away but is taken not more than 
48 hours after it was demanded.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company 
authority to purchase a maximum of 33,375,000 ordinary shares. 
During the year ended 31 December 2014 the Company did not 
purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the 
authority granted at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and no shares 
have been purchased between 31 December 2014 and 23 February 
2015. The Company is therefore currently authorised to buy back 
33,375,000 of its own shares pursuant to the existing shareholders’ 
authority which is due to expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting. The directors again propose to seek the 
equivalent authority at such Annual General Meeting.
DIRECTORS
Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened 
general meeting or appointed by the Board. Under the Articles, the 
minimum number of directors shall be two and the maximum shall 
be 15. In accordance with the Articles, each director is required 
to retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar 
year after which he or she was appointed or last appointed and 
any director who has held office with the Company, other than 
employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine 
years or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting is subject to 
annual re-appointment. The Board may also appoint a person willing 
to act as a director during the year either to fill a vacancy or as an 
additional director but so that the total number of directors shall not 
at any time exceed 15. However such appointee shall only hold office 
until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred by 
company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove a 
director from office before the expiration of his or her period of office 
under the Articles.
The office of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles 
if the director:
• resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by all 
of the other directors who are not less than three in number; or
• is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the 
Board resolves that his or her office be vacated; or
• is absent without permission from Board meetings for six 
consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office 
be vacated; or
• becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors 
generally; or
• is prohibited by law from being a director; or
• ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of company law 
or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 42. 
Vanda Murray was appointed to the Board with effect from 
1 February 2015 but all of the other directors served throughout the 
year. Notwithstanding the retirement by rotation provisions in the 
Articles, each of the directors will retire and offer themselves for 
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code apart from Peter Johnson 
who retires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to 
the consolidated financial statements. None of the directors was 
materially interested in any contract of significance with the Company 
or any of its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2014. 
Information relating to the directors’ service agreements and their 
remuneration for the year and details of the directors’ share options 
under the Company’s share option schemes and awards under the 
Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme 
are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 52 to 72.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions 
given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the 
Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all powers 
of the Company. The Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, 
appoint any person or persons to be the agent or agents of  
the Company for such purposes and on such conditions as the  
Board determines.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
Indemnities were in force throughout 2014 and remain in force as 
at the date of this report under which the Company has agreed to 
indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary, in addition 
to other senior executives who are directors of subsidiaries of the 
Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Articles in respect 
of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of 
their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or officer 
of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES
Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution 
of the Company’s shareholders. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 75
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider 
community and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that 
respects the environment and social and community issues. Further 
information relating to the Company’s approach to these matters 
is set out in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 37 to 41.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
The employment policies of the Group have been developed to 
meet the needs of its different business areas and the locations in 
which they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal 
opportunity. The Group has standards of business conduct with which 
it expects all its employees to comply. Bunzl encourages involvement 
of its employees in the performance of the business in which they 
are employed and aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment. 
In addition to a regular magazine and the Company’s intranet, which 
provide a variety of information on activities and developments within 
the Group and incorporate half year and annual financial reports, 
announcements are periodically circulated to give details of 
corporate and staff matters together with a number of subsidiary 
or business area publications dealing with activities in specific parts 
of the Group.
It is the Group’s policy that disabled applicants should be considered 
for employment and career development on the basis of their 
aptitudes and abilities. Employees who become disabled during  
their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible 
and given help with rehabilitation and training.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS
The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, 
has a number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different 
counterparties, all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in 
substantially the same form and are prepayable at the option of the 
lender in the event of a change of control of the Company. Similar 
change of control provisions in relation to the Company are included 
in the US dollar, sterling and euro US private placement notes which 
have been entered into by Bunzl Finance plc and the Company and 
are also guaranteed by the Company.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
During 2014 no contributions were made for political purposes.
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER UK LISTING RULE 9.8.4
Apart from the dividend waiver which has been issued in respect 
of shares held by the Bunzl Group General Employee Benefit Trust 
referred to in Note 16 on page 101, there are no disclosures required 
to be made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.4.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report 
confirms that:
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken 
as a director in order to make the director aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting for the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
auditors of the Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined 
by the directors.
STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Pages 1 to 41 inclusive consist of the strategic report and pages 42 to 
75 inclusive consist of the directors’ report. These reports have been 
drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, 
applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in 
connection with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by such law.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability 
of directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the 
strategic report and the directors’ report. Under English law, the 
directors would be liable to the Company, but not to any third party, 
if the strategic report or the directors’ report contain errors as 
a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest 
concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
The strategic report and the directors’ report were approved by the 
Board on 23 February 2015.
On behalf of the Board
Paul Hussey
Secretary
23 February 2015 76 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Revenue 3 6,156.5 6,097.7
Operating profit 3 341.8 332.1
Finance income 5 4.0 2.6
Finance cost 5 (46.0) (44.8)
Profit before income tax 299.8 289.9
Income tax 6 (89.1) (83.1)
Profit for the year attributable to the Company’s equity holders 210.7 206.8
Earnings per share attributable to the Company’s equity holders
Basic 7 64.5p 63.5p
Diluted 7 63.7p 62.7p
Non-GAAP measures*
Operating profit 3 341.8 332.1
Adjusted for:
Intangible amortisation 3 61.9 58.3
Acquisition related costs 3 26.1 24.0
Adjusted operating profit 429.8 414.4
Finance income 5 4.0 2.6
Finance cost 5 (46.0) (44.8)
Adjusted profit before income tax 387.8 372.2
Tax on adjusted profit 6 (106.2) (103.8)
Adjusted profit for the year 281.6 268.4
Adjusted earnings per share 7 86.2p 82.4p
* See Note 2w on page 85 for further details of the non-GAAP measures.
The Accounting policies and Notes on pages 81 to 112 form part of these consolidated financial statements. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 77
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Profit for the year 210.7 206.8
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial (loss)/gain on pension schemes 20 (30.1) 26.9
Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 6 8.0 (10.1)
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (22.1) 16.8
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss:
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (26.1) (68.6)
(Loss)/gain taken to equity as a result of designated effective net investment hedges (17.1) 14.4
Gain recognised in cash flow hedge reserve 3.9 0.5
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve to income statement 0.1 0.3
Tax on items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 6 0.6 1.3
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (38.6) (52.1)
Other comprehensive expense for the year (60.7) (35.3)
Total comprehensive income attributable to the Company’s equity holders 150.0 171.5 78 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2014
Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 119.2 118.8
Intangible assets 9 1,478.8 1,456.9
Derivative financial assets 16.3 6.2
Deferred tax assets 15 3.9 7.5
Total non-current assets 1,618.2 1,589.4
Inventories 10 705.3 645.1
Income tax receivable 0.7 0.7
Trade and other receivables 11 869.8 863.0
Derivative financial assets 12.6 4.4
Cash and deposits 23 82.4 73.1
Total current assets 1,670.8 1,586.3
Total assets 3,289.0 3,175.7
Equity
Share capital 16 107.6 107.2
Share premium 160.3 153.0
Translation reserve (87.2) (45.4)
Other reserves 21.0 17.8
Retained earnings 782.2 707.3
Total equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders 983.9 939.9
Liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 913.3 851.8
Retirement benefit obligations 20 70.3 45.0
Other payables 18.5 24.8
Derivative financial liabilities – 4.5
Provisions 14 20.9 23.8
Deferred tax liabilities 15 116.0 129.5
Total non-current liabilities 1,139.0 1,079.4
Bank overdrafts 23 28.1 26.3
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 35.8 42.0
Income tax payable 64.6 62.2
Trade and other payables 12 1,018.4 1,004.4
Derivative financial liabilities 8.5 9.5
Provisions 14 10.7 12.0
Total current liabilities 1,166.1 1,156.4
Total liabilities 2,305.1 2,235.8
Total equity and liabilities 3,289.0 3,175.7
Approved by the Board of Directors of Bunzl plc (Company registration number 358948) on 23 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by  
Michael Roney, Chief Executive and Brian May, Finance Director. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 79
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
Other reserves Retained earnings
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
£m
Cash flow 
hedge 
£m
Own 
shares 
£m
Earnings 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
At 1 January 2014 107.2 153.0 (45.4) 2.5 16.1 (0.8) (100.0) 807.3 939.9
Profit for the year 210.7 210.7
Actuarial loss on pension schemes (30.1) (30.1)
Foreign currency translation differences for 
foreign operations (26.1) (26.1)
Loss taken to equity as a result of designated 
effective net investment hedges (17.1) (17.1)
Gain recognised in cash flow hedge reserve 3.9 3.9
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve  
to income statement 0.1 0.1
Income tax credit/(charge) on other 
comprehensive income 1.4 (0.8) 8.0 8.6
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (41.8) 3.2 188.6 150.0
2013 interim dividend (32.6) (32.6)
2013 final dividend (73.0) (73.0)
Issue of share capital 0.4 7.3 7.7
Employee trust shares (26.7) (26.7)
Movement on own share reserves 11.6 (11.6) –
Share based payments 18.6 18.6
At 31 December 2014 107.6 160.3 (87.2) 2.5 16.1 2.4 (115.1) 897.3 983.9
Other reserves Retained earnings
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
£m
Translation 
reserve 
£m
Merger 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
£m
Cash flow 
hedge 
£m
Own 
shares 
£m
Earnings 
£m
Total 
equity 
£m
At 1 January 2013 114.2 143.9 7.3 2.5 8.6 (1.4) (223.4) 833.8 885.5 
Profit for the year 206.8 206.8
Actuarial gain on pension schemes 26.9 26.9
Foreign currency translation differences for 
foreign operations (68.6) (68.6)
Gain taken to equity as a result of designated 
effective net investment hedges 14.4 14.4
Gain recognised in cash flow hedge reserve 0.5 0.5
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve  
to income statement 0.3 0.3
Income tax credit/(charge) on other 
comprehensive income 1.5 (0.2) (10.1) (8.8)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (52.7) 0.6 223.6 171.5
2012 interim dividend (28.8) (28.8)
2012 final dividend (63.0) (63.0)
Issue of share capital 0.5 9.1 9.6
Cancellation of treasury shares (7.5) 7.5 163.1 (163.1) –
Employee trust shares (50.1) (50.1)
Movement on own share reserves 10.4 (10.4) –
Share based payments 15.2 15.2 
At 31 December 2013 107.2 153.0 (45.4) 2.5 16.1 (0.8) (100.0) 807.3 939.9  80 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before income tax 299.8 289.9
Adjustments:
 depreciation 24.4 25.9
 intangible amortisation 61.9 58.3
 acquisition related costs 26.1 24.0
 share based payments 7.9 6.2
 finance income (4.0) (2.6)
 finance cost 46.0 44.8
 provisions (5.0) (7.8)
 retirement benefit obligations (8.0) (7.3)
 other (1.9) (1.8)
Working capital movement (15.6) 16.8
Cash generated from operations before acquisition related costs 431.6 446.4
Cash outflow from acquisition related costs 24 (14.0) (26.1)
Income tax paid (89.8) (80.3)
Cash inflow from operating activities 327.8 340.0
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest received 2.3 1.5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (25.1) (26.5)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.2
Purchase of businesses 24 (154.1) (253.8)
Cash outflow from investing activities (175.7) (277.6)
Cash flow from financing activities
Interest paid (43.7) (40.5)
Dividends paid (105.6) (91.8)
Increase in borrowings 181.0 361.4
Repayment of borrowings (170.3) (245.1)
Realised gains/(losses) on foreign exchange contracts 17.4 (9.7)
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares to settle share options 7.7 9.6
Proceeds from exercise of market purchase share options 18.5 12.0
Purchase of employee trust shares (48.0) (64.9)
Cash outflow from financing activities (143.0) (69.0)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 9.1 (6.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 46.8 55.8
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 9.1 (6.6)
Exchange loss on cash and cash equivalents (1.6) (2.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 23 54.3 46.8 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 81
NOTES
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been approved by the directors and prepared in accordance 
with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Standards 
Interpretations Committee (‘IFRS IC’). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis (as referred to in 
the Financial review on page 33) and under the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value 
as disclosed in the accounting policies below. The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (‘UK GAAP’).
The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments to standards, including any consequential amendments to other 
standards, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2014:
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’;
IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’;
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’;
International Accounting Standard (‘IAS’) 27 (Revised) ‘Separate Financial Statements’;
IAS 28 (Revised) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’; 
Amendment to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’; 
Amendments to IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’; and 
Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’.
These have not had a material impact on the Group’s overall results and financial position.
Some of the prior year numbers that were originally presented on a net basis in the Consolidated balance sheet and Consolidated cash flow 
statement and the relevant Notes have been re-presented on a gross basis to more accurately reflect the underlying transactions and to be 
consistent with the current year presentation.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied to all periods presented in the consolidated 
financial statements.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
a Basis of consolidation 
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its 
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and 
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date. The consideration paid 
or payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion and deferred consideration, excluding payments which are 
contingent on the continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired. The excess of the consideration (excluding payments 
contingent on future employment) over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Payments that are 
contingent on future employment and transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement.
(ii) Associates
Associates are entities over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence. Associates are accounted for using the equity 
method and are recognised initially at cost. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the income and expenses 
of associates.
(iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, unless they qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge 
accounting treatment, in which case the effective portion is recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expenses 
of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates. All resulting exchange differences, including exchange differences arising 
from the translation of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised directly in a 
separate component of equity. Differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate 
component of equity. 82 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
c Revenue
The Group is engaged in the delivery of goods to customers. Revenue from a sale is recognised in the income statement upon delivery 
of the relevant goods, which is the point in time at which the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are transferred.
Revenue is valued at invoiced amounts, excluding sales taxes, less estimated provisions for returns and trade discounts where relevant. 
Returns provisions and early settlement discounts are based on experience over an appropriate period whereas volume discounts are  
based on agreements with customers.
Revenue is not recognised if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the consideration due.
d Cost of goods sold 
Cost of goods sold consists of the cost of the inventories sold or disposed of in the period, where the cost of inventories is net of supplier 
rebate income related to those inventories. 
e Supplier rebates
The Group has various rebate arrangements with a number of suppliers. Some of these arrangements are based on the volume of products 
purchased and others are based on the volume of products sold. Supplier rebate income is recognised in cost of goods sold concurrent 
with the sale of the inventories to which it relates and is calculated by reference to the expected consideration receivable from each rebate 
arrangement. Supplier rebate income is not recognised if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the amount due. Supplier 
rebate income accrued but not yet received is included in other receivables. 
f Share based payments
The Group operates equity settled share based compensation plans. Details of these plans are outlined in Note 16 and the Directors’ 
remuneration report. The total expected expense is based on the fair value of options and other share based incentives on the grant date 
calculated using a valuation model and is spread over the expected vesting period with a corresponding credit to equity. 
g Leases
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease. Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classified 
as finance leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that 
of the buildings due to the indefinite life of land. 
h Income tax
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except when 
it relates to items reflected in equity when it is recognised in equity.
Current tax reflects tax payable on taxable income for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and 
any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method providing for temporary differences arising between tax bases and carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary 
differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of 
assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profits and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent 
that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future 
taxable profit will be available against which any asset can be utilised. 
i Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. 
j Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost less estimated residual value over the assets’ estimated remaining useful 
lives. This is applied at the following annual rates: 
Buildings 2% (or depreciated over life of lease if shorter than 50 years)
Plant and machinery 8%–33%
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 8%–33%
Freehold land Not depreciated
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 83
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
k Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method. As permitted by IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting 
Standards’, the Group has chosen to apply IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ from 1 January 2004 and has elected not to restate previous 
business combinations. For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP. 
For acquisitions that occurred between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination 
in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. For acquisitions that have occurred on or 
after 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination (excluding payments contingent on future employment and 
other acquisition related costs) in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Goodwill is 
allocated to cash generating units and is tested annually for impairment. Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised immediately 
in the income statement.
(ii) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised on acquisition and recorded at fair value. These principally relate to 
customer relationships and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Amortisation is charged to the 
income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives (which range from 10 to 19 years). 
l Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed annually to determine if there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication 
exists, the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated. The recoverable amounts of assets carried at amortised cost are calculated as the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at appropriate pre-tax discount rates. The recoverable amounts of other assets 
are the greater of their fair value less the costs to sell and the value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present values using appropriate pre-tax discount rates. Impairment losses are recognised when the carrying amount 
of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, with impairment losses being recognised in the income statement. 
m Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories comprises the purchase price, net of any related 
supplier volume rebates, plus import duties and other taxes, inbound freight and haulage costs and other related costs incurred to bring the 
product into its present location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the 
estimated cost of completion and estimated cost necessary to make the sale.
n Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at cost less any impairment losses. A provision for impairment is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables or uncertainty as to 
whether the Group will be able to collect all such amounts. 
o Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at cost. 
p Financial instruments 
Under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with 
subsequent measurement depending upon the classification of the instrument. IFRS 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Other financial 
assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost unless they are in a fair value hedging relationship. Derivative financial instruments are used 
to hedge exposures to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
(i) Fair value hedge
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated and qualifies as a hedge of a recognised asset or liability, all changes in the fair value 
of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement. The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair 
value that is attributable to the risk being hedged with changes recognised in the income statement. 
(ii) Cash flow hedge
Where a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a hedge is used to hedge forecast transactions, any effective portion of the change 
in fair value is recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
(iii) Hedge of a net investment in foreign operations
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in foreign 
operations are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective such differences 
are recognised in the income statement.
q Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, bank overdrafts and short term deposits with maturities of three months or less from 
the date the deposit is made.  84 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
r Net debt
Net debt is defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings and the fair value of interest rate swaps on fixed interest rate borrowings,  
less cash and cash equivalents.
s Provisions
Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event  
and where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions  
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the 
unavoidable costs of meeting the Group’s obligations under the contract.
t Retirement benefit obligations
(i) Defined contribution pension schemes
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense to the income statement as incurred.
(ii) Defined benefit pension schemes
Pension liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet and represent the difference between the fair value of scheme assets and the present 
value of scheme liabilities. Scheme liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted using the 
rate applicable to AA rated corporate bonds that have a similar maturity to the scheme liabilities.
Current service cost, past service cost/credit and gains and losses on any settlements and curtailments are credited or charged to the 
income statement. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent benefits are already vested. Net interest on the net defined 
benefit liability is included within finance cost. The net interest is calculated using the same discount rate that is used in calculating the 
defined benefit obligation, applied to the net defined benefit liability at the start of the period. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income. 
u Investment in own shares
The cost of shares held either directly (treasury shares) or indirectly (employee benefit trust shares) is deducted from equity. Repurchased 
shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are subsequently sold 
or reissued, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised 
in retained earnings.
At each reporting date the Group remeasures the value of the shares held in the employee benefit trust to present them in the own shares 
reserve at the market value of those shares at the reporting date. This is done through a reclassification from retained earnings to the own 
shares reserve. This movement has no effect on the actual numbers of shares held by the employee benefit trust.
v Dividends
The interim dividend is recognised in the statement of changes in equity in the period in which it is paid and the final dividend in the period in 
which it is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
w Non-GAAP measures
Further to the various performance measures defined under IFRS, the Group reports a number of additional performance measures that 
are designed to assist with the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group and its businesses. These measures are not 
defined under IFRS and, as a result, do not comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (known as ‘non-GAAP measures’) and may 
not be directly comparable with other companies’ non-GAAP measures. They are not designed to be a substitute for any of the IFRS 
measures of performance. The principal additional performance measures used within the consolidated financial statements include:
• adjusted operating profit;
• adjusted profit before income tax;
• adjusted profit for the year;
• adjusted earnings per share; and
• adjusted diluted earnings per share.
These measures exclude the charge for intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and, where relevant, the associated tax. Intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related costs and the associated tax are items which are not taken into account by management when assessing the 
results of the business as they do not relate to the underlying operating performance. Accordingly, these items are removed in calculating 
the profitability measures by which management assess the performance of the Group. 
Acquisition related costs comprise transaction costs and expenses, deferred consideration payments relating to the retention of former 
owners of businesses acquired and adjustments to previously estimated earn outs.
The Group’s key performance indicators are set out and defined on pages 14 and 15. A number of these are based on, or derived from, 
the non-GAAP measures noted above. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 85
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES 
The following provides information on those policies that management considers critical because of the level of judgement and estimation 
required which often involves assumptions regarding future events which can vary from what is anticipated. The directors review the 
judgements and estimates on an ongoing basis with revisions to accounting estimates recognised in the period in which the estimates 
are revised and in any future periods affected. The key sources of estimation at the balance sheet date that have risk of causing material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are set out below. The directors believe that the consolidated financial 
statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s performance and financial position. 
Where appropriate and practicable, sensitivities are disclosed in the relevant notes.
a Retirement benefit obligations
The cost of defined benefit pension schemes and the present value of the obligations relating thereto are determined using actuarial valuations 
appropriate for each country where defined benefit pension schemes are provided. The actuarial valuations involve making assumptions 
about discount rates, future salary increases, future pension increases and mortality rates. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting 
date. In determining the appropriate discount rates, management considers the interest rates of corporate bonds with an AA rating in the 
relevant country. Future salary increases and future pension increases are based on expected future inflation rates for each country. 
Mortality rates are based on the relevant mortality tables for each country. Further details about the assumptions used are set out in Note 20. 
b Intangible assets
IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination. The methods used to value such intangible 
assets require the use of estimates including forecast performance and customer attrition rates. Future results are impacted by the 
amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions (including discount 
rates, timing and growth prospects) which are inherently subjective. Further details about the assumptions used are set out in Note 9.
c Acquisitions
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method based on the fair value of the consideration paid. Assets and liabilities are 
measured at fair value and the purchase price is allocated to assets and liabilities based on these fair values.
Determining the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions (including discount 
rates, asset lives and recoverability). Assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and the value of freehold properties is typically 
determined by qualified valuers on an open market basis.
d Tax
The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions. Management is required to make judgements and estimates in determining 
the provisions for income taxes recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
The Group is currently assessing the potential impact of other new and revised standards and interpretations issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board that will be effective from 1 January 2015 and beyond. Based on the analysis to date, the Group does not 
anticipate that these will have a material impact on the Group’s overall results and financial position. 86 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS
Year ended 31 December 2014
North 
America 
£m
Continental 
Europe 
£m
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
Rest of the 
World 
£m
Corporate 
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 3,372.1 1,146.3 1,078.5 559.6 6,156.5
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 211.1 103.2 80.1 55.5 (20.1) 429.8
Intangible amortisation (13.4) (28.4) (7.6) (12.5) – (61.9)
Acquisition related costs (5.6) (4.9) (1.9) (13.7) – (26.1)
Operating profit/(loss) 192.1 69.9 70.6 29.3 (20.1) 341.8
Finance income 4.0
Finance cost (46.0) 
Profit before income tax 299.8
Adjusted profit before income tax 387.8
Income tax (89.1)
Profit for the year 210.7
Capital expenditure 8.1 7.7 5.3 3.7 0.3 25.1
Depreciation 7.5 9.4 4.0 3.3 0.2 24.4
Year ended 31 December 2013
North 
America 
£m
Continental 
Europe 
£m
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
Rest of the 
World 
£m
Corporate 
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 3,401.7 1,151.5 1,018.5 526.0 6,097.7 
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 213.6 97.0 71.6 51.2 (19.0) 414.4
Intangible amortisation (12.6) (29.1) (7.1) (9.5) – (58.3)
Acquisition related costs (6.8) (3.5) (1.6) (12.1) – (24.0) 
Operating profit/(loss) 194.2 64.4 62.9 29.6 (19.0) 332.1
Finance income 2.6
Finance cost (44.8)
Profit before income tax 289.9
Adjusted profit before income tax 372.2
Income tax (83.1) 
Profit for the year 206.8 
Capital expenditure 11.2 8.7 4.3 2.3 – 26.5 
Depreciation 7.8 11.1 4.0 2.8 0.2 25.9 
Acquisition related costs for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprise transaction costs and expenses of £4.1m (2013: £8.4m), deferred 
consideration payments of £21.0m (2013: £22.0m) relating to the retention of former owners of businesses acquired and a charge of £1.0m 
(2013: £6.4m credit) from adjustments to previously estimated earn outs.
The Group is managed through four business areas based on geographic regions which represent the reporting segments under IFRS 8 
‘Operating Segments’. The revenue presented relates to external customers. Sales between the business areas are not material. Each of the 
business areas supplies a range of products to customers operating primarily in the foodservice, grocery, cleaning & hygiene, retail, safety 
and healthcare market sectors. The performance of the four business areas is assessed by reference to adjusted operating profit and this 
measure also represents the segment results for the purposes of reporting in accordance with IFRS 8. Debt and associated interest is 
managed at a Group level and therefore has not been allocated across the business areas. In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 8, 
the Company’s chief operating decision maker is the Board of Directors. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 87
3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS CONTINUED
Within each of the four business areas, there are a number of further segments based on geography and market sector. These segments 
have been aggregated into the four business areas as shown above due to the similarity between them in terms of economic characteristics 
and also in respect of the nature of the products and services, types of customer and the methods used to distribute these products 
and services.
There are no customers who account for more than 10% of Group revenue. Customer dependencies are regularly monitored.
Revenue by market sector
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Foodservice 1,709.6 1,766.9
Grocery 1,610.8 1,648.3
Cleaning & hygiene 787.4 733.9
Retail 724.4 696.9
Safety 687.0 624.7
Healthcare 435.6 418.6
Other 201.7 208.4
6,156.5 6,097.7
The Other category covers a wide range of market sectors, none of which is sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure.
At 31 December 2014
North 
America 
£m
Continental 
Europe 
£m
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
Rest of 
the World 
£m
Unallocated 
£m
Total 
£m
Segment assets 1,110.9 879.9  659.6  511.6 3,162.0
Unallocated assets 127.0 127.0
Total assets 1,110.9 879.9 659.6 511.6 127.0 3,289.0
Segment liabilities 395.5 247.9 288.2 96.3 1,027.9 
Unallocated liabilities 1,277.2 1,277.2 
Total liabilities 395.5 247.9 288.2 96.3 1,277.2 2,305.1 
At 31 December 2013
North 
America 
£m
Continental 
Europe 
£m
UK & 
Ireland 
£m
Rest of 
the World 
£m
Unallocated 
£m
Total 
£m
Segment assets 1,078.6 920.6 624.4 443.9 3,067.5
Unallocated assets 108.2 108.2
Total assets 1,078.6 920.6 624.4 443.9 108.2 3,175.7
Segment liabilities 407.8 246.9 270.2 87.9 1,012.8
Unallocated liabilities 1,223.0 1,223.0 
Total liabilities 407.8 246.9 270.2 87.9 1,223.0 2,235.8 
Unallocated assets and liabilities include Corporate assets and liabilities, tax assets and liabilities, cash and deposits, borrowings,  
derivative assets and liabilities and pension scheme assets and liabilities. 88 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
4 ANALYSIS OF OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cost of goods sold 4,659.2 4,638.3
Employee costs (see Note 21) 594.7 570.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 24.4 25.9
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 61.9 58.3
Acquisition related costs 26.1 24.0
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – (0.2)
Rentals payable under operating leases and subleases 93.1 90.2
Lease and sublease income (0.3) (0.8)
Other operating expenses 355.6 359.7
Net operating expenses 5,814.7 5,765.6
2014 2013
Auditors’ remuneration
UK 
£m
Overseas 
£m
Total 
£m
UK 
£m
Overseas 
£m
Total 
£m
Audit of these financial statements 0.3 – 0.3 0.3 –  0.3 
Amounts receivable by the Company’s auditors and 
their associates in respect of:
 audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of 
the Company 0.3 1.5 1.8 0.4 1.6  2.0 
 audit related assurance services 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 –  0.1 
 taxation compliance services – – – –  0.1  0.1 
 other tax advisory services 0.1 0.2 0.3 –  0.1  0.1 
 all other services 0.4 0.2 0.6 0.1  0.4  0.5 
Total auditors’ remuneration 1.2 1.9 3.1 0.9  2.2  3.1 
During 2014 the Company carried out a tender for the external audit following which PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) were appointed as 
auditors of the Company in place of KPMG Audit Plc (‘KPMG’). Accordingly, the figures for auditors’ remuneration shown above relate to PwC 
for 2014 and KPMG for 2013.
Non-audit services principally comprise tax services and further assurance services relating to pre-acquisition due diligence and other 
duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses. It is the Company’s policy to assess the services required on a case 
by case basis to ensure that the most appropriate adviser is retained. As a result it is sometimes appropriate for this additional work to be 
carried out by the Company’s auditors. However other firms are also used by the Company to provide non-audit services if such other firms 
are thought to be best placed to undertake the work involved.
The Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent non-executive directors, reviews and approves the level and type of non-audit 
work which the external auditors perform, including the fees paid for such work, to ensure that the auditors’ objectivity and independence 
are not compromised. Further information is set out in the Audit Committee’s report on pages 48 to 51.
5 FINANCE INCOME/(COST)
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Interest on deposits 1.6 0.8
Interest income from foreign exchange contracts 1.4 1.4
Other finance income 1.0 0.4
Finance income 4.0 2.6
Interest on loans and overdrafts (41.4) (39.9)
Interest expense from foreign exchange contracts (2.0) (1.5)
Interest charge on retirement benefit obligations (1.6) (2.8)
Fair value (loss)/gain on US private placement notes in a hedge relationship (12.1) 2.0
Fair value gain/(loss) on interest rate swaps in a hedge relationship 12.1 (2.0)
Foreign exchange (loss)/gain on intercompany funding (10.4) 10.9
Foreign exchange gain/(loss) on external debt not in a hedge relationship 9.8 (11.0)
Other finance expense (0.4) (0.5)
Finance cost (46.0) (44.8)
The foreign exchange (loss)/gain on intercompany funding arises as a result of foreign currency intercompany loans and deposits. This is 
substantially matched by external debt to minimise this foreign currency exposure in the income statement. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 89
6 INCOME TAX 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current tax on profit
 current year 110.6 102.1
 prior years (5.1) (10.2)
105.5 91.9
Deferred tax on profit
 current year (17.1) (6.7)
 prior years 0.7 (2.1)
(16.4) (8.8)
Income tax on profit 89.1 83.1
In assessing the underlying performance of the Group, management uses adjusted profit which excludes intangible amortisation and 
acquisition related costs. Similarly the tax effect of these items is excluded in monitoring the tax rate on the adjusted profit of the Group 
which is shown in the table below:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Income tax on profit 89.1 83.1
Tax associated with intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs 17.1 20.7
Tax on adjusted profit 106.2 103.8
Profit before income tax 299.8 289.9
Intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs 88.0 82.3
Adjusted profit before income tax 387.8 372.2
Reported tax rate 29.7% 28.7%
Tax rate on adjusted profit 27.4% 27.9%
Tax on other comprehensive income and equity
Gross 
2014 
£m
Tax credit/
 (charge) 
2014
£m
Net 
2014 
£m
Gross 
2013 
£m
Tax credit/
 (charge) 
2013
£m
Net 
2013 
£m
Actuarial (loss)/gain on pension schemes (30.1) 8.0 (22.1) 26.9 (10.1) 16.8
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations (26.1) – (26.1) (68.6) – (68.6)
(Loss)/gain taken to equity as a result of designated effective 
net investment hedges (17.1) 1.4 (15.7) 14.4 1.5 15.9
Gain/(loss) recognised in cash flow hedge reserve 3.9 (0.7) 3.2 0.5 – 0.5
Movement from cash flow hedge reserve to income statement 0.1 (0.1) – 0.3 (0.2) 0.1
Other comprehensive (expense)/income (69.3) 8.6 (60.7) (26.5) (8.8) (35.3)
Dividends (105.6) – (105.6) (91.8) – (91.8)
Issue of share capital 7.7 – 7.7 9.6 – 9.6
Employee trust shares (26.7) – (26.7) (50.1) – (50.1)
Share based payments 7.9 10.7 18.6 6.2 9.0 15.2
Other comprehensive (expense)/income and equity (186.0) 19.3 (166.7) (152.6) 0.2 (152.4) 90 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
6 INCOME TAX CONTINUED
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
The Group operates in many countries and is subject to income tax in many different jurisdictions. The expected tax rate is calculated as 
a weighted average of the tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The adjustments to the tax charge at the weighted 
average rate to determine the income tax on profit are as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Profit before income tax 299.8 289.9
Tax charge at weighted average rate (2014: 31.5%; 2013: 31.4%) 94.5 91.0
Effects of:
 adjustment in respect of prior years (4.4) (12.3)
 non-taxable and non-deductible items (3.0) 1.6
 other 2.0 2.8
Income tax on profit 89.1 83.1
Deferred tax in the income statement
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Accelerated capital allowances (0.6) 1.0
Retirement benefit obligations – (0.5)
Intangible assets (13.3) (12.4)
Share based payments (0.8) (1.5)
Provisions 0.5 1.5
Other (2.2) 3.1
Deferred tax on profit (16.4) (8.8)
UK tax rate change
Following the enactment of legislation in the UK, the corporation tax rate was reduced to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015.
7 EARNINGS PER SHARE 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Profit for the year 210.7 206.8
Adjustment* 70.9 61.6
Adjusted profit for the year 281.6 268.4
Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue (million) 326.6 325.8
Dilutive effect of employee share plans (million) 3.9 4.0
Diluted weighted average ordinary shares (million) 330.5 329.8
Basic earnings per share 64.5p 63.5p
Adjustment 21.7p 18.9p
Adjusted earnings per share 86.2p 82.4p
Diluted basic earnings per share 63.7p 62.7p
Adjustment 21.5p 18.7p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 85.2p 81.4p
*  Adjustment comprises intangible amortisation of £61.9m (2013: £58.3m), acquisition related costs of £26.1m (2013: £24.0m) and associated 
tax credit of £17.1m (2013: £20.7m). BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 91
8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
2014
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
Beginning of year 78.3 111.3 116.5 306.1
Acquisitions 0.2 0.7 1.0 1.9
Additions 1.5 11.9 11.7 25.1
Disposals (0.2) (4.1) (4.5) (8.8)
Currency translation (1.0) 1.8 (2.5) (1.7)
End of year 78.8 121.6 122.2 322.6
Depreciation
Beginning of year 26.7 70.6 90.0 187.3
Charge in year 2.7 10.6 11.1 24.4
Disposals (0.1) (3.5) (4.0) (7.6)
Currency translation 0.1 1.1 (1.9) (0.7)
End of year 29.4 78.8 95.2 203.4
Net book value at 31 December 2014 49.4 42.8 27.0 119.2
2013
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
machinery 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
Beginning of year 75.2 98.9 109.4 283.5
Acquisitions 3.0 4.4 2.2 9.6
Additions 1.9 14.5 10.1 26.5
Disposals (1.7) (2.9) (3.5) (8.1)
Currency translation (0.1) (3.6) (1.7) (5.4) 
End of year 78.3 111.3 116.5 306.1 
Depreciation
Beginning of year 25.2 64.5 82.7 172.4
Charge in year 3.3 10.9 11.7 25.9
Disposals (1.2) (2.7) (3.2) (7.1)
Currency translation (0.6) (2.1) (1.2) (3.9) 
End of year 26.7 70.6 90.0 187.3 
Net book value at 31 December 2013 51.6 40.7 26.5 118.8 
The net book value of property, plant and equipment includes assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts totalling £4.4m 
(2013: £8.7m). Accumulated depreciation of these assets was £2.5m (2013: £5.8m). Future capital expenditure at 31 December 2014 consisted 
of commitments not provided for of £1.0m (2013: £0.6m). 92 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
9 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
2014
£m
2013
£m
Beginning of year 901.0 823.2
Acquisitions 36.2 97.4
Currency translation (14.9) (19.6)
End of year 922.3 901.0
Customer relationships
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cost
Beginning of year 887.2 793.1
Acquisitions 76.0 111.1
Currency translation (24.3) (17.0)
End of year 938.9 887.2
Amortisation
Beginning of year 331.3 275.7
Charge in year 61.9 58.3
Currency translation (10.8) (2.7)
End of year 382.4 331.3
Net book value at 31 December 556.5 555.9
Total net book value of intangible assets at 31 December 1,478.8 1,456.9
Both goodwill and customer relationships have been acquired as part of business combinations. Customer relationships are amortised over 
their estimated useful lives which range from 10 to 19 years.
Impairment tests
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across cash generating units (‘CGUs’) and is tested annually for impairment.
A description of the Group’s principal activities is set out in the Chief Executive’s review. There is no significant difference in the nature of 
activities across different geographies. The identification of CGUs reflects the way in which the business is managed on a geographical basis. 
Given the similar nature of the activities of each CGU, a consistent methodology is applied across the Group in assessing CGU recoverable 
amounts. The recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less the costs to sell. The value in use is the present 
value of the cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU over a projection period together with a terminal value. The projection period 
is the time period over which future cash flows are predicted. The Group’s methodology is to use a projection period of five years being the 
maximum period over which detailed future cash flows for each CGU are prepared. For periods after this five year period, the methodology 
applies a long term growth rate to derive a terminal value. Cash flow expectations exclude any future cash flows that may arise from 
restructuring or other enhancements to the cash generating activities of the CGU and reflect management’s expectations of the range 
of economic conditions that may exist over the projection period. 
The value in use calculations are principally sensitive to revenue growth, including any significant changes to the customer base, 
achievability of future margins and the discount rate used in the present value calculation. The information used for valuation purposes 
takes into consideration past experience and the current economic environment with regard to customer attrition rates and additions 
to the customer base, the ability to introduce price increases and new products and experience in controlling the underlying cost base. 
This provides a long term growth rate which is consistent with the geographic segments in which the Group operates and management’s 
assessment of future operating performance and market share movements. The growth rate has been calculated based principally 
on expected inflation rates of the relevant economies. 
At 31 December 2014 North America, France Hygiene and UK Hospitality carried a significant amount of goodwill in comparison with the total 
value of the Group’s goodwill. At 31 December 2014 the carrying value of goodwill in respect of North America was £245.2m (2013: £233.5m), 
France Hygiene was £76.5m (2013: £82.2m) and UK Hospitality was £62.5m (2013: £62.5m). At 31 December 2014 the aggregate amount 
of goodwill attributable to the Group’s CGUs, excluding North America, France Hygiene and UK Hospitality, was £538.1m (2013: £522.8m). 
The remaining goodwill relates to CGUs which are not individually significant.
For North America, France Hygiene and UK Hospitality the weighted average long term growth rate used in 2014 was 2.5% (2013: 2.5%). 
A discount rate of 9% (2013: 9%) has been applied to the value in use calculations representing a pre-tax rate reflecting market assessments 
of the time value of money at the balance sheet date. Similar assumptions have been applied to the other CGUs but where appropriate the 
directors have considered alternative market risk assumptions to reflect the specific conditions arising in individual countries (with long term 
growth rates ranging from 2.5%–7.2% and discount rates ranging from 9%–18%).  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 93
9 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Impairment testing is dependent on management’s estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future cash 
flows, the discount rates selected and expected long term growth rates. A key assumption on which value in use calculations are dependent 
relates to revenue growth including the impact of changes to the underlying customer base. This assumption is sensitive to customer 
attrition and the rate at which new customer relationships are introduced and established. 
Based on past experience and taking into account current market conditions, management has concluded that it is reasonable to assume 
that there will be no material deterioration in the customer base over the projection period which will significantly impact future cash flows 
and that no reasonably possible change in key assumptions would result in impairment in any of the Group’s CGUs. Should such a change 
occur, this would represent a triggering event to indicate that an impairment review may be necessary. In accordance with IAS 36 
‘Impairment of Assets’, a full impairment review would then be undertaken on the relevant assets within the CGU. Any such changes 
are monitored through normal monthly procedures.
10 INVENTORIES
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Goods for resale 705.3 645.1
£4.7m was written off inventories during the year (2013: £2.9m) due to obsolescence or damage. The inventories provision at 31 December 
2014 was £60.5m (2013: £58.3m). 
11 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Trade receivables 700.9 695.2
Prepayments and other receivables 168.9 167.8
869.8 863.0
The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December was:
Gross 
2014 
£m
 Provision 
2014 
£m
Gross 
2013 
£m
 Provision 
2013
£m
Current 568.0 0.7 542.9 0.4
0–30 days overdue 103.0 0.3 126.0 0.4
31–90 days overdue 32.3 1.4 28.4 1.3
Over 90 days overdue 16.0 16.0 13.8 13.8
719.3 18.4 711.1 15.9
The movement in the provision for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Beginning of year 15.9 14.9
Acquisitions 1.0 2.0
Charge 4.1 1.9
Utilised and unused (2.0) (2.6)
Currency translation (0.6) (0.3)
End of year 18.4 15.9 94 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
12 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES – CURRENT
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Trade payables 697.2 682.9
Other tax and social security contributions 23.8 23.8
Other payables 130.8 140.1
Accruals and deferred income 166.6 157.6
1,018.4 1,004.4
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Capital management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Group monitors the return on average operating capital employed and the return on invested capital as 
well as the level of total shareholders’ equity and the amount of dividends paid to ordinary shareholders. For the year ended 31 December 
2014, the return on average operating capital employed was 57.7% (2013: 56.9%), the return on invested capital was 17.6% (2013: 17.9%), 
the level of total shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2014 was £983.9m (2013: £939.9m) and the amount of dividends paid in the year 
ended 31 December 2014 was £105.6m (2013: £91.8m).
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of shareholders’ equity and bank and capital market borrowings. All of the borrowings 
are managed by a central treasury function and funds raised are lent onward to operating subsidiaries as required. The overall objective 
is to manage the funding to ensure the Group has a portfolio of competitively priced borrowing facilities to meet the demands of the business 
over time and, in order to do so, the Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources with a variety of maturity dates.
The Group’s businesses provide a high and consistent level of cash generation which helps fund future development and growth. The Group 
seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the 
advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital management during the year and the Group is not subject to any externally 
imposed capital requirements.
Treasury policies and controls
The Group has a centralised treasury department to control external borrowings and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency 
risks. Treasury policies have been approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of financial 
instruments that may be employed and the criteria for investing and borrowing cash. The Group uses derivatives to manage its foreign 
currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying business activities. No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. The 
treasury department is subject to periodic independent review by the internal audit department. Underlying policy assumptions and activities 
are periodically reviewed by the executive directors and the Board. Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity are in place.
Hedge accounting
The Group designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes as either (a) a hedge of the fair value of a recognised 
asset or liability; (b) a hedge of the cash flow risk resulting from changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates; or (c) a hedge of a net 
investment in a foreign operation. The accounting treatment for hedges is set out in the financial instruments accounting policy in Note 2.
The Group tests the effectiveness of hedges on a prospective and retrospective basis to ensure compliance with IAS 39. Methods for testing 
effectiveness include dollar offset, critical terms and hypothetical derivatives.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group continually monitors net 
debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s requirements in the short, medium and long 
term and, in order to do so, arranges borrowings from a variety of sources. Additionally, compliance with debt covenants is monitored. 
During 2014 all covenants have been complied with.
The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available comprising multi-currency credit facilities from the Group’s banks and US private 
placement notes denominated in US dollars, sterling and euros. Fixed interest US private placement notes of $252.0m and € 35.0m were 
drawn down by the Group during 2014. At 31 December 2014 the total US private placement notes outstanding were £793.2m (2013: £607.1m) 
with maturities ranging from 2015 to 2026. During the year the Group also refinanced or agreed new banking facilities totalling £358.1m.  
The Group’s committed bank facilities mature between 2016 and 2020. At 31 December 2014 the available committed bank facilities totalled 
£917.0m (2013: £886.7m) of which £136.5m (2013: £273.1m) was drawn down.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 95
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
The undrawn committed bank facilities available at 31 December were as follows:
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Expiring within one year – 40.0
Expiring after one year but within two years 90.0 245.8
Expiring after two years 690.5 327.8
780.5 613.6
In addition the Group maintains overdraft and uncommitted facilities to provide short term flexibility. At 31 December 2014 loans totalling 
£0.8m were secured by fixed charges on property (2013: £0.8m).
The contractual maturity profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 December is set out in the tables below. The amounts 
disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and therefore include interest cash flows (forecast using LIBOR interest rates at 
31 December in the case of floating rate financial assets and liabilities). Derivative assets and liabilities have been included within the tables 
since they predominantly relate to derivatives which are used to manage the interest cash flows on the Group’s debt. Bank loans have been 
drawn under committed facilities and can be refinanced on maturity from these same facilities. Accordingly they have been aged based on 
the maturity dates of the underlying facilities. 
The tables below also compare the fair value and carrying amounts for financial assets and liabilities:
Contractual cash inflows/(outflows)
2014
Fair value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Total 
contractual 
cash flows 
£m
Within one 
year 
£m
After
 one year 
but within
 two years 
£m
After
 two years 
but within 
five years 
£m
After 
more than 
five years 
£m
Financial assets:
Cash and deposits 82.4 82.4 82.4 82.4 – – –
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables 700.9 700.9 700.9 700.9 – – –
Derivative financial instruments
Interest rate swaps 16.3 16.3 57.1 6.9 6.1 14.9 29.2
Cross currency interest rate swaps 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 – – –
Foreign exchange contracts for 
net investment hedging 7.0 7.0 7.0 7.0 – – – 
Foreign exchange contracts for 
cash flow hedging 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 – – –
812.2 812.2 853.0 802.8 6.1 14.9 29.2
Financial liabilities:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Bank loans (138.5) (138.5) (141.5) (2.9) (88.4) (50.2) –
US private placement notes (681.8) (635.7) (774.5) (65.5) (135.1) (215.2) (358.7)
Bank overdrafts (28.1) (28.1) (28.1) (28.1) – – –
Other interest bearing loans and 
borrowings (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) – – –
Finance lease creditors (1.1) (1.1) (1.5) (0.4) (0.7) (0.4) –
Trade payables (697.2) (697.2) (697.2) (697.2) – – –
Other current payables (143.9) (143.9) (143.9) (143.9) – – –
Non-current payables (16.7) (16.7) (16.7) – (16.7) – –
Financial liabilities at fair value
US private placement notes (173.2) (173.6) (237.3) (6.7) (6.7) (20.2) (203.7)
Derivative financial instruments
Cross currency interest rate swaps (2.8) (2.8) (2.8) (2.8) – – –
Foreign exchange contracts for net 
investment hedging (5.6) (5.6) (5.6) (5.6) – – –
Foreign exchange contracts for 
cash flow hedging (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – – – 
(1,889.2) (1,843.5) (2,049.4) (953.4) (247.6) (286.0) (562.4) 96 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Contractual cash inflows/(outflows)
2013
Fair value 
£m
Carrying 
amount 
£m
Total 
contractual 
cash flows 
£m
Within one 
year 
£m
After
 one year 
but within
 two years 
£m
After
 two years 
but within 
five years 
£m
After 
more than 
five years 
£m
Financial assets:
Cash and deposits 73.1 73.1 73.1 73.1 – – –
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables 695.2 695.2 695.2 695.2 – – –
Derivative financial instruments
Interest rate swaps 6.0 6.0 6.4 2.1 2.1 2.2 –
Cross currency interest rate swaps 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.4 0.3 – –
Foreign exchange contracts for 
net investment hedging 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 – – –
Foreign exchange contracts for 
cash flow hedging 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 – – – 
778.6 778.6 779.2 774.6 2.4 2.2 –
Financial liabilities: 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Bank loans (285.5) (285.4) (294.6) (14.8) (4.1) (275.7) –
US private placement notes (635.7) (607.1) (761.3) (58.2) (61.2) (258.8) (383.1)
Bank overdrafts (26.3) (26.3) (26.3) (26.3) – – –
Other interest bearing loans and 
borrowings (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) – (0.2) – –
Finance lease creditors (1.1) (1.1) (1.1) (0.4) (0.2) (0.5) –
Trade payables (682.9) (682.9) (682.9) (682.9) – – –
Other current payables (151.1) (151.1) (151.1) (151.1) – – –
Non-current payables (22.7) (22.7) (22.7) – (22.7) – –
Derivative financial instruments
Cross currency interest rate swaps (9.7) (9.7) (10.2) (5.7) (4.5) – –
Foreign exchange contracts for net 
investment hedging (2.8) (2.8) (2.8) (2.8) – – –
Foreign exchange contracts for  
cash flow hedging (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) – – –
(1,819.5) (1,790.8) (1,954.7) (943.7) (92.9) (535.0) (383.1)
All financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value in the tables above have carrying amounts where the fair value component is, and 
has been throughout the year, a level two fair value measurement. Level two fair value measurements use inputs other than quoted prices 
that are observable for the relevant asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. The fair values of both financial assets and liabilities are 
calculated by discounting expected future cash flows using observable inputs and translating at the appropriate balance sheet date exchange 
rates. The Group has taken into account its own credit risk in the valuation of financial assets and its counterparties’ credit risk in the 
valuation of financial liabilities carried at fair value.
Fair value gains and losses on interest rate caps impact the income statement immediately while all other financial assets and liabilities 
stated at fair value are in hedging relationships. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 97
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to counterparty offsetting or master netting 
agreements. The master netting agreements regulate settlement amounts in the event either party defaults on their obligations.
2014
Gross amounts of
recognised financial
assets and liabilities
£m
Amounts offset in
the balance sheet
£m
Net amounts
recognised in the
balance sheet
£m
Amounts not
offset in
balance sheet
£m
Net amounts
£m
Derivative assets 33.9 (5.0) 28.9 – 28.9
Derivative liabilities (13.5) 5.0 (8.5) – (8.5)
Cash and cash equivalents 298.4 (216.0) 82.4 – 82.4
Bank overdrafts (244.1) 216.0 (28.1) – (28.1)
74.7 – 74.7 – 74.7
2013 
Derivative assets 17.7 (7.1) 10.6 – 10.6
Derivative liabilities (21.1) 7.1 (14.0) – (14.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 116.7 (43.6) 73.1 – 73.1
Bank overdrafts (69.9) 43.6 (26.3) – (26.3)
43.4 – 43.4 – 43.4
Interest rate risk
The Group is funded by a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt. In addition, interest rate swaps and interest rate caps are used to manage 
the interest rate risk profile. At 31 December 2014 fixed rate debt of £635.7m (2013: £607.1m) related to fixed rate US private placement notes 
denominated in US dollars, sterling and euros was stated at amortised cost with maturities ranging from 2015 to 2024.
At 31 December 2014, floating rate debt was comprised of £136.5m floating rate bank loans (2013: £273.1m) and £173.6m of fixed rate US 
private placement notes with maturities in 2025 and 2026 which have been swapped to floating rates using interest rate swaps (2013: £nil). 
Bank loans are drawn for various periods of up to three months at interest rates linked to LIBOR. The interest rate swaps reprice every 
three months.
The interest rate risk on the floating rate debt is managed using interest rate options. Borrowings with a notional principal of £45.5m were 
capped at 31 December 2014 (2013: £60.0m). Hedge accounting is not applied to the interest rate caps since the majority of their value is 
related to time value. The strike rates of these options are based on LIBOR repricing every three months.
After taking account of hedge relationships, a change of 1% in the interest rate forward curves on 31 December would have increased/
(decreased) profit before tax and equity for the year by the amounts shown below as a result of changes in the fair values of derivative 
assets and liabilities at that date:
Impact on profit before tax Impact on equity
+1% 
£m
–1% 
£m
+1% 
£m
–1% 
£m
2014 1.4 – 1.4 –
2013 0.6 (0.1) 0.6 (0.1)
Foreign currency risk
The majority of the Group’s sales are made and income is earned in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies. The Group does not 
hedge the impact of exchange rate movements arising on translation of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
Average rate Closing rate
 2014 2013 2014 2013
US dollar 1.65 1.56 1.56 1.66
Euro 1.24 1.18 1.29 1.20
For the year ended 31 December 2014, a movement of one cent in the US dollar and euro average exchange rates would have changed profit 
before income tax by £0.9m and £0.4m respectively (2013: £1.0m and £0.3m) and adjusted profit before income tax by £1.0m and £0.6m 
respectively (2013: £1.1m and £0.6m). 98 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
13 RISK MANAGEMENT AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the respective functional currencies of the Group’s operations and so transaction 
exposures are usually relatively limited. Where they do occur the Group’s policy is to hedge significant exposures of firm commitments for 
a period of up to one year as soon as they are committed using forward foreign exchange contracts and these are designated as cash flow 
hedges. However, the economic impact of foreign exchange on the value of uncommitted future purchases and sales is not hedged. As a 
result, sudden and significant movements in foreign exchange rates can impact profit margins where there is a delay in passing on to 
customers the resulting price increases. For the year ended 31 December 2014 all foreign exchange cash flow hedges were effective 
with a gain of £3.0m recognised in equity (2013: loss of £0.7m) which will affect the income statement during 2015.
The majority of the Group’s borrowings are effectively denominated in US dollars, sterling and euros, aligning them to the respective 
functional currencies of the component parts of the Group’s EBITDA. This currency profile is achieved using short term foreign exchange 
contracts, long term cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign currency debt. This currency composition minimises the impact of 
foreign exchange rates on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Cross currency interest rate swaps in a cash flow hedge relationship were effective during the year with no gain or loss (2013: loss of £0.4m) 
being recognised in equity which will affect the income statement in 2015.
The currency profile of the Group’s net debt at 31 December is set out in the table below:
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
US dollar 398.6 388.2
Sterling 261.7 292.7
Euro 133.9 149.9
Other 83.2 18.7
877.4 849.5
If a 10% strengthening or weakening of sterling had taken place on 31 December it would have increased/(decreased) profit before tax and 
equity for the year by the amounts shown below. The impact of this translation is much greater on equity than it is on profit before tax since 
equity is translated using the closing exchange rates and profit before tax is translated using the average exchange rates for the year. As a 
result the value of equity is more sensitive than the value of profit before tax to a movement in exchange rates on 31 December and the 
resulting movement in profit before tax is due solely to the translation effect on monetary items. This analysis assumes that all other 
variables, and in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Impact on profit before tax Impact on equity
+10% 
£m
–10% 
£m
+10% 
£m
–10% 
£m
2014 1.2 (1.4) (75.6) 92.4
2013 0.7 (0.8) (71.6) 87.5
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to a financial asset due to non-payment by the relevant counterparty. The Group’s objective is to 
reduce its exposure to counterparty default by restricting the type of counterparty it deals with and by employing an appropriate policy 
in relation to the collection of financial assets.
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and deposits, derivative financial instruments and trade receivables which represent  
the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and deposits  
(Note 23), derivative financial instruments (see page 95) and trade and other receivables (Note 11) is their carrying amount. 
Dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant combination of geographic presence and investment grade rating. The Group 
continually monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties and the credit exposure to each counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, the amounts represented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated 
by the Group’s management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. Note 11 sets out an 
analysis of trade and other receivables and the provision for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 99
14 PROVISIONS
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Current 10.7 12.0
Non-current 20.9 23.8
31.6 35.8
Properties 
2014 
£m
Claims 
2014 
£m
Total 
2014 
£m
Properties 
2013 
£m
Claims 
2013 
£m
Total 
2013 
£m
Beginning of year 16.5 19.3 35.8 17.1 25.5 42.6
Charge 0.8 0.5 1.3 0.5 2.4 2.9
Acquisitions 0.5 1.7 2.2 2.6 1.8 4.4
Utilised or released (3.5) (3.1) (6.6) (3.5) (9.9) (13.4)
Currency translation (0.1) (1.0) (1.1) (0.2) (0.5) (0.7)
End of year 14.2 17.4 31.6 16.5 19.3 35.8
The properties provision includes provisions for vacant properties where amounts are held against liabilities for onerous lease 
commitments, repairs and dilapidations. These provisions cover the relevant periods of the lease agreements, up to the earliest possible 
termination date, which typically extend from one to 10 years. 
The Group has provisions for expected legal, environmental and other claims based on management’s best estimate at the balance sheet 
date of the probable loss likely to be incurred. It expects that these amounts, which are based on detailed plans or other known factors and 
take account of past experience for similar items, will be settled within the next one to five years.
The Group is a defendant in a number of legal proceedings incidental to its operations. While any litigation has an element of uncertainty, 
management does not expect that the outcome of such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s financial condition or results of operations.
15 DEFERRED TAX 
 2014 2013
Asset 
£m
Liability 
£m
Net 
£m
Asset 
£m
Liability 
£m
Net 
£m
Accelerated capital allowances 1.7 (9.1) (7.4) 1.4 (7.7) (6.3)
Defined benefit obligations 22.4 – 22.4 14.4 – 14.4
Intangible assets – (148.4) (148.4) – (147.5) (147.5)
Share based payments 16.2 – 16.2 13.6 – 13.6
Provisions 12.1 (1.2) 10.9 14.0 (1.2) 12.8
Inventories 8.6 (16.7) (8.1) 9.2 (15.5) (6.3)
Other 7.5 (5.2) 2.3 5.9 (8.6) (2.7)
Deferred tax asset/(liability) 68.5 (180.6) (112.1) 58.5 (180.5) (122.0)
Set-off of tax (64.6) 64.6 – (51.0) 51.0 –
Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 3.9 (116.0) (112.1) 7.5 (129.5) (122.0)
Except as noted below, deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate of the country 
of operation.
The Company is able to control the dividend policy of its subsidiaries and, therefore, the timing of the remittance of the undistributed earnings 
of overseas subsidiaries. In general, the Company has determined either that such earnings will not be distributed in the foreseeable future 
or, where there are plans to remit those earnings, no tax liability is expected to arise. A deferred tax liability of £3.0m (2013: £3.0m) has been 
recognised in exceptional cases where distribution of earnings is both planned and expected to result in a tax liability. 
Deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences have only been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences 
where it is probable that these assets will be realised. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of unutilised tax losses of £8.6m 
(2013: £9.0m).
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of unutilised capital losses of £96.2m (2013: £96.1m) as it is not considered probable that 
there will be suitable future taxable profits against which they can be utilised. 100 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
15 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED
The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below:
 2014 
£m
 2013
£m
Beginning of year 122.0 116.7
Acquisitions 12.6 13.2
Credit to income statement (16.4) (8.8)
Recognised in other comprehensive income and equity (9.8) 3.5
Reclassification to current tax 4.7 (1.6)
Currency translation (1.0) (1.0)
End of year 112.1 122.0
16 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
2014
£m
2013
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 32
1
⁄7p each 107.6 107.2
Number ordinary shares in issue and fully paid
Beginning of year 333,515,233 355,420,634
Cancelled – treasury shares – (23,325,000)
Issued – option exercises 1,191,643 1,419,599
End of year 334,706,876 333,515,233
The Company operates the following share plans for the benefit of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries relating to the acquisition 
of shares in the Company. Further details of the share plans operated by the Company are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report.
Sharesave Scheme (2011) 
The Sharesave Scheme (2011), approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, is an HM Revenue & Customs (‘HMRC’) tax 
advantaged scheme in the UK and is open to all UK employees, including UK based executive directors, who have completed at least three 
months of continuous service. It is linked to a contract for monthly savings of up to £250 per month over a period of either three or five years. 
Under the Sharesave Scheme (2011) options are granted to participating employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing 
shortly before the invitation to apply for the option. Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted.
The Sharesave Scheme (2011) replaced the Sharesave Scheme (2001) which was approved by shareholders at the 2001 Annual General 
Meeting. The Sharesave Scheme (2001) operates on a similar basis to the Sharesave Scheme (2011). Although there are a number of options 
outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme (2001), no further options have been granted under this Scheme since it expired in May 2011. 
International Sharesave Plan 
The International Sharesave Plan was introduced following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme (2001) by shareholders and was extended 
following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme (2011). The plan operates on a similar basis to both the Sharesave Scheme (2001) and the 
Sharesave Scheme (2011) as described above except that it is linked to a contract for monthly savings of approximately £250 per month  
(or the equivalent in other currencies) over a period of three years.
Irish Sharesave Plan 
The Irish Sharesave Plan was also introduced following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme (2001) by shareholders and was extended 
following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme (2011). It is approved by the Irish Revenue Commissioners and operates on a similar basis 
to both the Sharesave Scheme (2001) and the Sharesave Scheme (2011) as described above except that it is linked to a contract for monthly 
savings of the euro equivalent of approximately £250 per month over a period of three years. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 101
16 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 (‘2004 LTIP’)
The 2004 LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and expired in May 2014. No further share options 
or performance share awards have been granted under the 2004 LTIP since that date. The 2004 LTIP is divided into two parts.
Part A of the 2004 LTIP allowed the Remuneration Committee of the Board to grant market priced executive share options. In normal 
circumstances options granted are only exercisable if the relevant performance condition has been satisfied. Share options granted up to 
April 2014 have a performance condition attached based on the Company’s adjusted earnings per share growth exceeding UK RPI inflation 
over three financial years by a specified margin.
Part B of the 2004 LTIP allowed the Remuneration Committee of the Board to grant performance share awards which are conditional rights 
to receive shares in the Company for nil consideration. A performance share award will normally vest (i.e. become exercisable) on the third 
anniversary of its grant to the extent that the applicable performance condition has been satisfied. The extent to which performance share 
awards granted vest is normally partly subject to the Company’s total shareholder return performance relative to a comparator group of 
companies over a three year period and partly subject to the Company’s adjusted earnings per share growth exceeding UK RPI inflation 
over three years by a specified margin.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 (‘2014 LTIP’)
The 2014 LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and replaced the 2004 LTIP. The 2014 LTIP is also divided 
into two parts. 
Part A of the 2014 LTIP allows the Remuneration Committee of the Board to grant market priced executive share options. In normal 
circumstances options granted are only exercisable if the relevant performance condition has been satisfied. The performance condition 
for the share options granted to date is based on the Company’s adjusted earnings per share growth over three financial years meeting 
certain specified targets. 
Part B of the 2014 LTIP allows the Remuneration Committee of the Board to grant performance share awards which are conditional rights 
to receive shares in the Company for nil consideration. A performance share award will normally vest (i.e. become exercisable) on the third 
anniversary of its grant to the extent that the applicable performance condition has been satisfied. The extent to which performance share 
awards granted vest is normally partly subject to the Company’s total shareholder return performance relative to a comparator group of 
companies over a three year period and partly subject to the Company’s adjusted earnings per share growth over three financial years 
meeting certain specified targets. 
Investment in own shares
The Company holds a number of its ordinary shares in an employee benefit trust. The principal purpose of this trust is to hold shares in 
the Company for subsequent transfer to certain senior employees and executive directors relating to options granted and awards made 
in respect of market purchase shares under the LTIP and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme (‘DASBS’). Details of such plans are 
set out above and in the Directors’ remuneration report. The assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been incorporated in the 
consolidated financial statements. Finance costs and administration charges are included in the income statement on an accruals basis. 
At 31 December 2014 the trust held 6,527,329 (2013: 6,895,539) shares, upon which dividends have been waived, with an aggregate nominal 
value of £2.1m (2013: £2.2m) and market value of £115.1m (2013: £100.0m). 
IFRS 2 disclosures
Options granted during the year have been valued using a stochastic model. The fair value per option granted during the year and the 
assumptions used in the calculations are as follows:
 2014 2013
Grant date 27.02.14–06.10.14 28.02.13–07.10.13
Share price at grant date (£) 15.69–16.46 12.61–13.61
Exercise price (£) nil–16.41 nil–13.75
Options granted during the year (shares) 3,367,183 3,569,284
Vesting period (years) 3–5 3–5
Expected volatility (%) 16–21 18–22
Option life (years) 3–10 3–10
Expected life (years) 3.0–6.0 3.0–6.1
Risk free rate of return (%) 1.1–1.8 0.3–2.0
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield (%) 1.9–2.1 2.0–2.2
Fair value per option (£) 1.88–4.85 1.43–3.29
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three to seven years. The expected life is the average expected period 
to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. 
The weighted average share price for options exercised by employees of the Company and its subsidiaries during the year was £16.43 
(2013: £13.24). The total charge for the year relating to share based payments was £7.9m (2013: £6.2m). After tax the total charge was 
£5.3m (2013: £3.7m). 102 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
16 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED
Details of share options and performance share awards which have been granted and exercised, those which have lapsed during 2014 and 
those outstanding and available to exercise at 31 December 2014, in each case in respect of all options and awards, whether over new issue 
or market purchase shares, under the Sharesave Scheme (2001), Sharesave Scheme (2011), International Sharesave Plan, Irish Sharesave 
Plan, 2004 LTIP and 2014 LTIP are set out in the following table:
Options 
outstanding Grants/awards Exercises Lapses* 
Options 
outstanding
Options 
available 
to exercise 
at 01.01.14 2014 2014 2014 at 31.12.14 31.12.14
Number Number Price (p) Number Price (p) Number Number Price (p) Number
Sharesave Scheme 
(2001) 308,257 – – 239,369 452-580 4,849 64,039 542-580 4,550
Sharesave Scheme 
(2011) 453,484 220,258 1,253 9,010 770-1,253 47,474 617,258 770-1,253 4,133
International 
Sharesave Plan 162,829 78,107 1,253 4,850 580-780 2,133 233,953 770-1,253 –
Irish Sharesave Plan 22,811 8,063 1,253 –  – 913 29,961 770-1,253 –
2004 LTIP Part A 12,526,642 274,980  1,566-1,597 3,402,492 428.75-1,375 172,700 9,226,430 564-1,597 3,522,132
2004 LTIP Part B 1,849,391 205,175  nil 633,984 nil  97,997 1,322,585 nil  89,960 
2014 LTIP Part A – 2,253,400  1,638-1,641 – – 38,300 2,215,100 1,638-1,641 –
2014 LTIP Part B – 327,200  nil – – – 327,200 nil –
15,323,414 3,367,183 4,289,705 364,366 14,036,526 3,620,775
*Share option lapses relate to those which have either been forfeited or have expired during the year.
The weighted average fair value and the weighted average remaining contractual lives of share options and performance share awards are 
set out below:
Weighted 
average 
fair value 
of options 
granted (£)
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
Sharesave Scheme (2001) and (2011) 2.44 2.60
International Sharesave Plan 1.88 2.25
Irish Sharesave Plan 1.88 2.25
2004 and 2014 LTIP Part A 2.32 2.61
2004 and 2014 LTIP Part B 4.58 3.81
The outstanding share options and performance share awards are exercis able at various dates up to September 2024.
17 DIVIDENDS 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 interim 28.8
2012 final 63.0
2013 interim 32.6
2013 final 73.0
Total 105.6 91.8
Total dividends per share for the year to which they relate are:
Per share
 2014 2013
Interim 11.0p 10.0p
Final 24.5p 22.4p
Total 35.5p 32.4p
The 2014 interim dividend of 11.0p per share was paid on 2 January 2015 and comprised £36.0m of cash. The 2014 final dividend of 24.5p 
per share will be paid on 1 July 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 May 2015. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 103
18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Bank guarantees 0.4 0.4
19 DIRECTORS’ ORDINARY SHARE INTERESTS
The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the share capital of the Company at 31 December were:
2014 2013
Philip Rogerson 10,000 10,000
Michael Roney 312,263 312,263
Patrick Larmon 121,216 117,838
Peter Johnson 6,630 6,630
Brian May 105,240 105,240
David Sleath 4,000 4,000
Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 4,000
Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 2,500
Meinie Oldersma 2,500 2,500
568,349 564,971
Details of directors’ options over ordinary shares and awards made under the 2004 LTIP, 2014 LTIP, Sharesave Scheme (2001), Sharesave 
Scheme (2011) and DASBS are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. Since 31 December 2014 Patrick Larmon has acquired interests 
in 603 ordinary shares as a result of his election to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan in respect of the interim dividend which was 
paid on 2 January 2015 and he has also acquired an interest in 280 ordinary shares pursuant to the Company’s US Employee Stock Purchase 
Plan. No other changes to the directors’ ordinary share interests shown in this Note and the Directors’ remuneration report have taken place 
between 31 December 2014 and 23 February 2015.
20 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes in the UK, the US and other countries including both defined benefit and defined 
contribution schemes. The funds of the principal defined benefit schemes are administered by trustees and are held independently from 
the Group. Pension costs of defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified 
actuaries. Full triennial actuarial valuations were last carried out on the UK defined benefit schemes in April 2012 and annual actuarial 
valuations are performed on the principal US defined benefit schemes. The valuation of the UK defined benefit schemes has been updated 
to 31 December 2014 by the Group’s actuaries. Contributions to all schemes are determined in line with actuarial advice and local conditions 
and practices. Scheme assets for the purpose of IAS 19 are stated at their bid value.
Characteristics
Europe
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes in Europe including the UK, France, the Netherlands and the Republic of 
Ireland. The Group’s principal defined benefit scheme in Europe is the UK scheme. The UK defined benefit scheme is a contributory defined 
benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. The scheme has been closed to new members since 2003. 
The UK scheme is an HMRC registered pension scheme and is subject to standard UK pensions and tax law. This means that the payment 
of contributions and benefits are subject to the appropriate tax treatments and restrictions and the scheme is subject to the scheme funding 
requirements outlined in section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004.
In accordance with UK trust and pensions law, the pension scheme has a corporate trustee. Although the Company bears the financial cost 
of the scheme, the responsibility for the management and governance of the scheme lies with the trustee, which has a duty to act in the best 
interest of members at all times. The assets of the scheme are held in trust by the trustee who consults with the Company on investment 
strategy decisions. 
A de-risking strategy has been agreed for the scheme to reduce the mismatch between the assets and liabilities, whereby investments are 
switched from return seeking assets to liability matching assets as the funding improves, based on pre-agreed triggers. 
The last triennial review was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 5 April 2012 and showed that there was a deficit on the agreed funding 
basis. To address the deficit, the Company has agreed to contribute an additional £5.5m per year from April 2013 to March 2019.  104 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
20 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
US
The US defined benefit scheme is a non-contributory defined benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. 
The scheme has been closed to new members since 2003. The assets of the scheme are held in trust by an independent custodian. 
The US scheme is a qualified pension scheme and is subject to standard regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, 
the Pension Protection Act 2006 and the Department of Labor and Internal Revenue reporting requirements. The scheme pays annual 
premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to insure the benefits of the scheme.
The Company has established a Retirement Scheme Investment Committee. The members of the Committee are the scheme fiduciaries and 
as such are ultimately responsible for the management of the scheme assets. The Committee performs the oversight function and delegates 
the day-to-day management process to appropriate staff. A registered investment adviser advises the Committee regarding the investment 
of scheme assets. 
A de-risking strategy has been agreed for the scheme to reduce the mismatch between the assets and liabilities, whereby investments are 
switched from return seeking assets to liability matching assets as the funding improves, based on pre-agreed triggers.
In 2014, a lump sum payment option was offered to deferred vested and retired participants in the scheme in satisfaction of their future 
entitlements under the scheme. The total payment made to the eligible participants that elected to take the lump sum payment option was 
£25.3m as a result of which, the scheme assets and liabilities have reduced by the same amount.
The last annual review was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 1 January 2014 and showed that there was a required annual contribution 
of £2.4m. The Group plans to contribute £4.8m for the 2014 plan year to cover prudently this required contribution and anticipate future 
funding needs. In the 2013 plan year, the Group paid a contribution of £4.8m.
Risks
The main risks to which the Group is exposed in relation to the defined benefit schemes are described below:
• Inflation risk — the majority of the UK scheme’s liabilities increase in line with inflation and, as a result, if inflation is greater than expected 
the liabilities will increase. The impact of high inflation is capped each year for the UK scheme’s benefits. The US scheme‘s liabilities are 
not directly tied to inflationary increases.
• Interest rate risk — a fall in bond yields will increase the value of the schemes’ liabilities. A proportion of both the UK and US schemes’ 
assets are invested in liability matching assets to mitigate bond yield and inflation risk.
• Mortality risk — the assumptions adopted by the Group make allowance for future improvements in life expectancy. However, if life 
expectancy improves at a faster rate than assumed, this would result in greater payments from the schemes and consequently increases in 
the schemes’ liabilities. The mortality assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis to minimise the risk of using an inappropriate assumption.
• Investment risk — the schemes invest in a diversified range of asset classes to mitigate the risk of falls in any one area of the investments. 
In the UK, the trustee implements partial currency hedging on the overseas assets to mitigate currency risk.
The risks above could lead to a material deficit in the schemes. Given the long term time horizon of the schemes’ cash flows, the 
assumptions used are uncertain and can be volatile from year to year. The Company and the trustees seek to mitigate actively the risks 
associated with the schemes.
A higher retirement benefit obligation could lead to additional funding requirements in future years. Any deficit measured on a funding 
valuation basis, which may differ from the actuarial valuation under IAS 19, will generally be financed over a period that ensures the 
contributions are appropriate to the Group and in line with the relevant regulations. 
Financial information
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements at 31 December were:
Amounts included in net operating expenses
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Defined contribution schemes 12.3 12.6
Defined benefit schemes 
 current service cost 5.5 6.6
 past service gain (0.1) (0.1)
Loss on settlement – 0.3
Total operating charge 17.7 19.4
Amounts included in finance cost
Net interest 1.6 2.8
Total charge 19.3 22.2
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
 2014
£m
 2013
£m
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 31.3 18.6
Experience gain on scheme liabilities 1.5 0.1
Impact of changes in assumptions relating to the present value of scheme liabilities (62.9) 8.2
Actuarial (loss)/gain on pension schemes (30.1) 26.9 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 105
20 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses arising since 1 January 2004 recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 
at 31 December 2014 was £114.1m (2013: £84.0m).
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries for the purposes of IAS 19 were:
Europe 2014 2013
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners (years) 22.6 22.5
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners (years) 24.4 24.3
US
Longevity at age 65 for current and future pensioners (years) 22.8 20.2
Europe US
 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012
Rate of increase in salaries 3.8% 4.1% 3.7% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
Rate of increase in pensions 3.0% 3.2% 2.9% – – –
Discount rate 3.7% 4.6% 4.5% 4.1% 4.9% 4.1%
Inflation rate 2.1% 2.4% 2.2% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5%
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the 
timescales covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The impact on the net pension deficit as at 31 December 2014 of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions was:
Impact of change 
in inflation rate
Impact of change 
in discount rate
+0.25%
£m
–0.25%
£m
+0.25%
£m
–0.25%
£m
Europe 9.8 (10.5) (14.6) 15.7
US (0.1) 0.1 (4.6) 4.9
The market value of scheme assets and the present value of retirement benefit obligations at 31 December were:
Europe
2014
US
 2014
Total 
2014
£m £m £m
Equities 94.5 51.4 145.9
Bonds 187.2 27.3 214.5
Other 1.7 3.4 5.1
Total market value of scheme assets 283.4 82.1 365.5
Present value of funded obligations (306.0) (111.8) (417.8)
Present value of unfunded obligations (5.8) (12.2) (18.0)
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (311.8) (124.0) (435.8)
Deficit (28.4) (41.9) (70.3)
Deferred tax 6.4 16.0 22.4
Net deficit (22.0) (25.9) (47.9)
Europe US Total
2013 2013 2013
£m £m £m
Equities 89.7 57.8 147.5
Bonds 150.5 31.4 181.9
Other 1.4 4.8 6.2 
Total market value of scheme assets 241.6 94.0 335.6 
Present value of funded obligations (258.8) (106.7) (365.5)
Present value of unfunded obligations (5.4) (9.7) (15.1) 
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (264.2) (116.4) (380.6) 
Deficit (22.6) (22.4) (45.0)
Deferred tax 6.8 7.6 14.4
Net deficit (15.8) (14.8) (30.6) 106 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
20 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED
Five year summary
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
2012
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Total market value of scheme assets 365.5 335.6 303.8 272.3 258.0
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations (435.8) (380.6) (379.4) (346.7) (310.5)
Unrecognised past service cost – – 0.1 0.1 0.2
Deficit (70.3) (45.0) (75.5) (74.3) (52.3)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities (1.5) (0.2) (4.7) 0.4 1.2
Movement in deficit
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Beginning of year (45.0) (75.5)
Current service cost (5.5) (6.6)
Past service gain 0.1 0.1
Contributions 13.5 14.1
Net interest (1.6) (2.8)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (30.1) 26.9
Loss on settlement – (0.3)
Currency and other movements (1.7) (0.9)
End of year (70.3) (45.0)
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations
2014
£m
2013
£m
Beginning of year 380.6 379.4
Current service cost 5.5 6.6
Past service gain (0.1) (0.1)
Interest costs 17.4 16.4
Contributions by employees 0.7 0.8
Settlement payments (25.3) (0.6)
Actuarial loss/(gain) 61.4 (8.3)
Benefits paid (10.2) (12.6)
Loss on settlement – 0.3
Currency translation 5.8 (1.3)
End of year 435.8 380.6
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets £m £m
Beginning of year 335.6 303.8
Interest income 15.8 13.6
Actuarial gain 31.3 18.6
Contributions by employer 13.5 14.1
Contributions by employees 0.7 0.8
Settlement payments (25.3) (0.6)
Benefits paid (10.2) (12.6)
Currency translation 4.1 (2.1)
End of year 365.5 335.6
The actual return on scheme assets was £47.1m (2013: £32.2m). 
The Group expects to pay approximately £14.4m (expected as of 2013: £14.1m) in contributions to the defined benefit pension schemes in the 
year ending 31 December 2015.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2014 was approximately 21.0 years (2013: 19.8 years) for 
Europe and 15.0 years (2013: 13.5 years) for the US.
The total retirement benefit obligations are divided between active (£172.8m (2013: £135.0m)), deferred members (£134.2m (2013: £121.0m)) 
and pensioners (£128.8m (2013: £124.6m)). BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 107
21 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES 
Average number of employees 2014 2013
North America 5,194 4,756
Continental Europe 3,472 3,408
UK & Ireland 3,569 3,456
Rest of the World 2,322 2,005
14,557 13,625
Corporate 52 50
14,609 13,675
Employee costs 
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Wages and salaries 508.4 483.8
Social security costs 60.7 60.8
Retirement benefit obligation costs 17.7 19.4
Share based payments 7.9 6.2
594.7 570.2
In addition to the above, acquisition related costs for the year ended 31 December 2014 include deferred consideration payments of £21.0m 
(2013: £22.0m) relating to the retention of former owners of businesses acquired.
Key management remuneration
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Salaries and short term employee benefits 5.9 5.9
Share based payments 1.9 1.9
Post employment benefits 0.9 1.0
8.7 8.8
The Group considers key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to be the directors of the Company and 
those members of the Executive Committee and the Managing Directors of the major geographic regions who are not directors of the Company. 
Directors’ emoluments
 2014 
£m
 2013 
£m
Non-executive directors 0.7 0.7
Executive directors:
 remuneration excluding performance related elements 2.4 2.4
 annual bonus 1.8 1.9
4.9 5.0
More detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments and long term incentives is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of share options during the year was £5.5m (2013: £2.5m). The aggregate 
market value of performance share awards exercised by directors under long term incentive schemes during the year was £3.6m 
(2013: £2.0m). The aggregate market value of shares exercised by directors under the DASBS was £1.5m (2013: £0.9m).
22 LEASE COMMITMENTS
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. These leases have varying 
terms and renewal rights. At 31 December the total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the 
following periods were:
Land & 
buildings 
2014 
£m
 Other 
2014 
£m
Land & 
buildings 
2013 
£m
 Other 
2013 
£m
Within one year 62.4 22.8 53.2 21.0
Between one and five years 152.9 35.4 139.9 33.3
After five years 56.6 1.9 65.0 1.9
271.9 60.1 258.1 56.2
Total of future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases (0.2) – (0.2) –
  108 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
23 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND NET DEBT
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 82.4 73.1
Bank overdrafts (28.1) (26.3)
Cash and cash equivalents 54.3 46.8
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – current liabilities (35.8) (42.0)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings – non-current liabilities (913.3) (851.8)
Derivative assets 25.7 9.5
Derivative liabilities (8.3) (12.0)
Net debt (877.4) (849.5)
Movement in net debt
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Beginning of year (849.5) (738.1)
Net cash outflow (19.0) (113.2)
Realised gains/(losses) on foreign exchange contracts 17.4 (9.7)
Currency translation (26.3) 11.5
End of year (877.4) (849.5)
24 ACQUISITIONS 
2014
The acquisitions made or agreed to be made in the year ended 31 December 2014 were Bäumer and its related company Protemo, 
Oskar Plast, Lamedid, Nelson Packaging, Plast Techs, Tecno Boga, Allshoes, JPLUS, 365 Healthcare, Lee Brothers, Premiere Products, 
Guardsman, De Ridder, Victoria Healthcare Products, Acme Supplies, POS Direct and Tillman.
Bäumer, a business principally engaged in the distribution of cleaning and hygiene and healthcare supplies to end users in various 
market sectors in Germany, together with its related company Protemo, a business focusing on the sale of healthcare related products 
to the healthcare sector, were acquired on 31 January 2014. Oskar Plast, a business selling a variety of disposable packaging products to 
customers throughout the Czech Republic, including retail chains, food processors and other distributors, was acquired on 20 February 2014. 
Lamedid, a business principally engaged in the supply and distribution throughout Brazil of medical and healthcare consumable products 
to hospitals, clinics and laboratories as well as to distributors, was acquired on 13 March 2014. Nelson Packaging, a business principally 
engaged in the distribution of packaging and cleaning and hygiene supplies to end users in the commercial and industrial market sectors 
in New Zealand, was acquired on 27 March 2014. Plast Techs, a business engaged in the sale of a variety of foodservice and cleaning and 
hygiene supplies to distributors throughout Southern California, was acquired on 31 March 2014. Tecno Boga, a leading supplier in Chile 
of protective footwear, principally to distributors, was acquired on 31 March 2014.
Allshoes, a distributor of both branded and own brand safety and work shoes to a variety of wholesalers as well as to retailers, principally 
in the Netherlands but also in Belgium, was acquired on 30 May 2014. JPLUS, a Brazilian business principally engaged in the distribution 
of cleaning and hygiene supplies and disposable products to a variety of end user customers, particularly in the contract cleaning and 
healthcare sectors, was acquired on 30 May 2014. 365 Healthcare, a UK business principally engaged in the distribution of healthcare 
products to distributors and hospitals, was acquired on 30 June 2014.
Lee Brothers, a business engaged in the distribution of personal protection equipment and workplace consumables to customers largely in 
the construction and engineering sectors in the UK, was acquired on 30 July 2014. Premiere Products, a business engaged in the distribution 
of cleaning and hygiene products to customers throughout the UK, particularly serving the facilities management and education sectors, 
was acquired on 31 July 2014. Guardsman, a company engaged in the sale of a variety of safety equipment and workwear to customers in 
various manufacturing industries as well as the construction and engineering sectors throughout the UK, was also acquired on 31 July 2014. 
De Ridder, a specialist distribution business engaged in the supply of a wide range of products principally to prisons, police stations and 
other detention centres and based in Amsterdam, was acquired on 30 September 2014. 
Victoria Healthcare Products, a business engaged in supplying a variety of healthcare consumable products for people in the community and 
to residential care facilities in Australia, was acquired on 26 November 2014. Acme Supplies, a cleaning and hygiene supplies business based 
in Vancouver Island, Canada, was acquired on 1 December 2014. POS Direct, a UK business which manages and supplies a variety of point 
of sale and marketing materials, was acquired on 19 December 2014. The Company also entered into an agreement on 30 December 2014 to 
acquire Tillman, which supplies a variety of personal protection equipment, principally gloves, to distributors throughout the US who supply 
customers operating in the welding and industrial sectors. The acquisition was completed on 2 January 2015.
Acquisitions involving the purchase of the acquiree’s share capital or, as the case may be, the relevant assets of the businesses acquired, 
have been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. Part of the Group’s strategy is to grow through acquisition. The Group 
has developed a process to assist with the identification of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the 
separate identification of intangible assets in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. This formal process is applied to each 
acquisition and involves an assessment of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with assistance provided by external valuation 
specialists where appropriate. Until this assessment is complete, the allocation period remains open up to a maximum of 12 months from 
the relevant acquisition date. At 31 December 2014 the allocation period for all acquisitions completed since 1 January 2014 remained open 
and accordingly the fair values presented are provisional.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 109
24 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
Adjustments are made to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the allocation period to the extent that further information and 
knowledge come to light that more accurately reflect conditions at the acquisition date. To date the adjustments made have impacted assets 
acquired to reflect more accurately the estimated realisable or settlement value. Similarly, adjustments have been made to acquired 
liabilities to record onerous commitments or other commitments existing at the acquisition date but not recognised by the acquiree. 
Adjustments have also been made to reflect the associated tax effects.
The consideration paid or payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion, deferred consideration and payments 
which are contingent on the retention of former owners of businesses acquired. IFRS 3 requires that any payments that are contingent on 
future employment, including payments which are contingent on the retention of former owners of businesses acquired, are charged to 
the income statement. All other consideration has been allocated against the identified net assets, with the balance recorded as goodwill. 
Transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement. The acquisitions provide opportunities for 
further development of the Group’s activities and create enhanced returns. Such opportunities and the workforces inherent in each of the 
acquired businesses do not translate to separately identifiable intangible assets but do represent much of the assessed value that supports 
the recognised goodwill.
A summary of the effect of acquisitions completed in 2014 is detailed below:
Provisional fair value of assets acquired £m
Intangible assets 76.0
Property, plant and equipment 1.9
Inventories 13.9
Trade and other receivables 25.8
Trade and other payables (15.2)
Net bank overdrafts (8.9)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (2.2)
Tax and deferred tax (14.4)
76.9
Goodwill 36.2
Consideration 113.1
Satisfied by:
 cash consideration 107.1
 deferred consideration 6.0
113.1
Contingent payments relating to retention of former owners 19.1
Net bank overdrafts acquired 8.9
Transaction costs and expenses 4.1
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions completed in the current year 145.2
Spend on acquisition committed as at 31 December 2014 65.8
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions agreed in the current year 211.0
The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisitions comprised:
Cash consideration 107.1
Net bank overdrafts acquired 8.9
Deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions 38.1
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 154.1
Acquisition related costs 14.0
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 168.1 110 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
24 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
Cash flow on acquisition related costs relates to £3.5m (2013: £9.6m) of transaction costs paid and £10.5m (2013: £16.5m) of payments 
relating to retention of former owners. 
Acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2014 contributed £90.6m to the Group’s revenue and £10.2m to the Group’s adjusted 
operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
The estimated contributions of businesses acquired during the year to the results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 if such 
acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, are as follows: 
£m
Revenue 162.7
Adjusted operating profit 20.6
The estimated revenue which would have been contributed by the businesses acquired or agreed to be acquired during the year to the results 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 if such acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year is £223.3m.
2013
The acquisitions completed in the year ended 31 December 2013 were McNeil Surgical, Vicsa Brasil, Labor Import, MDA, most of the 
Industrial & Safety division of Jeminex, TFS, Espomega, ProEpta, Wesclean Equipment & Cleaning Supplies, pka Klöcker, De Santis 
and SAS Safety.
McNeil Surgical, a business principally engaged in the sale of healthcare consumables and equipment to aged care facilities, hospitals 
and medical centres as well as to distributors throughout South Australia, was acquired on 31 January 2013. Vicsa Brasil, the proposed 
acquisition of which was agreed in December 2012, was acquired on 19 February 2013. The business is engaged in the sale of personal 
protection equipment throughout Brazil. Labor Import, which is principally engaged in the supply and distribution of own label medical 
and healthcare consumable products to distributors as well as to hospitals, clinics, laboratories and care homes throughout Brazil, 
was acquired on 1 March 2013. MDA, which is engaged in the procurement and fulfilment of promotional products and marketing point 
of sale materials for a variety of customers in the UK, principally in the food and drinks industries, was acquired on 15 March 2013.
Three businesses which formed part of the Industrial & Safety division of Jeminex in Australia were acquired on 30 April 2013. The workwear 
and personal safety business distributes an extensive range of specialist personal protection equipment and workwear to the mining, 
resources, construction and general industrial sectors. The lifting, rigging and height safety business is principally engaged in the supply 
of lifting chains and ropes, slings and load restraints as well as the provision of accredited testing and repair services. The third business 
is involved in the supply of industrial packaging products to a variety of customers in different market sectors.
TFS, a business engaged in the procurement and fulfilment of promotional products and marketing point of sale materials for customers in 
the UK across various market sectors, was acquired on 31 July 2013. Espomega, a business supplying a variety of safety products, including 
gloves and protective clothing, to distributors throughout Mexico, was acquired on 30 August 2013. ProEpta, a leading distributor of catering 
equipment throughout Mexico, principally to luxury hotels and restaurants, was acquired on 27 September 2013.
Wesclean, a business principally engaged in the distribution of cleaning and hygiene equipment and supplies to a variety of customer 
markets throughout Western Canada, was acquired on 1 November 2013. pka Klöcker, a business based in Germany engaged in the sale 
to distributors of personal protection equipment, principally own label workwear, was acquired on 29 November 2013. De Santis, a business 
based in Brazil and principally engaged in the sale of personal protection equipment to end user customers in a number of different market 
sectors, was acquired on 20 December 2013. SAS Safety, a business specialising in the sourcing and sale of a variety of own label personal 
protection equipment, principally safety gloves, to distributors in the US was acquired on 23 December 2013.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 111
24 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
A summary of the effect of the 2013 acquisitions is detailed below:
Fair value of assets acquired
 Fair value
of assets
 acquired
£m
Intangible assets 111.1 
Property, plant and equipment 9.6
Inventories 51.2
Trade and other receivables 50.3
Trade and other payables (38.0)
Net bank overdrafts (7.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (4.4)
Tax and deferred tax (13.2)
159.1
Goodwill 97.4
Consideration 256.5
Satisfied by:
 cash consideration 223.8
 deferred consideration 32.7
256.5
Contingent payments relating to retention of former owners 32.4
Net bank overdrafts acquired 7.5
Transaction costs and expenses 8.4 
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions completed in the current year 304.8
Spend on acquisition committed as at 31 December 2012 (9.7) 
Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions agreed in the current year 295.1 
The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisitions comprised:
Cash consideration 223.8
Net bank overdrafts acquired 7.5
Deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions 22.5 
Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 253.8
Acquisition related costs 26.1
Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 279.9 
Acquisitions made in the year ended 31 December 2013 contributed £129.5m to the Group’s revenue and £16.5m to the Group’s adjusted 
operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
The estimated contributions of acquired businesses to the results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 if such acquisitions had 
been made at the beginning of the year, are as follows:
£m
Revenue 281.1
Adjusted operating profit 37.5 112 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES CONTINUED
25 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES 
The Group has identified the directors of the Company, the Group pension schemes and its key management as related parties for the 
purpose of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Details of the relevant relationships with these related parties are disclosed in the Directors’ 
remuneration report, Note 20 and Note 21 respectively.
26 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
Country of incorporation
Bunzl Australasia Holdings Pty Limited Australia
Bunzl Finance plc* England & Wales
Bunzl Holding Danmark A/S Denmark
Bunzl Distribution Spain SAU Spain
Bunzl Holdings France SNC France
Bunzl Outsourcing Services BV Netherlands
Bunzl UK Ltd England & Wales
Bunzl USA Holdings LLC USA
*Direct subsidiary undertaking of Bunzl plc.
The companies named above are those undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected 
the figures shown in the consolidated financial statements of the Group. The investments in these companies, as shown above, relate to 
ordinary shares or common stock. The principal country in which each company operates is the country of incorporation. The principal 
activities of the Group are reviewed in the Chief Executive’s review. A full list of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the 
next annual return filed at Companies House. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 113
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2014
Notes
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 3 0.7 0.5
Investments 4 665.7 654.6
666.4 655.1
Current assets
Debtors 5 264.6 268.8
Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 0.1
264.7 268.9
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (97.0) (109.6)
Net current assets 167.7 159.3
Total assets less current liabilities 834.1 814.4
Provisions for liabilities 7 (1.7) (2.3)
Net assets 832.4 812.1
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8 107.6 107.2
Share premium account 9 160.3 153.0
Other reserves 9 5.6 5.6
Capital redemption reserve 9 16.1 16.1
Profit and loss account 9 542.8 530.2
Shareholders’ funds 832.4 812.1
Approved by the Board of Directors of Bunzl plc (Company registration number 358948) on 23 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by 
Michael Roney, Chief Executive and Brian May, Finance Director. 
The Accounting policies and Notes on pages 114 to 119 form part of these financial statements. 114 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of Bunzl plc (‘the Company’) have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention 
and have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice. Under section 408 of 
the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. 
In accordance with the exemption allowed by paragraph 5 (a) of Financial Reporting Standard (‘FRS’) 1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’, a cash flow 
statement has not been provided for the Company.
The Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) has published four standards which together form the basis of the new financial reporting framework 
in the UK. Subject to shareholders’ notification, with effect from 1 January 2015, the Company has applied the recognition, measurement  
and disclosure requirements of EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) with disclosure exemptions permitted by 
FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
a Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less any provisions for impairment.
b Investment in own shares
The cost of shares held either directly (treasury shares) or indirectly (employee benefit trust shares) is deducted from equity. Repurchased 
shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When treasury shares are subsequently sold 
or reissued, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised 
in retained earnings.
c Share based payments
The Company operates equity settled share based compensation plans for which the total expected expense is based on the fair value of 
options and other share based incentives on the grant date, calculated using a valuation model, and is spread over the expected vesting 
period with a corresponding credit to equity. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of options that are 
expected to vest. Details of the relevant plans are outlined in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Where the Company grants 
options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries these awards are accounted for by the Company as an additional investment 
in the relevant subsidiary equivalent to the equity settled share based payment charge recognised in the consolidated financial statements 
with the corresponding credit recognised directly in equity. Any payment made by the subsidiaries in respect of these arrangements is treated 
as a return of this investment. These costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’.
d Tangible fixed assets
All tangible fixed assets are included at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation. The profit or loss on sale of tangible fixed assets 
is calculated by reference to the carrying values of the assets. The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are periodically reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
e Depreciation
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis to write off cost less estimated residual value over the assets’ estimated remaining useful 
lives. This is applied at the following annual rates:
Buildings  2% (or depreciated over life of lease if shorter than 50 years)
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10%–33%
The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f Leases
Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease. Leases in which the Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are 
classified as finance leases. Where land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately 
from that of the buildings due to the indefinite life of land. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 115
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 
g Tax
The charge for tax is based on the profit or loss for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences between 
the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except 
as otherwise required by FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’. 
h Retirement benefit obligations
The Company participates in a Group UK defined benefit scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. As the Company is 
unable to identify its share of scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, the Company treats contributions to 
the defined benefit scheme as if they were contributions to a defined contribution scheme in accordance with the exemptions permitted 
by FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’. As a result the amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to 
the scheme in respect of the relevant accounting period.
i Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the 
guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment 
under the guarantee. 
j Dividends
The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period in which it is paid and the final dividend in the period in which 
it is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
3 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 
Short 
leasehold 
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost 
Beginning of year 0.5 2.8 3.3
Additions – 0.3 0.3
Disposals (0.4) (1.5) (1.9)
End of year 0.1 1.6 1.7
Depreciation
Beginning of year 0.5 2.3 2.8
Charge in year – 0.1 0.1
Disposals (0.4) (1.5) (1.9)
End of year 0.1 0.9 1.0
Net book value at 31 December 2014 – 0.7 0.7
Net book value at 31 December 2013 – 0.5 0.5  116 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
4 INVESTMENTS HELD AS FIXED ASSETS
Investments in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m
Cost  
Beginning of year 700.2
Additions 11.1
Liquidations of dormant companies (5.3)
End of year 706.0
Impairment provisions
Beginning of year 45.6
Decrease during year (5.3)
End of year 40.3
Net book value at 31 December 2014 665.7
Net book value at 31 December 2013 654.6 
The principal companies in which the Company’s interest at 31 December 2014 is more than 20% are as follows:
Country of incorporation
Bunzl Australasia Holdings Pty Limited Australia
Bunzl Finance plc* England & Wales
Bunzl Holding Danmark A/S Denmark
Bunzl Distribution Spain SAU Spain
Bunzl Holdings France SNC France
Bunzl Outsourcing Services BV Netherlands
Bunzl UK Ltd England & Wales
Bunzl USA Holdings LLC USA
*Direct subsidiary undertaking of Bunzl plc.
5 DEBTORS
 2014
£m
 2013
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 262.9 261.1
Prepayments and other debtors 1.2 1.1
Corporation tax 0.4 6.4
Deferred tax 0.1 0.2
264.6 268.8 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 117
6 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
2014
£m
2013
£m
Trade creditors 0.5 0.2
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 85.8 101.1
Other tax and social security contributions 1.6 1.6
Accruals and deferred income 9.1 6.7
97.0 109.6
7 PROVISIONS
2014
£m
2013
£m
Beginning of year 2.3 2.7
Utilised or released (0.6) (0.4)
End of year 1.7 2.3
The provisions relate to properties, where amounts are held against liabilities for onerous lease commitments, repairs and dilapidations 
and other claims.
8 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
 2014
£m
 2013
£m
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 32
1
⁄7p each 107.6 107.2
Number of ordinary shares in issue and fully paid
Beginning of year 333,515,233 355,420,634
Cancelled – treasury shares – (23,325,000)
Issued – option exercises 1,191,643 1,419,599
End of year 334,706,876 333,515,233
The Company operates a number of share plans, for the benefit of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries relating to the acquisition 
of shares in the Company, which are described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 118 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
8 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED 
FRS 20 disclosures
Options granted to employees of the Company during the year have been valued using a stochastic model. The fair value per option granted 
during the year and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows:
 2014 2013
Grant date 27.02.14–06.10.14 28.02.13–07.10.13
Share price at grant date (£) 15.69–16.46 12.61–13.61
Exercise price (£) nil–16.41 nil–13.75
Options granted during the year (shares) 487,061 525,997
Vesting period (years) 3–5 3–5
Expected volatility (%) 16–21 18–22
Option life (years) 3–10 3–10
Expected life (years) 3.0–6.0 3.0–6.1
Risk free rate of return (%) 1.1–1.8 0.3–1.8
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield (%) 2.00–2.08 2.16–2.24
Fair value per option (£) 2.23–4.85 1.78–3.29
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three to seven years. The expected life is the average expected period 
to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The weighted average share price for options exercised by employees of the Company during the year was £16.36 (2013: £13.33). The total 
Company charge for the year relating to share based payments was £1.6m (2013: £1.3m). 
Details of share options and awards to employees of the Company which have been granted and exercised, those which have lapsed during 
2014 and those outstanding and available to exercise at 31 December 2014, in each case in respect of all options and awards, whether over 
new issue or market purchase shares, under the Sharesave Scheme (2001), Sharesave Scheme (2011), 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan 
(‘2004 LTIP’) and 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan (‘2014 LTIP’) are set out in the following table:
Options 
outstanding Grants/awards Exercises Lapses*
Options 
outstanding 
Options 
available 
to exercise 
at 01.01.14
†
2014 2014 2014 at 31.12.14 31.12.14
Number Number Price (p) Number Price (p) Number Number Price (p) Number
Sharesave Scheme (2001) 26,806 – – 18,410 452-580 – 8,396 542-580 –
Sharesave Scheme (2011) 18,115 9,976 1,253 – – – 28,091 770-1,253 –
2004 LTIP Part A 1,682,229 108,520 1,566 636,058 585-1,116 30,150 1,124,541 585-1,566 297,271
2004 LTIP Part B 834,640 80,265 nil 292,210 – 55,328 567,367 nil –
2014 LTIP Part A – 206,500 1,641 – – – 206,500 1,641 –
2014 LTIP Part B – 81,800 nil – – – 81,800 nil –
2,561,790 487,061 946,678 85,478 2,016,695 297,271
†
 Options outstanding at 1 January 2014 have been adjusted to include any options held by individuals whose employment has transferred 
from a wholly owned subsidiary to the Company during 2014.
*Share option lapses relate to those which have either been forfeited or have expired during the year.
The weighted average fair value and the weighted average remaining contractual lives of share options and performance share awards are 
set out below:
Weighted
average
fair value
of options
granted (£)
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life (years)
Sharesave Scheme (2001) and (2011) 2.57 3.37
2004 and 2014 LTIP Part A 2.30 2.49
2004 and 2014 LTIP Part B 4.58 2.51
The outstanding options and awards are exercis able at various dates up to September 2024. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 119
9 CAPITAL AND RESERVES 
Share 
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Profit and loss account
Total
£m
Own
shares
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
At 1 January 2014 107.2 153.0 5.6 16.1 (100.0) 630.2 812.1
Issue of share capital 0.4 7.3 7.7
Employee trust shares (26.7) (26.7)
Movement on own share reserves 11.6 (11.6) –
Share based payments 12.7 12.7
Profit for the year 132.2 132.2
2013 interim dividend (32.6) (32.6)
2013 final dividend (73.0) (73.0)
At 31 December 2014 107.6 160.3 5.6 16.1 (115.1) 657.9 832.4
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented 
in these financial statements.
Included within own shares are ordinary shares of the Company held by the Group in an employee benefit trust. The principal purpose of 
this trust is to hold shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to certain senior employees and executive directors relating to options 
granted and awards made in respect of market purchase shares under the 2004 LTIP, the 2014 LTIP and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus 
Scheme. Details of such plans are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration report. The 
assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been included in the consolidated financial statements. Finance costs and administration 
charges are included in the income statement on an accruals basis. At 31 December 2014 the trust held 6,527,329 (2013: 6,895,539) shares, 
upon which dividends have been waived, with an aggregate nominal value of £2.1m (2013: £2.2m) and market value of £115.1m (2013: £100.0m). 
10 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
2014 2013
£m £m
Profit for the year 132.2 1.1
Dividends (105.6) (91.8)
26.6 (90.7)
Issue of share capital 7.7 9.6
Employee trust shares (26.7) (50.1)
Share based payments 12.7 1.3
Net increase/(decrease) in shareholders’ funds 20.3 (129.9)
Opening shareholders’ funds 812.1 942.0
Closing shareholders’ funds 832.4 812.1
The Company had no other recognised gains or losses in the year ended 31 December 2014 or the year ended 31 December 2013.
11 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Borrowings by subsidiary undertakings totalling £929.7m (2013: £874.3m) which are included in the Group’s borrowings have been 
guaranteed by the Company. 
12 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The remuneration of the directors of the Company is disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements and the Directors’ 
remuneration report.
13 EMPLOYEE NUMBERS AND COSTS
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including directors) during the year was 42 (2013: 41).
The aggregate employee costs relating to these persons were:
2014 2013
£m £m
Wages and salaries 7.6 7.5
Social security costs 2.8 1.6
Share based payments 1.6 1.3
Pension costs 1.0 1.0
13.0 11.4
14 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
The Company has identified the directors of the Company, the UK pension scheme and its key management as related parties for the purpose 
of FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Details of the relevant relationships with these related parties are disclosed in the Directors’ 
remuneration report, Note 20 and Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements respectively. 120 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law 
the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with UK GAAP and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing both the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
• for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK GAAP has been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company 
financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors’ report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and Corporate governance 
statement that comply with that law and those regulations. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Annual Report and financial statements comply with the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom’s Financial 
Conduct Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an annual 
financial report.
We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge:
•  the Group and parent company financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting 
standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Annual Report and financial statements include a fair review of 
the development and performance of the business and the position 
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board
Michael Roney   Brian May
Chief Executive   Finance Director 
23 February 2015 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 121
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• Bunzl plc’s Group and Company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and 
of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) 
as adopted by the European Union;
• the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (‘UK GAAP’); and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, which have been prepared by Bunzl plc, comprise:
• the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2014;
• the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
• the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; and
• the Notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the Notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial 
statements is applicable law and UK GAAP.
Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality • Overall Group materiality: £15 million which represents 5% of profit before taxation
Audit scope • We perform audit work in 21 different countries in North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of 
the World, representing 72 components
Areas of focus • Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
• Corporate tax exposures
• Rebate accounting 
• Defined benefit pension liabilities
• Business combinations  122 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, 
we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of 
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented 
a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order 
to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read 
in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 
Refer to page 50 (Audit Committee report), page 83 (accounting policies) and page 92 (Note 9).
The Group has material goodwill balances and customer 
relationship intangible assets spread across multiple geographies. 
We focused on each significant cash generating unit (‘CGU’) 
(the most significant being North America, France Hygiene and 
UK Hospitality) as well as the smaller goodwill and intangibles 
balances relating to the CGUs with the lowest level of headroom. 
In assessing whether the carrying amount of these assets has 
been impaired, management considers forecast cash flows of 
the individual CGUs which are identified on a market and 
geographical basis.
Management’s impairment assessment involves significant 
estimation, principally relating to short and long term revenue 
growth, future profitability and discount rates. The number  
of acquisitions and the magnitude of the aggregated related  
goodwill and intangible assets, together with the subjectivity  
of the principal assumptions, required a significant amount of  
audit effort, particularly as some of those assumptions are 
dependent on economic factors and trading conditions specific  
to overseas territories. 
As described in Note 9 to the financial statements, management 
concluded that, based on their own sensitivity calculations, no 
reasonable change in assumptions would lead to an impairment 
of goodwill or other intangible assets. 
In our testing of management’s annual goodwill and other 
intangible assets impairment calculations, we used our specialist 
valuation knowledge to assist our evaluation of the appropriateness 
of the models and the key assumptions used by management. 
We evaluated the reasonableness of the directors’ forecast by 
comparing the assumptions made to internal and external data. 
In particular:
• we compared short term revenue growth rates to the latest three 
year strategic plans and found them to be consistent;
• we confirmed that long term growth rates were not inconsistent 
with economic forecasts;
• we found the achievability of future margins to be plausible based 
on past and current performance; and
• we challenged the discount rate used to determine the present 
value by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and 
comparable organisations.
Furthermore, we obtained evidence to confirm adequate historical 
accuracy in management’s forecasting process. Having ascertained 
the extent of change in key assumptions that either individually 
or collectively would be required for goodwill and other intangible 
assets to be materially impaired, we considered the likelihood 
of such a movement in those key assumptions to be low. 
Corporate tax exposures
Refer to page 50 (Audit Committee report), page 82 (accounting policies) and pages 89 and 90 (Note 6).
The Group operates in a number of international territories with 
complex taxation rules and regulations. The interpretation of these 
complex regulations and the unknown future outcome of pending 
judgements by the tax authorities results in the need to provide 
against a number of uncertain tax positions. 
We focused on this area because of the risk surrounding the level 
of estimation and judgement that is necessary in determining the 
provisions required.
We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions 
both at Group and local levels.
We used our specialist tax knowledge and experience to assist us 
in challenging the appropriateness of management’s judgements in 
relation to uncertain tax positions. These procedures assisted in our 
corroboration of management’s position on the amount of significant 
tax exposures and the provision and disclosures made in the 
financial statements. 
In assessing the adequacy of the tax provisions, we also considered 
factors such as possible penalties and interest. Furthermore, we 
confirmed that the calculations were in line with the Group’s policy and 
that the methodology and principles had been applied consistently.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 123
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Rebate accounting 
Refer to page 50 (Audit Committee report) and page 82 (accounting policies).
We focused on this area as rebate income from suppliers is 
material to the consolidated financial statements. 
Given the degree of estimation involved in accounting for volume 
based rebates, including the level of judgement involved in 
forecasting the volume of products expected to be purchased, 
we focused our audit procedures on the accuracy, valuation, 
completeness and cut-off of these transactions.
We evaluated the processes in place for recognition of supplier 
rebates by the Group and found these to be consistently applied. 
We agreed the nature of rebate arrangements to contracts or 
other supporting agreements and agreed the rates indicated 
in the agreements with those used in the calculations. We also 
reperformed rebate calculations. No exceptions were noted 
from this testing.
For rebates that depend on the volumes purchased in a given period, 
we compared the volume included in the rebate calculation to 
the volume of products recorded in the underlying records in 
management’s forecasts. This did not identify any rebate amounts 
which were misstated. 
Where possible, we also agreed the post year end settlement  
of year end receivable amounts included in the opening and closing 
Consolidated balance sheets to bank receipts.
Defined benefit pension liabilities 
Refer to page 50 (Audit Committee report), page 84 (accounting policies) and pages 103 to 106 (Note 20).
The Group has significant defined benefit pension schemes in the 
US and UK with a net pension deficit of £70.3 million which is 
material in the context of the Consolidated balance sheet. 
Management estimation is required in relation to the measurement 
of pension scheme liabilities and management employs independent 
actuarial experts to assist it in determining appropriate 
assumptions such as inflation levels, discount rates, salary 
increases and mortality rates.
Movements in these assumptions can have a material impact on the 
determination of the liability.
We used our own specialist actuarial knowledge to satisfy 
ourselves that the assumptions used in calculating the US and UK 
pension scheme liabilities are appropriate, including confirming 
that salary increases and mortality rate assumptions were 
consistent with relevant national and industry benchmarks. 
We verified that the discount and inflation rates used in the 
valuation of the pension liabilities were consistent with our 
internally developed benchmarks and, where available, with 
other companies’ reporting as at 31 December 2014. In each case 
we considered the assumptions made by management to be 
reasonable in light of the available evidence.
Business combinations
Refer to page 50 (Audit Committee report), page 81 (accounting policies) and pages 108 to 111 (Note 24).
Given the acquisitive nature of the Group, accounting for business 
combinations is an area of focus due to the judgements involved. 
Business combinations can involve significant judgements in 
relation to the assets and liabilities that are recognised, particularly 
the allocation of purchase consideration to goodwill and separately 
identified intangible assets. Any misstatement made in the 
identification and/or valuation of acquired intangibles gives 
rise to an equal, compensating misstatement in goodwill.
Management relies on external experts to value significant 
intangibles acquired in business combinations. Where management 
has relied on such experts, we assessed their competency and 
tested the results of their work and found no issues. 
We used our own specialist valuation knowledge to challenge the 
methodology and key assumptions used in determining the value 
of the customer relationship assets for the more significant 
acquisitions. We concluded that the cash flows applied within the 
valuation models and the key assumptions applied to the cash flows, 
such as the discount and growth rates, were appropriate.  124 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as 
a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the sectors in which the 
Group operates. 
The Group is organised geographically into four business areas, being North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of 
the World. 
We identified one significant component, being North America. In addition to this, we have identified eight components across Continental 
Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World for which a full scope audit of their financial information was required. In order to satisfy the 
request of the Audit Committee and management, we performed full scope audits on a further 63 components. Our audit procedures covered 
over 95% of total Group revenue, profit before taxation and total assets.
The audit undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were performed to respective statutory 
materiality levels of the individual components. These local statutory materiality levels were set individually for each component and agreed 
with the Group audit team and ranged up to £12.8 million.
Where work was performed by component auditors, detailed instructions were issued by us and we ensured that our involvement in this 
work was at such a level that we could conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the 
Group financial statements as a whole. The Group audit team visited North America, UK, France and Brazil. Telephone discussions were also 
held with component auditors at these locations and with the majority of the components which the Group audit team did not visit in person. 
Further, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, pensions, acquisitions and 
impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, were performed by the Group audit team centrally. 
Materiality
The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and 
to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £15 million 
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation
Rationale for benchmark applied Given that the Group’s businesses are profit orientated, we believe that profit before taxation 
provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them any misstatements identified during our audit above £750,000 as well 
as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern. We have nothing 
to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the 
going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of 
our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 125
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• Information in the Annual Report is:
 −  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 −  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; 
or
 −  is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
• the statement given by the directors, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), that they consider the Annual Report taken as 
a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 
for members to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy is 
materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
• the section of the Annual Report, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
• the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies  
Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the Company’s compliance with 
nine provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 120, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing. 126 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements 
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable 
basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with,  
the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Paul Cragg (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
23 February 2015 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 127
FIVE YEAR REVIEW
 2014 2013 2012* 2011* 2010*
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 6,156.5 6,097.7 5,359.2 5,109.5 4,829.6
Operating profit 341.8 332.1 293.8 279.3 255.7
Finance income 4.0 2.6 3.6 3.5 3.5
Finance cost (46.0) (44.8) (37.6) (37.0) (37.9)
Disposal of business – – 4.0 (56.0) –
Profit before income tax 299.8 289.9 263.8 189.8 221.3
Income tax (89.1) (83.1) (72.5) (68.8) (65.1)
Profit for the year attributable to the Company’s equity holders 210.7 206.8 191.3 121.0 156.2
Basic earnings per share 64.5p 63.5p 58.7p 37.3p 48.2p
Non-GAAP measures
†
Adjusted operating profit 429.8 414.4 352.4 335.7 306.7
Adjusted profit before income tax 387.8 372.2 318.4 302.2 272.3
Adjusted profit for the year 281.6 268.2 230.2 219.9 193.3
Adjusted earnings per share 86.2p 82.4p 70.6p 67.6p 59.7p
*Restated on adoption of IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’.
†
See Note 2w on page 85 for further details of the non-GAAP measures. 128 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2015
Annual General Meeting 15 April
Results for the half year to 30 June 2015 24 August
2016
Results for the year to 31 December 2015 February
Annual Report circulated March
Dividend payments are normally made on these dates or the following 
working day:
Ordinary shares (final) 1 July
Ordinary shares (interim) 2 January
ANALYSIS OF ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS
At 31 December 2014 the Company had 5,281 (2013: 5,397) 
shareholders who held 334.7 million (2013: 333.5 million) ordinary 
shares between them, analysed as follows:
Size of holding
Number of 
shareholders
% of issued
 share capital
0 – 10,000 4,673 2
10,001 – 100,000 347 4
100,001 – 500,000 168 11
500,001 – 1,000,000 41 8
1,000,001 and over 52 75
5,281 100
REGISTRAR
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions  
Bridgwater Road  
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
Telephone +44 (0) 870 889 3257  
Fax +44 (0) 870 703 6101 
Email webcorres@computershare.co.uk 
Website www.computershare.com
INVESTOR CENTRE
Shareholders can manage their shareholding online at 
www.investorcentre.co.uk. The Investor Centre is our registrar’s 
easy to use website, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, where 
the following services are available:
• change of address;
• view share balance information; 
• join the dividend reinvestment plan; and
• view dividend payment and tax information.
In order to register for the Investor Centre, shareholders will need 
their shareholder reference number which can be found on either 
their share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
DIVIDEND PAYMENT BY BACS
Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into their bank 
or building society account using the Bankers’ Automated Clearing 
Service (‘BACS’). This means that dividends will be in the account on 
the same day the dividend payment is made. Shareholders will receive 
their tax vouchers by post. To use this method of payment please contact 
our registrar on +44 (0) 870 889 3257 or visit the Investor Centre 
website. Please note that this option will not override any existing 
dividend scheme mandate, which would need to be revoked in writing.
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
The Company operates a dividend reinvestment plan which allows 
shareholders to use the whole of their cash dividend to buy additional 
shares in the Company, thereby increasing their shareholding. 
Shareholders can apply to join the plan online in the Investor Centre 
or can contact the Company’s registrar to request the terms and 
conditions of the plan and a printed mandate form.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt 
(ADR) programme that trades on the over-the-counter (OTC) market 
in the US. Citibank N.A. acts as the Depositary Bank.
Telephone Citibank +1 781 575 4555 
Email citibank@shareholders-online.com 
Website www.citi.com/dr
GLOBAL PAYMENTS SERVICE
Shareholders may if they wish have their dividend payments paid 
directly into their bank account in certain foreign currencies. Please 
contact the Company’s registrar on +44 (0) 870 889 3257 to request 
further information about the currencies for which this service 
is available.
SHARE DEALING
Bunzl plc shares can be traded through most banks and 
stockbrokers. The Company’s registrar also offers an internet  
and telephone dealing service. Further details can be found at 
www.computershare.com/dealing/uk or by telephoning  
+44 (0) 870 703 0084.
SHAREGIFT
Sometimes shareholders have only a small holding of shares which 
may be uneconomical to sell. Shareholders who wish to donate these 
shares to charity can do so through ShareGift, an independent charity 
share donation scheme (registered charity no. 1052686). Further 
information about ShareGift may be obtained from ShareGift on 
+44 (0) 20 7930 3737 or at www.sharegift.org.
SHAREHOLDER SECURITY
Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited 
financial advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of 
free company reports. More detailed information about this can 
be found at www.fca.org.uk in the Consumers section. Details of  
any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be 
included in Company mailings. 
AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
STOCKBROKERS
J.P. Morgan Cazenove  
Citigroup
COMPANY SECRETARY
Paul Hussey
REGISTERED OFFICE
York House 
45 Seymour Street 
London W1H 7JT 
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7725 5000 
Fax +44 (0) 20 7725 5001
Website www.bunzl.com 
Registered in England no. 358948
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Annual Report contains certain statements about the future 
outlook for the Group. Although the Company believes that the 
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements 
about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause 
actual outcomes and results to be materially different. Printed on Amadeus 50 Silk which is produced using  
50% recycled post-consumer waste and 50% wood fibre  
from fully sustainable forests with FSC
®
 certification.  
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF). Printed  
in the UK by Pureprint using their 
®
 and 
® 
environmental printing technology and vegetable inks were  
used throughout. Pureprint is a Carbon Neutral
®
 company.  
Both the manufacturing mill and the printer are registered  
to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are 
Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
Designed and produced by  York House 
45 Seymour Street 
London W1H 7JT
www.bunzl.com
