   Burberry
an iconic British global
luxury brand established
in 1856 leverages its rich
heritage, proven strategies
and talented team,
to assure sustainable,
profitable growth.
4 Financial highlights
8 Chairman’s letter
10 Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s letter
12 Executive directors and senior management
15 Strategy
29 Burberry Group overview
34 Business and ﬁnancial review
45 Risks
48 Corporate responsibility
54 Board of Directors
56 Directors’ report
59 Corporate governance
64 Report on Directors’ Remuneration
and related matters
72 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
73 Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Burberry Group plc
74 Group income statement
75 Group statement of recognised income
and expense
76 Group balance sheet
77 Group cash ﬂow statement
78 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
121 Five year summary
123 Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Burberry Group plc
124 Company balance sheet
125 Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
130 Shareholder information
132 Executive directors and senior management   FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
4
Year to March (£ millions)
1,202
995
850
743
716
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
52%
41%
7%
Retail
Wholesale
Licensing
34%
13%
27%
21%
5% Rest of World
Europe
Spain
Americas
Asia Paciﬁc
37%
26%
33%
4%
Womenswear
Menswear
Non-apparel
Childrenswear/Other
Revenue by channel Revenue
£1,202M
Up 21% reported
Up 7% underlying
Retail/wholesale revenue
by product category
Retail/wholesale revenue
by destination 5
More information at
www.burberryplc.com
Adjusted operating proﬁt is before restructuring costs, impairment charges,
negative BME goodwill, Atlas costs and impact of HQ relocation
Year to March (£ millions)
180.8
206.2
185.1
165.6
161.3
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
As at 31 March (£ millions)
7.6
(64.2)
(2.8)
12.5
169.9
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
Adjusted diluted EPS is before restructuring costs, impairment charges, negative
BME goodwill, impact of one-off tax credits, Atlas costs and impact of HQ relocation
Year to March (pence)
30.2p
31.6p
29.1p
24.1p
22.2p
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
Year to March (pence)
12.0p
12.0p
10.5p
8.0p
6.5p
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
Adjusted operating proﬁt
£180.8M
Net cash/(debt)
£7.6M
Adjusted operating
proﬁt margin
15.0%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
30.2p
Dividend per share
12.0p   CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
8
Looking back to the start of Burberry’s ﬁnancial year in
April 2008, few could have anticipated the extraordinary
conditions consumer businesses would face during the
ensuing 12 months. Although management was prepared
for a more constrained trading environment, the rapidity,
degree and global scale of contraction in consumer
spending was unprecedented.
Such conditions challenge both management teams and
boards of directors. There is a need to shift to defence –
conserving cash, reducing capital expenditures, eliminating
costs. And I am pleased to report that Burberry did take the
action required, very signiﬁcant action, along these lines.
However, at the same time, we also believe it is the
responsibility of managements and boards to look through
the negative psychology of the time and take a view on
the longer term. We know that Burberry’s strategy has
proven effective and is being well executed. Our ambitions
for Burberry remain high, with much on the agenda
to accomplish. Burberry is still travelling. So, we have
continued to invest in both brand and business during
the year – including stores, product development,
people and infrastructure.
While the external environment was the main determining
factor on this year’s ﬁnancial results, Burberry still achieved
revenues of £1.2bn, a growth of 7% at constant exchange
rates, 21% reported. Operating proﬁt decreased 12% to
£181m, while diluted EPS declined 4% – both of these
on an adjusted basis. After-tax return on capital remained
strong at 23% on an adjusted basis. Accordingly, the
Board has recommended that the full year dividend be
maintained at the prior year’s level of 12.0p.
I would therefore like to thank everyone at Burberry for the
immense contribution made throughout this very challenging
period, and looking forward, I remain conﬁdent that Burberry
possesses the brand, strategy and team to continue
to prosper in the years ahead.
John Peace
Chairman  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S LETTER
10
Extraordinary context
In April 2008, mindful of the softening economic
environment, Burberry began the 2008/09 ﬁnancial year
continuing to execute its strategic plan, consistent with
the previous two years. This course produced good ﬁrst
half results: during the period ended September 2008,
Group revenue increased 13% at constant exchange
rates (20% at reported rates), while adjusted operating
proﬁt increased 3%.
Mid-September then brought the onset of true economic
crisis – almost fully coincident with the start of Burberry’s
second half. This led to the addition of new, urgent
priorities to the agenda. While the core strategies remained
in effect, tactical adjustments were made. Matters relating
to inventory management, capital investment and expense
structure were evaluated in a new light. This drove
development of a £50m cost efﬁciency programme.
Involving all areas of the business throughout the world,
the programme presented a challenging shift for our
growth oriented organisation. The team responded
brilliantly to the task, and the programme is targeted
to underpin proﬁtability in 2009/10.
Continued progress
At the same time, good progress continued across
key strategies during the year.
• Front end. The front end of the business refers to
the public face of Burberry.
Brand. Burberry continued to purify the brand’s
message and enhance consistency across all forms
of its expression. During the year, the Group completed
and relocated to new global headquarters in central
London. Designed internally, Horseferry House is a
comprehensive expression of the Burberry brand –
for customers, partners and employees. Store base
upgrading continued, with renovation of the London
Knightsbridge and Beverly Hills ﬂagships as highlights.
Product. Our talented design and merchandising
teams responded quickly to the changing environment.
Through continued innovation, outerwear remained
at the centre of our business. Signiﬁcant, new brand
platforms brought further progress in underdeveloped
segments of our product architecture, while new
interpretations of classic icons addressed a
consumer trend toward authenticity and heritage. 11
Burberry Foundation. Aimed at empowering the
intellectual creativity of young people, the Burberry
Foundation began operating in earnest. During the
year, the Foundation engaged with high performing
charities in key cities and added internal expertise
and energy to the Foundation’s monetary contributions
through an employee engagement programme.
These accomplishments, strategic and operational,
ongoing and exceptional, point to the quality of Burberry’s
teams throughout the world and their ability to work as
a single team. In the end, the full year ﬁnancial results
of a 7% revenue increase (currency adjusted) and 12%
adjusted operating proﬁt decline are more in keeping
with external conditions than internal efforts.
Staying the course
A look forward presents a distinct lack of visibility regarding
the economy and consumer behaviour. While the precise
timing is unclear, economic recovery is anticipated to begin
within this year or the next. With respect to the luxury
sector, we believe the consumer preferences which fuelled
growth during the past 15 years will remain relevant.
So, fundamentally, Burberry plans to stay the course.
The brand has perhaps never been better positioned.
Relative momentum is strong and our strategies have
proven effective. Burberry’s 150-year heritage and the
authenticity of core products stand the business well amid
the uncertainty. At the same time, we approach 2009/10
with caution. Sales are planned conservatively and the
expense structure has been rationalised with an ongoing
focus on costs. Capital investment plans are reduced.
Management is maintaining ﬂexibility and vigilantly
monitoring the business to respond to unanticipated
changes. Still, this united, dynamic team remains
optimistic, with a strong belief that Burberry can prosper.
Angela Ahrendts
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Regions. Burberry strengthened its position in
important underdeveloped markets through the
establishment of new operating structures. The
Group transformed its existing Middle East franchise
relationship to a joint venture to best capitalise on
the potential of this high growth region. Burberry also
formed a joint venture with current licensees to develop
the brand’s luxury accessories categories in Japan,
the world’s largest luxury accessories market.
• Back-of-house. Continuous operational improvement
remains a primary objective.
Merchandising. Enhancing merchandising disciplines
across Burberry’s complex product assortments to
improve efﬁciency has been a key goal. Through
implementation in 2008/09 of a global planning
function, more targeted design processes and new
regional purchasing models, the Group expects
signiﬁcant expense savings, improved working
capital management and higher retail sell-through
in future seasons.
Infrastructure. The year also allowed the Group’s
infrastructure to continue to catch up with its front
end. Modernisation of the supply chain continued
with the move to a more sophisticated sourcing
base and a reﬁned logistics operation, producing
substantial expense savings. SAP implementation
neared completion with the Americas region going
live at year end.
• Great brand/Great company. In addition to a great
brand, Burberry aspires to be a great company.
The Group advanced across several measures
during the year.
Supply chain. In supply chain, increased investment
in ethical compliance teams enhanced visibility of
supplier operations and improved practices in line
with Burberry’s values.
Environment. Burberry continued efforts to thoughtfully
reduce its environmental impact. The Group
signiﬁcantly reduced carbon emissions during the year
through relocation to the new energy-efﬁcient global
headquarters, policy shift from air to sea for product
shipments and adjusting activities to reduce
dependency on international travel. EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
12 13  Brand and
Business
From its founding in 1856 when Thomas Burberry
constructed his ﬁrst outerwear garments for the
sportsmen of Basingstoke, England, Burberry has
become a leading luxury brand with a global business.
The Burberry brand is deﬁned by its:
• Authentic British heritage
• Unique democratic positioning within the
luxury arena
• Founding principles of quality, function and modern
classic style, rooted in the integrity of its outerwear
• Globally recognised icon portfolio: the trench coat,
trademark check and Prorsum horse logo
Today, the business built upon this brand is
distinguished by:
• Multi-category competency: womenswear,
menswear, non-apparel and childrenswear –
with innovative outerwear as the foundation
• Channel expertise in retail (including e-commerce),
wholesale and licensing
• Global reach: operations in markets throughout
the world, with a balance across major
geographic regions
• A uniﬁed, passionate and seasoned
management team
The Group management and their teams are challenged
with the responsibility of maintaining the integrity and
vitality of this extraordinary brand while continuing
to develop a business which remains relevant to
ever-evolving markets and consumer tastes. The
following pages outline Burberry’s strategy under
each of its ﬁve key strategic themes:
• Leveraging the franchise
• Intensifying non-apparel development
• Accelerating retail-led growth
• Investing in under-penetrated markets
• Pursuing operational excellence
15
STRATEGY STRATEGY
16
leveraging
the franchise
The front end comprises everything the consumer
sees from products to marketing imagery to stores.
Key highlights for 2008/09 include:
• Maintaining brand momentum. Consistent
projection of Burberry’s distinctive luxury message
across all mediums is a core objective. In December
2008, the Group relocated to a new global
headquarters in central London. Designed internally,
the building is a comprehensive expression of
the Burberry brand – for customers, partners
and employees.
• Reinforcing outerwear heritage and leadership.
As the brand’s deﬁning category, outerwear
innovation remains the top product priority.
In 2008/09, Burberry continued to intensify
under-developed outerwear segments. In
womenswear, for example, the Group took its
packable trench coat strategy to scale through
the creation and retail presentation of a full range
of colours and styles. In menswear, the team
intensiﬁed focus on the more modern, ﬁtted and
higher fashion segment of its business.
• Further reshaping the product pyramid. Burberry
continues to create clear distinctions between its
Prorsum (runway), London Collection (wear to work)
and Lifestyle (wear at weekend) lines. During
2008/09, the Burberry Beat check was launched
as a key branding platform for the London Collection
ranges. Within Lifestyle, Burberry continued to
contemporise the assortment, through further
development of Burberry Sport and building
a core denim programme.
Through more coordinated use of brand assets
and greater integration of its global organisation,
Burberry has the opportunity to enhance consumer
responsiveness and operate more efﬁciently and
effectively. This potential lies in both the front end
and back-of-house operations.
• Capitalising on menswear opportunity. For most
of its history, menswear dominated Burberry’s sales.
While womenswear took the lead during the brand’s
revitalisation over the last decade, Burberry sees
substantial opportunity to develop its menswear
business. During 2008/09, menswear continued
its transition from legacy product licences,
strengthened its tailoring offering and enhanced
dedicated marketing initiatives.
• Building childrenswear. Currently a small business
for Burberry, the Group believes the highly
fragmented childrenswear sector offers substantial
opportunity for the brand in all markets. From its
initial operation, the childrenswear team continued
to develop a global product assortment and build
the required organisation. Childrenswear revenue
increased over 50% in the year and the Group
began testing dedicated childrenswear stores.
• Enhancing marketing. The continuous enhancement
of marketing and PR functions is a key objective
of the Group. In the year, Burberry intensiﬁed efforts
in the rapidly evolving digital arena through a
reallocation of media spend and added dedicated
human resources.
• Optimising licensing. Through its licensing
operations, Burberry leverages its brand
management, design and marketing expertise in
categories requiring the specialised skills of partners.
The Group has global product licences for the
fragrance, eyewear and watch categories. Following
the successful launch of Burberry The Beat for
Women last year, the successful launch of Burberry
The Beat for Men commenced in the second half
of 2008/09.  STRATEGY
18
leveraging
the franchise
The back-of-house operations comprise the
infrastructure and functional components required
for the success of Burberry’s front end. Burberry applies
the expertise from one area of its operations to others
in order to optimise performance.
• Spain modernisation. In 2008/09, Burberry began
to modernise functions in Spain in line with actions
taken in the Group’s central operations during
the previous two years. Core to this has been
restructuring the local supply chain. During the
year, Spain began transition from a sourcing base
dominated by small, single function suppliers to
large, vertically integrated resources – a transition
the Group has made centrally since 2006.
KPI: Total revenue growth measures the appeal of
the brand to consumers, be it through Burberry stores or
those of its department store or specialty retail customers.
In 2008/09, in challenging and volatile markets, Burberry’s
revenue was £1,202m – a 7% underlying increase on the
previous year. Sales through the retail channel increased by
14%, in wholesale by 2%, while licensing declined by 9%.
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i.e. at constant exchange rates
Retail Wholesale Licensing
Year to March (£ millions)
+7%
+18%
+15%
1,202
995
850
2009
2008
2007
£1,202m in 2008/09 +7%  STRATEGY
20
Intensifying
non-apparel
development
KPI: Growth in non-apparel revenue measures the
success of Burberry’s initiatives in this category, which
includes handbags, small leather goods, scarves, shoes,
belts and jewellery.
Non-apparel was again Burberry’s fastest growing
product division in 2008/09, and yet still offers
substantial room for further growth given Burberry’s
relatively low market share in certain categories.
• Handbags. In response to a consumer shift toward
a more timeless aesthetic, Burberry rebalanced the
fashion/heritage mix of its handbag assortment.
This included innovative interpretations of iconic
branding, as well as new and elevated expressions
of classic styles.
• Shoes. Shoes grew strongly in 2008/09 based on
the previous investment in design, technical product
expertise and supply chain functions. Through the
year, the team has continued to build out the
complete product pyramid while developing core
items to drive the growth of this category.
• Men’s non-apparel. Although currently a small
category for Burberry, the Group believes this is a
key area of opportunity. Burberry continues to build
on this opportunity through expanding the product
offering, including testing luggage.
• Product-speciﬁc marketing. Non-apparel categories
continued to receive marketing and PR focus via
prominence on the runway, editorial priority and
heightened presence in global advertising
campaigns. During 2008/09, Burberry introduced
product-speciﬁc advertising imagery for non-apparel,
including e-brochures, in order to support
these strategies.
• Partnership buy. Burberry initiated its partnership
buy model for non-apparel with the Autumn/Winter
2009 season. The partnership buy is a new, more
collaborative approach to assortment development
in which Burberry’s regional buying teams work
directly with central design teams throughout the
product development process. The model’s primary
objectives are to enhance efﬁciency through reduced
development expenses and sourcing leverage,
increase retail sell-through with more targeted
purchasing and consistency of brand statements
across geographic regions.
• Japanese non-apparel joint venture. Burberry
continues to evolve the non-apparel business
model in Japan, which to date has been primarily
operated by licence partners focusing on a domestic,
premium-priced offering. In November 2008,
Burberry entered into a joint venture agreement
to develop the retail distribution of Burberry’s
international luxury accessories in Japan. The
organisation has been established and plans to
begin operations in 2009/10.
In 2008/09, non-apparel revenue increased by 12%,
compared to 7% for Burberry as a whole. Non-apparel
accounted for 33% of retail and wholesale revenue,
compared to 32% last year.
Revenue is retail and wholesale only. Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change
i.e. at constant exchange rates
Year to March (£ millions)
+12%
+39%
+15%
366
290
211
2009
2008
2007
£366m in 2008/09 +12%
Intensify, focus on and invest in under-penetrated
non-apparel categories to further leverage Burberry’s
unique positioning, design and merchandising
expertise and iconic branding through investment
in product development, marketing and supply chain.  STRATEGY
22
Accelerating
retail-led
growth
KPI: Growth in retail revenue includes comparable store
sales growth, which measures growth in productivity of
existing stores; plus sales from new space.
Retail contributed over half of the total Group revenue
in 2008/09 for the ﬁrst time, reﬂecting the Group’s
emphasis on this channel. Burberry continues to move
from a relatively static, traditional, wholesale structure
to a more dynamic, retail culture and mindset. This
more consumer-centric, responsive organisation is
having a positive impact on directly operated stores,
franchise partners, wholesale customers and licensing
partners worldwide.
Centrally, Burberry continues to work on:
• Focused collections. Reorientating design
and merchandising toward more disciplined,
style-efﬁcient and balanced collections.
• Flow frequency. Increasing the frequency
of new goods ﬂowing to stores.
• Replenishment. Developing a more extensive
and responsive replenishment programme in all
product divisions, while evolving in-store visual
merchandising and processes to support.
Looking to the retail stores, Burberry remains focused on:
• Enhancing store productivity. Through
concentration on operational activities, such
as replenishment, planning, merchandising,
ﬁxturing and visual, Burberry continues to drive
store productivity. In addition, Burberry has
developed and piloted a sales and service
programme which will be implemented globally
in retail stores through 2009/10.
• Accelerating new store openings. In 2008/09,
Burberry continued new store roll-out with 14% net
new space added during the year. This included ﬁve
standalone childrenswear stores as Burberry looks
to grow this product area.
• Continuing e-commerce development. Burberry
now operates e-commerce in the United States and
across 26 European countries. Burberry continues
to look to develop and scale its business in this
high-growth channel.
• Upgrading store image. The Group continues
to renovate high proﬁle locations worldwide with
a brighter, modern aesthetic and more efﬁcient
and productive design concept.
In 2008/09, comparable store sales increased by 1%
(H1 up 3%; H2 down 1%) – a solid performance as global
economic conditions deteriorated throughout the year.
The balance of revenue growth was driven by new space,
which increased 14% on average during the year.
KPI: Number of stores measures the number of Burberry
directly operated stores around the world.
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i.e. at constant exchange rates.
Comparable store sales growth is deﬁned as the annual percentage increase in sales
from stores that have been opened for more than 12 months, adjusted for closures
and refurbishments
Comparable stores New space
Year to March (% growth)
14%
20%
24%
2009
2008
2007
+14% in 2008/09
The number of stores directly operated by Burberry
increased by over 50 in 2008/09, including a net 22
more mainline stores and a net 22 concessions around
the world. The majority of the new mainline stores were
in the Americas and Middle East.
* Includes ten stores operated by Burberry Middle East
Mainline Concessions Outlets
As at March
419*
368
292
2009
2008
2007
419 at March 2009
Shift company culture and processes from a static
wholesale model to a dynamic retail model. Retail-led
growth refers not only to the operation of Burberry’s
own stores, but also to a fundamental shift in the
Group’s operating culture.  STRATEGY
24
Investing
in under-
penetrated
markets
Americas
The United States continues to provide signiﬁcant
opportunity for the Group to increase market share.
In 2008/09, Burberry opened a net ten new stores
(including its ﬁrst store in Canada and two childrenswear
standalone test stores), and completed three major
renovations. In wholesale, Burberry further
professionalised the organisation to work more closely
with its large department store customers. In addition,
during the year, the newly created Americas region
took ownership of the Latin American markets and
integration is now in progress. In April 2009, the Americas
organisation moved into its new regional headquarters
(pictured opposite) at 444 Madison Avenue with a rare
outdoor marketing opportunity to feature Burberry.
Emerging Markets
In 2008/09, Burberry achieved a 50% increase in
revenue from key emerging economies including China,
the Middle East, Russia and India. These markets now
contribute 9% of sales, up from 6% in 2007/08.
Historically, Burberry has operated in these markets
through local partners who possess the speciﬁc
knowledge and resources required to develop the
brand in their respective regions. In September 2008,
Burberry entered a joint venture with its main partner
in the Middle East to manage retail and wholesale
operations in certain key markets. Since inception,
Burberry Middle East has opened four stores, including
two standalone childrenswear stores. Burberry continues
to open stores with franchise partners in other markets,
with a net eight stores opening last year, including a net
two in China and the ﬁrst signiﬁcant stores in India.
KPI: Number of stores in Emerging Markets measures the
reach of the Burberry brand in these high potential countries.
Burberry added a net 12 stores in Emerging Markets,
of which eight stores were opened in conjunction with
its local partners. Of the total, 81 are operated under
franchise and ten by the Burberry Middle East joint venture.
In the Americas, which Burberry has also identiﬁed as an
under-penetrated market, underlying retail and wholesale
revenue increased by 9% in 2008/09, although the market
became much more difﬁcult from the second half.
Emerging Markets include: China, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Russia, Brazil,
India and other parts of South East Asia, South Africa and South America
* Includes ten stores operated by Burberry Middle East
As at March
91*
79
58
2009
2008
2007
91 at March 2009
Focus on and invest in under-penetrated markets.
For Burberry, these under-penetrated markets consist
of both developed markets, like the United States,
and emerging markets including China, India, the
Middle East and Russia. All distribution channels
(retail, wholesale and licensing) are used to optimise
these opportunities.  STRATEGY
26
Pursuing
operational
excellence
Burberry continues to pursue its goal to be recognised
as much for operational expertise as for product and
marketing excellence.
Key initiatives for 2008/09 include:
• Global cost efﬁciency programme. In January 2009,
Burberry announced a global cost efﬁciency
programme to deliver annual savings of about £50m
to underpin proﬁtability in 2009/10 and beyond. The
savings are derived from process efﬁciencies, further
evolving the supply chain, including manufacturing,
and streamlining other operations around the world.
The implementation of this programme is now well
advanced and tracking to plan.
• Global IT programme implementation. The global IT
programme, based on SAP technology, continues to
be rolled out to the regions, with retail and wholesale
distribution implementations in Hong Kong and the
United States. The technology is now live in 15
countries, with approximately 75% of retail/wholesale
revenue now processed through SAP . Over 80% of
mainline stores are converted, giving greater visibility
from design to the consumer.
• Continued modernisation of supplier base. The
Group continues to modernise its supplier base
through the move to fewer, larger, vertically
integrated suppliers.
• Reﬁned logistics operations. This included the
continued consolidation of distribution centres
throughout the Group, including the establishment
of the Asian distribution hub in Hong Kong in
November 2008. In addition, a global carrier
programme was launched to drive signiﬁcant
savings in transportation costs.
• Initial implementation of global planning function.
During the year, Burberry also began to invest in a
global planning function to enable a tighter control and
management of inventory. Leveraging data from the
global IT solution, certain early efﬁciencies have been
identiﬁed, including a signiﬁcant reduction in style
options, reduced purchases, improved replenishment
processes and monthly ﬂow disciplines.
Performance highlights for the year include:
• Reduction in number of distribution facilities
from 24 in 2007/08 to 14
• Consolidation in freight carriers from 31 in 2007/08
to three
• Global suppliers from 148 in 2006/07 to 100*
• Shipment from air to sea (excluding road): minimal
in 2007/08 to 68% in Autumn/Winter 2009
* Excludes Spain supply chain
KPI: Retail and wholesale gross margin measures,
among other things, how efﬁciently Burberry sources
its products.
Gross margin in retail and wholesale combined declined
by 640 basis points in 2008/09. Further sourcing beneﬁts
were achieved, more than offset by a lower proportion
of full price sales especially in the second half.
KPI: Adjusted retail and wholesale operating proﬁt
margin measures how Burberry’s initiatives and its
investment to improve its business processes, including
sourcing, IT and logistics are impacting its proﬁt margin.
Year to March
52.1%
58.5%
56.9%
2009
2008
2007
52.1% in 2008/09
Adjusted operating proﬁt is before restructuring costs, impairment charges, negative
BME goodwill, Atlas costs and impact of HQ relocation
Year to March
9.8%
14.9%
14.6%
2009
2008
2007
9.8% in 2008/09
Due to the challenging economic environment Burberry’s
adjusted retail and wholesale operating proﬁt margin was
9.8% in 2008/09, with pressure on gross margin offset in
part by tight management of discretionary expenses.   regions Channels
BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW
29
Americas: includes the United States, Canada and Latin America
Asia Paciﬁc: includes China
Retail/wholesale revenue
by destination 2008/09
34%
13%
27%
21%
5% Rest of World
Europe
Spain
Americas
Asia Paciﬁc
Retail: includes 119 mainline stores, 253 concessions within department stores
and 47 outlets
Wholesale: includes sales to prestige department stores and specialty retailers
around the world, as well as sales to its franchisees who operate 81 Burberry stores,
mainly in Emerging Markets
Licensing: royalty income primarily received from Burberry’s partners in Japan and
global licensees for fragrance, eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear
Revenue by channel
2008/09
52%
41%
7% Licensing
Retail
Wholesale
Burberry designs, markets and sources womenswear,
menswear, non-apparel and childrenswear – with
innovative outerwear as the foundation. These are
distributed through a diversiﬁed network of retail,
wholesale and licensing channels worldwide.
The business is managed by region, channel
and product, supported by corporate functions.
Broad geographic portfolio
Burberry has a solid infrastructure around the world,
operating in three main regions (Europe, Americas and
Asia Paciﬁc), as well as Spain and Rest of World. Europe
including Spain is 47% of sales, Americas is 27% and
Asia Paciﬁc is 21%. Emerging Markets, which spans
across all regions and includes China, India, Russia,
Eastern Europe and the Middle East, contributed 9%
to retail and wholesale revenue.
Balanced channel mix
Burberry sells its products to the end consumer through
both the retail (including e-commerce) and wholesale
channels. Retail was 52% of revenue in 2008/09 and
wholesale was 41%. Burberry also has selective licensing
agreements in Japan and globally, leveraging the local
and technical expertise of its licence partners.
Go to pages 35 to 39 to see what progress was made
in 2008/09 by region, channel and product. 30
PRODUCTS
BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW
Retail/wholesale revenue
by product category
2008/09
37%
26%
33%
4% Childrenswear/Other
Womenswear
Menswear
Non-apparel
Product pyramid
Lifestyle
Prorsum
London Collection
Diversiﬁed offering
The Burberry brand has broad consumer appeal. The
business is balanced between womenswear (37% of
2008/09 revenue), menswear (26%) and non-apparel
(33%), with a small contribution from the new
childrenswear division. Outerwear, which is included in
womenswear, menswear and childrenswear, is the core
of its product offer at approximately 50% of apparel and
the category in which Burberry is top-of-mind among
consumers. Burberry continues to grow this category by
continued product innovation. Another key strategy is to
grow non-apparel – revenue here increased by 12%
underlying in 2008/09. Burberry is planning further growth
in menswear and childrenswear over the next few years.
Product pyramid
Each collection is developed with a strict product hierarchy
or pyramid.
At the top is Prorsum, the most fashion forward collection
centred around catwalk/runway shows each year.
Prorsum, the Latin word for moves forward, provides
the design inspiration for other seasonal ranges.
In the middle of the pyramid is London Collection or
what a Burberry customer wears on weekdays for work,
i.e. tailored ready to wear.
And at the base of the pyramid is Lifestyle or what a
Burberry customer wears on the weekend, i.e.
casual sportswear.
Ranges at Burberry are balanced appropriately to drive
sales and proﬁtability. Outerwear goes across all three
levels as Burberry continues to innovate and diversify
this core category. Prorsum provides the inspiration for all
ranges, London Collection continues to grow, especially
with new tailoring initiatives, and Lifestyle includes Burberry
Sport and new denim initiatives which further contemporise
this large casual component. 31
Burberry’s regional, product and channel teams are
supported by corporate functions which both efﬁciently
and effectively sustain the business and also develop
the brand in a coordinated and cohesive way around
the world.
At the front end, these include:
• Design (including product design, store design,
visual merchandising) – everything the consumer sees
is developed centrally under Christopher Bailey,
Burberry’s Creative Director
• Merchandising and product development
• Marketing (including advertising, PR and
communications)
At the back end, Burberry has built a central global
supply chain team responsible for sourcing, quality
assurance, logistics and customer service worldwide.
These are supported by a number of further corporate
functions including:
• Strategy: this division includes Burberry’s corporate
strategy, new business development, and
licensing functions
• Corporate Resources: which includes human
resources, service and productivity, facilities
and loss prevention
• IT: Burberry has a global IT function covering
infrastructure, systems and support
• Finance and Corporate Support: including all
ﬁnance functions, investor relations, legal and
corporate responsibility, corporate planning, audit
and risk and business integration
Corporate
In order to drive growth by pursuing its ﬁve key
strategies, Burberry must continue to invest in its
key resources.
People
Burberry employs approximately 5,500 people worldwide.
The team has been strengthened considerably over the
past few years to drive delivery of the ﬁve strategic themes
and support and sustain continued growth. Burberry is
committed to attracting, retaining and developing world
class talent. As the business grows and the demand for
expertise and ability across the organisation increases,
Burberry is ensuring that it develops a strong ‘pipeline’
of talent throughout the Group.
Brand
With over 150 years of history, rooted in its authentic
British heritage and the integrity of its outerwear,
Burberry continues to strive to elevate and extend the
brand. Burberry has broad consumer appeal across
genders and generations, a unique demographic
positioning within the luxury arena, and broad global
reach. Burberry continues to invest in the brand through
design innovation, reinventing its icons and reinforcing the
brand with professional merchandising and compelling
marketing campaigns.
Infrastructure
Crucial to Burberry’s ability to deliver sustainable growth
is an efﬁcient infrastructure, including its stores, supply
chain, IT systems, logistics and distribution capabilities.
Historically, Burberry’s organisation has been highly
decentralised. The current strategy is to integrate anything
branded Burberry around the world. Burberry aims to be
recognised as much for its operational expertise as for its
product and marketing excellence and has been investing
in its business processes and systems in the last few years.
RESOURCES
Corporate support
Front end
Design
Merchandising and product
development
Marketing
– Supply chain
Back end
Sourcing
Quality assurance
Logistics
Customer services
– Support functions
Strategy
Corporate resources
IT
Finance
Go to page 40 to see what progress Burberry’s
corporate functions made during 2008/09. BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW
32
Creating shareholder value
KPI: Growth in adjusted diluted EPS is a key
valuation metric for Burberry’s shareholders.
KPIS
The following key performance indicators (KPIs) are
reviewed by the Board and the management team to
assess Burberry’s progress against its ﬁve strategic
initiatives. Although the trends in each of the KPIs below
can be inﬂuenced by more than one of the strategic
initiatives, the following information provides investors
with a scorecard for Burberry’s performance.
KPI 2008/09 2007/08 2006/07
Total revenue growth (%) – see page 18 +7% +18% +15%
Growth in non-apparel revenue (%) – see page 20 +12% +39% +15%
Growth in retail revenue (%) – see page 22 +14% +20% +24%
Number of stores – see page 22 419 368 292
Number of stores in Emerging Markets – see page 24 91 79 58
Retail and wholesale gross margin (%) – see page 26 52.1% 58.5% 56.9%
Adjusted retail and wholesale operating profit margin (%) – see page 26 9.8% 14.9% 14.6%
Adjusted diluted earnings per share growth (%) – see below (4%) +9% +21%
Adjusted diluted EPS is before restructuring costs, impairment charges, negative
BME goodwill, impact of one-off tax credits, Atlas costs and impact of
HQ relocation
Year to March (pence)
(4)%
+9%
+21%
30.2p
31.6p
29.1p
2009
2008
2007
30.2p in 2008/09, a decline of 4%
Total Shareholder Return
As explained on page 65 in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration and related matters, Burberry also monitors
Total Shareholder Return (TSR). This measures the growth
in value of a shareholding assuming dividends are
reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Corporate responsibility
Burberry also recognises its responsibility to key
stakeholders in managing its business. The progress
Burberry has made this year in respect of its supply chain,
people management and employee communications,
community involvement and environmental matters is
reported on pages 48 to 52.
Adjusted diluted EPS was down 4% to 30.2p in 2008/09
as a lower tax rate partially mitigated the decline in proﬁt. 33
Markets
Markets in which Burberry operates
Burberry operates in the global luxury sector which,
for Burberry’s relevant categories, is estimated to be
an approximately £145bn global market.
The luxury goods market has grown on average by 7% per
annum during the last four years. During 2008, growth
slowed and industry analysts expect the market to contract
during 2009. Despite current headwinds associated with
the global economic environment, the fundamental long-
term drivers of growth in the luxury market remain:
• economic growth – the luxury market has generally
grown at two to three times the rate of the
global economy
• consumption associated with the rapid expansion of
emerging economies including China and Russia
• growth in high net worth individuals (HNWIs) in both
core and emerging markets; HNWIs are deﬁned as
consumers with ﬁnancial assets (not including their
primary residence) in excess of US$1m; they have
a higher propensity to purchase luxury goods than
other consumers
• increasing demand for luxury brands, as consumer
aspirations develop, spend by working women
increases and a greater number of men select
luxury brands
• more international travel and tourism
• continuous product innovation by luxury brands
creating demand for new products
The luxury goods market is made up of apparel,
accessories including handbags and shoes, perfume
and cosmetics and hard luxury, including watches
and jewellery.
Competitive position
In the year to 31 March 2009, Burberry’s reported sales
were £1,202m. Converting wholesale and licensing
revenue to retail sales value (how much the consumer
spends on Burberry products), the global sales under
the Burberry brand are estimated to be £3.5bn. Burberry
is among the top ten global luxury brands.
Burberry competes with a variety of luxury goods
companies. Some are large international conglomerates,
owning many luxury brands; others are focused on a single
brand globally; while others are small, more localised
operations. Burberry’s relevant peer group differs by
product category – womenswear, menswear, non-apparel
and childrenswear.
Management remuneration is partially based on Burberry’s
performance relative to peers. A full list of the comparator
group, which includes Hermès, LVMH, PPR and
Richemont is provided on page 69 of this report.
Year to December (retail value £ bn)
145
140
130
120
110
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
£145bN in 2008
Global luxury goods market
Company and industry estimates
Global luxury goods market
by product
30%
20%
20%
25%
5% Other
Apparel
Accessories
Hard luxury
Perfumes and cosmetics BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
34
• Adjusted diluted earnings per share of 30.2p
(2008: 31.6p), as lower tax rate partly mitigates
proﬁt decrease.
• Attributable loss of £6.0m (2008: proﬁt of £135.2m),
after restructuring costs (£54.9m) and non-cash
impairment and other charges (£135.8m), partly offset
by one-off tax credits (£32.6m).
• Maintained full year dividend of 12p per share.
• Net cash of £7.6m (2008: net debt of £64.2m),
driven by £50m inventory reduction. Main banking
facilities renewed.
• Revenue of £1,202m, up 7% on an underlying
basis, 21% reported.
• Adjusted retail/wholesale operating margin of 9.8%
(2008: 14.9%), reﬂecting a 640 basis point fall in gross
margin due to lower full price sales, partly offset by
tight management of discretionary expenses.
• Adjusted proﬁt before tax of £174.6m (2008:
£200.2m).
• Tax rate on adjusted proﬁt before tax of 23.8%
(2008: 30.1%), largely reﬂecting different geographical
mix of proﬁts.
Group financial
highlights
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2009 2008 reported underlying
Revenue 1,201.5 995.4 21 7
Cost of sales (535.7) (377.7) (42)
Gross margin 665.8 617.7 8
Adjusted operating expenses (485.0) (411.5) (18)
Adjusted operating proﬁt 180.8 206.2 (12) (17)
Other items* (190.7) (4.5)
Operating (loss)/proﬁt (9.9) 201.7
Net finance charge (6.2) (6.0)
(Loss)/proﬁt before taxation (16.1) 195.7
Taxation 11.0 (60.5)
Minority interests (0.9) –
Attributable (loss)/profit (6.0) 135.2
Adjusted EPS (pence) 30.2 31.6
EPS (pence) (1.4) 30.5
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (millions) 438.1 442.8
*
See Other items on page 43 for full details
EPS is calculated on a diluted basis. ‘Adjusted’ refers to profitability measures (pre and post tax) calculated excluding:
– Restructuring costs of £54.9m (2008: nil) relating to the Group’s cost efficiency programme
– Impairment charges of £129.6m (2008: nil) relating to Spanish goodwill (£116.2m) and stores (£13.4m)
– Credit of £1.7m (2008: nil) representing negative goodwill on the formation of the Burberry Middle East joint venture
– Impact of one-off tax credits of £32.6m (2008: nil)
– Net charge of £7.9m (2008: net profit of £15.1m) relating to the relocation of global headquarters
– Atlas costs of nil (2008: £19.6m) relating to the Group’s infrastructure redesign initiative 35
REVENUE
ANALYSIS
Total revenue in 2008/09 was £1,202m, an increase
of 21% reported, 7% underlying. Exchange rates
beneﬁted revenue by £138m. Due to the global
economic slowdown in the fourth quarter of calendar
year 2008, Burberry’s sales slowed in the second half
(H1: up 13%; H2: up 2% underlying).
Retail
Retail sales grew by 14% on an underlying basis (30%
reported) in the year, contributing over half of total revenue
for the ﬁrst time. Comparable store sales increased 1%;
new space added 11% to growth, with Burberry Middle
East contributing the balance of 2%.
Comparable store sales increased by 1.1% in the year (H1:
up 3.4%; H2: down 0.5%). With good growth in outerwear
and the London Collection, the average unit price in
mainline stores continued to increase, although footfall was
down in many markets. As Burberry aggressively reduced
its inventory levels, this beneﬁted sales, especially in the
ﬁnal quarter of the year, albeit at lower gross margin.
Europe and Asia both delivered high single-digit
comparable store sales growth in the year, helped by
exceptional performances from the UK and Korea, driven
in part by favourable currency movements. After a strong
ﬁrst half (up double-digit percentage), the United States
market became more challenging. Stores in major
metropolitan areas such as New York and Chicago
continued to perform better than regional stores. Spain
remained a difﬁcult market (down double-digit percentage),
reﬂecting the tough economic environment.
During the year, Burberry opened a net 16 mainline stores,
excluding the six stores transferred from Burberry Middle
East, bringing the total to 119. The openings included
Burberry’s ﬁrst store in Canada (Vancouver), as well as ﬁve
trial childrenswear stores (two in the United States, two in
the Middle East and one in London). The number of
concessions in prestige department stores increased by
22, including additional childrenswear corners in Korea,
Taiwan and Spain and new or enlarged accessory corners
in key European department stores.
Net selling space at 31 March 2009 was nearly 850,000
square feet – an average increase of 14% year-on-year.
Two percentage points of this growth came from the
conversion of Burberry Middle East from wholesale to retail.
E-commerce is now live in over 25 countries and, although
currently small, has high growth potential.
Outlook
In the year to March 2010, Burberry plans to add 10-12%
to average selling space, including the stores now
operated by the Burberry Middle East joint venture (3-4%
of this increase). With a bias towards Asia and Americas,
the number of mainline stores in 2009/10 is planned to
increase by between 10 and 15 from 119 at the year end.
Revenue by channel of distribution
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2009 2008 reported underlying
Retail 629.7 484.4 30 14
Wholesale 489.2 426.2 15 2
Licensing 82.6 84.8 (3) (9)
Total 1,201.5 995.4 21 7
As previously announced, the Burberry Middle East joint venture was formed on 30 September 2008. This transaction marginally increased total underlying sales in the year
(slight positive impact in retail; slight negative impact in wholesale) BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
36
Wholesale
Wholesale revenue, which contributed about 40% of total
sales in the year, increased by 15% on a reported and 2%
on an underlying basis (H1: up 15%; H2: down 11%). All
regions except Spain showed double-digit growth in the
ﬁrst half. As the environment became more challenging in
the second half, wholesale revenue declined in all regions
except Emerging Markets. This was due in part to more
conservative inventory management by department store
partners, lower replenishment and re-orders and continued
rationalisation of European independent specialty stores.
Supply chain improvements enabled earlier and more
frequent deliveries, mitigating the risk of cancellations and
increasing wholesale customers’ regular price selling cycle,
enhancing the relative proﬁtability of the Burberry brand.
In partnership with local franchisees, Burberry opened a
net eight stores during the year, in markets such as India,
China (including a ﬂagship store in Jinbao Place in Beijing)
and Turkey (including a trial childrenswear store). At
31 March 2009, there were 81 franchise stores around the
world, with mid single-digit comparable store sales growth.
Saudi Arabia and China were particularly strong. In line
with global trends, trading in all Emerging Markets became
more challenging during the second half. About 15 franchise
store openings are planned for 2009/10.
Outlook
Burberry projects wholesale revenue at constant exchange
rates in the six months to 30 September 2009 to be down
around 15% on a comparable basis. This reﬂects wholesale
customers adjusting their inventory levels in line with the
current economic environment and sales trends. This
projected outcome excludes the impact of actions under
the cost efﬁciency programme, such as the closure of
Thomas Burberry; the continued planned rationalisation
of many small speciality accounts in Europe; and the
conversion of Burberry Middle East from wholesale to
retail. Including these actions and closures, ﬁrst half
wholesale revenue is planned down around 25% at
constant exchange rates.
Licensing
Total licensing revenue in the year declined by 9% on an
underlying basis (down 3% reported), in line with guidance.
The planned non-renewal of menswear licences accounted
for three percentage points of the decline, as Burberry
moves towards a single global menswear collection.
Department store sales in Japan weakened during
the year, resulting in lower royalty income in both apparel
and non-apparel. Global product licences were broadly
unchanged year-on-year, including a successful launch
of Burberry The Beat for Men fragrance, building on
Burberry The Beat for Women last year.
Outlook
In the year to March 2010, Burberry expects reported
licensing revenue to increase year-on-year, including a
beneﬁt of about £17m from the Sterling:Yen exchange rate.
Underlying licensing revenue is projected to decline by
between 10% and 15%, reﬂecting continuing weakness in
Japan and further planned non-renewal of local menswear
licences, offset by growth from global product licences,
including new product launches in fragrance and eyewear.
REVENUE
ANALYSIS
CONTINUED 37
the difﬁcult environment and further rationalisation
of European specialty stores.
For the ﬁrst half of 2009/10, Burberry is planning to reduce
the number of small wholesale accounts by over 200 as
its own retail presence is strengthened, as minimum order
sizes are increased, credit terms are more carefully monitored
and non-core categories, including golf, are eliminated.
Spain
Revenue in Spain declined by 24% on an underlying
basis (11% reported), reﬂecting the continuing difﬁcult
economic environment.
Europe
Revenue in Europe increased by 17% on an underlying
basis (30% reported), with double-digit growth throughout
the year.
Retail contributed just over half of the region’s revenue,
helped by an exceptional performance in the London
stores. This was driven in part by favourable currency and
increased tourism, as well as focused investment in new
stores (Westﬁeld opened in December 2008), new
concessions in premier department stores and the
refurbishment of Knightsbridge. After a strong ﬁrst half,
wholesale revenue declined in the second half, reﬂecting
Revenue by region
Revenue by origin of business
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2009 2008 reported
EMEA* 443.6 364.5 22
Spain 163.9 172.8 (5)
Americas 302.0 231.6 30
Asia Pacific 292.0 226.5 29
Total 1,201.5 995.4 21
* Excluding Spain, including Burberry Middle East
Retail/wholesale revenue by destination
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2009 2008 reported underlying
Europe* 379.8 291.8 30 17
Spain 144.5 161.6 (11) (24)
Americas 304.7 234.8 30 9
Asia Pacific 240.0 189.1 27 17
Rest of World
#
49.9 33.3 50 40
Total retail/wholesale 1,118.9 910.6 23 8
* Excluding Spain
#
Including Burberry Middle East
Comments on pages 37 and 38 refer to revenue by destination which better reflects the regional demand for Burberry products BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
38
REVENUE
ANALYSIS
CONTINUED
Retail sales accounted for just over 40% of Spain’s revenue,
with the majority coming from over 100 womenswear,
non-apparel and childrenswear concessions.
Comparable store sales were down double-digit throughout
the year. Underlying wholesale revenue declined 30%
year-on-year, as the number of domestic independent retail
customers declined by more than 10% for Spring/Summer
2009 – a more rapid contraction than in past seasons.
A major part of the cost efﬁciency programme relates to
Spain, where headcount has been reduced by about one
third. By working more closely with London in areas such
as supply chain and planning and with greater
synchronisation with the global collections, Burberry
continues to focus and strengthen its product offer in
what is expected to remain a challenging market in the
current ﬁnancial year.
Americas
Revenue in the Americas increased by 30% on a reported
basis and 9% underlying (H1: up 23%; H2: down 2%).
Retail contributed about three-quarters of Americas’ revenue.
Comparable store sales were up double-digit in the ﬁrst
half but reversed in the second half, reﬂecting the slowdown
in the economy from Autumn 2008. A net ten stores were
opened and several were renovated in key markets such
as the West Coast (Beverly Hills and Costa Mesa).
Wholesale revenue showed a similar pattern to retail as
department store partners took a more conservative
approach to inventory management in the second half, with
lower than anticipated replenishment and fewer re-orders.
Burberry believes it continues to gain share in this market,
as its teams focus on increasing productivity in its partners’
best performing stores and on gaining space for core and
new product categories.
The Americas team made excellent operational progress
in the year. It expanded operations into Canada and took
initial steps to integrate South America – both markets
where Burberry is very under-penetrated. In addition, in
April 2009, SAP went live in retail and distribution and
the regional headquarters moved to new showrooms
and ofﬁces at 444 Madison Avenue.
Asia Paciﬁc
Asia Paciﬁc revenue increased by 17% on an underlying
basis (27% reported), with double-digit growth throughout
the year.
Retail and wholesale channels grew evenly, with retail
accounting for over half of the region’s revenue. Korea,
Burberry’s largest Asian retail market outside Japan, grew
strongly in the year (with comparable store sales up by
over 20%), beneﬁting from the repositioning of the
business, especially in non-apparel. Favourable currency
movements led to an increase in the number of Japanese
luxury tourists and encouraged the local luxury consumer
to travel less and spend more in Korea. Hong Kong was
more challenging, while Australia and Singapore performed
well. In wholesale, the duty free market was weak, offset
by increased sales to Burberry’s Chinese franchise partner.
China remained strong, with comparable store sales up
double-digit percentage, an aggressive store renovation
programme and a net two store openings.
Operationally, the management team was further
strengthened and consolidated in the regional head ofﬁce;
SAP and the new regional distribution hub in Hong Kong
went live in November 2008; and improved planning
increased the consistency and proﬁtability of the
product offer. 39
Non-apparel (33% of sales)
Non-apparel revenue grew by 12% underlying – contributing
the largest increase in sales. Handbags led this growth,
due to improved merchandising, the new partnership buy
and increased innovation in the core and newly launched
iconic programmes. Improved planning and replenishment
processes added to this performance, as did further
development of a complete shoe assortment (from runway
through Collection to Lifestyle) and a positive response to
new categories such as jewellery and men’s accessories.
Childrenswear/Other (4% of sales)
Childrenswear grew by 55% on an underlying basis,
albeit from a small base. Burberry continues to build
and balance out the global product assortment and the
required organisation and infrastructure to capitalise on
this long-term growth opportunity, especially in large
department stores.
Womenswear (37% of sales)
Womenswear grew by 6% on an underlying basis, driven
by outerwear, dresses and tailored jacket categories.
Prorsum continued to receive strong press and editorial
coverage, reinforcing brand momentum. The London
Collection performed well, driven by modern designs and
the new innovative branding. The large Lifestyle business
saw early success with the expansion of Sport and the
new denim strategy.
Menswear (26% of sales)
Menswear revenue grew by 5% underlying, with strong
performances from the outerwear and knitwear categories.
New, more contemporary ﬁts and innovative design drove
outerwear penetration. Burberry continues to establish
the London Collection as an authoritative tailored suiting
business, as it takes control of and further develops
products previously under licence, such as tailoring,
shirts and ties.
Retail/wholesale revenue by product category
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2009 2008 reported underlying
Womenswear 412.8 345.2 20 6
Menswear 298.4 247.8 20 5
Non-apparel 366.3 289.7 26 12
Childrenswear/Other 41.4 27.9 48 37
Total retail/wholesale 1,118.9 910.6 23 8 Corporate functions
Further progress was made in 2008/09 by the corporate
functions in supporting the brand and teams around the
world. This was facilitated by the move to Horseferry
House in December 2008 which brought all the corporate
teams together in one building for the ﬁrst time and
exempliﬁes the full expression of the Burberry brand
experience. The new aesthetic showcased at Horseferry
House can also be seen in the recent store renovations,
including Beverly Hills, Los Angeles and the Knightsbridge
ﬂagship in London.
Within marketing, the teams have continued to focus on
delivering a clear consistent message across all forms of
media highlighting all product divisions while reinforcing
the authenticity of Burberry’s core British icons. The press
teams have further increased Burberry’s editorial coverage
with a 30% increase in the number of magazine covers
featuring Burberry product year-on-year. Burberry
successfully launched a VIP programme which has further
increased the exposure and supported the elevation of the
brand. Reﬂecting changes in consumer communication a
digital dimension has been added. For example, the launch
of the fragrance Burberry The Beat for Men was enhanced
by proactive use of digital media and social networking sites.
Burberry’s investment in its supply chain continues to
drive efﬁciencies throughout procurement and distribution,
delivering a signiﬁcant contribution to the Group’s cost
efﬁciency programme. The team continues to modernise
the supplier base globally, particularly in the UK and Spain.
Within logistics, the Asian distribution hub was established
in October 2008 and a global carrier programme was
launched to signiﬁcantly drive savings in transportation costs.
Within corporate resources, our sales and productivity
team has led projects to drive retail proﬁtability, developing
and testing a sales and service programme which will be
implemented globally during 2009/10. The human resources
and organisational development teams professionally
implemented the global cost efﬁciency programme, while
continuing to attract and retain our talent. In addition,
the facilities and security teams were reinforced to
support the running of the new global headquarters.
The IT team continued to implement Burberry’s global
IT programme with Hong Kong going live in late 2008,
the United States in April 2009 and the rest of Asia will
follow during the remainder of the year. The European
region, which has been live on the global solution since
October 2007, is starting to realise the beneﬁts of
year-on-year comparable data and increased visibility
of its operations.
During the year, Burberry also began to invest in a global
planning function to further reinforce the shift to a retail-led
model and to enable a tighter control and management of
inventory. Leveraging data from the global IT solution, certain
early efﬁciencies have been identiﬁed, including a signiﬁcant
reduction in style options, reduced purchases, improved
replenishment processes and monthly ﬂow disciplines.
Cost efﬁciency programme
In January 2009, Burberry announced a global cost
efﬁciency programme to deliver annual savings of about
£50m to underpin proﬁtability in 2009/10 and beyond.
The implementation of this programme is well advanced
and total planned beneﬁts and costs are in line with
previous guidance.
There are two main parts to this programme:
• Accelerating the beneﬁts from investments made in
supply chain, IT and infrastructure to deliver some
£15-20m of annual savings:
– With about half from supply chain: changing the
default for shipping from air to sea where
appropriate; consolidating distribution centres;
and improving sourcing by further rationalisation
of the supplier base
– The balance of savings will come from corporate
processes, such as: changing the Prorsum
business model; implementing an integrated design
process; and rolling out the partnership buy model
where the regions work early on in conjunction with
the product divisions to develop a more targeted
assortment, reducing style and option counts
• Cost reduction initiatives to deliver some £30-35m
of annual savings, having:
– Restructured the Spanish operations, by
modernising the supply chain, closing the
underperforming Thomas Burberry brand after
Spring/Summer 2009 and streamlining operations
to reﬂect the lower level of sales in this market
– Rationalised internal manufacturing facilities
– Closed one European showroom
– Reduced corporate headcount
– Controlling expenses, including a headcount freeze
and a focus on all areas of discretionary spend
REVENUE
ANALYSIS
CONTINUED
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
40 41
Adjusted operating proﬁt was £180.8m in 2008/09,
including a £10.6m beneﬁt from exchange rates. The
adjusted operating margin fell to 15.0% reﬂecting a
reduced proportion of revenue from higher margin
licensing and a lower retail/wholesale operating margin.
Total operating proﬁt
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2009 2008 reported underlying
Retail/wholesale 110.1 135.6 (19) (23)
Licensing 70.7 70.6 nc (7)
Adjusted operating proﬁt 180.8 206.2 (12) (17)
Adjusted operating margin 15.0% 20.7%
Other items (190.7) (4.5)
Operating (loss)/proﬁt (9.9) 201.7
operating
profit analysis
To date, some 800 employees have left the Group:
nearly 300 in Spain; 400 in internal manufacturing; and
the balance across corporate functions and in the regions.
This represents nearly 15% of the total workforce.
Of the annual savings, about 70% will beneﬁt operating
expenses, with the balance to gross margin.
The total proﬁt and loss charge associated with this
programme remains at about £60m. £55m has been
charged in 2008/09, with the balance to be charged in
2009/10. Cash costs of £16m were incurred in 2008/09,
with about £35m expected in 2009/10. Regional operating expenses as a percentage of sales
were broadly unchanged year-on-year.
Corporate expenses as a percentage of sales declined
materially, excluding one-off costs of £10.0m associated
with the move to Horseferry House and the implementation
of SAP . An increase in the expense ratio, due to continued
investment in areas such as design and supply chain, as
well as the full year impact of the investments made in the
corporate team during 2007/08, was more than offset by:
• Tight management of discretionary expenses
• A near £20m reduction in bonus and
performance-related share scheme costs
For 2009/10, Burberry expects operating expenses as a
percentage of sales to increase, reﬂecting:
• The previously announced projected decline in ﬁrst half
wholesale revenue, which, combined with a cautious
outlook for retail sales, results in operating deleverage
• The proportional shift in mix from wholesale to retail, a
higher cost channel
• Partly offset by about £35m of beneﬁts from the cost
efﬁciency programme
Retail/wholesale adjusted operating margin was 9.8%
in 2008/09, with pressure on gross margin offset in part
by tight management of discretionary expenses.
Gross margin
Gross margin in retail and wholesale combined declined
by 640 basis points for the year (H1: 340 basis points; H2:
880 basis points). Further sourcing beneﬁts were achieved,
protecting the initial margin despite currency pressures.
However, these beneﬁts were more than offset by a lower
proportion of full price sales, especially in the second half.
For 2009/10, Burberry expects an improvement in the
gross margin, second half weighted, based on:
• More focused assortments, very conservative planning
and lower procurement of inventory for Autumn/Winter
2009 (which starts shipping in June 2009), leading to
less clearance activity
• A further shift from wholesale to retail, a higher
gross margin channel
• About £15m of beneﬁts from the cost
efﬁciency programme
Operating expenses
In 2008/09, about three-quarters of Burberry’s operating
expenses were incurred in the regions, with the balance in
the corporate teams, including design, product development,
merchandising, marketing, supply chain, logistics and IT,
as well as central functions such as ﬁnance, corporate
resources and legal.
Retail/wholesale adjusted operating proﬁt
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2009 2008 reported
Revenue 1,118.9 910.6 23
Cost of sales (535.7) (377.7) (42)
Gross margin 583.2 532.9 9
Gross margin % 52.1% 58.5%
Horseferry/SAP costs (10.0) ––
Other operating expenses (463.1) (397.3) (16)
Adjusted operating proﬁt 110.1 135.6 (19)
Other operating expenses as percentage of sales 41.4% 43.6%
Adjusted operating margin 9.8% 14.9%
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
42
operating
profit analysis
CONTINUED 43
• £116.2m relating to the impairment of Spanish
goodwill, reflecting an increasingly challenging
economic environment in that market
• £13.4m relating to store impairments and onerous
lease provisions, broadly split half in Europe and half
in the United States
• £1.7m credit on the negative goodwill on the formation
of Burberry Middle East
• £7.9m additional provision for onerous leases on
vacant properties resulting from the relocation of
the global headquarters. This charge reflects the
deterioration in the London commercial property
market during the last year
About 70% of these charges are non-cash items, with the
exception of part of the restructuring charge (£16m spent
in 2008/09; about £35m expected in 2009/10) and the
onerous lease provisions.
As outlined earlier, underlying licensing revenue was down
9% (down 3% reported). Exchange rates beneﬁted both
revenue and gross margin by £5.1m. Due to a reduction
in operating expenses, operating margin was 85.6%
in the year.
Year to 31 March
£ million 2009 2008
Restructuring costs (54.9) –
Goodwill impairment charge (116.2) –
Store impairments (13.4) –
Negative goodwill 1.7 –
Relocation of headquarters (7.9) 15.1
Atlas costs – (19.6)
(190.7) (4.5)
During 2008/09, Burberry incurred the following
costs/credits:
• £54.9m restructuring charge relating to its cost
efficiency programme. Of this, about £35m is
redundancy and other direct costs, with the
balance being asset write-offs and provisions
Licensing operating proﬁt
Year to 31 March Year to 31 March 2009
£ million 2009 2008 At constant FX
Revenue 82.6 84.8 77.5
Cost of sales –––
Gross margin 82.6 84.8 77.5
Gross margin % 100% 100%
Operating expenses (11.9) (14.2) (11.9)
Operating proﬁt 70.7 70.6 65.6
Operating margin 85.6% 83.3%
Other items At 31 March 2009, inventory was £263m, compared to
£331m at 30 September 2008 and £269m at 31 March
2008. This is a year-on-year reduction of 19% (or £50m)
at constant exchange rates, even after 14% space growth.
Major outflows were capital expenditure of £90m
(2008: £49m), including £23m on Horseferry House in
2008/09. Tax paid at £26m was lower (2008: £53m) and
dividends were slightly higher (£52m compared to £47m
in 2008). There was no share buyback during the year
(2008: £40m).
For the year to March 2010, capital expenditure, excluding
Japan, is now planned at about £60m, in line with Burberry’s
normalised spend, as Burberry takes advantage of better
real estate terms from developers around the world.
In March 2009, Burberry successfully refinanced its £200m
multi-currency revolving credit facility. It now has banking
facilities totalling £260m, of which £60m matures in June
2011 and the refinanced £200m matures in June 2012.
These facilities will ensure the Group has adequate liquidity
to meet its operating and financial needs over this period.
Taxation
In the year to 31 March 2009, Burberry had a tax credit
of £11m, comprising:
• A tax charge of £42m on adjusted profit before tax
of £175m, giving a tax rate of 23.8% (2008: 30.1%).
The year-on-year decline is due to a different
geographical mix of profits and lower corporate
tax rates in some countries
• A tax credit of £20m relating to certain of the other
items detailed above
• One-off tax credits totalling £33m due to a prior year
adjustment (as disclosed in the interim results in
November 2008) and arising on a reorganisation within
the Group. These credits will reduce cash tax payable
in 2009/10 by about £23m
Cash flow and net debt
Net cash at 31 March 2009 was £7.6m, compared to
net debt of £114.3m at 30 September 2008 and net debt
of £64.2m at 31 March 2008, benefiting mainly from
management’s intense focus on reducing inventory.
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
44
operating
profit analysis
CONTINUED
Store portfolio
Directly-operated stores
Mainline stores Concessions Outlets Total Franchise stores
At 31 March 2008 97 231 40 368 79
Additions 21 29 10 60 13
Closures (5) (7) (3) (15) (5)
Transfers* 6–– 6 (6)
At 31 March 2009 119 253 47 419 81
Store portfolio by region
Directly-operated stores
At 31 March 2009 Mainline stores Concessions Outlets Total Franchise stores
Europe
#
32 25 16 73 12
Spain 6 131 5 142 –
Americas 57 – 22 79 –
Asia Pacific 14 97 4 115 54
Rest of World 10 –– 10 15
Total 119 253 47 419 81
* Six stores operated by Burberry Middle East at 1 October 2008, which have been reclassified as mainline stores
#
Excluding Spain
Sales to franchise stores reported in wholesale revenue 45
the implementation of which is well advanced and is in
line to provide the business with the planned beneﬁts.
There is a risk of over-reliance on key trading partners
In a number of key product categories Burberry is reliant
on a small number of suppliers. During the year, the Group
continued to strengthen its supply chain management
team to enable the further evolution and development
of the manufacturing base and also to mitigate the risk
associated with over-reliance on a number of key product
suppliers. Where suitable alternatives exist, the Group has
reduced volumes with such suppliers and continues to
look for suitable additional alternatives where necessary.
The Group has a number of key customers whose
business represents a substantial portion of sales.
The Group dedicates resources to these customers
and maintains close relationships with such customers
to understand and respond to their needs.
The Group closely manages its relationships with key
suppliers and customers which includes monitoring
their ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial performance.
A substantial proportion of the Group’s revenue
and proﬁts is reliant upon business in Japan and
key global licensees
A signiﬁcant source of proﬁt is derived from the royalties
received from licensees, speciﬁcally the Group’s licensees
in Japan, and the fragrance licensee InterParfums S.A.
Burberry relies upon licensees, among other things, to
maintain operational and ﬁnancial control over their
businesses. Should these licensees fail to effectively
manage their operations the Group’s income from royalties
would decline. Failure to manage these key relationships
effectively could have a material impact on the sales,
proﬁtability and reputation of the Group.
To minimise the risks in Japan, Burberry has its own
ofﬁces and operations in Tokyo and closely monitors
its relationships with licensees. The Group regularly
implements royalty reviews and audits of licensees, but
cannot guarantee that they will reveal any non-compliance
with the terms of the relevant licence.
In key emerging markets, including China and the
Middle East, Burberry is largely dependent upon
third-party operators with the associated lack of
direct control and transparency
In key emerging markets, Burberry operates through
third-party franchisees. In particular, a third-party retail
operation has been developed in China. The Group largely
depends upon the expertise of these franchisees given its
relative lack of experience in this region. During the year, the
Group has strengthened its resources internally, and where
appropriate has its own staff based within these operations
who work closely with franchisees to further develop
operational models to enable greater control and visibility.
RISKS
The management of the business and the execution
of the Group’s growth strategies are subject to a
number of risks, the occurrence of any one of which
may adversely affect the management of the Group
and the execution of growth strategies.
The key business risks affecting the Group are set out
below. The steps the Group takes to address these risks,
where they are matters within its control, are also
described. Such steps will mitigate but not eliminate these
risks. Some of the risks relate to external factors which are
beyond the Group’s control. The order of the risks is in no
way an indication of their relative importance, and each of
the risks should be considered independently. If more than
one of the events contemplated by the risks set out below
occurs, it is possible that the combined overall effect of
such events may be compounded.
Risks are formally reviewed by the Group Risk Committee,
whose membership includes the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,
Executive Vice President – Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, Executive
Vice President of Corporate Resources, Senior Vice
President of Supply Chain, Senior Vice President
Commercial Affairs and General Counsel and Director
of Audit and Risk Assurance. At the invitation of the
Committee, the Director of Intellectual Property, Head of
Corporate Responsibility, Head of Risk Management and
representatives from other assurance teams regularly
attend meetings. The assessment of the Group’s risks and
the processes in place for management and mitigation of
these risks are considered by the Audit Committee on a
regular basis. Key business risks are also considered by
the Audit Committee and are considered generally as part
of the Group’s strategic development and ongoing
business review processes.
The global economic downturn has affected
consumers’ purchases of discretionary luxury items
which has adversely affected Burberry’s sales in
certain markets
In common with all Burberry’s competitors, the global
economic downturn has affected the level of consumer
spending on discretionary luxury items. During a recession,
when disposable income is lower, a global downturn will
adversely affect Burberry’s sales in certain markets.
A signiﬁcant proportion of the Group’s sales are
generated by customers (in particular Middle Eastern,
Russian, Japanese, Chinese and other Asian customers)
who purchase products while travelling either overseas
or domestically. As a result, shifts in travel patterns or
a decline in travel volumes could materially affect
trading results.
During the year, the Group announced a global cost
efﬁciency programme to underpin future proﬁtability, RISKS
46
During the year, the Group established a company in the
Middle East with its longstanding franchisee to enable both
parties to capitalise on further opportunities in certain parts
of the Middle East.
Burberry could suffer if its supply chain is unable to
produce and deliver goods at a competitive price,
on time and to its speciﬁcation
Burberry continues to evolve its sourcing strategy, reﬁning
its selection of suppliers to maintain and enhance product
quality whilst improving sourcing efﬁciency. During the year,
the Group announced a global cost efﬁciency programme
which included the restructuring of its Spanish operations
and consolidation of its UK manufacturing operations; the
implementation of these initiatives is well advanced. These
initiatives may adversely affect relationships with existing
suppliers during the transition period. If Burberry’s suppliers
failed to ship products on time, or quality is substandard,
this could result in the Group missing delivery dates to its
customers, potentially resulting in cancelled orders or price
reductions. Further, such a failure could affect wholesale
customers’ conﬁdence which could adversely affect
subsequent seasons’ sales. The Group continues to
rationalise its distribution network to minimise unnecessary
costs and to improve delivery timeliness and accuracy.
During the year, the Group established a global planning
function to further improve inventory management
processes and effective product ﬂow, facilitated by
improved reporting and visibility provided by SAP . Further
opportunities exist to improve inventory management
processes and these will help ensure that the Group
continues to produce merchandise of the right quality,
in accordance with its ethical policy and delivered
in accordance with its requirements.
The inability to anticipate and respond to changes
in consumer demand and product category trends
on a timely basis could adversely impact sales
The Group’s business depends, in part, on the ability
to shape, stimulate and anticipate consumer demand by
producing innovative, fashionable and functional products.
Categories are cyclical, so it is critical the Group builds
responsive product teams to exploit trending categories,
launch new categories and balance core apparel and
non-apparel categories. The Burberry Check and
outerwear are both an integral part of the brand’s success.
The Group has evolved its design calendar to enable
increased product refreshment and replenishment so as
to be more responsive to fashion and consumer trends
and to respond more efﬁciently to changing circumstances
and to reduce the risks associated with placing excessive
capacity with key product suppliers.
Burberry continues to protect its classic core market
by adding innovation to further stimulate sales to current
customers, while attracting new customers to the brand.
The Group balances and plans all categories and brand
icons through a strict product hierarchy. To continue brand
momentum, and to protect market share in apparel and
non-apparel categories, the Group features outerwear
and the Burberry Check icons as part of seasonal
marketing initiatives.
Burberry’s operating results are subject to seasonal
ﬂuctuations and vary based on the weather
In recent years, the world has seen more unpredictable
global weather patterns. Burberry’s business, particularly
with respect to apparel, broadly operates on a seasonal
basis (Spring/Summer and Autumn/Winter) and the Group
has experienced, and expects to continue to experience,
substantial seasonal ﬂuctuations in sales and operating
results. In particular, results vary based on the weather
because of the large proportion of outerwear products
Burberry offers and the effect of the weather on retail
markets generally. As a result of these ﬂuctuations,
comparisons of sales and operating results between different
periods within a single ﬁnancial year are not necessarily
meaningful. In addition, these comparisons cannot be relied
on as indicators of the Group’s future performance.
The cumulative change and signiﬁcant growth
within the business places a signiﬁcant pressure
on resources
The combination of the continued development of the
Group’s IT infrastructure, the development of the global
supply chain and the implementation of the global cost
efﬁciency programme combine to exert signiﬁcant pressure
on the business. Governance processes have been put in
place for each major programme to monitor and manage
the progress of these initiatives and these are
supplemented by monthly operational meetings with senior
management to review operational performance. The
senior management team has been strengthened to further
support these key initiatives and external consultants are
used to supplement internal skills where required.
Burberry is dependent on the strength of its
trademarks and other intellectual property rights
Burberry’s trademarks and other proprietary rights are
fundamentally important to the success and competitive
position of the business. Unauthorised use of the
‘Burberry’ name, the Burberry Check and the Prorsum
horse logo as well as the distribution of counterfeit
products damage the Burberry brand image and proﬁts.
If a third-party registers one of the Group’s trademarks, or
similar trademarks, in a country where the Group does not
currently trade, this would create a barrier to commencing
trade under those marks in that country. In addition,
if a third-party publishes harmful material using our
trademarks, Burberry’s brand image could suffer. 47
Burberry faces increasingly intense competition
Competition in the luxury goods sector has intensiﬁed in
recent years and Burberry is faced with increasing
competition in many of our product categories and
markets. The Group competes with international luxury
goods groups who control a number of luxury brands and
may have greater ﬁnancial resources and bargaining power
with suppliers, wholesale accounts and landlords. If
Burberry is unable to compete successfully, operating
results and growth may be adversely impacted.
Burberry is exposed to foreign currency ﬂuctuations
Burberry derives a signiﬁcant percentage of its proﬁts from
its Japanese licensing arrangements. As a consequence,
the Group is exposed to a signiﬁcant risk associated with
the Yen to Sterling exchange rate.
In addition, the Group is continuing to expand its
operations in the United States and Europe as part of its
strategy to accelerate retail expansion in key under-
penetrated markets. As the Group’s presence in the
United States and Europe increases, it is exposed to an
increased risk associated with the US Dollar to Sterling
exchange rate and Euro to Sterling exchange rate.
The Group manages a signiﬁcant proportion of the foreign
currency exposures by the use of forward exchange
contracts. Currency ﬂuctuations affecting the Yen, Euro,
US Dollar and other currencies will nevertheless affect
results and proﬁtability.
The Group relies upon its licensees, suppliers,
franchisees, distributors and agents to comply with
relevant legislation
The Group expects its licensees, suppliers, franchisees,
distributors and agents to comply with employment and
other laws relating to their country of operation and to
operate to good ethical standards. The Group, however,
is unable to guarantee that this is the case, although it
is improving its processes to gain assurance that its
licensees, suppliers, franchisees, distributors and agents
comply with its terms and conditions and relevant local
legislation and good practice.
Major incident
A signiﬁcant incident such as a natural catastrophe, global
pandemic or terrorist attack affecting one or more of
the Group’s key locations could signiﬁcantly impact the
operation of our businesses. In such circumstances,
the uninterrupted operation of the business cannot be
ensured, particularly in the short term. Business continuity
plans are in place to mitigate but not eliminate the
operational risks.
The Group has a dedicated team operating internationally
to register and protect its trademarks and other intellectual
property rights. Where infringements are identiﬁed, the
Group resolves these through a mixture of criminal and
civil legal action and negotiated settlement.
Nevertheless, it is not possible to guarantee that the
actions taken to establish and protect the Group’s
trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate
to prevent imitation of Burberry’s products by others.
Trademarks and intellectual property rights, while subject
to international treaties, are largely driven by national law
and the protection of intellectual property rights varies from
one jurisdiction to another. The Group cannot therefore
necessarily be as effective in all jurisdictions in addressing
counterfeit products. In many territories the Group is
dependent upon the vigilance and responsiveness of law
enforcement bodies whose priorities may differ from the
Group’s. They are also subject to budgetary constraints
and prioritise their actions accordingly. Whilst the Group
works closely with customs and other law enforcement
bodies, ultimately the Group cannot direct their actions.
Burberry may be unable to control its wholesale
and licence distribution channels satisfactorily
The Group relies upon the ability to control its distribution
networks and licensees to ensure that products are sold
in environments consistent with the Group’s luxury image.
An action by any signiﬁcant wholesale customer or
licensee, such as presenting Burberry products in a
manner inconsistent with our preferred positioning,
would be damaging to our brand image. If, due to
regulatory, legal or other constraints, the Group is in any
way unable to control its wholesale distribution networks
and licensees, the Burberry brand image, and therefore
results and proﬁtability, may be adversely affected.
If Burberry loses key management or is unable to
attract and retain the talent required for its business,
its operating results could suffer
Burberry’s performance depends largely on its senior
managers and design teams. The resignation of key
individuals and the inability to recruit people with the right
experience and skills to facilitate future business growth
could adversely impact Burberry’s results. To mitigate
these issues the Remuneration Committee regularly
benchmarks the Group’s incentive schemes against the
market and considers the framework in place to recruit,
incentivise and retain key individuals. In addition, there
is an ongoing recruitment and succession planning
programme overseen by the Executive Vice President
of Corporate Resources and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer to
ensure that the Group strengthens and develops its senior
management team by identifying, developing and nurturing
high potential talent. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
48
One of Burberry’s ﬁve key strategies is pursuing
operational excellence. Operational excellence
has ﬁve important areas of focus:
• Healthy business partnerships: based on shared
values and high ethical standards
• Environmental excellence: operating efﬁciently with
minimum waste and maximum control
• Excellence in people management: attracting and
retaining talented employees
• Excellent products and service: quality, craftsmanship,
heritage and service standards
• Contributing to society: investing and engaging in the
communities Burberry serves
For more information on Burberry Corporate Responsibility
(‘CR’) policies, performance and case studies, please
visit the corporate responsibility section of
www.burberryplc.com
Clear management
Michael Mahony, Senior Vice President Commercial Affairs
& General Counsel is accountable for CR matters on behalf
of Burberry and the Board. He chairs the CR Committee
which formally reports to the Group Risk Committee. The
CR Committee held three meetings during the year. Two
supplementary committees, the Environment and Supply
Chain Risk sub-committees, are responsible for these two
more detailed topics. Both sub-committees make formal
reports to the CR Committee.
The Group employs a CR team of nine people. The team
is active in the areas of supply chain, environmental and
community management and draws on external
independent advice.
Key policies, such as those on Environment, Ethical
Trading, Employee Volunteering and Exotic Materials –
are reviewed and approved by executive management.
• Reduced CO2 emissions from the Group’s buildings
by 13% per £1,000 of turnover
• Conducted 487 factory visits during the past year
• Launched the Burberry Foundation
• Established an intern programme
• Reduced air travel for UK employees by 17%
per £1,000 of turnover
• Moved to new headquarters at Horseferry House,
reducing environmental footprint
• Founding member of Luxury Brands
Sustainability Group
Highlights of the year
More information at
www.burberryplc.com 49
Environment
Burberry’s largest environmental impact areas include
carbon emissions (linked to energy use, travel and
distribution network), solid waste and the use of bulk
materials such as packaging.
The Environment Committee reviews all key impacts
quarterly, tracking reductions and initiating new projects.
2008/09 Results
• Packaging: Burberry launched a packaging project
to reduce the amount of transit packaging used. The
re-use of boxes, a switch from plastic to paper tape to
seal boxes and reduced thickness of plastic on security
bags by 25% saved costs and environmental impacts.
• Corporate headquarters: During 2008, Burberry
relocated to new Corporate headquarters at Horseferry
House, London. The building was designed with many
energy-saving features, such as ambient light sensors,
efﬁcient cooling, light timers and video conferencing
facilities. The chemicals used for cleaning have been
reduced, the recycled content of stationery improved
and ‘binless’ ofﬁces have improved recycling.
Horseferry House and its operational efﬁciencies are
the standard for all Burberry ofﬁces globally.
• Energy: Energy audits were comissioned at UK
manufacturing and warehousing sites and followed up
with an energy-saving programme which included the
installation of energy-saving compressors.
• Waste reduction: Renewed focus on increasing recycling
globally. In the UK, recycled waste has increased its
share of total waste to 42%. This was achieved against a
back drop of increased waste overall due to a number of
site re-organisations and centralising the London ofﬁce.
• Transport emissions: Burberry launched a sea vs air
shipping initiative which resulted in signiﬁcant savings
and reduced environmental impacts. New video
conferencing facilities at Horseferry House and key
regional ofﬁces in New York, Hong Kong and Barcelona
have enabled the reduction of business travel. As a
result monthly growth in air travel has reversed reducing
CO2 emissions.
Healthy business partnerships: supply chain
Burberry’s goal is to be as recognised for the excellence
of its supply chain as it is for its luxury products.
Burberry believes that its products should only be made in
factories that comply with local labour and environmental
laws and by workers who are paid a living wage, work fair
but not excessive hours and are provided with a safe and
hygienic work environment. All active Burberry suppliers
are governed by its ethical trading policy. This policy is
based upon internationally accepted codes and published
in full on our website at www.burberryplc.com under the
‘Corporate Responsibility’ section.
The majority of Burberry’s products are manufactured in
Europe through third-party suppliers. Burberry’s internal
team and third-party experts monitor and audit suppliers
to assure compliance with its standards. Increasingly
suppliers are taking part in capacity building programmes
to improve their businesses and in turn compliance with
Burberry’s policy. Burberry engages in many industry
initiatives and is a member of Business for Social
Responsibility (BSR). This Group works collectively
to address industry issues and improve standards.
2008/09 Results
• Factory visits: 487 factory visits to assure compliance
with the Burberry ethical trading policy.
• Stakeholder engagement: Active member of three
BSR working groups: Mills and Sundry Suppliers;
Luxury Brands; and Beyond Monitoring.
• Capacity building: 25 key suppliers took part in long
term capacity building programmes focused on training
for productivity, human resource management systems
and smarter communication.
• Worker hotline: Roll out of the Burberry conﬁdential
worker hotline in its suppliers’ factories, which act both
as a whistleblowing mechanism and counselling line.
• Pre-approval process: New suppliers are approved
by the CR team prior to working with Burberry.
487
314
100
2009
2008
2007
2006
2004
Number of CR visits/audits
Year to March CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
50
The data in these graphs comes from a combination of
automated and manual internal processes. The majority
is based on actual data, supplemented where necessary
by some approximations.
Organisational development: attracting and retaining
talented employees and customers
The corporate resources team supports the organisational
strategies to deliver the business results for the
organisation. A key focus is on attracting, retaining
and developing talent.
2008/09 Results
• Recruitment:
– An e-recruitment website was launched to more
efﬁciently and effectively source global talent.
– A corporate intern programme was launched for
recent graduates and undergraduate students.
• Organisational development:
– Talent review – a global assessment of capability
at senior levels and high potential individuals was
conducted throughout the organisation.
– Development programme – management
development skills workshops were designed,
developed and delivered.
– Evolving the organisation – the organisation
continued to develop in line with Burberry’s key
strategic themes, which included evolving the
supply chain and adding a new global
planning function.
• Working environment: Burberry’s new global
headquarters, Horseferry House, provides a safe,
efﬁcient and responsible working environment for
employees and visitors: high quality meeting space,
comfortable and well-designed workspace and
state-of-the-art videoconferencing, all contribute
to improved safety, improved communication and
a reduction in the need for international travel.
• The ‘Burberry Experience’: During the year, Burberry
piloted a global education and training programme
designed for and delivered to all retail staff to ensure
that the customer experience is in line with Burberry’s
brand standards and Burberry’s luxury positioning. The
pilot has been highly motivational for staff and results
have been promising. The plan is to continue to
roll-out the programme not only to all retail stores,
but to wholesale customers and all franchisees.
• Organisational effectiveness:
– In January 2009, Burberry announced a
global £50m cost efﬁciency programme across
all regions and corporate, aiming to deliver
streamlined operations in line with overall
demand, the most efﬁcient organisation through
tighter and more focused and ﬂexible teams,
and removing duplication of effort and inefﬁcient
processes. A signiﬁcant proportion of this
included restructuring of Spanish operations
and consolidation of UK manufacturing.
– Due to the number of employees impacted it was
necessary to enter into collective consultations in
a number of regions. Business, employee and HR
representatives worked closely to agree roles and
terms and conditions beyond legal requirement.
Employees were fully and proactively supported
throughout with outplacement support, individual
consultation, and redeployment opportunities
where possible.
Health and safety
In addition to attracting and retaining talented employees
Burberry also ensures a healthy and safe environment for
all employees. Burberry has a formal health and safety
audit process and programme that ensures all UK
manufacturing sites and distribution centres are audited at
least annually with major ofﬁces and retail locations audited
at least once every three years. Overall UK audit scores
continued to improve as a result of the thorough
implementation of audit recommendations (prioritised
on the basis of risk) and improved overall processes.
The auditing programme has been extended to include
some major European retail stores and reviews were
undertaken by a third-party consultant in the United States
and key Asian markets. In addition, Burberry continues to
enhance accident reporting and assurance framework
for major operations.
Year to March (CO 2 kg per £1,000 of turnover)
19.6
22.6
22.7
2009
2008
2007
Global building energy CO 2
Year to March (CO 2 kg per £1,000 of turnover – UK based employees)
1.5
1.8
1.7
2009
2008
2007
Air travel CO 2 51
Contributing to society
In 2008 Burberry continued its practice of corporate
sponsorship worldwide by making targeted contributions
to local charities in the communities where Burberry
employees live and work. Charitable causes supported
by Burberry corporate sponsorship fall across a range of
needs, with special attention to the arts, education and
women’s and children’s health and well-being. Burberry’s
more than 200 instances of corporate giving include cash
donations and, where appropriate, product donation to
assist charity development through raising awareness.
To complement this wide base of giving, in 2008 Burberry
took steps to leverage its community impact by increasing
and focusing charitable activity through the new Burberry
Foundation. A registered charity in England and Wales, the
Burberry Foundation works to help young people realise
their dreams and potential through the power of their
creativity. The Foundation seeks to advance three key
goals for young people—to enable them to build
conﬁdence, make connections in their communities, and
grasp opportunities to succeed—by empowering them to
use their own intellectual creativity to imagine and achieve
their life goals.
The Burberry Foundation beneﬁts from the alignment
between the Burberry brand and its philanthropic strategy:
innovative, creative, and seeking programmes with broad
appeal, democratic values and vibrant futures.
The Burberry Foundation uses donations received from
Burberry and other benefactors to make strategic grants
and targeted donations of in-kind gifts and goods.
Burberry supports the work of the Foundation through a
comprehensive employee engagement programme that
enables and underwrites employee volunteering.
2008/09 Results
• Grantmaking: The Burberry Foundation focused
this year on three cities: London, New York City
and Hong Kong. The funding strategy for each city
identiﬁes unique local challenges to successful youth
development and supports charities with proven
programmes to address them. Wherever possible, the
Foundation partners with charities and social support
organisations to leverage grantmaking. Examples of
this include: support in London for Tower Hamlets
Summer University, Envision and IntoUniversity; in
New York for the Robin Hood Foundation and New
Yorkers for Children; and in Hong Kong for the KELY
Support Group, Junior Achievement Hong Kong and
the Changing Young Lives Foundation.
Product and supply chain standards
Since 1856 Burberry has strived to achieve the highest
quality standards in all components and stages of its
supply chain process.
2008/09 Results
• Raw materials: During the past year, Burberry has been
more efﬁcient with the use of raw materials, reducing
sampling and production wastage. Excess and out
of season raw materials were recycled into carpet
underlay or insulation.
• Fur: There has been and will continue to be occasions
where consumer tastes demand Burberry’s use of
natural hides. The Group believes that any materials
derived from animals should be produced without
inﬂicting cruelty or threatening the environment and will
not use natural hides if there is any concern that they
have been produced by the unacceptable treatment of
the animals. For this reason the Group does not source
such materials from China. Natural hides are carefully
sourced, safeguarding the correct ethical standards
and traceability. Fur is principally sourced from SAGA
furs in Finland who are known for upholding high
standards of ethical treatment of animals and share
the Group’s concerns about animal welfare. The farms
which supply fur are open to third-party inspections
at any time and have been visited this year by
Burberry’s team.
• Restricted substances: To ensure no harmful chemicals
are used or contained within Burberry products, the
Group issues all licensees, vendors and manufacturers
with a restricted substance list that prohibits the use of
certain substances. The list has been amended to
include the ﬁrst list of chemicals proposed for action
under the REACH Legislation. Burberry supports this
action with a programme of vendor self-certiﬁcation
backed up with our own compliance testing. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
52
• Employee engagement: In partnership with Foundation
supported charities, Burberry’s employees serve as
mentors to young people and volunteer for a range
of programmes. In addition to time served, employee
volunteers draw upon corporate resources to help
young people expand their horizons or gain
opportunity. For example, Burberry is the corporate
partner for job training courses that bring students
to Horseferry House for tours of the corporate
environment, mock interviews and shadow job
placements. Burberry designers host young people
for art and design courses in their studios and on the
showroom ﬂoor. Burberry stores serve as excellent
places to give young people exposure to retail
environments in preparation for entry-level jobs in the
sector. At holiday and school breaks, the Burberry
ofﬁces welcome young people from various charity
programmes and courses for celebration and
congratulations. In 2008/09, the Employee
Volunteering Programme’s ﬁrst year, Burberry staff
have volunteered a total of 350 hours to Foundation
supported charities.
• In-kind donations: The Burberry Foundation seeks to
channel products donated by Burberry to Foundation
supported charities. Donations are designed to be
both generous and strategic and range from smaller,
utilitarian products (such as materials for an art or
design course, or a luxury piece for a charity
fundraising auction) to large-scale programmes of
donation (such as tailored clothing donations to outﬁt
job training students so they can interview smartly and
arrive prepared for their ﬁrst weeks of work). The 2008
Christmas Coat Donation saw more than 500 coats
distributed in London, New York City, Hong Kong, and
Seoul across 12 different charities, ensuring that the
coats went to job training students in time to help
them begin their job search with conﬁdence.
• Ofﬁce equipment donations: Redundant ofﬁce furniture
and equipment from Burberry’s old ofﬁces were made
available to the Foundation supported charities for their
ofﬁces and programmes.
• Corporate donations: An ongoing part of doing
business is to selectively support customer-related
events and charitable causes. Each regional ofﬁce
has a discretionary budget which is approved and
tracked quarterly.
For a list of charities supported by the Burberry
Foundation, or for further information, please see
www.burberryfoundation.com.
Indirect donations Direct donations
Year to March (£ million)
1.2
0.6
0.2
2009
2008
2007
Community donations
Indirect donations are donations from third parties that have been
facilitated by Burberry
More information at
www.burberryfoundation.com  54
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 55
Ian Carter (47)*
†‡
Non-Executive Director
Ian Carter was appointed as a non-executive director
in April 2007. He is currently President of Hilton Hotels
Corporation Global Operations. He was previously CEO of
Hilton International Company and Executive Vice President
of Hilton Hotels Corporation, and was a director of Hilton
Group plc until the acquisition of Hilton International by
Hilton Hotels Corporation in February 2006. He previously
served as an Officer and President of Black & Decker
Corporation between 2001 and 2004.
Stephanie George (52)*
†‡
Non-Executive Director
Stephanie George was appointed as a non-executive
director in March 2006. She is currently Executive Vice
President of Time Inc., with responsibility for the publishing
divisions and overall management of People, In Style,
Entertainment Weekly, Real Simple, Essence and the Time
Inc. Media Group. Before this, Stephanie spent 12 years at
Fairchild Publications, first as publisher of W magazine and
then as President, Women’s Wear Daily Media Worldwide.
Stephanie also sits on the Board of Lincoln Center.
David Tyler (56)*
†‡
Non-Executive Director
David Tyler became a non-executive director in June 2002,
having been a director of the Company since 1997.
He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee in March 2007. David was Group Finance
Director of GUS plc from 1997 until its demerger in
October 2006. He is currently Chairman of Logica plc
and is also a non-executive director of Experian plc and
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. Earlier in his career, David
worked at Unilever plc, County NatWest Limited and
Christie’s International plc. He has an MA in Economics
from Cambridge, is a fellow of the Chartered Institute
of Management Accountants and a Member of the
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Key to membership of committees
* Audit Committee
†
Nomination Committee
‡
Remuneration Committee
John Peace (60)
†‡
Chairman
John Peace has been Chairman of the Board since June
2002 and is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is Chairman of the Board of Experian plc and is Acting
Chairman of Standard Chartered PLC. Previously he was
Group Chief Executive of GUS plc from 2000 until 2006.
John was appointed a non-executive director of First
American Corporation in March 2009.
Executive directors
Angela Ahrendts (48)
†
Chief Executive Officer
Angela Ahrendts became Chief Executive Officer in
July 2006, having served as an executive director since
January 2006. Angela previously held various senior
appointments, including the position of Executive Vice
President, at Liz Claiborne Inc between 1998 and 2006.
She was also Executive Vice President of Henri Bendel
from 1996 to 1998 and President of Donna Karan
International from 1989 to 1996.
Stacey Cartwright (45)
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Stacey Cartwright was appointed Chief Financial Officer
on 1 March 2004. She had previously been Chief Financial
Officer at Egg plc between 1999 and 2003, and from
1988 to 1999 she held various finance-related positions
at Granada Group plc.
Non-executive directors
Philip Bowman (56)*
†‡
Senior Independent Director
Philip Bowman was appointed as a non-executive director
in June 2002 and is the Senior Independent Director and
Chairman of the Audit Committee. He was appointed
Chief Executive of Smiths Group plc in December 2007
and is a non-executive director of Berry Bros & Rudd
Limited as well as a member of the Advisory Board of
Alchemy Partners.
He previously held the positions of Chief Executive at
Scottish Power plc from early 2006 until mid 2007 and
Chief Executive at Allied Domecq plc between 1999
and 2005. His earlier career included five years as a
director of Bass plc (now Mitchells & Butler plc and
InterContinental Hotels Group plc). Philip Bowman was
previously Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc
and a non-executive director of Scottish & Newcastle plc
and British Sky Broadcasting Group plc. DIRECTORS’ Report 
56 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
The directors present their Annual Report together with the 
audited financial statements for the year to 31 March 2009. 
Business review  
Burberry Group plc is required to set out in this report a  
fair review of the business of the Group during the year to  
31 March 2009 and of the position of the Group at the end of 
the financial year and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group (known as a ‘business review’). 
The purpose of the business review is to enable shareholders  
to assess how the directors have performed their duty under 
section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 (duty to promote the 
success of the company). The Strategy and Group Overview 
sections on pages 15 to 33 and the Business and Financial 
Review on pages 34 to 44 report on the activities and results  
for the year and give an indication of the Company’s future 
developments. The Corporate Responsibility Report is set out  
on pages 48 to 52. A description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group is included on pages 45 to 47. 
The sections of the Annual Report referred to above, fulfil the 
requirements of the Business Review and are incorporated by 
reference and shall be deemed to form part of this report. 
Principal activities  
Burberry Group plc is a holding company. The Group designs, 
sources, manufactures and distributes luxury men’s, women’s 
and children’s clothing and non-apparel accessories globally 
through its own retail stores, concessions, online and to 
wholesale customers and franchisees. Burberry also licenses 
third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the 
‘Burberry’ trademarks.  
Revenue and loss 
Revenue during the period amounted to £1,201.5m  
(2008: £995.4m). The attributable loss for the year was £6.0m  
(2008: profit of £135.2m).  
Dividends  
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 8.65p  
per ordinary share (2008: 8.65p) in respect of the year to  
31 March 2009 be paid on 30 July 2009 to those persons  
on the Register of Members as at 3 July 2009.  
An interim dividend of 3.35p per ordinary share was paid  
to shareholders on 29 January 2009. This will make a total 
dividend of 12.0p per ordinary share in respect of the financial 
year to 31 March 2009. The aggregate dividends paid and 
recommended in respect of the year to 31 March 2009  
total £51.7m. 
Directors  
The names and biographical details of the directors holding  
office at the date of this report are set out on page 55 and  
are incorporated by reference into this report.  
At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, Angela Ahrendts, 
Stephanie George and David Tyler will retire by rotation in 
accordance with Article 81 of the Articles of Association and, 
being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.  
The separate circular to shareholders incorporating the Notice  
of this year’s Annual General Meeting sets out why the Board 
believes these directors should be re-elected.  
Details of the directors’ service agreements are given in the 
Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters on  
page 66. 
Directors’ share interests  
Interests of the directors holding office at 31 March 2009 in  
the shares of the Company are shown within the Report on 
Directors’ Remuneration and related matters on page 71. There 
were no changes to the beneficial interests of the directors 
between the period 31 March 2009 and 18 May 2009. 
Share capital 
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with 
details of movements in the issued share capital of Burberry 
Group plc during the year are shown in note 21 which is 
incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of this report.  
The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no 
right to fixed income. Each share carries the right to one vote at 
general meetings of the Company. The ordinary shares are listed 
on the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.  
In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company proposes  
to renew the authority granted by ordinary shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting in 2008, to repurchase up to just under 
10% of its issued share capital. Further details are provided in 
the separate circular to shareholders incorporating the Notice  
of this year’s Annual General Meeting.  
At the Annual General Meeting in 2008, shareholders approved 
a resolution to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 
£72,000. In addition, shareholders approved a resolution to give 
directors authority to allot shares for cash other than pro rata to 
existing shareholders. Resolutions will be proposed at this year’s 
Annual General Meeting to renew these authorities. 
Following the report of the Rights Issues Review Group and the 
subsequent guidance from the Association of British Insurers 
(‘ABI’), the Company intends to ask shareholders to grant 
authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 
£144,000 for use in a rights issue only. If the additional allotment 
authority were to be used, the ABI guidance would be followed 
and, if appropriate, all directors would retire at the next Annual 
General Meeting and would offer themselves for re-election. 
The directors have no current plans to issue shares other than  
in connection with employee share schemes. 
There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding nor on 
the transfer of shares which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or voting rights.  
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26.  
The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all dividends 
payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares  
held by it. In addition, the Burberry Group plc SIP Trust has 
waived all dividends payable by the Company in respect of  
the unappropriated ordinary shares held by it.  
The total dividends waived in the year to 31 March 2009 were  
in aggregate £0.3m (2008: £0.3m).   DIRECTORS’ Report CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 57 
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.  
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, 
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the 
Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation. 
The Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution of the shareholders.  
Substantial shareholdings  
As at 18 May 2009, the Company had been notified of the 
following interests in the Company’s ordinary shares in 
accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. 
 
Number of 
ordinary shares 
% of total 
voting rights 
Blackrock Inc 43,045,926 9.94% 
Schroders Plc 36,760,709 8.49% 
Massachusetts Financial 
Services Company 25,720,195 5.94% 
Capital Research and 
Management Company 22,839,300 5.27% 
Franklin Resources Inc  
and affiliates 21,980,778 5.07% 
JPMorgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.98% 
FMR Corp 18,315,823 4.23% 
Legal and General Group plc 17,296,785 3.99% 
Interests in own shares  
Details of the Company’s interests in its own shares are set  
out in note 21 to the financial statements. 
Charitable donations  
During the year to 31 March 2009, the Group donated £1.1m 
(2008: £0.4m) for the benefit of charitable causes. These 
donations principally comprised cash. Further information 
regarding the charitable donations made during the year  
are contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report on  
pages 51 and 52. 
Political donations  
The Company made no political donations during the year in line 
with its policy. In keeping with the Company’s approach in prior 
years, shareholder approval is being sought at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, as a precautionary measure, for the 
Company and its subsidiaries to make donations and/or incur 
expenditure which may be construed as ‘political’ by the wide 
definition of that term included in the relevant legislation. Further 
details are provided in the separate circular to shareholders 
incorporating the Notice of this year’s Annual General Meeting. 
Valuation of properties  
Based on a valuation report prepared by Colliers Conrad  
Ritblat Erdman, dated 16 May 2006, the existing use value of 
Burberry’s nine most significant freehold properties is £179.6m 
(based on closing exchange rates at 31 March 2009). This 
valuation is higher than the net book value of these assets. 
Employment policies  
Equal opportunities  
The Group is committed to ensuring the consistent profitable 
growth of its business and a policy of equal opportunity  
in employment is integral to this commitment. The aims of  
the Group’s policy are to ensure that the most capable job 
applicants are recruited and the most competent employees  
in the Group progress. All employees will receive fair and equal 
treatment irrespective of sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, 
marital status, age, religion, disability and sexual orientation.  
In the situation where an employee becomes disabled, the 
Group will endeavour to assist the employee by adapting the  
job if appropriate or by offering a transfer to another position.  
Health and safety  
The Group has a health and safety policy approved by the Board 
and a Worldwide Health and Safety Committee which is chaired 
by the Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer.  
Further information regarding the Group’s employment policies 
are provided in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages  
48 to 52. 
Employee involvement  
Employee communication  
The Group believes that employee communication is important  
in building strong relationships with, and in motivating and 
retaining, employees. The Group makes use of various methods, 
all of which are implemented globally, including, face-to-face 
briefings, open discussion forums with senior management, 
email and a corporate intranet to ensure that matters of interest 
and importance are conveyed to employees quickly and 
effectively. In addition, global quarterly updates which highlight 
the Group’s performance and its ongoing strategic initiatives are 
webcast globally. 
Employee share ownership  
The Group recognises the importance of good relationships  
with employees of all levels and runs incentive schemes and  
share ownership schemes for the benefit of employees. Further 
details of these schemes are set out in the Report on Directors’ 
Remuneration and related matters on pages 64 to 71. Employees  
in the UK, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Korea, Singapore, Spain and 
Taiwan have access to all-employee share plan arrangements. 
Further details on the Group’s approach to employee involvement 
and communications are provided in the Corporate Responsibility 
Report on page 50. 
Financial instruments  
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies 
are set out within note 25 to the financial statements on pages  
108 to 110. Note 25 also details the Group’s exposure to foreign 
exchange, price, interest, credit and liquidity risks. These notes 
are incorporated by reference and are deemed to form part of 
this report.  DIRECTORS’ Report CONTINUED 
58 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
Creditor payment policy  
For all trade creditors, it is policy to:  
• agree and confirm the terms of payment at the 
commencement of business with that supplier 
• pay in accordance with contractual and other  
legal obligations 
• continually review the payment procedures and liaise  
with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties  
and maintaining a good working relationship 
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2009  
(2008: £nil). 
Significant contracts – change of control 
Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
directors disclose that in the event of a change of control in  
the Company, the Group’s £200m Revolving Credit Facility 
(dated 16 March 2009) and the Group’s Bi-lateral Multicurrency 
Revolving Credit Facilities totalling £60m (dated 13 June 2008) 
could become repayable. 
In circumstances of change of control of the Company, Angela 
Ahrendts may terminate her employment. Her entitlement in 
respect of remuneration is set out on page 66 of the Report on 
Directors’ Remuneration and related matters where Burberry 
terminates her service agreement in circumstances where the 
Remuneration Committee determines that Angela Ahrendts’ 
performance does not meet the financial expectations of the 
Board or shareholders. 
In circumstances where the Company’s shares cease to be 
listed, Stacey Cartwright may terminate her employment on 
three months’ notice and would be entitled to her base salary  
for a period of nine months following termination. 
Details of the service agreements of the executive directors are  
set out on page 66 of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and 
related matters. Copies of the executive and non-executive 
directors’ service contracts are available for inspection by 
shareholders at the Company’s registered office and at the 
Annual General Meeting.  
The provisions of the Company’s employee share plans may 
cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest 
upon a change of control. 
Essential contracts 
The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with 
suppliers (both of goods and services), wholesale customers, 
licensees, who manufacture and distribute products using the 
Burberry trademarks, and franchisees. In addition, the Group 
occupies leasehold premises for the purpose of conducting  
its business. Whilst these arrangements are important to the 
business of the Group, individually none of them are essential  
to the business of the Group. 
Auditors  
In accordance with section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, 
each of the Company’s directors in office as at the date of this 
report confirms that: 
• so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware  
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information  
The Group’s auditors are PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  
A resolution to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.  
Note 5 in the financial statements states the auditors’ fees  
both for audit and non-audit work.  
Going concern 
The directors have reviewed the Group’s forecasts and 
projections. These include the assumptions around the Group’s 
products and markets, expenditure commitments, expected cash 
flows and borrowing facilities. Taking into account reasonably 
possible changes in trading performance, and after making 
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that  
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they consider it  
is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
annual report and accounts. 
Further information regarding the Group’s cash flow and 
borrowing facilities can be found on page 44 of the Business  
and Financial Review. 
Annual General Meeting  
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at  
the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London,  
EC1Y 8YY commencing at 9.30am on Thursday, 16 July 2009. 
The Notice of this year’s Annual General Meeting is included in 
the separate circular to shareholders. The Notice is available  
to view under the ‘Shareholder Information’ section of the 
Company’s website www.burberryplc.com.  
By order of the Board  
Michael Mahony  
General Counsel and Secretary  
18 May 2009  
Registered Office:  
Horseferry House 
Horseferry Road 
London SW1P 2AW 
  Corporate governance  
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 59 
Corporate Governance Statement 
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate 
governance which it considers to be central to the effective 
management of the business and to maintaining the confidence 
of investors. The Group complies with the laws and endeavours 
to observe the customs and culture in the countries in which it 
operates and does business. The Group expects all directors 
and employees to drive to achieve the highest standards and  
to act with respect and integrity. The Board monitors and keeps 
under review the Company’s corporate governance framework. 
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, 
the Company confirms that throughout the financial year ended 
31 March 2009 and as at the date of this Annual Report it 
complied in full with the provisions of, and applied the principles  
of Section 1 of the 2006 Financial Reporting Council’s Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance (‘the Code’). This report, 
together with the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related 
matters on pages 64 to 71, provide details of how the Company 
has applied the principles and complies with the provisions of 
the Code. 
The Board 
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success 
of the Company. The Board provides leadership for the Group 
and concentrates its efforts on strategy, performance, governance 
and internal control. As at the date of this report, the Board has 
seven members: the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer,  
the Chief Financial Officer and four independent non-executive 
directors. The names and biographical details of each of  
the directors and details of their membership of the Board’s 
committees are set out on page 55. The Board has a formal 
schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and approval 
which include, but are not limited to: 
• the approval of the interim and annual financial statements 
• any interim dividend and the recommendation of the  
final dividend 
• the Group’s business strategy 
• annual budget and operating plans 
• major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments 
• the systems of corporate governance, internal control  
and risk management 
The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary  
to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with 
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it  
to effectively discharge its duties. Where there are occasions 
when directors are unable to attend a meeting they have the 
opportunity to review meeting papers and submit comments to  
the relevant Chairman. Directors are also supplied with a monthly 
management report, which provides information on operational 
and financial performance and the Group’s business plans. 
Directors may obtain, in the furtherance of their duties, 
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Group’s 
expense. In addition, all directors have direct access to the 
advice and services of the Company Secretary and all senior 
executive management. 
As an ongoing process, directors are briefed and provided with 
information concerning major developments affecting their roles  
and responsibilities. In particular, the directors’ knowledge of the 
Group’s worldwide operations is regularly updated by arranging 
presentations from local management and visits to key locations. 
The Board held six scheduled meetings during the year and also 
held two ad hoc meetings. The Group’s strategy was regularly 
reviewed and during the year the Board held a day and a half  
off-site meeting dedicated to strategy. The Board considers that  
it met sufficiently often to enable the directors to discharge their 
duties effectively. 
At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will 
arrange meetings consisting of only the non-executive directors  
to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed. 
During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact  
and met with the Senior Independent Director and other  
non-executive directors. 
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary  
is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole. 
The table below gives details of directors’ attendance at  
Board and Committee meetings during the financial year  
ended 31 March 2009.
 
 Board   Audit Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Nomination 
Committee 
 Scheduled Ad hoc    
John Peace  6/6 2/2 – 6/6 2/2 
Angela Ahrendts 6/6 2/2 – – 2/2 
Philip Bowman 6/6 2/2 3/3 6/6 2/2 
Ian Carter 6/6 1/2 3/3 5/6 2/2 
Stacey Cartwright 6/6 2/2 – – – 
Stephanie George 6/6 0/2 1/3 6/6 2/2 
David Tyler 6/6 1/2 3/3 6/6 2/2 
  Corporate governance CONTINUED 
60 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
There is a clear division of the roles and responsibilities of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer which are set out in writing 
and agreed by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for 
leading the Board in reviewing the Group’s strategy and 
monitoring high-level progress. The day-to-day management 
and performance of the Group’s business is the responsibility  
of the Chief Executive Officer. 
The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, supports the 
Chairman in his role and leads the non-executive directors in  
the oversight of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The 
Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they 
have concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve 
or where such contact is inappropriate. 
John Peace, Philip Bowman, Ian Carter, Stephanie George and 
David Tyler are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of 
management and free from any business relationship which 
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgement. During the year under review, the majority of the 
Board (excluding the Chairman) comprised independent  
non-executive directors. 
Board appointments  
Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the 
Nomination Committee under its terms of reference. All directors  
are subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting following their appointment and thereafter to re-election  
at least once every three years in line with the Company’s 
Articles of Association and provision A.7.1. of the Code. The 
biographical details of those directors seeking re-election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on page 55  
of this Annual Report.  
Directors – development 
On appointment, directors are furnished with an induction pack  
of information, which includes key Group policies, guidance 
notes and information on corporate governance matters.  
In addition, visits to key locations, meetings with members  
of the management team and updates on particular issues  
are arranged for directors as appropriate.  
Board performance evaluation  
In each financial year since 2006/07, the Board has undertaken  
a review of its performance and that of its committees and 
individual directors. In 2006/07, the evaluation was undertaken 
using an external facilitator and in 2007/08 and 2008/09 the 
process of evaluation was led by the Chairman. The process  
for evaluation is reviewed on an annual basis. 
In 2008/09, the evaluation was led by the Chairman and  
involved holding a series of structured one-to-one interviews  
with each of the directors, together with the completion of a  
detailed questionnaire. The review considered the outcomes  
of previous evaluations, the current composition and 
responsibilities of the Board and each of its committees, 
together with the frequency and structure of meetings.  
In addition, the review considered the contribution and 
effectiveness of the executive and non-executive directors. 
Feedback from the review was considered and it was concluded 
that the Board and its committees operate efficiently and 
effectively. As a result of this review, it was agreed that the 
Board would dedicate more time to meeting with senior 
management worldwide to gain a more detailed understanding  
of the business. 
The evaluation of the Chairman, which was led by the Senior 
Independent Director, was undertaken at a formal meeting  
of the non-executive directors. 
Conflicts of interest 
The Company’s Articles of Association were amended at the 
2008 Annual General Meeting to allow the directors to authorise 
situational conflicts of interests as authorised by the Companies  
Act 2006. 
The Board has adopted processes and procedures to  
manage and, where appropriate, to approve such conflicts. 
Following a review of directors’ interests in November 2008,  
the Board concluded that there is currently no compromise  
to the independence of any director arising from an external  
appointment or any outside commercial interest. 
Committees  
The Board is supported by a number of committees including 
the following principal committees: Audit Committee, Remuneration 
Committee and Nomination Committee. All the non-executive 
directors are members of each of the principal committees of 
the Board. 
The terms of reference of each of the principal committees are 
available on request and can be viewed on the Company’s 
website www.burberryplc.com. 
The committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage with 
third-party consultants and independent professional advisors 
and can call upon other resources of the Group to assist them  
in developing their respective roles. In addition to the relevant 
committee members and the Company Secretary, external 
advisors and, on occasion, other directors attend committee 
meetings but only at the invitation of the chairmen of  
the committees. 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprises four independent  
non-executive directors: 
Philip Bowman (Chairman)  
Ian Carter  
Stephanie George  
David Tyler 
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee  
are set out in written terms of reference.   Corporate governance CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 61 
The Audit Committee is responsible for:  
• reviewing financial statements and formal announcements 
relating to the Group’s performance 
• reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and risk 
management systems  
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function  
• assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness  
of the external auditors 
• developing and implementing policies on the engagement  
of the external auditors for the supply of non-audit services 
• making recommendations for the appointment,  
re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and 
approving their remuneration and terms of engagement 
• reviewing arrangements by which employees may, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties  
in matters of financial reporting and other matters  
The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has 
recent and relevant financial experience, given the nature of  
the senior management positions held by Philip Bowman and 
David Tyler (see biographical details on page 55). 
The Audit Committee met three times during the year. The 
attendance record of Committee members is recorded in the 
table on page 59. At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Executive Vice 
President – Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Audit and Risk 
Assurance and the external auditors regularly attend meetings. 
In addition, the Committee met during the year with the external 
auditors without management present. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control procedures and 
risk management systems. During the year, the Committee 
reviewed the Group’s internal audit plan and approved the 
internal audit plan for the financial year to 31 March 2010.  
In addition, the Committee reviewed the adequacy of the 
‘whistle-blowing’ arrangements in place to enable employees  
to raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have. The 
Committee is satisfied that such arrangements remain appropriate. 
During the financial year, the Audit Committee reviewed the 
effectiveness of the external audit process and the qualification, 
expertise, resources and independence of the external auditors. 
The Committee also reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms 
of engagement for the financial year to 31 March 2009 and has 
recommended to the Board that it propose to shareholders that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be re-appointed as the Group’s 
external auditors.  
The Committee recognises that the independence of the 
auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the 
assurance that it provides. The Committee monitors the types  
of non-audit work that are undertaken by the external auditors  
to ensure that their objectivity and independence is not 
compromised. Any proposed non-audit assignments require 
prior approval and the Committee receives a report at each 
meeting providing details of non-audit assignments carried  
out by the external auditors in addition to their normal work. 
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors during the 
financial year can be found in note 5 in the financial statements. 
Remuneration Committee  
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages  
64 to 71. 
Nomination Committee  
The Nomination Committee comprises:  
John Peace (Chairman)  
Angela Ahrendts  
Philip Bowman  
Ian Carter  
Stephanie George  
David Tyler 
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year  
under review. 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
balance and composition of the Board and its committees and  
for identifying and recommending appointments or renewal  
of appointments to the Board. These regular reviews ensure that 
the Group and the Board are able to draw from a complementary 
balance of skills and experience and that there is in place  
an appropriate plan for orderly succession to the Board. The 
procedure for appointments is set out in its terms of reference. 
During the year under review, the Nomination Committee 
considered and reviewed the Group’s succession planning 
arrangements. These arrangements will be kept under review  
by the Committee. 
Relations with shareholders 
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good 
communications with its shareholders and does this through the 
Annual Report, preliminary and interim announcements, interim 
management statements, the Annual General Meeting and 
through the additional processes described below.  
The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President – Chief 
Financial Officer make presentations to institutional shareholders 
and analysts immediately following the release of the preliminary 
and interim results; these presentations are made available on 
the Company’s website www.burberryplc.com.   Corporate governance CONTINUED 
62 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
The Company communicates with its institutional investors 
frequently and regularly through a combination of formal 
meetings, participation at investor conferences and informal 
briefings with management. The Board is kept abreast of the 
views of major shareholders by briefings from the Director of 
Investor Relations. During the year, the Board obtained an 
independent insight into the views of major shareholders through 
research commissioned with an external advisor. The outcomes  
of that research were presented and reviewed by the Board.  
In addition, analysts’ notes and brokers’ briefings are also  
used to achieve a wide understanding of investors’ views. 
The non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent 
Director, are available to meet with major shareholders to 
discuss issues of importance to them, should a meeting  
be requested. 
Annual General Meeting 
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Notice of the 
2008 Annual General Meeting was sent to shareholders at least 
20 working days before the Meeting. A poll vote was taken on 
each of the resolutions put before shareholders. All directors 
attended the 2008 Annual General Meeting and the Chairman  
of the Board and the chairmen of each of the committees were 
available to answer shareholders’ questions. 
Voting at the 2009 Annual General Meeting will be by way of 
poll. The results of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will 
be announced and details of the votes will be available to view 
on the Company’s website www.burberryplc.com as soon as 
possible after the meeting.  
It is the intention that all directors, including the chairmen of the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, will attend  
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be available  
to answer shareholders’ questions. 
Corporate Responsibility 
Details of the Group’s approach to Corporate Responsibility  
are given on pages 48 to 52. 
Accountability and audit  
The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced  
and understandable assessment of the Company’s position  
and prospects. In this context, reference should be made to  
the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 72, which 
includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding  
the Group’s status as a going concern, and to the Report of the 
Auditors on page 73 which includes a statement by the auditors 
about their reporting responsibilities. The Board recognises that  
its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable 
assessment extends to interim and other price sensitive public 
reports and reports to regulators as well as to information 
required to be presented by law.  
Internal control  
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal control and has delegated responsibility for 
reviewing its effectiveness to the Audit Committee. A system of 
internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the  
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide 
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The Audit Committee has reviewed  
the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been 
established to provide internal control. As part of the process 
that the Board has in place to review the effectiveness of the 
internal control system, there are procedures designed to 
capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case  
of those categorised by the Board as ‘significant’, procedures  
exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy  
the failings.  
In accordance with the revised guidance for directors on internal 
control (‘the Revised Turnbull Guidance’), the Board confirms  
that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks faced by the Group. These include 
those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters. This 
process was in place throughout the year under review and up  
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.  
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee  
which reports its findings for consideration by the Board,  
and is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.  
The key procedures operating within the Group are as follows:  
Risk assessment  
The Group’s business objectives are incorporated into the 
annual budgeting and planning cycle. Progress towards the 
achievement of such objectives is monitored by a variety of 
financial measures and non-financial performance indicators.  
The Group Risk Committee of executive management meets 
formally at least three times a year to re-evaluate risk and to 
consider the work of the Internal Audit and Risk Assurance  
and other assurance teams. During the year, the Committee met  
on three occasions. The Director of Audit and Risk Assurance 
attends these meetings.  
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for considering 
operational, financial, compliance and other risks to the business 
and has delegated responsibility for reviewing the risk management 
procedures to the Audit Committee. 
Control environment and control activities 
The Group consists of a number of business regions, each with 
its own management structure which forms part of the overall 
management structure of the Group. The senior executives of 
these units report to the executive directors.  Corporate governance CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 63 
The Group has established procedures for the delegation of 
authorities for matters that are considered significant, either 
because of their value or the impact on the Group, to ensure 
that approval is considered at an appropriate level. 
The Group’s trading units operate within a framework of policies 
and procedures which are either already laid down or are being 
established in organisation or authority manuals. Policies and 
procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, 
compliance with legislation and physical security.  
The Group has implemented various strategies to deal with the 
risk factors that have been identified. Such strategies include a 
framework of internal control and the use of third-party services 
to assist in monitoring specific issues. In addition, other 
approaches are taken, such as insurance. 
Information and communication  
The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, 
focused on monthly performance reporting which is at an 
appropriately detailed level. A summary of results supported  
by commentary and performance measures is provided to the 
Board each month. The performance measures are subject  
to review to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable 
indications of business performance. 
A summary of the key business risks and relevant control 
measures is submitted by the executive directors to the Audit 
Committee at the end of the financial year. The Audit Committee 
meets with both external and internal auditors. 
Monitoring  
A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective 
application of internal control within the Group. These include 
management review, management confirmations of compliance 
with standards and procedures as well as internal audit and 
other specialist reviews. The Internal Audit department is 
responsible for reporting to the Audit Committee on the 
effectiveness of internal control systems.  REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
AND RELATED MATTERS 
64 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee has adopted the 
principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code and has complied with the applicable Listing Rules and the relevant 
schedules of the Companies Act 1985. This report sets out the Group’s policy and disclosure in relation to the remuneration and share 
interests of the directors of Burberry Group plc.  
The Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises: 
David Tyler (Chairman)  
Philip Bowman 
Ian Carter 
Stephanie George 
John Peace 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman of the Board and 
monitors the level and structure of senior management pay. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter for the Board 
as a whole. No director is involved in any discussions as to their own remuneration. During the year under review, the Remuneration 
Committee met six times. Details of the number of meetings and attendance at those meetings during the year are set out in the 
Corporate Governance Report on page 59. 
The Remuneration Committee has appointed Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’) to assist with its considerations. Kepler provide advice on  
the ongoing operation of employee and executive share plans together with advice on executive remuneration; they do not provide  
any other services to the Company. In addition, assistance has been provided during the year by Towers Perrin. 
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Group’s website www.burberryplc.com. 
Remuneration policy 
The Remuneration Committee believes the Group’s remuneration should be competitive and strongly linked to performance, taking  
into account the markets in which it operates. The Group’s remuneration policy is based on the following principles. 
• Remuneration should be closely aligned with shareholders’ interests through thoughtful selection of performance measures, 
emphasis on variable pay and delivery of remuneration in shares, part of which are expected to be retained in accordance with  
the Group’s executive shareholding guidelines 
• The overall remuneration framework should provide a balance between short and long term business objectives. Variable pay for 
executive directors includes (1) an annual cash bonus based on PBT, and (2) long-term share-based incentives linked primarily  
to increases in shareholder value and growth in profit. Furthermore, the Burberry Co-Investment Plan (the ‘Co-Investment Plan’) 
encourages executive directors and other senior executives to invest their annual cash bonus into shares over a further  
three-year period 
• Total remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain exceptional talent within the global luxury brands sector.  
Total remuneration for executive directors and other senior executives is therefore benchmarked against Burberry’s main global 
competitors and UK companies of comparable size. The Remuneration Committee recognises that for each executive the relative 
importance of each of these benchmarks may be different. Benefits are based on competitive market practice for each executive, 
depending on individual circumstances 
Changes to remuneration in 2009/10 
The current economic environment has emphasised the need to ensure the interests of shareholders and executives remain aligned 
over the long term. During the year, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed arrangements to ensure that executive remuneration 
continues to reward the right behaviours and motivate executives to focus on profitability in a difficult market, set against an exceptionally 
challenging economic environment. As a result of this review, the Remuneration Committee has taken the following approach in  
respect of the executive directors’ compensation: 
• no awards were granted under the Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan (‘RSP’) during 2008/09 
• no salary increases have been awarded as part of the March 2009 year-end compensation cycle 
• no annual bonuses have been awarded in respect of the financial year to 31 March 2009 and consequently there will be  
no opportunity to defer bonuses under the Burberry Co-Investment Plan 
• awards with a value of two times basic salary will be granted under the RSP in 2009/10  REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 65 
Following consultation with major shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has made a change to the way in which the RSP will 
operate for awards granted in 2009, within the parameters agreed in 2004 when the plan was approved by shareholders. The RSP 
rewards both internal and external performance, and encourages a longer-term perspective through vesting over three, four and five 
years. The Remuneration Committee believes that these elements of plan design continue to be effective in the current environment. 
The vesting of 50% of the award will continue to be based upon Burberry’s three-year Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) relative to its 
peers and will vest in full only if Burberry achieves least upper quartile TSR relative to its peers. In order to drive long-term profitability 
and to ensure that targets remain credible but challenging in today’s exceptionally difficult economic environment the remaining 50%  
will vest in full only if Burberry achieves growth in adjusted profit before tax (‘PBT’) of 10% per annum. The proportion of awards which 
are subject to growth in PBT and were granted prior to 2009 will vest in full only if Burberry achieves growth in PBT of 15% per annum. 
The Remuneration Committee believes that the adjustment to the level of profit growth required to achieve full vesting is necessary to 
reflect the significant changes in the economic environment and will remain as challenging in the current circumstances as those set 
when the RSP was adopted in 2004. The Remuneration Committee believes that this change will motivate executives to achieve profit 
growth in a challenging market as well as to provide competitive levels of total remuneration.  
Performance graph 
The following graph shows the TSR for Burberry Group plc compared to the companies in the FTSE 100 Index assuming £100 was 
invested on 31 March 2004. The FTSE 100 Index has been selected as Burberry’s capitalisation is close to that of companies at the 
lower end of the FTSE 100 Index. 
 
£0
£50
£100
£150
£200
£250
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 March
Value of £100 invested on 31 March 2004
FTSE 100 Burberry
Elements of remuneration 
Remuneration is structured such that for executive directors and other senior executives, performance-related elements represent the 
majority of total potential remuneration. The Group implements its remuneration policy through the provision of the following elements: 
Base salary 
The Group aims to provide salaries which are competitive with those of comparable roles at global companies of a similar size and 
global reach within the luxury goods sector and UK companies of comparable size. These companies are representative of Burberry’s 
competitors for executive talent. When making salary determinations, the Remuneration Committee takes into account not only 
competitive information but also each executive’s individual performance and overall contribution to the business during the year. 
Annual bonus 
Each year the Remuneration Committee sets bonus targets by reference to internal and external expectations. Bonuses are currently 
based on profitability and performance against Group strategic and individual objectives and overall contribution to the business.  
The Remuneration Committee believes that linking incentives to profitability helps to reinforce the Group’s strategy and long term growth 
objectives. Targets are rigorously calibrated by Kepler using benchmarks that include broker earnings estimates for Burberry and its 
competitors, targets for profitability consistent with median/upper quartile shareholder returns, latest projections for the then current year, 
budget, strategic plan, long-term financial goals, etc. Actual bonus awards are subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.  REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED 
66 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
Share schemes and long-term incentive arrangements  
The Group has a number of share schemes and long-term incentive arrangements in place:  
• The Burberry Co-Investment Plan (the ‘Co-Investment Plan’) 
• The Burberry Exceptional Performance Share Plan (the ‘EPP’) 
• The Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan (the ‘RSP’) 
• The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 (the ‘Executive Share Option Scheme’) 
• The Burberry Approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme (the ‘SAYE’) 
Further information regarding these schemes can be found on pages 68 to 70 and also in note 26. 
Benefits  
Benefits for executive directors include private medical insurance, life assurance and long-term disability insurance. Executive directors 
also receive car and clothing allowances and pension contributions. 
Service agreements  
Attracting the best talent in the global luxury goods sector can require fixed contract terms which result in termination payments in 
excess of one year’s remuneration. Burberry does not offer such terms unless the Remuneration Committee considers it absolutely 
necessary in the particular circumstances to attract a highly talented individual and even in these circumstances will ensure that, after an 
initial period, termination payments will not exceed one year’s remuneration. Save for the service contract of Angela Ahrendts, there are 
no service contracts for any executive director which could result in termination payments of more than one year’s total remuneration. 
Angela Ahrendts 
Angela Ahrendts relocated from the United States to the UK and commenced her employment with Burberry as an executive director on  
9 January 2006 under a service agreement dated 10 October 2005. She was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2006. 
Under the service agreement, Angela Ahrendts was eligible for a personal achievement bonus subject to achievement of objectives  
set by the Remuneration Committee. Following review by the Remuneration Committee of achievement against those objectives,  
a final payment of US$750,000 was paid on 31 December 2008. No further payments will be made in respect of this bonus. 
If Burberry terminates Angela Ahrendts’ service agreement prior to January 2010 in circumstances where there is not poor performance 
as described below, she would be entitled to her salary and 75% of her maximum bonus opportunity for the period from the date of 
termination to January 2011. She would also receive her pension contributions and overseas allowances for a further 12 months 
together with relocation expenses. If the service agreement is terminated by Burberry after January 2010, the entitlements in respect of 
salary and bonus would decline to 12 months’ salary and 75% of her annual maximum bonus opportunity. She would also receive her 
pension contribution for a further 12 months together with overseas allowances to January 2011 and relocation expenses. 
If Burberry terminates the service agreement in circumstances where there is not poor performance as described below, any unvested 
Matching Share awards under the Co-Investment Plan will vest on a time apportioned basis. 
If Burberry terminates the agreement without cause but in circumstances where the Remuneration Committee determines that Angela Ahrendts’ 
performance or that of the Group does not meet the financial expectations of the Board or shareholders, her entitlements in respect  
of salary and bonus will be reduced so that she will receive 12 months’ salary and 37.5% of her maximum bonus opportunity. Angela 
Ahrendts may terminate the service agreement on six months’ notice. 
Stacey Cartwright  
Stacey Cartwright is employed by Burberry as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer under a service agreement dated  
17 November 2003. Her term of appointment commenced on 1 March 2004.  
Burberry may terminate Stacey Cartwright’s appointment by giving 12 months’ notice. If Burberry terminates the agreement on notice 
she will be entitled to payment of salary and other benefits for a period of 12 months. Stacey Cartwright may terminate her employment 
by giving six months’ notice.  
  REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 67 
Audited information 
Directors’ remuneration 
Executive directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration of the executive directors of Burberry Group plc in the period 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2009 is detailed below. 
Aggregate emoluments by director 
 
Salary
£’000 
Allowances
paid in cash
£’000 
Bonus   
£’000    
Benefits 
£’000 
Aggregate
emoluments
£’000 
Angela Ahrendts 
Year to 31 March 2009 910 401 522
(1)
 54 1,887 
Year to 31 March 2008 850 370 2,908    50 4,178 
Stacey Cartwright  
Year to 31 March 2009 520 155 –
(2)
 7 682 
Year to 31 March 2008 473 157 510   7 1,147 
Total 
Year to 31 March 2009 1,430 556 522   61 2,569 
Year to 31 March 2008
(3)
 1,645 527 3,579   64 5,815 
(1)
 Angela Ahrendts is eligible to receive an annual bonus not exceeding 200% of annual salary. No annual bonus was paid in respect of the financial year to 31 March 2009.  
She received a personal achievement bonus of US$750,000 in accordance with the terms of her service agreement entered into upon her recruitment in 2005; the personal 
achievement bonus is not eligible for deferment under the Co-Investment Plan. The personal achievement bonus has been converted using the GB£/US$ exchange rate at the 
time of payment (1.44). 
(2)
 Stacey Cartwright is eligible to receive an annual bonus not exceeding 150% of annual salary. No annual bonus was paid in respect of the financial year to 31 March 2009. 
(3)
 Includes payments to Rose Marie Bravo, a former director. 
Executive directors’ pension entitlements 
Angela Ahrendts  
The Group makes an annual contribution equal to 30% of Angela Ahrendts’ base salary to the Burberry Defined Contribution Pension Plan. 
For the year to 31 March 2009, the value of the Group’s contribution was £273,000 (2008: £255,000). 
Stacey Cartwright  
Stacey Cartwright is entitled to an annual pension contribution equal to 30% of base salary. She has elected that a portion be paid as  
a cash supplement. For the year to 31 March 2009, the cash supplement was £123,420 (2008: £109,170). The contribution paid into 
her personal pension plan was £32,580 in the year to 31 March 2009 (2008: £32,580). 
Payments to former directors 
Rose Marie Bravo was employed by Burberry as Chief Executive between May 2002 and June 2006, upon which date she became 
Vice-Chairman. Rose Marie Bravo ceased to be Vice-Chairman on 1 July 2007. 
In the financial year to 31 March 2009, Rose Marie Bravo received US$162,500 in respect of her base salary to 30 June 2008, a payment  
of US$325,000 in lieu of annual bonus for the financial year ended 31 March 2008 under the Group’s bonus arrangements and 
allowances of US$14,670 in accordance with the terms of her service agreement. 
Non-executive directors’ remuneration  
John Peace was appointed to the Board on 7 June 2002 as non-executive Chairman. David Tyler was formally appointed as a  
non-executive director on 7 June 2002. Philip Bowman was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 21 June 2002. 
Stephanie George and Ian Carter were appointed as non-executive directors on 31 March 2006 and 1 April 2007 respectively. Non-executive 
directors are appointed for an initial three-year term, after which they may continue to serve subject to the Board’s discretion and  
re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, subject to six months’ notice by either party.  
Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of Association and having regard to 
market practice. The non-executive directors each received a base fee of £55,000 in the financial year to 31 March 2009, the chairmen 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees received an additional £20,000 and £15,000 respectively. The Senior Independent Director 
received an additional £15,000 in respect of this responsibility. Each non-executive director receives an allowance of £2,000 for each 
meeting attended outside their country of residence.   REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED 
68 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
Non-executive directors’ fees 
 
Year to 31 March 2009 
£’000  
Year to 31 March 2008 
£’000 
 Allowances Fees Total  Total 
John Peace – 290 290  290 
Philip Bowman – 90 90  92 
Ian Carter – 55 55  57 
Stephanie George 10 55 65  63 
David Tyler – 70 70  72 
Total 10 560 570  574 
Share schemes and long-term incentive arrangements 
The Burberry Co-Investment Plan (the ‘Co-Investment Plan’) 
The Group encourages executive directors and other senior management to hold shares in Burberry Group plc. To facilitate this, 
executive directors may, at the invitation of the Remuneration Committee, defer receipt of all or part of their annual bonus and invest  
it in Burberry shares, with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and Group performance during the year. The Matching Share awards 
do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves due to resignation within that period. To further link pay and performance, 
and to align remuneration with shareholders’ interests, the vesting of Matching Share awards granted after 31 March 2009 are subject 
to the achievement of secondary performance conditions linked to growth in profit before tax.  
For the year ended 31 March 2008, Angela Ahrendts and Stacey Cartwright chose to defer and invest the whole of their bonus after the 
deduction of tax into Burberry shares via the Co-Investment Plan. The Invested Shares are included in the table below and in the table 
of directors’ interests appearing on page 71. The related Matching Share awards under these arrangements are also shown in the table 
below. The executive directors did not receive an annual bonus in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009 and will not be granted 
awards under the Co-Investment Plan in respect of that financial year. The interests of the executive directors in shares granted under 
this scheme as at 31 March 2009 were as follows. 
 Number of Invested Shares Number of Matching Shares
(1)
  
 
As at 
31 March 
2008 
Purchased 
during the 
year 
Sold 
during 
the 
year 
Total
Invested
Shares 
as at 
31 March
2009  
As at
31 March
2008 
Awarded
during the 
year 
Exercised
during the
year 
Total 
Matching 
Shares  
as at 
31 March 
2009 Vesting date 
Angela Ahrendts 82,061 – – 82,061  280,123 – – 280,123 20/06/2010 
 – 135,434 – 135,434  – 416,086 – 416,086 03/06/2011 
Total 82,061 135,434 – 217,495  280,123 416,086 – 696,209  
           
Stacey Cartwright 38,295 – – 38,295  104,580 – – 104,580 21/07/2008 
 37,637 – – 37,637  128,479 – – 128,479 20/06/2010 
 – 60,228 – 60,228  – 185,036 – 185,036 03/06/2011 
Total 75,932 60,288 – 136,160  233,059 185,036 – 418,095  
(1) 
The Matching Share awards are made on a gross basis and are taxed at the point of vesting. The market value of these awards at the date of grant (3 June 2008) was  
494.75p per share.   REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 69 
The Burberry Group plc Exceptional Performance Share Plan (the ‘EPP’) 
Following shareholder approval at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, Burberry introduced a one-off long-term incentive plan, delivered  
in Burberry shares, the purpose of which was to incentivise senior management to achieve stretching goals and to help provide exceptional 
reward for exceptional performance. Awards granted under the EPP are based 50% on relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) 
performance and 50% on growth in profits over the three and four-year performance periods to 2010 and 2011. Awards do not vest 
unless Burberry’s TSR exceeds the median of the comparator group or growth in profit before tax (‘PBT’) exceeds 50% over the four-
year performance period to 2010 or 75% over the five-year performance period to 2011. For the performance period to 2010, maximum 
vesting requires Burberry’s TSR to outperform the median of our peers by at least 8% p.a. and would require PBT growth of at least 
75%. For the performance period to 2011, maximum vesting requires Burberry’s TSR to outperform the median of its peers by at least 
7% p.a. and would require PBT growth of at least 100%. Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% vest on the third 
anniversary of the date of grant and the remaining 50% vest on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant.  
The TSR group for this award comprised Bulgari, Coach, Compagnie Financière Richemont, Estée Lauder, Fossil, Geox,  
Hermès International, Hugo Boss, Inditex, Liz Claiborne, Luxottica Group, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Nike, Nordstrom,  
Polo Ralph Lauren, PPR, Saks, Swatch, Tiffany & Co, and Tod’s.  
The interests of the executive directors in ordinary shares subject to awards under this plan as at 31 March 2009 were as follows:  
 Number of ordinary shares  Vesting period
(1)
  
 
As at
31 March
2008  
As at
31 March
2009  From To Expiry date 
Angela Ahrendts 850,000  850,000  26/07/2010 26/07/2011 25/07/2012 
Stacey Cartwright 350,000  350,000  26/07/2010 26/07/2011 25/07/2012 
(1)
 Subject to performance testing 
The Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan (the ‘RSP’) 
Under the RSP, executives may be awarded shares up to a maximum value of two times base salary. The vesting of awards granted 
under the RSP is based 50% on Burberry’s three-year Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) relative to its peers and 50% on three-year 
growth in profit before tax (‘PBT’). Awards granted in 2009 will vest in full only if Burberry achieves at least upper quartile TSR relative  
to its peers and at least 10% per annum PBT growth. A proportion of an award (12.5%) may vest if TSR performance exceeds the 
median of the peer group or if PBT growth exceeds 3% per annum over three years. Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 
50% vests after three years. The remaining 50% vests in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.  
The Remuneration Committee chose TSR relative to a group of Burberry’s peers because it felt that this is an objective measure of the 
Group’s success and aligns with shareholder interests. Growth in PBT was chosen as it continues to be the primary measure used by 
management and the Remuneration Committee believes strong growth in pre-tax profit is key to delivering superior shareholder returns.  
The TSR group for awards granted in 2007 comprised Bulgari, Coach, Compagnie Financière Richemont, Estée Lauder, Fossil, Geox, 
Hermès International, Hugo Boss, Inditex, Liz Claiborne, Luxottica Group, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Nike, Nordstrom,  
Polo Ralph Lauren, PPR, Saks, Swatch, Tiffany & Co, and Tod’s. 
In 2006, the peer group included Christian Dior, IT Holding, Movado and Waterford Wedgewood, following review by the Remuneration 
Committee, these companies were replaced by Geox, Inditex, Luxottica Group and Nike in 2007. In 2004 and 2005, the peer group 
included Barneys New York, Neiman-Marcus and Tommy Hilfiger. When those companies ceased to be listed, Estee Lauder, Fossil,  
Liz Claiborne and Nordstrom were added to the peer group in 2006. 
Executive directors were not granted awards under this plan during the financial year to 31 March 2009. The interests of the executive 
directors in ordinary shares subject to awards under this plan as at 31 March 2009 were as follows:  
 Number of ordinary shares  Vesting period
(2)
  
 
As at 
31 March 
2008 
Granted 
during the 
year 
Lapsed  
during the  
year
(1)
 
Exercised
during the
year 
As at
31 March
2009  From To Expiry date 
Angela Ahrendts 255,987 – –   – 255,987  11/06/2010 11/06/2012 10/06/2017 
Stacey Cartwright 37,129 – –   – 37,129  02/08/2007 02/08/2009 01/08/2014 
 133,136 – 73,092   – 60,044  21/07/2008 21/07/2010 20/07/2015 
 94,837 – –   – 94,837  10/08/2009 10/08/2011 09/08/2016 
 23,709 – –   – 23,709  27/11/2009 27/11/2011 26/11/2016 
 74,098 – –   – 74,098  11/06/2010 11/06/2012 10/06/2017 
(1)
 Following the calculation of the achievement of the performance conditions of the awards granted in 2005, 54.9% of the awards lapsed. 
(2)
 Subject to performance testing. For awards granted between 2004 and 2007, the PBT element of these awards (50% of the award) vests 25% for PBT growth of 5% p.a.  
and vests in full (100%) for PBT growth of at least 15% p.a. over three years, with straight-line vesting between these two points.  REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED 
70 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
On 31 January 2006, Angela Ahrendts was granted a one-off award under the terms of her service agreement over 508,474 ordinary 
shares. The rules applicable to the award were the same as for the RSP other than in respect of the time of vesting. The interests of 
Angela Ahrendts in shares subject to this award as at 31 March 2009 were as follows:  
 Number of ordinary shares  Vesting period  
 
As at 
31 March 
2008 
Exercised   
during  
the year
(1)
 
Lapsed   
during the   
year
(2)
 
As at
31 March
2009  From To Expiry date 
Angela Ahrendts 508,474 158,898   190,678   158,898  01/12/2008 01/12/2010 31/01/2016 
(1)
 The market value on the date of exercise (2 December 2008) was 202.50p. 
(2)
 Following the calculation of the achievement of the performance conditions of the award, 37.5% lapsed. 
The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002  
The interests of executive directors in options granted under this scheme as at 31 March 2009 were as follows:  
 Number of ordinary shares under option   Exercise period 
 
As at  
31 March 
2008 
Exercised 
during the 
year 
Lapsed 
during
the year 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
Exercise
price (p)  From To 
Stacey Cartwright 185,185 – – 185,185 378.0  02/08/2005 01/08/2014 
All employee share-based plan  
In order to encourage broad ownership of Burberry shares the Group offers a Save As You Earn Scheme (‘SAYE’). The SAYE Scheme 
allows executive directors and eligible employees to save a portion of their salary which can be used to purchase Burberry shares after 
three years at a 20% discount to the market price at the date of invitation. 
SAYE 
The interests of the executive directors in options granted under the SAYE scheme are shown in the table below: 
 Number of ordinary shares   Exercise period 
 
As at  
31 March 
2008 
Exercised 
during the 
year 
Lapsed
during the
year 
As at 
31 March
2009 
Exercise
price (p)  From To 
Angela Ahrendts 2,667 – – 2,667 350.5  01/09/2009 28/02/2010 
Stacey Cartwright 2,667 – – 2,667 350.5  01/09/2009 28/02/2010 
Gains made by directors on share options and awards 
The table below shows notional gains made by individual directors from the exercise of Burberry share options and awards during the 
year to 31 March 2009. The gains are calculated as at the exercise date. 
 Year to 31 March 2009 
Angela Ahrendts £321,768 
Shareholding guidelines 
The Remuneration Committee believes that share ownership provides an effective way to align the interests of shareholders and 
executive directors. The Remuneration Committee implemented an Executive Shareholding Policy in 2007, which expects that executive 
directors and certain senior executives achieve an interest in Burberry shares equivalent to at least one times base salary over a period 
of five years (at least one and a half times and three times base salary for the Executive Vice President – Chief Financial Officer and  
Chief Executive Officer respectively). 
As part of the Group’s shareholding guidelines, non-executive directors are expected to acquire shares with a market value of a 
minimum of £6,000 for each year of their appointment.  REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 71 
Directors’ interests 
The beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of Burberry Group plc (in addition to interests in options and share awards) 
are shown below: 
 
Holdings of ordinary shares    
as at 31 March 2009    
Holding of ordinary shares   
as at 31 March 2008    
Angela Ahrendts 411,031
(1)
 82,061
(1)
 
Stacey Cartwright 147,007
(1)
 86,779
(1)
 
John Peace 175,738    155,738    
Philip Bowman 65,000    45,000    
Ian Carter 17,990    4,422    
Stephanie George –    –    
David Tyler 60,000    48,664    
(1)
 Includes Invested Shares under the Co-Investment Plan. 
(2)
 The market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2009 (the last dealing day in the financial year) was 281.75p. The highest and lowest market prices of an ordinary share in the 
year were 526.5p and 160.0p respectively. 
As potential beneficiaries under the Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust (the ‘Trust’) Angela Ahrendts and Stacey Cartwright are deemed  
to have an interest in the Company’s ordinary shares held by the Trust. The Trust held 1,190,706 ordinary shares as at 31 March 2009. 
At 18 May 2009, the Trust held 1,186,446 ordinary shares, there have been no further changes in the above interests between  
31 March 2009 and 18 May 2009. 
There are no other non-beneficial interests. 
IFRS 
Appropriate adjustments have been made, where relevant, to performance targets and tests under the Company’s incentive plans to 
ensure consistency of measurement during the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS reporting. 
Audit statement 
In their audit opinion on page 73, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP refer to their audit of the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A  
to the Companies Act 1985. These comprise the following disclosures in this remuneration report: the disclosures under the headings 
‘Executive directors’ remuneration’, ‘Executive directors’ pension entitlements’, ‘Payments to former directors’, ‘Non-executive 
directors’ remuneration’, ‘The Burberry Co-Investment Plan’, ‘The Burberry Group plc Exceptional Performance Share Plan’, ‘The Burberry 
Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan’, ‘The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002’ and ‘SAYE’ and the disclosures 
under the heading, ‘Directors’ Interests’ on pages 67 to 71. 
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: 
David Tyler 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
18 May 2009  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 
72 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters and the 
Group and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.  
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). The Group and parent Company financial statements are required by law  
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent 
Company financial statements that applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and 
• prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that  
the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary. 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors’ 
Remuneration and related matters comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 55 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: 
• The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS’s as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit/(loss) of the Group; and 
• The Directors’ Report contained on page 56 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces which are contained  
on pages 45 to 47.  INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF 
BURBERRY GROUP PLC 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 73 
We have audited the Group financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Group 
Income Statement, Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, Group Balance Sheet, Group Cash Flow Statement and  
the related notes. These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. 
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009  
and on the information in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters that is described as having been audited.  
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable  
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement  
of Directors’ Responsibilities. 
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the 
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not,  
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown  
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial 
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also 
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.  
The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in the Business and Financial Review that  
is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit,  
or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined 
Code (2006) specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not 
required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial 
statements. The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, Chairman’s Letter, Chief Executive Officer’s Letter, Group 
overview, Strategy, Business and Financial Review, Risks, Corporate Responsibility, Board of Directors, Directors’ Report, Corporate 
Governance, the unaudited part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters, the five year summary, Shareholder 
information and Executive directors and senior management. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any 
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any  
other information. 
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial 
statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the 
Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order  
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy  
of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements. 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state  
of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended; 
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London, 18 May 2009 GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 
74 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
 
 Note 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2008
£m 
 Revenue 3 1,201.5 995.4 
 Cost of sales  (535.7) (377.7)
 Gross profit  665.8 617.7 
 Net operating expenses 4 (675.7) (416.0)
 Operating (loss)/profit   (9.9) 201.7 
     
 Financing    
 Interest receivable and similar income 6 7.2 5.7 
 Interest payable and similar charges 6 (13.4) (11.7)
 Net finance charge 6 (6.2) (6.0)
 (Loss)/profit before taxation 5 (16.1) 195.7 
 Taxation 7 11.0  (60.5)
 (Loss)/profit for the year 3 (5.1) 135.2 
     
 Attributable to:    
 Equity holders of the company  (6.0) 135.2 
 Minority interest  0.9 – 
 (Loss)/profit for the year  (5.1) 135.2 
 
 (Loss)/earnings per share     
 – basic 8 (1.4p) 31.3p 
 – diluted 8 (1.4p) 30.5p 
     
     
 Non-GAAP measures  £m £m 
 Operating (loss)/profit  (9.9) 201.7 
 Restructuring costs 4 54.9 – 
 Goodwill impairment charge 4 116.2 – 
 Store impairments and onerous lease provisions 4 13.4 – 
 Negative goodwill 4 (1.7) – 
 Relocation of headquarters 4 7.9 (15.1)
 Project Atlas  4 – 19.6 
 Adjusted operating profit  180.8 206.2 
 Additional tax related Non-GAAP measures are disclosed in note 7. 
     
 Adjusted earnings per share    
 – basic 8 30.6p 32.4p 
 – diluted 8 30.2p 31.6p 
     
     
 Dividends per share    
 – interim  9 3.35p 3.35p 
 – proposed final (not recognised as a liability at 31 March) 9 8.65p 8.65p 
  GROUP STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME  
AND EXPENSE  
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 75 
 Note 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to
31 March 
2008
£m 
Cash flow hedges – losses deferred in equity 21 (27.4) (8.9)
Foreign currency translation differences 21 116.8 41.0 
Restriction of asset on defined benefit pension scheme 21 – (0.7)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 21 3.5 5.6 
Net income recognised directly in equity  92.9 37.0 
Cash flow hedges – gains/(losses) transferred to the income statement  21 16.7 (2.2)
Tax on items transferred from equity to the income statement 21 (4.7) 0.9 
Net income recognised directly in equity net of transfers  104.9 35.7 
(Loss)/profit for the year  (5.1) 135.2 
Total recognised income for the year  99.8 170.9 
 
Attributable to:    
Equity holders of the company 21 98.8 170.9 
Minority interest 21 1.0 – 
Total recognised income for the year  99.8 170.9  GROUP BALANCE SHEET 
76 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
 Note 
As at 
31 March  
2009 
£m  
As at
31 March 
2008
£m 
ASSETS    
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 10 57.5 150.4 
Property, plant and equipment 11 258.6 177.5 
Deferred tax assets 12 57.7 29.5 
Trade and other receivables 13 9.5 7.4 
  383.3 364.8 
Current assets    
Inventories 14 262.6 268.6 
Trade and other receivables 13 187.2 169.2 
Derivative financial assets 15 23.2 11.0 
Income tax receivables  17.1 12.0 
Cash and cash equivalents 16 252.3 127.6 
  742.4 588.4 
Total assets  1,125.7 953.2 
    
LIABILITIES    
Non-current liabilities    
Trade and other payables 17 (23.8) (13.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 12 (2.3) (4.3)
Derivative financial liabilities 15 (0.4) – 
Retirement benefit obligations 18 (0.6) (0.4)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 19 (7.9) (3.7)
  (35.0) (21.7)
Current liabilities    
Bank overdrafts and borrowings 20 (244.7) (191.8)
Derivative financial liabilities 15 (57.1) (18.2)
Trade and other payables 17 (162.4) (174.3)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 19 (33.5) – 
Income tax liabilities  (49.1) (51.9)
  (546.8) (436.2)
Total liabilities  (581.8) (457.9)
    
Net assets  543.9 495.3 
    
EQUITY    
Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity holders    
Ordinary share capital 21 0.2 0.2 
Share premium account 21 175.9 174.3 
Capital reserve 21 27.2 26.6 
Hedging reserve 21 (13.4) (5.8)
Foreign currency translation reserve 21 150.2 37.8 
Retained earnings 21 199.2 262.2 
  539.3 495.3 
Minority interests in equity 21 4.6 – 
Total equity  543.9 495.3 
The financial statements on pages 74 to 120 were approved by the Board on 18 May 2009 and signed on its behalf by: 
John Peace Stacey Cartwright 
Chairman Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 77 
 Note 
Year to 
31 March 
 2009 
£m 
Year to
31 March
 2008
£m 
Cash flows from operating activities    
Operating (loss)/profit  (9.9) 201.7 
Depreciation  44.8 28.9 
Amortisation  4.8 3.8 
Net impairment charges/(releases)  126.8 (0.5)
Negative goodwill  (1.7) – 
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment  2.0 (19.1)
Fair value losses/(gains) on derivative instruments   10.7 (0.5)
Charges in respect of employee share incentive schemes  4.5 14.3 
Decrease/(increase) in inventories  55.7 (122.6)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables  2.1 (29.1)
Increase in payables  2.2 28.8 
Cash generated from operations  242.0 105.7 
Interest received  7.7 4.8 
Interest paid  (13.6) (11.8)
Taxation paid  (26.3) (53.3)
Net cash inflow from operating activities  209.8 45.4 
    
Cash flows from investing activities    
Purchase of tangible and intangible fixed assets  (89.9) (48.5)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  0.1 28.3 
Payment of deferred consideration  – (10.0)
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 27 (0.3) – 
Net cash outflow from investing activities  (90.1) (30.2)
    
Cash flows from financing activities    
Dividends paid in the year  9 (51.7) (47.4)
Issue of ordinary share capital   – 0.5 
Purchase of shares through share buy back 21 – (39.6)
Sale of own shares by ESOPs 21 0.2 4.4 
Purchase of own shares by ESOPs 21 (5.4) (1.5)
Repayments of borrowings  (109.0) – 
Proceeds from borrowings  35.5 49.0 
Derivatives matured during the year and remaining in equity  5.7 – 
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (124.7) (34.6)
    
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents   (5.0) (19.4)
Effect of exchange rate changes   13.2 7.0 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  44.8 57.2 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period  53.0 44.8 
 
ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
 Note 
As at 
31 March 
 2009 
£m 
As at
31 March
 2008
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents as per the balance sheet 16 252.3 127.6 
Bank overdrafts 20 (199.3) (82.8)
Cash and cash equivalents per the cash flow statement   53.0 44.8 
Bank borrowings at date of drawdown  (35.5) (109.0)
Effect of exchange rate changes on foreign currency borrowings  (9.9) – 
Bank borrowings 20 (45.4) (109.0)
Net cash/(debt)  7.6 (64.2)
Cash generated from operations includes £15.8m restructuring costs paid in the year.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
78 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
1. Basis of preparation 
Burberry Group is a luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer in Europe, the Middle East, the Americas and Asia Pacific. 
Licensing activity is also carried out, principally in Japan. All of the companies which comprise Burberry Group are owned by Burberry 
Group plc (‘the Company’) directly or indirectly.  
The consolidated financial statements of Burberry Group have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’), IFRIC interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation 
of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. 
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, 
which are expected to be relevant to the Group’s results, were issued but not yet effective: 
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 
Requires a ‘management approach’, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal 
reporting purposes and regularly reviewed by the Board in order to allocate resources to the segment and assess its performance.  
The Group will be amending its segmental information with effect from 1 April 2009 to comply with this standard. 
IAS 23 (Revised) – Borrowing Costs 
This revision of an existing standard requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs directly attributable to an acquisition, construction or 
production of a qualifying asset (one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale) as part of the cost of that asset. 
It will take effect for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. No material financial impact is anticipated. 
IFRS 2 (Amendment) – Share-based payment 
This revision of an existing standard deals with vesting conditions and cancellations. It clarifies that vesting conditions are service 
conditions and performance conditions only. Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions. All cancellations, 
whether by the Group or by other parties, will receive the same accounting treatment. It will take effect for annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2009. No material financial impact is anticipated. 
IAS 1 (Amendment) – Presentation of financial statements 
The amendment clarifies that some rather than all financial assets and liabilities classified as held for trading in accordance with IAS 39, 
‘Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement’ are examples of current assets and liabilities respectively. It will take effect from 
1 January 2009. It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group financial statements. 
IAS 1 (Revised) – Presentation of financial statements 
This revision of an existing standard will prohibit the presentation of items of income and expenses (that is, ‘non-owner changes in 
equity’) in the statement of changes in equity. All non-owner changes in equity will be required to be shown in either one performance 
statement (the statement of comprehensive income) or two statements (the income statement and statement of comprehensive income). 
Where entities restate or reclassify comparative information, they will be required to present a restated balance sheet as at the beginning 
comparative period. It will take effect for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. No material financial impact is anticipated. 
IFRS 3 (Amendment) – Business combinations  
The standard will continue to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, but with certain significant changes. All payments 
to purchase a business will be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some contingent payments subsequently remeasured 
at fair value through income. Goodwill and non-controlling (minority) interests may be calculated on a gross or net basis. All transaction 
costs will be expensed. It will take effect for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and will be applied by the Group to all 
business combinations with effect from 1 April 2010. 
IAS 27 (Amendment) – Consolidated and separate financial statements 
The amendment removes the definition of the cost method from IAS 27 and has replaced it with a requirement to present dividends  
as income in the separate financial statements of the investor. It will take effect from 1 April 2010. No material financial impact is anticipated.
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 79 
Basis of consolidation 
The Group’s annual financial statements comprise those of the parent Company and its subsidiaries, presented as a single economic entity. 
The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.  
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date  
on which control is transferred out of the Group. Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements 
include the results for the portion of the reporting period during which Burberry Group plc had control. The effects of intra-group 
transactions are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.  
Key sources of estimation and judgement  
Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. 
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on management’s best judgement at the date of the financial 
statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period  
in which the circumstances change. 
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations  
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Such estimates include, but are not limited to impairment 
of trade and other receivables, goodwill and asset impairment, inventory provisioning, provisions for onerous leases, restructuring 
provisions and income and deferred taxes. These are discussed below: 
Impairment of trade and other receivables 
A provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is established where management estimate that the Group will not be able  
to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. 
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group is required to test whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have 
been determined based on value-in-use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected  
to arise from the continuing operation of the cash generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the 
present value. 
Impairment of assets 
Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount  
may not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit  
is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions and estimates. 
Inventory provisioning 
The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends. As a result,  
it is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of inventories and the associated provisioning required. Inventory provisioning  
is based on the age and condition of inventory, as well as anticipated saleability. 
Provision for onerous leases 
Provisions for onerous leases, measured net of expected rentals, are recognised when the property leased becomes vacant and is  
no longer used in the operations of the business. Provisions for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease-by-lease basis. 
Provision for restructuring 
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been 
communicated to affected parties. 
Income and deferred taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes  
in each territory. There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax 
determination is uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional 
taxes will be due. Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences 
will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which such determination is made.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED  
 
80 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
2. Accounting policies 
The consolidated financial information of Burberry Group plc and all its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.  
The principal accounting policies of the Group are: 
a) Revenue 
Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied (less 
returns, trade discounts and allowances) and royalties receivable. 
Wholesale sales are recognised when goods are despatched to trade customers, as this reflects the transfer of risks and rewards of 
ownership, with provisions made for expected returns and allowances. Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates  
of transactions with customers. Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return levels. 
Royalties receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which is typically 
on the basis of production volumes. 
b) Segment reporting 
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns 
that are different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within  
a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other 
economic environments. 
c) Business combinations 
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition  
is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, 
plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a 
business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. 
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as 
goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised 
directly in the Income Statement. 
d) Share schemes 
The cost of the share incentives received by employees (including directors) is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity 
instruments awarded at the date of grant. The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used to determine the fair value of the award 
made. The impact of performance conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant, except for conditions 
linked to the price of Burberry Group plc shares i.e. market conditions. Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are 
allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest. The estimate of the number of options expected to 
vest is revised at each balance sheet date.  
The cost of the share based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding 
increase in equity. 
The proceeds received from the exercise of the equity instruments awarded, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are 
credited to share capital and share premium.  
e) Operating leases 
Burberry Group is a lessee of property. Gross rental expenditure in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over 
the period of the leases. Certain rental expense is determined on the basis of revenue achieved in specific retail locations and is accrued 
for on that basis. 
Amounts paid to acquire the rights to a lease (‘Lease premiums’) are written off in equal annual instalments over the life of the lease 
contract. Lease incentives, typically rent free periods and capital contributions, are recognised over the term of the lease to the first 
break clause.  
f) Dividend distribution 
Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plc’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are 
approved by the shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 81 
g)  Pension costs 
Defined benefit schemes 
Eligible employees of Burberry Group participate in defined benefit schemes in France and Taiwan.  
Where arrangements are funded, assets are held in independently administrated trusts. The cost of providing defined benefit schemes 
to participating Burberry employees is charged to the Income Statement over the anticipated period of employment. Net actuarial gains 
and losses are recognised directly to equity through the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (‘SORIE’).  
The asset or liability recognised in the Balance Sheet, in respect of defined benefit schemes, represents Burberry’s share of the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for 
unrecognised actuarial gains and losses and past service costs. 
Defined contribution schemes 
Burberry Group eligible employees also participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with  
its assets held in an independently administered fund. The cost of providing these benefits to participating Burberry employees is 
recognised in the Income Statement and comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year. 
h) Intangible fixed assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill is the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill on acquisition is 
recorded as an intangible fixed asset. Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed  
at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date. Adjustments are also made to align the accounting policies of acquired 
businesses with those of Burberry Group.  
Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful economic life. Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events  
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Trademarks and trading licences 
The cost of securing and renewing trademarks and other intellectual property is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset and amortised  
by equal annual instalments over its useful economic life, typically ten years. The useful economic life of trademarks and other intellectual 
property is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement. 
Computer software 
The cost of acquiring computer software (including licences and separately identifiable external development costs) is capitalised as  
an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use. Software costs  
are amortised by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, which are up to five years. 
i) Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost, based on historical revalued amounts, less accumulated depreciation 
and provision to reflect any impairment in value. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing 
the asset to its working condition for its intended use. 
Depreciation 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the assets in 
equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: 
Land Not depreciated 
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years 
Leaseholds – less than 50 years expired  Over the unexpired term of the lease 
Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings 3 – 8 years 
Retail fixtures and fittings 2 – 5 years 
Office equipment 5 years 
Computer equipment Up to 5 years 
Profit/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 
Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment represent the difference between the net proceeds and net book value 
at the date of sale. Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED  
 
82 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
j) Impairment of assets 
Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are 
subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash generating units).  
k) Inventories 
Inventories and work in progress are valued on a first-in-first-out basis at the lower of cost (including an appropriate proportion of 
production overhead) and net realisable value. Provision is made to reduce cost to no more than net realisable value having regard  
to the age and condition of inventory, as well as its anticipated saleability. 
l) Taxation 
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. 
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
which are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or 
substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of 
an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor 
taxable profit or loss, it is exempt from deferred tax. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or 
substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the 
deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.  
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the 
temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
m) Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that 
an outflow of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated. 
When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated on the present value of the expenditures 
expected to be required to settle the obligation. The present value is calculated using forward market interest rates, as measured at the 
balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks reflected in future cash flow estimates. 
n) Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity 
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued 
or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable 
incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. 
o) Financial instruments 
A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument. A financial asset is no longer recognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or substantially all risks 
and rewards of the asset are transferred. A financial liability is no longer recognised when the obligation specified in the contract is 
discharged, cancelled or expires.  
The Group’s financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, borrowings 
and derivative financial instruments. 
All financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method except for derivatives, which are classified  
as held for trading (except where they qualify for hedge accounting) and are held at fair value. Financial liabilities held at amortised  
cost include trade payables, accruals and borrowings. 
The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the profit or loss and loans and 
receivables. Loans and receivables include trade and other receivables and cash and other equivalents. Derivatives are classified as  
held for trading unless in a hedging relationship and are held at fair value.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 83 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short term deposits with an original maturity date of three months or less, held with 
banks, liquidity funds as well as bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are recorded under current liabilities on the Balance Sheet. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of  
trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, 
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The amount of the provision is recognised  
in the Income Statement. 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables arise when the Group acquires money, goods or services directly from a supplier. They are included in current 
liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. Payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost 
and the difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement 
over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has 
an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Derivative instruments 
Burberry Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain 
trading transactions. The principal derivative instruments used are forward currency contracts taken out to hedge highly probable 
cashflows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases. To manage interest rate risk Burberry Group manages 
its proportion of fixed and floating rate borrowings to within limits approved by the Board using interest rate swap derivatives. It has 
designated foreign currency borrowings in a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries. 
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as  
its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, 
both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly 
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The method of 
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of 
the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: (1) hedges of the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities 
or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or (2) hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedges); or (3) classified as 
held for trading. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement 
immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk. 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred  
in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. 
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item affects the Income Statement.  
If it is expected that all or a portion of a loss deferred in equity will not be recovered in one or more future periods, or the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the amount that is not expected to be recovered is reclassified to the Income Statement.  
If a derivative instrument is not designated as a hedge, the subsequent change to the fair value is recognised in the Income Statement 
within operating expenses. 
Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the 
retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in equity.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED  
 
84 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
p) Foreign currency translation  
Functional and presentation currency 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). 
Transactions in foreign currencies 
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency at the 
exchange rate ruling at the monthly average exchange rate. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which  
are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange 
differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise, except where these exchange 
differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of Burberry Group, in which case such differences are taken directly  
to the foreign currency translation reserve within equity.  
Translation of the results of overseas businesses 
The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Group’s presentation currency of Sterling each month at the weighted 
average exchange rate for the month according to the phasing of the Group’s trading results. The weighted average exchange rate  
is used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions. The assets and liabilities of such 
undertakings are translated at the year end exchange rates. Differences arising on the retranslation of the opening net investment in 
subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve within equity.  
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
operation and translated at the closing rate. 
The principal exchange rates used were as follows: 
 Weighted average profit rate  Closing rate            
 
Year to
31 March 
2009 
Year to
31 March 
2008 
As at 
31 March  
2009 
As at
31 March 
2008 
Euro 1.12 1.42 1.08 1.26 
US dollar 1.42 2.02 1.43 1.98 
Hong Kong dollar 12.79 15.63 11.10 15.44 
Korean won 1,967 1,873 1,967 1,966 
The average exchange rate achieved by Burberry Group on its Yen royalty income, taking into account its use of Yen forward sale 
contracts on a monthly basis approximately 12 months in advance of royalty receipts, was Yen 213.1: £1 in the year to 31 March 2009 
(2008: Yen 221.5: £1). 
q) Non-GAAP measures 
Non-GAAP measures are those items that are largely one-off and material in nature and presented in order to provide a clear and 
consistent presentation of the underlying performance of the Group’s ongoing business.   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 85 
3. Segmental analysis 
Primary segment – analysis by origin 
The Group’s primary reporting segments are geographic, based on where products or services are supplied to a third party or another 
segment. EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) comprises operations principally in the UK and also in France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, 
Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Ireland, Hungary, the Netherlands and Middle East. The Americas comprises operations in the USA, 
Canada and other parts of the region. Asia Pacific comprises operations in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, 
Guam and Taiwan. This segmentation follows management organisation and reporting lines. 
Revenue and profit before taxation – by origin of business 
      EMEA      Spain      Americas      Asia Pacific       Total 
Year to 31 March 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m  
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
Gross segment revenue 718.4 626.9 177.0 193.9 302.0 231.6 292.0 226.5  1,489.4 1,278.9 
Inter-segment revenue (274.8) (262.4) (13.1) (21.1) – – – –  (287.9) (283.5)
Revenue 443.6 364.5 163.9 172.8 302.0 231.6 292.0 226.5  1,201.5 995.4 
            
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 161.1 139.1 (7.6) 14.4 (10.8) 14.4 38.1 38.3  180.8 206.2 
Non-GAAP measures (23.8) (4.5) (153.5) – (12.4) – (1.0) –  (190.7) (4.5)
Operating profit/(loss)  137.3 134.6 (161.1) 14.4 (23.2) 14.4 37.1 38.3  (9.9) 201.7 
Net finance charge          (6.2) (6.0)
(Loss)/profit before taxation          (16.1) 195.7 
Taxation          11.0 (60.5)
(Loss)/profit for the year          (5.1) 135.2 
The results above are stated after the allocation of Group central costs. Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under 
the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties. 
Other segmental items – by origin of business 
      EMEA      Spain      Americas      Asia Pacific       Total 
Year to 31 March 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m  
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
Capital expenditure 45.4 21.3 3.6 4.8 38.9 18.7 7.5 5.5  95.4 50.3 
Depreciation 17.0 12.4 5.0 5.2 14.8 8.5 3.8 2.8  40.6 28.9 
Goodwill impairment charge – – 116.2 – – – – –  116.2 – 
Impairment charge 4.0 – 1.2 0.1 5.4 1.1 – –  10.6 1.2 
Release of impairment charge – (1.7) – – – – – –  – (1.7)
Amortisation 4.0 3.5 0.1 0.1 – – 0.4 0.2  4.5 3.8 
Other non-cash expenses            
– share based payments 3.7 10.2 0.1 1.3 0.5 2.2 0.2 0.6  4.5 14.3 
 
Assets and liabilities – by origin of business 
      EMEA      Spain      Americas      Asia Pacific       Total 
Year to 31 March 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m  
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
Segmental assets 283.0 253.3 123.7 142.1 293.4 203.6 65.4 55.1  765.5 654.1 
Segmental liabilities (174.5) (129.6) (40.0) (33.7) (42.6) (33.0) (28.6) (13.7)  (285.7) (210.0)
Net operating assets 108.5 123.7 83.7 108.4 250.8 170.6 36.8 41.4  479.8 444.1 
Goodwill          33.1 130.1 
Net cash/(debt)          7.6 (64.2)
Taxation (including  
deferred taxation)          23.4 (14.7)
Net assets          543.9 495.3 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED  
 
86 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
3. Segmental analysis (continued) 
Secondary segment – analysis by class of business  
      Retail       Wholesale 
     Total Retail and 
     Wholesale      Licensing       Total 
Year to 31 March 
2009 
£m 
2008 
£m  
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
2008 
£m  
2009 
£m 
2008
£m 
Gross segment revenue 629.7 484.4  753.2 589.5 1,382.9 1,073.9 82.6 84.8  1,465.5 1,158.7 
Inter-segment revenue – –  (264.0) (163.3) (264.0) (163.3) – –  (264.0) (163.3)
Revenue 629.7 484.4  489.2 426.2 1,118.9 910.6 82.6 84.8  1,201.5 995.4 
Other segmental items             
Segment assets      750.6 640.1 14.9 14.0  765.5 654.1 
Capital expenditure      95.4 50.3 – –  95.4 50.3 
The results above are stated after the allocation of Group central costs. 
Additional information 
Analysis of revenue is shown below as additional information: 
 
 
Revenue by product 
Year to  
31 March  
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Womenswear 412.8 345.2 
Menswear 298.4 247.8 
Non-apparel 366.3 289.7 
Childrenswear/Other 41.4 27.9 
Retail/wholesale 1,118.9 910.6 
Licensing 82.6 84.8 
Total  1,201.5 995.4 
 
 
 
Revenue by destination 
Year to  
31 March  
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March
2008
£m 
Europe 379.8 291.8 
Spain 144.5 161.6 
Americas 304.7 234.8 
Asia Pacific  240.0 189.1 
Rest of World 49.9 33.3 
Retail/wholesale 1,118.9 910.6 
Licensing 82.6 84.8 
Total  1,201.5 995.4 
 
Number of directly operated stores, concessions and outlets open at 31 March 419 368  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 87 
4. Net operating expenses 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March
2008 
£m 
Distribution costs  (241.5) (180.9)
Administrative expenses (241.8) (230.2)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (1.8) (0.5)
Property rental income under operating leases 0.1 0.1 
   
Non-GAAP measures   
Restructuring costs (54.9) – 
Goodwill impairment (116.2) – 
Store impairments and onerous lease provisions (13.4) – 
Negative goodwill 1.7 – 
Relocation of headquarters (7.9) 15.1 
Project Atlas costs – (19.6)
Total (675.7) (416.0)
Non-GAAP measures 
In the year to 31 March 2009, Burberry announced a cost efficiency programme which included the restructuring of its Spanish 
operations and the consolidation of its UK manufacturing facilities. The total cost associated with the cost efficiency programme  
was £54.9m. 
The Group has impaired the entire goodwill relating to the Spanish business. This has resulted in an impairment charge of £116.2m  
in the year to 31 March 2009 (see note 10). 
The Group has impaired certain retail stores in the US and Europe. This has resulted in an impairment charge of £10.6m in the year  
to 31 March 2009 (see note 11) and an increase in the provision for onerous leases of £2.8m (see note 19). 
Negative goodwill of £1.7m arose on the formation of the Burberry Middle East joint venture and is attributable to the excess of the  
net assets acquired over the cost of the acquisition. 
Operating profit for the year to 31 March 2008 included a net profit of £15.1m relating to the Group’s relocation of the global 
headquarters. In the year to 31 March 2009 the Group has increased the provision for onerous leases in relation to this relocation  
by £7.9m. 
The year to 31 March 2008 included a charge of £19.6m relating to Project Atlas, our major infrastructure redesign initiative. The core 
design and build was completed in the year to 31 March 2008 and since then all ongoing costs relating to the deployment of the model 
are being accounted for within operating costs or capital expenditure as appropriate. 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
88 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
5. (Loss)/profit before taxation 
 
Year to  
31 March  
2009  
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2008 
£m 
(Loss)/profit before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):    
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   
– within cost of sales 1.2 3.1 
– within distribution costs  4.6 3.2 
– within administrative expenses 34.8 22.6 
Amortisation of intangible assets (included in administrative expenses) 4.5 3.8 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.8 0.5 
Fixed asset impairment charge relating to certain retail assets  – 1.2 
Release of asset impairment charge relating to certain retail assets (included in administrative 
expenses) –  (1.7)
Employee costs (see note 26) 202.7 189.7 
Operating lease rentals    
– minimum lease payments 60.9 39.4 
– contingent rents 37.0 32.3 
Auditor’s remuneration  3.1 2.8 
Net exchange gain included in income statement (9.5) (2.9)
Net loss on derivatives held for trading 1.3 0.4 
Trade receivables net impairment charge 3.4 2.1 
Cost of goods consumed in cost of sales 519.4 361.8 
   
Non-GAAP measures   
Restructuring costs 54.9 – 
Goodwill impairment 116.2 – 
Store impairments and onerous lease provision 13.4 – 
Negative goodwill (1.7) – 
Relocation of headquarters 7.9 (15.1)
Project Atlas costs – 19.6 
 
Auditor’s remuneration is further analysed as follows: 
Year to 
 31 March 
2009  
£m 
Year to
 31 March
2008 
£m 
Audit services in respect of the accounts of the Company 0.1 0.1 
Audit services in respect of the accounts of subsidiary companies 1.6 1.2 
Other audit services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.1 
Services relating to taxation   
– compliance services 0.9 0.1 
– advisory services 0.3 1.3 
Total 3.1 2.8 
All work performed by the external auditors is controlled by an authorisation policy agreed by the Audit Committee. The over-riding 
principle precludes the auditors from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence. Non-audit services  
are provided by the auditors where they are best placed to provide the service due to their previous experience or market leadership  
in a particular area. Included in services relating to taxation above is £0.3m which arose in relation to advice on expatriate tax matters.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 89 
6. Net finance charge 
 
Year to 
 31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to
 31 March
2008 
£m 
Bank interest income 7.1 4.8 
Other interest income 0.1 0.9 
Interest receivable and similar income 7.2 5.7 
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts (12.4) (11.0)
Loss on derivatives held for trading (1.0) (0.7)
Interest payable and similar charges (13.4) (11.7)
Net finance charge (6.2) (6.0)
7. Taxation 
Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Income Statement 
 
Year to 
 31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2008
£m 
Current tax   
UK corporation tax   
Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2009 at 28% (2008: 30%)  22.0 115.8 
Double taxation relief (3.0) (66.8)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (8.5) (2.2)
 10.5 46.8 
Foreign tax   
Current tax on income for the year 8.3 22.9 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.9) 2.2 
Total current tax 16.9 71.9 
 
Deferred tax   
UK deferred tax   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (2.4) (6.3)
Effects of changes in tax rates – 0.4 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.8 (1.2)
 (0.6) (7.1)
Foreign deferred tax   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (27.7) (5.9)
Effects of changes in tax rates (0.6) 0.1 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.0 1.5 
Total deferred tax (27.9) (11.4)
Total tax (credit)/charge on (loss)/profit  (11.0) 60.5 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
90 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
7. Taxation (continued) 
Analysis of charge for the year recognised in equity 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2008
£m 
Current tax   
Current tax credit on share options (retained earnings) (0.4) (1.5)
Current tax charge/(credit) on exchange differences on loans (foreign currency translation reserve) 3.9 (3.1)
Total current tax recognised in equity 3.5 (4.6)
   
Deferred tax   
Deferred tax credit on cash flow hedges recognised directly to equity (hedging reserve) (7.8) (2.6)
Deferred tax charge/(credit) on cash flow hedges settled during the year (hedging reserve) 4.7 (0.9)
Deferred tax charge on share options (retained earnings) 2.8 4.7 
Deferred tax charge on exchange differences on loan (foreign currency translation reserve) 0.4 0.1 
Total deferred tax recognised in equity 0.1 1.3 
The tax rate applicable on profit/(loss) varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK due to the following factors: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2008
£m 
Tax at 28% (2008: 30%) on (loss)/profit before taxation (4.5) 58.7 
Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits  (4.2) (1.1)
Permanent differences 2.6 2.1 
Tax losses for which no deferred tax recognised 3.3 – 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (7.6) 0.3 
Adjustments to deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates (0.6) 0.5 
Total taxation (credit)/charge (11.0) 60.5 
Total taxation recognised in the Income Statement arises on: 
 
Year to 
 31 March 
2009  
£m 
Year to
31 March
2008
£m 
Adjusted profit before tax 41.6 60.3 
Non-GAAP measures (20.0) 0.2 
One-off tax credits (32.6) – 
Total taxation (credit)/charge (11.0) 60.5 
The one-off credits include £5.0m (2008: £nil) in relation to the overpayment of tax in prior years and £27.6m (2008: £nil) arising on a 
reorganisation within the Group. 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 91 
8. Earnings per share  
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on attributable profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year. Basic and diluted earnings per share based on adjusted operating profit and the underlying 
effective tax rate are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of Burberry Group.  
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to
31 March 
2008
£m 
Attributable profit for the year before Non-GAAP measures
(1)
 132.1 140.0 
Effect of Non-GAAP measures
(1)
 (after taxation) (138.1) (4.8)
Attributable (loss)/profit for the year (6.0) 135.2 
(1)
 Refer to Group Income Statement for Non-GAAP measures. 
The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary shares in 
issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in Burberry Group’s Employee share option plan trusts ‘ESOP trusts’. 
Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. In addition, account is 
taken of any awards made under the share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive effect when exercised. 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
Millions 
Year to
31 March
2008
Millions 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 431.3 432.1 
Dilutive effect of the share incentive schemes 6.8 10.7 
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 438.1 442.8 
 
 
 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
Pence 
Year to
31 March
2008
Pence 
Basic earnings per share before Non-GAAP measures
(1)
 30.6 32.4 
Effect of Non-GAAP measures
(1)
 (32.0) (1.1)
Basic (loss)/earnings per share  (1.4) 31.3 
 
 
 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
Pence 
Year to
31 March
2008
Pence 
Diluted earnings per share before Non-GAAP measures
(1)
 30.2 31.6 
Effect of Non-GAAP measures
(1)
 (31.6) (1.1)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share  (1.4) 30.5 
(1)
 Refer to Group Income Statement for Non-GAAP measures. 
9. Dividends 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2008
£m 
Prior year final dividend paid 8.65p per share (2008: 7.625p) 37.2 33.0 
Interim dividend paid 3.35p per share (2008: 3.35p) 14.5 14.4 
Total  51.7 47.4 
A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2009 of 8.65p (2008: 8.65p) per share, amounting to £37.5m (2008: £37.2m),  
has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date. The final 
dividend has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on 30 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 3 July 2009.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
92 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
10. Intangible assets 
Cost 
Goodwill
£m 
Trademarks,
 trading
 licences and 
other
£m 
 
Computer 
 software 
£m 
Total
£m 
As at 1 April 2007 116.9 12.4 13.8 143.1 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 13.2 2.0 0.6 15.8 
Additions – 1.3 4.4 5.7 
As at 31 March 2008 130.1 15.7 18.8 164.6 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 17.9 2.3 0.8 21.0 
Additions 1.3 0.1 7.2 8.6 
Impairment charge (116.2) – – (116.2)
As at 31 March 2009 33.1 18.1 26.8 78.0 
 
Accumulated amortisation     
As at 1 April 2007 – 4.1 5.4 9.5 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – 0.7 0.2 0.9 
Charge for the year – 1.0 2.8 3.8 
As at 31 March 2008 – 5.8 8.4 14.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – 0.9 0.6 1.5 
Charge for the year
(1)
 – 1.3 3.5 4.8 
As at 31 March 2009 – 8.0 12.5 20.5 
     
Net book value     
As at 31 March 2009 33.1 10.1 14.3 57.5 
As at 31 March 2008 130.1 9.9 10.4 150.4 
(1)
 Included in the amortisation charge for the year is £0.3m of restructuring costs reported as a Non-GAAP measure. 
Impairment testing of goodwill 
The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to cash generating units at 31 March 2009 is: 
 
 
As at 
 31 March  
2009  
£m 
As at
 31 March 
2008 
£m 
Spain – 101.1 
Korea 21.0 21.0 
Other 12.1 8.0 
Total 33.1 130.1 
At 31 March 2009 an impairment provision of £116.2m (2008: £nil) was recognised in respect of the carrying value of Spain goodwill.  
At 30 September 2008 an impairment review was carried out and it was concluded that no impairment was necessary as the recoverable 
amount of goodwill, based on the value in use, exceeded its carrying value. The value in use at September was based on the future 
cashflows of the core Spanish business and the childrenswear division.  
Following the significant restructuring of the Spanish operations, management no longer believes it appropriate to include the future 
cashflows of the Global childrenswear division when calculating the value in use. The value in use at 31 March 2009 has been based on 
the pre-tax cashflows for just the core Spanish business. As a result of the continuing challenging economic environment in Spain and 
based on management’s estimates the recoverable amount of goodwill did not exceed the carrying value, and therefore an impairment 
has been recognised. The cashflows were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 13.7% (2008: 15.1%), based on the Burberry Group weighted 
average cost of capital adjusted for the country specific tax rates and risk. 
No impairment was recognised in respect of the carrying value of the other goodwill as the recoverable amount of goodwill for each 
cash generating unit exceeded its carrying value. The recoverable amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value  
in use basis. For Korea the value in use calculation was performed using pre-tax cash flow projections for 2009/10 based on financial 
plans approved by management. No growth has been assumed in the cashflow projections beyond this period (2008: nil). The cash 
flows were discounted at a pre-tax rate of 16.0% (2008: 14.1%), based on Burberry Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted 
for the country specific tax rates and risk.   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 93 
11. Property, plant and equipment 
Cost 
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m 
Leasehold
improvements
£m 
Fixtures, 
fittings and  
equipment 
£m 
Assets in the 
course of 
construction 
£m 
Total
£m 
As at 1 April 2007 80.5 74.1 118.7 5.3 278.6 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 5.1 1.5 9.6 0.3 16.5 
Additions – 13.9 24.4 6.2 44.5 
Disposals (8.7)(0.3)(7.5) – (16.5)
Reclassifications  – 1.5 1.8 (3.3) – 
As at 31 March 2008 76.9 90.7 147.0 8.5 323.1 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 20.1 31.1 26.5 3.0 80.7 
Additions 0.1 38.0 38.5 11.5 88.1 
Disposals – (3.2)(7.7) (0.1)(11.0)
Reclassifications  – 3.6 0.1 (3.7) – 
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 27) – 0.7 – 0.9 1.6 
As at 31 March 2009 97.1 160.9 204.4 20.1 482.5 
 
Accumulated depreciation           
As at 1 April 2007 22.3 20.5 73.1 – 115.9 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.1 0.7 5.8 – 8.6 
Charge for the year 1.9 6.7 20.3 – 28.9 
Net impairment charge/(release) on certain  
retail assets – 0.5 (1.0) – (0.5)
Disposals (2.3)(0.3)(4.7) – (7.3)
As at 31 March 2008 24.0 28.1 93.5 – 145.6 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.2 9.4 16.0 – 31.6 
Charge for the year
(1)
 2.0 12.6 30.2 – 44.8 
Net impairment charge on certain retail assets – 5.2 5.4 – 10.6 
Disposals – (1.9)(6.8) – (8.7)
As at 31 March 2009 32.2 53.4 138.3 – 223.9 
      
Net book value      
As at 31 March 2009 64.9 107.5 66.1 20.1 258.6 
As at 31 March 2008 52.9 62.6 53.5 8.5 177.5 
(1)
 Accelerated depreciation of £4.2m (2008: £nil) and £0.2m (2008: £nil) loss on disposal of assets are included within restructuring costs as a Non-GAAP measure. 
During the year to 31 March 2009 a net impairment charge of £10.6m (2008: £0.5m release) was identified as part of the annual 
impairment review as a result of trading conditions having become more challenging. Of the total charge, £5.4m (2008: £1.1m) relates 
to certain retail stores in the US, £4.0m (2008: £1.7m release) to certain retail stores in Europe and £1.2m (2008: £0.1m) in relation  
to certain retail stores in Spain. 
The impairment charge was based on a review of the value of the assets in use and on pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial 
plans approved by management and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the lease exit dates using growth rates and inflation rates 
appropriate to each country’s economic conditions. The pre-tax discount rates used in these calculations were between 11.3% and 
14.6% (2008: 13.8%), based on Burberry Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the country specific tax rates and risk. 
Based on a valuation report prepared by Colliers Conrad Ritblat Erdman, dated 16 May 2006, the existing use value of Burberry 
Group’s nine most significant freehold properties is £179.6m (2008: £136.9m) based on closing exchange rates at 31 March 2009.  
This valuation is higher than the net book value of these assets. The directors do not intend to incorporate this valuation into the 
accounts but set out the valuation for information purposes only.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
94 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
12. Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are shown in the  
table below: 
 
As at 
31 March  
2009 
£m 
As at
31 March 
2008
£m 
Deferred tax assets 57.7 29.5 
Deferred tax liabilities (2.3) (4.3)
Net amount 55.4 25.2 
The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: 
 
As at 
31 March  
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2008 
£m 
As at 1 April 25.2 14.4 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.4 0.7 
Credited to the income statement 27.9 11.4 
Charged to equity (0.1) (1.3)
End of the year 55.4 25.2 
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the off-setting of balances within 
the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: 
Deferred tax liabilities 
 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances
£m 
Unrealised 
inventory profit 
and other 
inventory 
provisions
£m 
Derivative 
instruments
£m 
 
 
 
Unused tax 
losses 
£m 
 
 
 
 
Other 
£m  
Total
£m 
As at 1 April 2007 13.6 (1.7) 0.1 (0.5) (2.7) 8.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 – – – (0.2) 0.1 
(Credited)/charged to the income statement (1.1) (0.3)– – 1.2 (0.2)
(Credited)/charged to equity (0.2) – – 0.2 – – 
As at 31 March 2008 12.6 (2.0) 0.1 (0.3) (1.7) 8.7 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.1 (0.6) – (0.1) (0.4) 3.0 
Charged/(credited) to the income statement 7.9 (3.5) – (2.6) 11.8 13.6 
As at 31 March 2009 24.6 (6.1) 0.1 (3.0) 9.7 25.3  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 95 
12. Deferred taxation (continued) 
Deferred tax assets 
 
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m 
Unrealised
inventory profit
 and other
inventory
 provisions
£m 
Share 
schemes
£m 
 
 
 
Derivative 
instruments 
£m 
 
 
 
Unused tax 
losses 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total
£m 
As at 31 March 2007 0.9 6.8 12.7 (0.9) 0.1 3.6 23.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 0.4 0.1 – – 0.2 0.8 
Credited/(charged) to the income statement 1.9 5.6 2.0 – (0.1) 1.8 11.2 
Credited/(charged) to equity – – (4.7) 3.5 – (0.1) (1.3)
Other movements  – 0.2 – – – (0.2) – 
As at 31 March 2008 2.9 13.0 10.1 2.6 – 5.3 33.9 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 3.2 0.1 – 0.1 1.5 5.4 
(Charged)/credited to the income statement (1.4) 14.4 (3.3) – 21.4 10.4 41.5 
(Charged)/credited to equity – – (2.8) 3.1 – (0.4) (0.1)
As at 31 March 2009 2.0 30.6 4.1 5.7 21.5 16.8 80.7 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through the 
future taxable profits is probable. The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of £7.1m (2008: £4.4m) in respect of losses 
amounting to £23.1m (2008: £14.3m) that can be carried forward against the future taxable income. These losses have no set  
expiry date.  
Deferred tax has not been recognised in respect of temporary differences of £180.7m (2008: £111.0m) relating to the unremitted 
earnings of subsidiaries in lower tax jurisdictions on the grounds that no remittance of profits retained at 31 March 2009 is required  
or intended in such a way that incremental tax would arise.   NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
96 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
13. Trade and other receivables 
 
As at  
31 March  
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Non-current    
Deposits and prepayments  9.5 7.4 
Total non-current trade and other receivables 9.5 7.4 
Current    
Trade receivables  154.1 141.3 
Provision for doubtful debts (7.6) (5.0)
Net trade receivables 146.5 136.3 
Other receivables 13.7 13.3 
Prepayments and accrued income 27.0 19.6 
Total current trade and other receivables 187.2 169.2 
Total trade and other receivables 196.7 176.6 
The principal non-current receivable of £7.5m is due within five years from the balance sheet date, with the remainder due at various 
stages after this. The entire balance is non-interest bearing. 
As at 31 March 2009, trade receivables of £8.3m (2008: £7.1m) were impaired. The amount of the provision was £7.6m as of  
31 March 2009 (2008: £5.0m). The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their 
payment due dates. It was assessed that in some instances a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. The ageing  
of these overdue receivables is as follows: 
 
As at  
31 March  
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Less than 1 month overdue 1.6 0.2 
1 to 3 months overdue 1.4 3.5 
Over 3 months overdue 5.3 3.4 
 8.3 7.1 
As at 31 March 2009, trade receivables of £13.2m (2008: £19.7m) were overdue but not impaired. The ageing of these overdue 
receivables is as follows: 
 
As at  
31 March  
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Less than 1 month overdue 5.9 5.3 
1 to 3 months overdue 4.7 14.4 
Over 3 months overdue 2.6 – 
 13.2 19.7 
Movement on the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: 
 
Year to  
31 March  
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2008
£m 
At 1 April 5.0 3.5 
Increase in provision for doubtful debts 4.2 2.2 
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (0.8) (0.6)
Unused provision reversed (0.8) (0.1)
As at 31 March 7.6 5.0  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 97 
13. Trade and other receivables (continued) 
Within the other classes of trade and other receivables there are £0.8m (2008: £5.1m) impaired receivables. The maximum exposure to 
credit risk at the reporting date with respect to trade receivables is the carrying amount on the Balance Sheet. The Group does not hold 
any collateral as security. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Sterling 66.6 26.9 
US Dollar 33.0 21.1 
Euro 66.0 109.0 
Other currencies 31.1 19.6 
 196.7 176.6 
The nominal value less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are assumed to approximate their fair value because of the 
short maturity of these instruments. 
14. Inventories 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Raw materials 12.9 25.0 
Work in progress 3.2 5.5 
Finished goods 246.5 238.1 
Total inventories 262.6 268.6 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £519.4m (2008: £361.8m). 
The Group reversed £nil (2008: £0.2m) of a previous inventory writedown in the year to 31 March 2009. The cost of inventories 
physically destroyed in the year is £0.7m (2008: £1.6m). 
15. Derivative financial instruments 
The Group Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency. To reduce exposure to currency fluctuations, 
the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward exchange contracts. These 
transactions are recorded as cash flow hedges. 
Cash flow hedges 
Burberry Group’s foreign currency denominated transactions arise principally from royalty income, sales and purchases. The Group 
manages these exposures by the use of forward exchange contracts.  
Derivative financial assets 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges at beginning of year 9.2 3.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 (0.1)
Arising during the year and taken directly to equity 29.3 13.3 
Matured during the year and remaining in equity 5.7 (0.6)
Released from equity to the income statement during the year (24.2) (6.6)
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges at end of year 20.1 9.2 
Forward foreign exchange contracts – held for trading 3.1 1.4 
Equity swap contracts – held for trading – 0.4 
Total current position 23.2 11.0 
Total cash flow hedge gains of £20.1m (2008: £9.2m) are expected to be recognised within 12 months. 
 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
98 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
15. Derivative financial instruments (continued) 
Derivative financial liabilities 
As at  
31 March  
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges at beginning of year (17.1) (0.2)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.1) (0.1)
Arising during the year and taken directly to equity (66.8) (21.2)
Released from equity to the income statement during the year 48.2 4.4 
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges at end of year (35.8) (17.1)
Interest rate swap contracts – cash flow hedges at beginning of year – – 
Arising during the year and taken directly to equity (1.6) – 
Interest rate swap contracts – cash flow hedges at end of year (1.6) – 
Total cash flow hedges at end of year (37.4) (17.1)
Forward foreign exchange contracts – held for trading (18.5) (1.1)
Equity swap contracts – held for trading (1.6) – 
Total position (57.5) (18.2)
Comprising of:   
Total non-current position (0.4) – 
Total current position (57.1) (18.2)
Total cash flow hedge losses of £37.0m (2008: £17.1m) are expected to be recognised within 12 months. 
The current portion of the financial instruments matures at various dates within one month to one year from the balance sheet date.  
The interest rate swap contract matures in September 2010 and hence a portion of the liability is recognised as non-current. 
Net derivative financial instruments 
As at  
31 March  
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
– book value (34.3) (7.2)
– fair value (34.3) (7.2)
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 99 
15. Derivative financial instruments (continued) 
The fair value of foreign currency contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and market rates after discounting using the 
prevailing interest rates at the time.  
Additional information 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March
2008
£m 
Notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts 626.6 677.7 
Notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts 45.4 – 
Notional principal amounts of the outstanding equity swap contracts 4.8 4.2 
Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges released from equity to the Income Statement during the year  (4.4) – 
Movement on the non-designated hedges for the year recognised within net operating costs  
in the Income Statement (1.3) (0.4)
Movement on the non-designated hedges for the year recognised within net finance charge  
in the Income Statement (note 6) 1.0 (0.7)
During the year £4.4m (2008: £nil) of cash flow hedges were considered to be ineffective and were recognised immediately in the 
Income Statement within net operating costs. This arose from changes to ‘highly probable’ forecast transactions during the year. 
16. Cash and cash equivalents 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March
2008
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand 249.6 127.6 
Short term deposits  2.7 – 
Total  252.3 127.6 
The effective interest rate on short term deposits during the year was 2.6% (2008: 5.1%). These deposits had an average maturity of 19 
days (2008: 9 days). The effective interest rate is the weighted average annual interest rate for the Group based on local market rates on 
short term deposits.  
The fair value of short term deposits approximates the carrying amount because of the short maturity of this instrument. 
17. Trade and other payables 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March
2008
£m 
Non-current   
Other creditors, accruals and deferred income 23.8 13.3 
Total non-current trade and other payables 23.8 13.3 
Current    
Trade creditors 54.8 62.5 
Other taxes and social security costs 7.8 5.2 
Other creditors 16.4 19.1 
Accruals and deferred income 83.4 87.5 
Total current trade and other payables 162.4 174.3 
Total trade and other payables 186.2 187.6 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
100 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
17. Trade and other payables (continued) 
The maturity of non-current trade and other payables, all of which do not bear interest, is as follows: 
 
As at  
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Between one and two years 2.2 2.6 
Between two and three years 0.9 1.5 
Between three and four years 2.0 1.3 
Between four and five years 2.5 1.4 
Over five years 16.2 6.5 
Total  23.8 13.3 
The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their carrying amounts and are unsecured. 
18. Retirement benefit obligations 
Burberry Group provides post-retirement arrangements for its employees in the UK and its overseas operations, which are either defined 
benefit or defined contribution in nature. Where arrangements are funded, assets are held in independently administered trusts.  
The Balance Sheet obligations in respect of Burberry Group’s post-retirement arrangements, assessed in accordance with IAS 19, were: 
Defined benefit schemes 
As at  
 31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
 31 March
2008
£m 
Retirement Indemnities France 0.3 0.2 
Burberry (Taiwan) Co Ltd retirement scheme 0.3 0.2 
Total obligation 0.6 0.4 
No prepayments or obligations exist in respect of defined contributions schemes at 31 March 2009 (2008: £nil). 
The pension costs charged to the Group Income Statement in respect of the main plans were: 
 
Year to 
 31 March  
2009 
£m 
Year to
 31 March 
2008
£m 
Defined benefit schemes   
Experian Pension Plan  – (0.3)
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan US – 0.1 
Defined contribution schemes   
Burberry stakeholder plan UK 2.7 2.4 
Burberry money purchase plan US 1.4 0.8 
Burberry Asia Limited retirement scheme 0.2 0.2 
Total pension costs 4.3 3.2 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 101 
18. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Defined benefit schemes 
Experian Pension Plan 
Prior to the demerger of Burberry from GUS plc on 13 December 2005, it was agreed that Burberry Limited would continue to 
participate in the GUS defined benefit scheme (renamed the ‘Experian Pension Scheme’) in respect of existing employees who  
were members of the scheme until 31 December 2007 or such earlier date as required by HM Customs & Revenue or by Burberry.  
On 31 December 2007 Burberry Limited ceased to participate in the Experian Pension Scheme. Burberry was liable and in April 2008 
has paid the debt of £1.25m due under Section 75 or 75A of the Pensions Act 1995. 
The following disclosures regarding the Experian defined benefit scheme have been included for completeness of prior year disclosures 
as required by IAS 19 which were based on valuation assumptions at the beginning of that year and the cash flows for the nine months 
to 31 December 2007. A full actuarial valuation of the Experian Pension Scheme was carried out every three years by independent 
qualified actuaries, Watson Wyatt Limited, with interim reviews in the intervening years. This valuation separately identified the underlying 
assets and liabilities which related to the Burberry Group. In previous years the assets were restricted in accordance with the standard 
as it was anticipated that Burberry would not be able to benefit from the surplus. The Group recognised all gains/losses immediately 
through the SORIE. 
On exit from the scheme on the 31 December 2007 the net assets attributable to the Burberry Group were £6.4m. These assets were 
restricted in accordance with the standard as the Group will not benefit from the surplus. The additional restriction of the assets of 
£0.7m in the prior year has been recognised through the SORIE. 
The amounts recognised in the Group Income Statement are as follows: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Current service cost (included in net operating costs) – (0.5)
Past service cost (included in net operating costs) – – 
Interest cost (included in net finance charge) – (1.5)
Expected return on plan assets (included in net finance charge) – 2.3 
Total recognised in the income statement – 0.3 
The amount recognised in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (SORIE) is as follows: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Gain/(loss) on liabilities – – 
Gain on assets – – 
Total gain – – 
Restricted recognition of assets – (0.7)
Total loss included in the SORIE in the year – (0.7)
Cumulative actuarial loss included in the SORIE – (2.0)
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
102 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
18. Retirement benefit obligations (continued) 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at
31 March
2008
£m 
Opening defined benefit obligation – (37.8)
Current service cost – (0.5)
Interest cost – (1.5)
Employee contributions – (0.2)
Benefits paid – 1.8 
Exit from scheme – 38.2 
Closing defined benefit obligation – – 
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at
31 March
2008
£m 
Opening fair value of plan assets – 43.5 
Expected return – 2.3 
Contributions paid by employer – 0.4 
Contributions paid by employee – 0.2 
Benefits paid – (1.8)
Exit from scheme – (44.6)
Closing fair value of plan assets – – 
The actual return on the plan assets in the prior year was £2.3m. 
Retirement indemnities France 
Burberry France SASU offers lump sum benefits at retirement to all employees that are employed by the company based on the length 
of service and salary. There are no assets held by Burberry Group companies in relation to this commitment. 
Burberry (Taiwan) Co Ltd retirement scheme 
Burberry (Taiwan) Co Ltd offers lump sum benefits at retirement to employees transferred from one of the previous operators based  
on the length of service up to date of transfer (i.e. 1 August 2005) and salary at retirement. There are no assets held by Burberry Group 
companies in relation to this commitment. From 1 August 2005, all employees of the company joined the defined contribution scheme 
operated under local labour ordinance. 
Defined contribution schemes 
Burberry stakeholder plan UK 
This plan was introduced on 1 April 2006 when the Experian money purchase pension plan UK closed for Burberry employees.  
All UK employees are eligible to participate in this scheme. The assets of this scheme are held separately in an independently 
administered fund.  
Burberry money purchase plan US 
Burberry Group administers a money purchase plan in the US (a 401(k) scheme), which covers all eligible full-time employees who have 
reached the age of 21 and have completed one full year of service. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of Burberry 
Group in an independently administered fund.  
Burberry Asia Limited retirement scheme 
Burberry Group administers a money purchase plan in Hong Kong, which covers all eligible full-time employees. The assets of the 
scheme are held separately from those of Burberry Group in an independently administered fund.  
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 103 
19. Provisions for other liabilities and charges 
 
Property 
obligations 
£m 
Restructuring   
costs
(1)
 
£m   
Total
£m 
Balance as at 1 April 2007 – –   – 
Created during the year 3.7 –   3.7 
Balance as at 31 March 2008 3.7 –   3.7 
Created during the year 10.7 27.5   38.2 
Utilised during the year (0.5) –   (0.5)
Balance as at 31 March 2009 13.9 27.5   41.4 
(1)
 Refer note 4. 
 
As at   
31 March   
2009   
£m   
As at 
31 March
2008
£m 
Analysis of total provisions:   
Non-current 7.9   3.7 
Current 33.5   – 
Total  41.4   3.7 
The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases which are expected to be utilised within 5 years. 
20. Bank overdrafts and borrowings 
 
As at   
31 March   
2009   
£m   
As at 
31 March
2008
£m 
Unsecured:   
Bank overdrafts 199.3   82.8 
Bank borrowings 45.4   109.0 
Total  244.7   191.8 
Included within bank overdrafts is £199.2m (2008: £82.8m) representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.  
The effective interest rate for the overdraft balances is 2.5% (2008: 3.2%). 
A £200m multi-currency revolving credit facility was agreed with a syndicate of third party banks commencing on 16 March 2009.  
At 31 March 2009, the amount drawn down was £45.4m (2008: £109.0m). This drawdown was made in US dollars (2008: Sterling). 
Interest is charged on this loan at LIBOR plus 2.00%. The facility matures on 30 June 2012. The undrawn facility at 31 March 2009  
was £154.6m (2008: £91.0m). The facility replaces the £200m five year multi-currency revolving facility in place as at 30 June 2008 
which was due to mature on 30 March 2010. 
During the year, bilateral multi-currency revolving credit facilities, totalling £60m (2008: £nil), were agreed with two banks. At 31 March 2009, 
there were no outstanding drawings. Interest is charged on each of these facilities at LIBOR plus 0.95% on drawings less than 50%  
of the loan principal and at LIBOR plus 1.05% on drawings over 50% of the loan principal. The facilities mature on 13 June 2011.  
Refer to note H on page 129 for details of the guarantees associated with these facilities. 
The fair value of borrowings and overdrafts approximate to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
104 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
21. Share capital and reserves 
Authorised share capital 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m 
1,999,999,998,000 (2008: 1,999,999,998,000) Ordinary Shares of 0.05p (2008: 0.05p) each 1,000.0 1,000.0 
1,600,000,000 redeemable preference shares of 0.05p (2008: 0.05p) each – 0.8 
Total 1,000.0 1,000.8 
The authorised but unissued preference shares were cancelled by a resolution of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting  
in 2008. 
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number £m 
Ordinary shares of 0.05p (2008: 0.05p) each   
As at 1 April 2008 432,662,279 0.2 
Allotted on exercise of options during the year 475,151 – 
As at 31 March 2009 433,137,430 0.2  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 105 
21. Share capital and reserves (continued) 
Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 
 
 
Ordinary
share 
capital
£m 
Share
 premium
account 
£m 
Other
reserves
£m 
 
 
Retained  
earnings 
£m 
 
 
Total  
£m 
Minority 
interest 
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Balance as at 1 April 2007 0.2 167.3 21.6 207.8 396.9 – 396.9 
Cash flow hedges – losses deferred in equity  – – (8.9) – (8.9) – (8.9)
Foreign currency translation  – – 41.0 – 41.0 – 41.0 
Restriction of asset on defined benefit pension scheme – – – (0.7) (0.7) – (0.7)
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – 5.6 – 5.6 – 5.6 
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity – – 37.7 (0.7) 37.0 – 37.0 
Cash flow hedges – losses transferred to the income 
statement  – – (2.2) – (2.2) – (2.2)
Tax on items transferred from equity – – 0.9 – 0.9 – 0.9 
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders – – – 135.2 135.2 – 135.2 
Total recognised income/(expenses) for the year – – 36.4 134.5 170.9 – 170.9 
Employee share option scheme        
– value of share options granted – – – 14.3 14.3 – 14.3 
– tax on share options granted – – – (3.2) (3.2) – (3.2)
– exercise of share options – 7.0 – – 7.0 – 7.0 
– price differential on exercise of shares – – – (6.5) (6.5) – (6.5)
Share buy back costs – – – (39.6) (39.6) – (39.6)
Sale of shares by ESOP trusts – – – 4.4 4.4 – 4.4 
Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts – – – (1.5) (1.5) – (1.5)
Transfer between reserves – – 0.6 (0.6) – – – 
Dividends paid in the year – – – (47.4) (47.4) – (47.4)
Balance as at 31 March 2008 0.2 174.3 58.6 262.2 495.3 – 495.3 
Cash flow hedges – losses deferred in equity – – (27.4) – (27.4) – (27.4)
Foreign currency translation  – – 116.7 – 116.7 0.1 116.8 
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – 3.5 – 3.5 – 3.5 
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity – – 92.8 – 92.8 0.1 92.9 
Cash flow hedges – gains transferred to the  
income statement – – 16.7 – 16.7 – 16.7 
Tax on items transferred from equity – – (4.7) – (4.7) – (4.7)
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to equity holders – – – (6.0) (6.0) 0.9 (5.1)
Total recognised income/(expenses) for the year – – 104.8 (6.0) 98.8 1.0 99.8 
Employee share option scheme        
– value of share options granted – – – 4.5 4.5 – 4.5 
– tax on share options granted – – – (2.4) (2.4) – (2.4)
– exercise of share options – 1.6 – – 1.6 – 1.6 
– price differential on exercise of shares – – – (1.6) (1.6) – (1.6)
Minority share of acquisition – – – – – 3.6 3.6 
Sale of shares by ESOP trusts – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 
Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts – – – (5.4) (5.4) – (5.4)
Transfer between reserves – – 0.6 (0.6) – – – 
Dividends paid in the year – – – (51.7) (51.7) – (51.7)
Balance as at 31 March 2009 0.2 175.9 164.0 199.2 539.3 4.6 543.9  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
106 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
21. Share capital and reserves (continued) 
During the year to 31 March 2009, no ordinary shares were repurchased and subsequently cancelled by the Company. A share 
repurchase programme commenced in January 2005 and since then a total of 79,063,397 ordinary shares have been repurchased  
and subsequently cancelled. This represents 15.8% of the original issued share capital at a total cost of £351.8m. The nominal value  
of the shares was £39,532 and has been transferred to a capital redemption reserve and the retained earnings have been reduced  
by £351.8m since this date. No shares were repurchased in the year to 31 March 2009. 
The cost of own shares held in the Burberry Group ESOP Trusts has been offset against the profit and loss account, as the amounts 
paid reduce the profits available for distribution by the Burberry Group and the Company. As at 31 March 2009 the amounts offset 
against this reserve are £4.5m (2008: £4.9m). In the year to 31 March 2009 the Burberry Group plc ESOP trust has waived its 
entitlement to dividends of £0.3m (2008: £0.3m). 
During the year profits of £0.6m (2008: £0.6m) have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements of subsidiaries. 
The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares. 
 Other reserves 
 
Hedging
reserve
£m 
Foreign  
currency  
translation  
reserve 
£m 
 
 
Capital  
reserve 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Balance as at 1 April 2007 1.8 (6.2) 26.0 21.6 
Cash flow hedges – losses deferred in equity  (8.9) – – (8.9)
Foreign currency translation  – 41.0 – 41.0 
Tax on items taken directly to equity 2.6 3.0 – 5.6 
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity (6.3) 44.0 – 37.7 
Cash flow hedges – transferred to the income statement  (2.2) – – (2.2)
Tax on items transferred from equity 0.9 – – 0.9 
Total recognised (expense)/income for the year (7.6) 44.0 – 36.4 
Transfer between reserves – – 0.6 0.6 
Balance as at 31 March 2008 (5.8) 37.8 26.6 58.6 
Cash flow hedges – losses deferred in equity (27.4) – – (27.4)
Foreign currency translation  – 116.7 – 116.7 
Tax on items taken directly to equity 7.8 (4.3) – 3.5 
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity (19.6) 112.4 – 92.8 
Cash flow hedges – transferred to the income statement 16.7 – – 16.7 
Tax on items transferred from equity (4.7) – – (4.7)
Total recognised (expense)/income for the year (7.6) 112.4 – 104.8 
Transfer between reserves – – 0.6 0.6 
Balance as at 31 March 2009 (13.4) 150.2 27.2 164.0 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 107 
22. Financial commitments 
Burberry Group has commitments relating to future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 
 As at 31 March 2009  As at 31 March 2008 
 
Land and
buildings
£m 
Other
£m 
Total
£m  
Land and 
buildings 
£m  
Other 
£m 
Total
£m 
Amounts falling due:        
Within one year 47.0 – 47.0  38.9 0.2 39.1 
Between two and five years 133.7 – 133.7  112.7 0.2 112.9 
After five years 115.9 – 115.9  167.5 – 167.5 
Total  296.6 – 296.6  319.1 0.4 319.5 
The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue (‘revenue leases’) have been based on 
the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease. Under certain revenue leases, there are no minimums and 
therefore no financial commitment is included in the table above. As a result, the amounts charged to the Income Statement may be 
materially higher than the financial commitment at the prior year end.  
Where rental agreements include a contingent rental, this contingent rent is generally calculated as a percentage of revenue. Escalation 
clauses increase the rental to either open market rent, a stipulated amount in the rental agreement, or by an inflationary index percentage. 
There are no significant restrictions imposed by these lease agreements.  
The total of future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases is as follows: 
            Land and buildings 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Amounts falling due:   
Within one year – 0.1 
Between two and five years – – 
After five years – – 
Total  – 0.1 
23. Capital commitments 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Capital commitments contracted but not provided for:   
– property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.5 
– intangible assets 0.5 0.1 
Total  1.7 1.6 
Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major capital expenditure 
projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
108 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
24. Contingent liabilities 
Since 31 March 2008 the following changes to material contingent liabilities have occurred: 
During the year ended 31 March 2009, Burberry Group has not provided any guarantee letters to raw material suppliers. The total value 
of these guarantees at 31 March 2008 amounted to £0.4m, which all expired during the period to 30 September 2008. 
Other material contingent liabilities reported at 31 March 2008 remain unchanged and were: 
Under the GUS group UK tax payment arrangements, the Group was jointly and severally liable for any GUS liability attributable to the 
period of Burberry Group’s membership of this payment scheme. Burberry Group’s membership of this scheme was terminated with 
effect from 31 March 2002.  
Burberry (Spain) S.A. is liable for certain salary and social security contributions left unpaid by its sole contractors where the amounts 
are attributable to the period in which subcontracting activity is undertaken on behalf of Burberry (Spain) S.A. It is not feasible to 
estimate the amount of contingent liability, but such expense has not been material in prior years. 
25. Financial risk management 
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise cash and short term deposits, external borrowings,  
as well as trade debtors and creditors, arising directly from operations.  
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks (including foreign exchange risk, price risk and cash flow 
interest rate risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk. 
Risk management is carried out by Group Treasury to reduce financial risk and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable 
needs and to invest in cash assets safely and profitably. This is done in close co-operation with the Group’s operating units. Group 
Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements. The policies of the 
Group Treasury department are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors. The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge 
certain risk exposures. 
Market risk 
Foreign exchange risk 
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.  
Burberry Group’s Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency. To reduce exposure to currency 
fluctuations, Burberry Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward exchange 
contracts (see note 15). The Group’s accounting policy in relation to derivative instruments is set out in note 2. 
The Group’s Treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated cash flows in each major foreign currency that qualify as  
‘highly probable’ forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes. 
Burberry Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of the overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for  
reporting purposes. It has not entered into any specific transactions for this purpose. It has designated foreign currency borrowings  
in a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries. 
At 31 March 2009 the Group has performed sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of non-Sterling currencies strengthening/weakening 
by 20% (2008: 5%) against Sterling with all other variables held constant. The effect of translating foreign currency denominated net 
debt, receivables, payables and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss would have increased/decreased post-tax profit 
for the year by £7.0m (2008: £1.1m). The effect of translating forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges and Sterling 
denominated loans held in overseas subsidiaries would have decreased/increased equity by £20.0m (2008: £6.4m). 
The following table shows the extent to which Burberry Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other 
than the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward contracts used to manage currency 
exposure. Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, borrowings and amounts to be received or paid in cash. Foreign 
exchange differences on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are recognised in the Income Statement.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 109 
25. Financial risk management (continued) 
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) held in currencies other than the local currency of operation: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2008 
£m 
Sterling 0.2 1.6 
US dollar (47.8) 14.5 
Euro (0.8) (1.5)
Other currencies (0.5) (40.4)
Total  (48.9) (25.8)
Price risk 
The Group is exposed to employer’s national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share incentive schemes. 
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employer’s national insurance liability due to movements in the Group’s share price, the Group 
has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards. The Group does not seek hedge accounting 
treatment for equity swaps. The Group monitors its exposure to fluctuations in the employer’s national insurance liability on an ongoing 
basis to ensure it remains immaterial. 
Cash flow interest rate risk 
The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short term deposits and external borrowings. 
The external borrowings are linked to the LIBOR rate, while cash and short term borrowings are affected by local market rates around 
the Group. The borrowings at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. To manage interest rate risk Burberry 
Group manages its proportion of fixed and floating rate borrowings to within limits approved by the Board using interest rate swap 
derivatives. The Group has entered into an interest rate swap, with a notional principal of USD 65m, to convert floating rate borrowings 
into fixed rate borrowings, at a fixed interest rate of 3.545%. 
The interest rate risk profile of Burberry Group’s fixed and floating rate financial liabilities by currency, after taking into consideration 
interest rate swaps, is as follows: 
As at 31 March 2009 
Floating rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Fixed rate 
financial 
liabilities
£m 
Sterling 0.1 – 
US dollar – 45.4 
Total financial liabilities 0.1 45.4 
   
As at 31 March 2008   
Sterling 109.3 – 
US dollar 1.4 – 
Other currencies 2.4 – 
Total financial liabilities 113.1 – 
The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2009 and 2008 exclude cash pool overdraft balances of £199.2m (2008: £78.7m).  
No interest is payable on all other non-derivative financial liabilities. 
At 31 March 2009, if interest rates on Sterling denominated borrowings had been 200 basis points higher/lower (2008: 10 basis points) 
with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been £1.7m (2008: £0.1m) lower/higher, as a result of 
higher/lower interest expense on floating rate borrowings. 
The Group has no other significant floating rate foreign currency borrowings and therefore is not exposed to movements in foreign 
currency interest rates. 
Credit risk 
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales of products are  
made to customers with an appropriate credit history. Sales to retail customers are made in cash or via major credit cards. In addition, 
receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant and 
default rates have historically been very low. An ageing of overdue receivables is included in note 13. The maximum credit risk exposure 
of the Group’s financial assets at the end of the period is represented by the amounts reported under the corresponding balance  
sheet headings.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
110 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
25. Financial risk management (continued) 
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short term deposits and certain derivative 
instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counter party with a maximum exposure equal to the 
carrying value of these instruments. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.  
The Group has deposited €2.5m (2008: €2.0m) and CHF 0.3m (2008: CHF 0.3m) which is held as collateral at a number of European banks. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs and close out 
market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping 
committed credit lines available. For further details of this, see note 20.  
All short term trade creditors, accruals, bank overdrafts and borrowings and derivative financial liabilities mature within one year or less. 
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of non-current financial liabilities, are as follows: 
As at 31 March 2009 
Non-current 
portion of 
interest rate 
swap contracts
£m 
Other  
non-current 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Total
£m 
In more than one year, but not more than two years 0.4 0.9 1.3 
In more than two years, but not more than three years – 0.3 0.3 
In more than three years, but not more than four years – 0.4 0.4 
In more than four years, but not more than five years – 0.5 0.5 
In more than five years – 7.9 7.9 
Total financial liabilities 0.4 10.0 10.4 
 
As at 31 March 2008 £m 
 
£m £m 
In more than one year, but not more than two years – 1.0 1.0 
In more than two years, but not more than three years – 0.3 0.3 
In more than three years, but not more than four years – 0.1 0.1 
In more than four years, but not more than five years – 0.3 0.3 
In more than five years – 3.5 3.5 
Total financial liabilities – 5.2 5.2 
Other financial liabilities principally relate to accrued lease liabilities £6.6m (2008: £3.3m), property related accruals £0.9m (2008: £1.0m), 
and provisions for certain property obligations £nil (2008: £0.9m) all of which are included in other creditors falling due after more than 
one year. 
The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within its committed bank credit facilities. 
Capital risk 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital (defined as net debt plus equity) are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while maintaining a strong credit rating 
and headroom whilst optimising return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding. The Group manages 
its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes to economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 111 
26. Employee costs  
Staff costs, including directors’ emoluments, incurred during the year are as shown below. The directors’ emoluments are separately 
disclosed in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters on pages 64 to 71, which includes gains arising on the exercise 
of share options and awards and which form part of these financial statements. 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2008 
£m 
Wages and salaries 170.1 154.3
Social security costs 23.8 17.9
Share based compensation (all awards and options settled in shares) 4.5 14.3
Other pension costs (see note 18) 4.3 3.2
Total  202.7 189.7
The average number of full time equivalent employees (including directors) during the year was as follows: 
           Number of employees 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
Year to 
31 March 
2008 
EMEA 2,382 2,369 
Spain 1,211 1,203 
Americas 1,616 1,339 
Asia Pacific 999 749 
Total  6,208 5,660 
Share options granted to directors and employees 
The share option and award schemes have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Senior Executive Restricted 
Share Plan and the Exceptional Performance Share Plan, both of which have market based performance conditions attached, have 
been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with a discount applied to this value, based on information obtained by 
running a Monte Carlo simulation model on the scheme.  
Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employer’s national insurance liability (or overseas equivalent) 
that may arise in respect of these schemes. 
SAYE share option scheme 
In the financial year ended 31 March 2007 a Save As You Earn (SAYE) share option scheme offering Burberry Group plc ordinary shares 
was introduced for employees. 
On 26 June 2008 further options were granted under this scheme. These options are ordinarily exercisable from 1 September 2011  
and are dependent on continued employment, as well as a saving obligation over the vesting period. The exercise price for these 
options is calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding the invitation date. Three day averages 
are calculated by taking middle market quotations of a Burberry Group plc share from the London Stock Exchange.  
The fair value of the options granted in the year has been calculated using a risk-free rate of 4.4% (2008: 5.3%), expected volatility  
of 31.6% (2008: 28.5%) and an expected dividend yield of 3.5% (2008: 2.4%). The fair value per option for the grant was determined  
as £1.11. The Burberry share price at the date of grant was £4.48.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
112 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
26. Employee costs (continued) 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historic annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates  
of return on the shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the life of the option. As share price information was only 
available for Burberry Group plc from July 2002 an average of a comparator group of companies was used prior to this date. The average 
expected volatility over the life of the option was used. 
Movements in the number of SAYE share options in Burberry Group plc shares outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices 
are as follows: 
 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at 
31 March
2009 
Weighted 
average  
exercise  
price 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at 
31 March
2008 
Outstanding at 1 April  409.1p 989,717 354.9p 762,568 
Granted during the year 399.0p 273,308 505.0p 370,021 
Lapsed during the year 427.6p (253,219) 370.5p (126,916)
Exercised during the year 350.5p (2,368) 350.5p (15,956)
Outstanding at 31 March 401.8p 1,007,438 409.1p 989,717 
Exercisable at 31 March – – – – 
SAYE share options in Burberry Group plc shares outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices: 
Option term 
Exercise
price 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at 
31 March  
2009 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at
31 March 
2008 
23 June 2006 – 28 February 2010 350.5p 438,267 548,798
30 March 2007 – 30 September 2010 384.5p 84,060 84,060
24 August 2007 – 28 February 2011 505.0p 152,171 225,154
28 September 2007 – 31 March 2011 505.0p 86,911 131,705
26 June 2008 – 28 February 2012 399.0p 246,029 –
Total  1,007,438 989,717
Share options and awards 
Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan (the ‘RSP’)  
In June 2008 awards over 1,522,064 ordinary shares were made to management under the RSP (2008: 2,425,728). No such awards 
were made either to directors or senior management. 
In accordance with the rules of the RSP the awards vest in three stages, 50% are exercisable after three years, 25% are exercisable 
after four years and 25% are exercisable after five years, subject to the achievement of a specified performance condition. 
The performance condition for the awards at the time of the grant was based on three year growth in profit before taxation (“PBT”). 25% 
of the awards vest if PBT growth exceeds 5% per annum over three years rising to 100% if PBT growth is equal to or exceeds 15% per 
annum over three years to 31 March 2011. The vesting of the award was also dependent on continued employment over the vesting 
period. The exercise price of these share awards is £nil. 
In March 2009 the Remuneration Committee approved a modification to the performance condition for this award, on the basis  
that in the current exceptional economic environment the June 2008 award would no longer provide an incentive to management.  
The performance condition has been modified by setting the PBT target for the year ending 31 March 2011 to achieve growth of 
between 5% and 15% on budgeted PBT for the year ending 31 March 2010. All other conditions remain unchanged. 
Obligations under this plan will be met by the issue of ordinary shares of the Company.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 113 
26. Employee costs (continued) 
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2009 
Number of
awards as at
31 March
2008 
Outstanding at 1 April  6,747,078 5,893,023 
Granted during the year 1,522,064 2,425,728 
Lapsed during the year (1,315,138) (1,228,109)
Exercised during the year (475,152) (343,564)
Outstanding at 31 March 6,478,852 6,747,078 
Exercisable at 31 March 277,738 122,305 
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was £3.48. 
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 
Term of the award 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2009 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2008 
2 August 2004 – 1 August 2014  330,860 506,301 
21 July 2005 – 20 July 2015 350,301 1,281,835 
31 January 2006 – 30 January 2016 254,237 508,474 
10 August 2006 – 9 August 2016 1,820,819 2,035,248 
1 September 2006 – 31 August 2016 20,000 20,000 
27 November 2006 – 26 November 2016 48,709 48,709 
11 June 2007 – 10 June 2017 1,868,126 2,041,440 
21 November 2007 – 20 November 2017 298,541 305,071 
25 June 2008 – 24 June 2018 1,487,259 – 
Total 6,478,852 6,747,078 
For the awards made on 25 June 2008 the fair value for those restricted shares with the PBT performance condition was determined  
as £4.62 by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model. 
As dividends accrue during the vesting period, expected dividends were not incorporated into the measurement of fair value. The key 
factors used in determining the fair value of the awards were as follows: 
 25 June 2008 
Weighted average share price at grant date £4.62 
Exercise price £nil 
Life of award Equivalent to vesting period 
Expected volatility 31.6% 
Risk free interest rate 5.2% 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historic annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates  
of return on the shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the life of the option. As share price information was  
only available for Burberry Group plc from July 2002 an average of a comparator group of companies was used prior to this date.  
The average expected volatility over the life of the award was used.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
114 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
26. Employee costs (continued) 
Burberry Restricted Share Reinvestment Plan  
On 21 July 2005 awards in respect of a total of 782,500 Ordinary Shares were made to senior management under the Restricted Share 
Reinvestment Plan.  
The awards vest in two stages, 50% were exercisable after three years and the remaining 50% becomes exercisable after four years. 
The vesting of these share awards is dependent on the employee continuing to hold the original IPO RSP shares which were awarded 
and which vested on 11 July 2005. The vesting of these share awards is also dependent on continued employment over the vesting 
period. The exercise price of these share awards is £nil. 
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Number of  
awards as at 
 31 March 
2009 
Number of 
awards as at
 31 March
2008 
Outstanding at 1 April  567,500 782,500 
Lapsed during the year – (80,000)
Exercised during the year (288,750) (135,000)
Outstanding at 31 March 278,750 567,500 
Exercisable at 31 March – – 
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was £4.61. 
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date: 
Term of the award 
Number of  
awards as at 
31 March 
2009 
Number of 
awards as at
31 March
2008 
21 July 2005 – 21 July 2015 278,750 567,500 
Total 278,750 567,500 
The Burberry Senior Executive IPO Share Option Scheme (the ‘IPO Option Scheme’) 
On 11 July 2002 options in respect of a total of 5,955,198 ordinary shares were made to directors and senior management under  
the IPO Option Scheme. Participants’ options were made in the form of options with an exercise price equal to the price on flotation, 
£2.30 per ordinary share. 
The options vested in three stages, 33% were exercisable after one year, 33% were exercisable after two years and the remaining  
33% were exercisable after three years. Obligations under this scheme will be met by the issue of ordinary shares of the Company.  
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise price are as follows: 
 
Weighted 
average 
exercise
 price 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at 
31 March
2009 
Weighted 
average  
exercise  
price 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at
31 March
2008 
Outstanding at 1 April  230.0p 392,086 230.0p 597,086 
Exercised during the year – – 230.0p (205,000)
Outstanding at 31 March 230.0p 392,086 230.0p 392,086 
Exercisable at 31 March 230.0p 392,086 230.0p 392,086 
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms and exercise prices: 
Option term 
Exercise 
price 
Number of  
shares under 
option as at  
31 March  
2009 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at 
31 March 
2008 
11 July 2002 – 11 July 2012 230.0p 392,086 392,086 
Total  392,086 392,086 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 115 
26. Employee costs (continued) 
The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 
During the previous financial years options were granted to directors and senior management in respect of ordinary shares in the 
Company under the Executive Share Option Scheme. 
The options vest in three stages, 33% were exercisable after one year, 33% were exercisable after two years and the remaining 33% 
were exercisable after three years. The vesting of these share options is dependent on continued employment over the vesting period. 
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise price are as follows: 
 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
Number of 
 shares under 
option as at  
31 March 
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
Number of
 shares under 
option as at 
31 March
2008 
Outstanding at 1 April  321.1p 891,928 357.6p 2,021,849 
Exercised during the year 258.0p (54,166) 386.4p (1,129,921)
Outstanding at 31 March 325.2p 837,762 321.1p 891,928 
Exercisable at 31 March 325.2p 837,762 321.1p 891,928 
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was £4.14. 
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms and exercise prices: 
Option term 
Exercise  
price 
Number of 
 shares under 
option as at 
 31 March 
2009 
Number of
 shares under 
option as at
 31 March
2008 
13 June 2003 – 12 June 2013 258.0p 368,583 422,749 
2 August 2004 – 1 August 2014 378.0p 469,179 469,179 
21 July 2005 – 20 July 2015 423.0p – – 
Total  837,762 891,928 
All Employee Share Plan 
In previous financial years all employees were offered awards over ordinary shares in the Company at a nil exercise price under an All 
Employee Share Plan. All awards vest after three years and the vesting of these share awards is dependent on continued employment 
over the vesting period. 
These ordinary shares are held in two trusts, being the Burberry Group Share Incentive Plan Trust and the Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust.  
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2009 
Number of 
awards as at
31 March
2008 
Outstanding at 1 April  360,200 694,970 
Granted during the year – – 
Lapsed during the year (27,560) (47,970)
Exercised during the year (190,810) (286,800)
Outstanding at 31 March 141,830 360,200 
Exercisable at 31 March 141,830 123,800 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
116 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
26. Employee costs (continued) 
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 
Term of the award 
Number of 
awards as at  
31 March  
2009 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2008 
12 July 2002 – 18 July 2082
(1)
 20,650 23,600 
30 August 2003 – 18 July 2082
(1)
 26,300 38,050 
20 August 2004 – 18 July 2082
(1)
 52,800 62,150 
10 June 2005 – 10 June 2008 – 155,640 
1 September 2005 – 18 July 2082
(1)
 42,080 80,760 
Total 141,830 360,200 
(1) 
No date has been specified when awards lapse. The cessation date of the trust in which the awards are held is 18 July 2082. 
Co-Investment Plan  
In previous financial years executive directors and certain senior management were able to defer receipt of all or part of their annual 
bonus and invest it in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and Group performance during  
the year. The matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves due to resignation within  
that period. The exercise price of these share awards is £nil. During the year to 31 March 2009 1,726,131 awards were awarded  
(2008: 1,227,414). 
The fair value of the awards was determined as £4.95 by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The key factors used  
in determining the fair value were as follows: 
 3 June 2008 
Weighted average share price at grant date £4.95 
Exercise price £nil 
Life of award Equivalent to vesting period 
Expected volatility 31.6% 
Risk free interest rate 5.0% 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historic annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates  
of return on the shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the life of the award. As share price information was  
only available for Burberry Group plc from July 2002 an average of a comparator group of companies was used prior to this date.  
The average expected volatility over the life of the award was used. 
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Number of  
awards as at 
 31 March 
2009 
Number of 
awards as at
 31 March
2008 
Outstanding at 1 April 1,729,589 1,071,473 
Granted during the year 1,726,131 1,227,414 
Lapsed during the year (26,867) (223,303)
Exercised during the year (213,844) (345,995)
Outstanding at 31 March 3,215,009 1,729,589 
Exercisable at 31 March 339,721 83,695 
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was £4.50.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 117 
26. Employee costs (continued) 
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 
Term of the award 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2009 
Number of
awards as at 
31 March 
2008 
29 July 2004 – 29 July 2009  39,173 83,695 
21 July 2005 – 21 July 2010 300,548 469,870 
20 June 2007 – 20 June 2012 1,149,157 1,176,024 
3 June 2008 – 3 June 2013 1,726,131 – 
Total 3,215,009 1,729,589 
Exceptional Performance Share Plan  
In the previous financial year awards in respect of a total of 4,210,000 ordinary shares were made to directors and senior management 
under the Exceptional Performance Share Plan introduced as a one-off long-term incentive plan.  
The awards vest in two stages, 50% are exercisable after three years and 50% are exercisable after four years. The vesting of these 
share awards is dependent on two performance conditions. The award is based 50% on relative Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) 
performance and 50% on growth in profits over the three and four year performance periods to 2010 and 2011. No awards vest unless 
Burberry’s TSR exceeds the median of the comparator group or growth in profit before tax and amortisation of goodwill per share (‘PBT’) 
exceeds 50% over the four year performance period to 2010 or 75% over the five year performance period to 2011. The vesting of these 
share awards is also dependent on continued employment over the vesting period. The exercise price of these share awards is £nil. 
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Number of 
awards as at 
 31 March 
2009 
Number of 
awards as at
 31 March
2008 
Outstanding at 1 April 4,210,000 – 
Granted during the year – 4,210,000 
Lapsed during the year (275,000) – 
Outstanding at 31 March 3,935,000 4,210,000 
Exercisable at 31 March – – 
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 
Term of the award 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2009 
Number of
awards as at 
31 March 
2008 
26 July 2007 – 25 July 2012 3,850,000 4,125,000 
21 November 2007 – 25 July 2012 85,000 85,000 
Total 3,935,000 4,210,000 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
118 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
27. Business combinations 
On 30 September 2008 the Group formed Burberry Middle East LLC, a company registered in the United Arab Emirates, with its 
longstanding franchisee in the Middle East, The Jashanmal Group. Burberry Middle East will manage all Burberry retail and wholesale 
distribution within the United Arab Emirates markets of Dubai and Abu Dhabi, as well as Qatar, Oman and Kuwait.  
Burberry has a 49% interest in the issued share capital of the company and a 59% interest in profits generated by this business.  
Burberry has the power to appoint the majority of the directors. Burberry Middle East LLC has been consolidated as a subsidiary as  
at 31 March 2009. The minority interest in the consolidated net assets of this company has been identified as a separate component  
of equity. This business contributed revenues of £11.7m and profit of £3.2m to the Group for the period from acquisition to  
31 March 2009. 
On 30 August 2008, the Group also terminated its franchisee agreement in Guam, an island in the Western Pacific Ocean, and 
incorporated a new company Burberry Guam Inc which acquired the Burberry retailing business from the terminated franchisee in Guam. 
This business contributed revenues of £0.7m and profit of £0.1m to the Group for the period from acquisition to 31 March 2009. 
If both the business combinations had occurred on 1 April 2008, these acquisitions would have contributed £22.2m to revenue and 
£4.6m to operating profit for the full year to 31 March 2009. 
In November 2008, Burberry entered into an arrangement with its longstanding licensing partners, Sanyo Shokai and Mitsui & Co.,  
in Japan. This venture, Burberry International KK, is owned 51% by Burberry and will develop the retail distribution of Burberry’s 
international non-apparel products in Japan, the largest luxury accessories market in the world. At 31 March 2009, the shareholders 
had contributed capital of £3.0m. The venture plans to be operational in 2009/10. 
Details of the net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: 
 £m 
Cash paid 2.9 
Direct costs relating to the acquisitions 0.4 
Total purchase consideration 3.3 
Fair value of net identifiable assets acquired  (3.7)
Goodwill (0.4)
Goodwill is represented by:  
– Negative goodwill (1.7)
– Positive goodwill  1.3 
The negative goodwill of £1.7m arising on the Burberry Middle East LLC combination has been recognised within Non-GAAP measures 
for the period and is attributable to the excess of the net assets acquired over the cost of the acquisition. Positive goodwill of £1.3m 
arose on Burberry Guam Inc combination and is included in intangible assets. This is attributable to the acquisition of the distribution 
rights and the benefits expected from further expansion in this region.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 119 
27. Business combinations (continued) 
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions are as follows: 
 
Acquiree’s 
carrying amount 
£m 
Fair value 
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents  3.0 3.0 
Inventories 4.6 4.6 
Property, plant and equipment 1.6 1.5 
Receivables 1.0 1.1 
Payables (2.9) (2.9)
Net identifiable assets 7.3 7.3 
Minority interest (note 21)  (3.6)
Net identifiable assets acquired  3.7 
Outflow of cash to acquire businesses, net of cash acquired: 
  £m 
Cash consideration  2.9 
Direct costs relating to acquisitions  0.4 
Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiaries acquired  (3.0)
Cash outflow on acquisitions  0.3 
28. Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on 
consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. The only related party transactions relate to total compensation paid to key 
management, who are defined as the Board of Directors and certain members of senior management. The total compensation  
paid during the year was as follows: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2008
£m 
Salaries and short term benefits 4.7 8.4 
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 
Share based compensation 1.8 4.5 
Total  6.9 13.3 
In addition, aggregate gains on the exercise of share options and awards in the year to 31 March 2009 were £1.5m (2008: £4.4m).  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
120 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
29. Principal subsidiaries 
Company Country of incorporation Nature of business 
EMEA   
Burberry Limited  UK Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor 
Burberry Italy Retail Limited  UK Luxury goods retailer 
The Scotch House Limited
(1)
 UK Luxury goods brand and licensor 
Woodrow-Universal Limited
(1)
 UK Textile manufacturer 
Burberry France SASU France Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Suisse) SA
(1)
 Switzerland Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Italy SRL
(1)
 Italy Luxury goods wholesaler 
Burberry (Deutschland) GmbH Germany Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Austria) GmbH Austria Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Antwerp N.V. Belgium Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Czech Republic s.r.o.  Czech Republic Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Hungary Kft. Hungary Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Ireland Limited  Ireland Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Netherlands BV Netherlands Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Middle East LLC (49%) United Arab Emirates Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
 
Spain   
Burberry (Spain) S.A. Spain Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Spain) Retail SL Spain Luxury goods retailer 
 
Americas   
Burberry Limited USA Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Wholesale) Limited USA Luxury goods wholesaler 
Burberry Canada Inc Canada Luxury goods retailer 
 
Asia Pacific   
Burberry Asia Limited Hong Kong Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Singapore) Distribution Company Pte Ltd Singapore Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd Australia Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry Korea Limited Republic of Korea Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Taiwan) Co Ltd Taiwan Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd Malaysia Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Japan K.K. Japan Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor 
Burberry International K.K. (51%) Japan Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Guam, Inc Guam Luxury goods retailer 
(1)
 Held directly by Burberry Group plc. 
As at 31 March 2009 all principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned except where indicated differently above and operate in  
the country in which they are incorporated with the exception of Burberry Italy Retail Limited, which operates principally in Italy. All the 
subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated as at 31 March 2009. Burberry has a 59% share in profits of Burberry Middle East LLC 
and has the power to appoint the majority of directors. Non-operating intermediate holding and financing companies are excluded from 
the list above. 
  FIVE YEAR SUMMARY  
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 121 
Year to 31 March  
Revenue by product 
2005
£m 
2006 
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008
£m 
2009
£m 
Womenswear 242.1 249.3 305.5 345.2 412.8 
Menswear 194.5 206.2 227.0 247.8 298.4 
Non-apparel 185.0 189.2 211.2 289.7 366.3 
Childrenswear/Other 15.5 17.1 20.5 27.9 41.4 
Licensing 78.4 81.1 86.1 84.8 82.6 
Total 715.5 742.9 850.3 995.4 1,201.5 
Revenue by destination £m £m £m £m £m 
Europe  186.4 191.5 229.8 291.8 379.8 
Spain 150.0 134.1 151.8 161.6 144.5 
Americas 164.1 177.9 196.5 234.8 304.7 
Asia Pacific 130.0 144.6 167.5 189.1 240.0 
Rest of World 6.6 13.7 18.6 33.3 49.9 
Retail/wholesale 637.1 661.8 764.2 910.6 1,118.9 
Licensing 78.4 81.1 86.1 84.8 82.6 
Total 715.5 742.9 850.3 995.4 1,201.5 
Revenue by channel £m £m £m £m £m 
Retail 265.2 318.5 410.1 484.4 629.7 
Wholesale 371.9 343.3 354.1 426.2 489.2 
Licensing 78.4 81.1 86.1 84.8 82.6 
Total 715.5 742.9 850.3 995.4 1,201.5 
Profit by channel £m £m £m £m £m 
Retail/wholesale 94.3 96.2 111.7 135.6 110.1 
Licensing 67.0 69.4 73.4 70.6 70.7 
Operating profit before Non-GAAP measures 161.3 165.6 185.1 206.2 180.8 
 
Net interest income/(expense) 4.9 2.5 (0.7) (6.0) (6.2)
Restructuring costs – – – – (54.9)
Goodwill impairment – – – – (116.2)
Store impairments and onerous lease provisions – – – – (13.4)
Negative goodwill – – – – 1.7 
Relocation of headquarters – – – 15.1 (7.9)
Project Atlas costs – (11.1) (21.6) (19.6) – 
Treorchy closure costs – – (6.5) – – 
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 166.2 157.0 156.3 195.7 (16.1)
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities (54.3) (50.6) (46.1) (60.5) 11.0 
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after taxation 111.9 106.4 110.2 135.2 (5.1)
Margin analysis % % % % % 
Gross margin as percentage of revenue 59.3 60.0 61.3 62.1 55.4 
 
Retail/wholesale adjusted operating profit
(1)
 as a percentage  
of revenue 14.8 14.5 14.6 14.9 9.8 
Licensing adjusted operating profit
(1)
 as a percentage of revenue 85.5 85.6 85.2 83.3 85.6 
Total adjusted operating profit
(1)
 as a percentage of revenue 22.5 22.3 21.8 20.7 15.0 
(1)
 Adjusted for Non-GAAP measures. 
 
 
  FIVE YEAR SUMMARY CONTINUED 
 
122 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
Year to 31 March 
 
Earnings and dividends 
2005
pence
per 
share 
2006
pence
per 
share 
2007 
pence 
per 
share 
2008 
pence  
per 
share 
2009
pence 
per 
share 
Earnings per share – basic 22.7 22.9 25.2 31.3 (1.4)
Adjusted earnings per share – basic
(1)
 n/a 24.7 29.7 32.4 30.6 
Earnings per share – diluted 22.2 22.3 24.7 30.5 (1.4)
Adjusted earnings per share – diluted
(1)
 n/a 24.1 29.1 31.6 30.2 
Dividend per share (on a paid basis) 5.0 7.0 8.4 11.0 12.0 
 
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue  
during the year (millions) 504.5 477.6 446.1 442.8 438.1 
Dividend cover (on a paid basis)
(2)
  4.5 3.4 3.5 2.9 2.5 
  
As at 31 March  
Balance sheet 
2005
£m 
2006
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2009
£m 
Fixed assets, investments and other intangible assets 165.6 181.2 179.5 197.8 283.0 
Working capital (excluding cash and borrowings) 79.6 121.7 136.1 260.0 221.2 
Other long term liabilities (10.1) (19.2) (12.2) (13.7) (24.4)
Net operating assets 235.1 283.7 303.4 444.1 479.8 
Goodwill  114.0 121.2 116.9 130.1 33.1 
Deferred consideration for acquisitions (32.7) (11.5) (10.0) – – 
Cash at bank, net of overdraft and borrowings 169.9 12.5 (2.8) (64.2) 7.6 
Taxation (including deferred taxation) (14.0) (19.3) (10.6) (14.7) 23.4 
Net assets 472.3 386.6 396.9 495.3 543.9 
  
Year to 31 March  
Cash flow 
2005
£m 
2006
£m 
2007 
£m 
2008 
£m 
2009
£m 
Adjusted operating profit
(1)
 161.3 165.6 185.1 206.2 180.8 
Restructuring costs – – – – (54.9)
Goodwill impairment  – – – – (116.2)
Store impairments and onerous lease provisions – – – – (13.4)
Negative goodwill – – – – 1.7 
Relocation of headquarters – – – 15.1 (7.9)
Project Atlas costs – (11.1) (21.6) (19.6) – 
Treorchy closure costs – – (6.5) – – 
Operating profit/(loss) 161.3 154.5 157.0 201.7 (9.9)
Depreciation, impairment, amortisation and negative goodwill 24.4 24.9 26.7 32.2 174.7 
Loss/(profit) on disposal of fixed assets and similar 
non-cash charges (1.1) (1.6) 1.1 (19.1) 2.0 
Fair value (gains)/losses on derivative instruments – – – (0.5) 10.7 
Charges in respect of employee share incentive schemes 9.5 7.4 10.8 14.3 4.5 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (12.9) (17.8) (33.4) (122.6) 55.7 
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (7.3) 2.2 (33.8) (29.1) 2.1 
Increase/(decrease) in payables 1.5 (21.2) 32.8 28.8 2.2 
Net cash inflow from operations before capital expenditure 175.4 148.4 161.2 105.7 242.0 
Purchase of tangible and intangible fixed assets (37.2) (30.7) (34.3) (48.5) (89.9)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 3.1 3.6 0.1 28.3 0.1 
Net cash inflow from operations adjusted for capital expenditure  141.3 121.3 127.0 85.5 152.2 
(1) 
Adjusted for Non-GAAP measures. 
(2)
 Based on adjusted diluted earnings per share or diluted earnings per share in 2005.  INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF BURBERRY GROUP PLC 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 123 
We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise 
the Balance Sheet and the related notes. These parent Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting 
policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters that is 
described as having been audited. 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2009.  
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters and the 
parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities. 
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related 
matters to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing. 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent 
Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters to be audited have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in 
the Directors' Report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes 
that specific information presented in the Business and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the 
Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed. 
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company 
financial statements. The other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, Chairman’s Letter, Chief Executive Officer’s Letter, 
Group overview, Strategy, Business and Financial Review, Risks, Corporate Responsibility, Board of Directors, Directors’ Report, 
Corporate Governance, the unaudited part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters, the five year summary, 
Shareholder information and Executive directors and senior management.  
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the 
parent Company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company 
financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters to be audited. It also includes an 
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial 
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order  
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud  
or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 
parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters to be audited. 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
• the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2009; 
• the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and related matters  
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and  
• the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London, 18 May 2009 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 
124 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
 Note 
 
As at 
31 March  
2009 
£m 
As at
31 March
2008
£m 
Fixed assets    
Investments in Group companies C 1,613.6 1,197.4 
  1,613.6 1,197.4 
Current assets    
Debtors receivable within one year D 743.5 755.5 
Debtors receivable after one year D 1.5 20.0 
Derivative assets   – 0.6 
Cash and cash equivalents E 0.4 0.2 
  745.4 776.3 
Current liabilities    
Creditors payable within one year F (1,731.8) (1,328.4)
Derivative liabilities  (1.6) – 
Net current liabilities  (988.0) (552.1)
Total assets less current liabilities  625.6 645.3 
Net assets  625.6 645.3 
    
EQUITY    
Share capital G 0.2 0.2 
Share premium G 175.9 174.3 
Capital reserve G 0.9 0.9 
Hedging reserve G 3.9 (0.1)
Profit and loss account G 444.7 470.0 
Total equity G 625.6 645.3 
The financial statements on pages 124 to 129 were approved by the Board on 18 May 2009 and signed on its behalf by: 
John Peace Stacey Cartwright 
Chairman Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 125 
A. Basis of preparation 
Burberry Group plc (‘the Company’) is the parent Company of the Burberry Group. Burberry Group plc is listed on the London Stock 
Exchange and its principal business is investment.  
Burberry Group is a luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer in Europe, the Middle East, the Americas and Asia Pacific; 
licensing activity is also carried out, principally in Japan. All of the companies, which comprise Burberry Group, are owned by the 
Company directly or indirectly.  
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention with the exception of 
financial instruments which are included in the financial statements at fair value and in accordance with applicable accounting standards 
in the United Kingdom and the Companies Act 1985.  
B. Accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.  
Share schemes 
Employees in Burberry Group (including directors) receive certain share incentives, relating to Burberry Group plc shares. 
The cost of the share incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.  
The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used to determine the fair value of the award made. The impact of performance conditions  
is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant, except for conditions linked to the price of Burberry Group plc shares 
i.e. market conditions. Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are allowed for in the assumptions about the number  
of options expected to vest. The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date. 
The cost of the share based incentives are recharged and recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards in the entity 
employing the relevant employees receiving the share awards. A corresponding increase in equity is recognised. 
The proceeds received from the exercise of the equity instruments awarded, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are 
credited to share capital and share premium. 
Full disclosures are presented in note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. 
Dividend distribution 
Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plc’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are 
approved by the shareholders for the final dividend or paid in respect of the interim dividend. 
Investments in Group companies 
Investments in Group companies are stated at cost, less any provisions to reflect impairment in value. 
Loans to Group companies are considered to be part of the net investment in the subsidiary and any foreign exchange gain or losses 
made on these loans are recognised in the profit and loss account. 
Impairment of assets 
Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are 
subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may 
not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purpose of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units).  
Taxation including deferred tax 
Deferred taxation is recognised as a liability or asset if transactions have occurred at the balance sheet date that give rise to an 
obligation to pay more taxation in future, or a right to pay less taxation in future. An asset is not recognised to the extent that the 
realisation of economic benefits in the future is uncertain. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity 
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED  
126 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
B. Accounting policies (continued) 
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or 
disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable 
incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. 
Financial instruments 
Financial instruments are reported and measured in accordance with FRS 25 and FRS 26 respectively. The Company used the 
exemption not to present FRS 25 disclosures in the notes to the entity financial statements as full equivalent disclosures are presented 
within the consolidated financial statements.  
Foreign currency transactions 
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated into sterling at the 
exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the profit and loss account  
in the period in which they arise.  
Cash flow statement 
The Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement under FRS 1 (revised 1996) ‘Cash flow statements’,  
as it is a part of Burberry Group and the cash flow for the Group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Burberry Group. 
Related party transactions 
FRS 8, ‘Related Party Disclosures’ requires the disclosure of the details of material transactions and balances between the reporting 
entity and related parties. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under the terms of FRS 8, not to disclose details of 
transactions with entities that are part of Burberry Group. 
C. Investments in Group companies 
Cost £m 
As at 31 March 2007 1,154.0 
Additions 43.4 
As at 31 March 2008 1,197.4 
Additions 557.2 
Impairment (141.0)
As at 31 March 2009 1,613.6 
The principal subsidiaries of the Burberry Group are listed in note 29 of the Group financial statements. During the year the investments 
in certain holding companies were impaired in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 11 ‘Impairment of Fixed Assets and 
Goodwill’. The sum of £141.0m (2007: £nil) has been charged to the profit and loss account for the year being the difference  
between the cost of the investment held less the carrying value of the net assets or the recoverable amount based on the value in  
use. This impairment charge includes the effect of the reduction in the value in use attributable to the Spanish business. Details of  
the assumptions used in the value in use calculation for the Spanish business are set out in note 10 on page 92. For other investments, 
the value in use is calculated using pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial plans approved by management and extrapolated 
beyond the budget year using growth rate appropriate to each country’s economic conditions. The pre-tax discount rates used in  
these calculations were between 11.4% and 13.0% based on the Burberry Group weighted average cost of capital adjusted for  
country specific tax rates and risk.  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED  
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 127 
D. Debtors 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March
 2008
£m 
Corporation tax – 9.6 
Amounts receivable from Group companies 742.7 745.9 
Prepayments and other debtors 0.8 – 
Total debtors receivable within one year 743.5 755.5 
   
Amounts receivable from Group companies – 20.0 
Prepayments 1.5 – 
Total debtors receivable after one year 1.5 20.0 
Total debtors 745.0 775.5 
As of 1 April 2008, UK Group companies no longer charge/pay for group tax relief from other UK companies. As such from 1 April 2008 
onwards, Burberry Group plc will not recognise a tax (credit)/charge for any (losses)/profits to the extent that there are sufficient 
profits/(losses) within other UK Group companies to fully offset Burberry Group plc’s results. 
Included in amounts receivable from Group companies are loans of £93.1m (2008: £765.9m) which are interest bearing. The interest 
rate earned is based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents. 
The maturity of debtors due after one year is as follows: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Between 1 and 2 years 0.7 – 
Between 2 and 3 years 0.6 – 
Between 3 and 4 years 0.2 20.0 
Total debtors 1.5 20.0 
E. Cash and cash equivalents 
 
As at 
31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2008
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 0.2 
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest based on the relevant LIBOR equivalents.  
F. Creditors payable within one year  
 
As at 
 31 March 
2009 
£m 
As at
31 March 
2008
£m 
Unsecured:   
Trading balances payable to Group companies 65.4 59.2 
Loan balances payable to Group companies 1,664.8 1,269.0 
Accruals and deferred income 1.6 0.2 
Total  1,731.8 1,328.4  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED  
128 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
G. Equity 
 
2009 
£m 
2008
£m 
Authorised share capital   
1,999,999,998,000 (2008: 1,999,999,998,000) Ordinary Shares of 0.05p (2008: 0.05p) each 1,000.0 1,000.0 
1,600,000,000 redeemable preference shares of 0.05p (2008: 0.05p) each – 0.8 
Total 1,000.0 1,000.8 
The authorised but unissued preference shares were cancelled by a resolution of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2008. 
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number £m 
Ordinary Shares of 0.05p (2008: 0.05p) each   
As at 1 April 2008 432,662,279 0.2 
Allotted on exercise of options during the year 475,151 – 
As at 31 March 2009 433,137,430 0.2 
 
Reconciliation of movement in Company shareholders’ funds 
 
Share  
capital 
£m 
Share
 premium 
£m 
Capital 
reserve
£m 
Profit and loss 
account
£m 
Hedging  
reserve 
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
As at 1 April 2007 0.2 167.3 0.9 444.5 – 612.9 
Retained profit for the year before 
dividends paid – – – 95.3 – 95.3 
Dividends paid – – – (47.4) – (47.4)
Total recognised income for the year – – – 47.9 – 47.9 
Employee share option scheme       
– value of share options granted – – – 14.3 – 14.3 
– exercise of share options – 7.0 – – – 7.0 
Share buy back costs – – – (39.6) – (39.6)
Cash flow hedge loss deferred in equity – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts – – – (1.5) – (1.5)
Sale of shares by ESOP trusts – – – 4.4 – 4.4 
As at 31 March 2008 0.2 174.3 0.9 470.0 (0.1) 645.3 
Retained profit for the year before 
dividends paid – – – 27.1 – 27.1 
Dividends paid – – – (51.7) – (51.7)
Total recognised loss for the year – – – (24.6) – (24.6)
Employee share option scheme       
– value of share options granted – – – 4.5 – 4.5 
– exercise of share options – 1.6 – – – 1.6 
Cash flow hedge loss deferred in equity – – – – 4.0 4.0 
Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts – – – (5.4) – (5.4)
Sale of shares by ESOP trusts – – – 0.2 – 0.2 
As at 31 March 2009 0.2 175.9 0.9 444.7 3.9 625.6 
Profit on ordinary activities, but before dividends payable, was £27.1m (2008: profit of £95.3m). As permitted by section 230 of the 
Companies Act 1985, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account. Dividend disclosures are provided in note 9  
of the Group accounts. Audit fee disclosure is provided in note 5 and is borne by a subsidiary.  NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED  
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 129 
G. Equity (continued) 
The cost of own shares held in the Burberry Group ESOP Trusts has been offset against the profit and loss account, as the amounts 
paid reduce the profits available for distribution by the Burberry Group and the Company. As at 31 March 2009 the amounts offset 
against this reserve are £4.5m (2008: £4.9m). 
The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares. 
H. Contingent liabilities 
Burberry Group plc, together with Burberry Limited, Burberry Treasury, Burberry Spain SA, Burberry Asia Limited, Burberry (Wholesale) 
Limited (US) and Burberry Limited (US) make up the Guarantor Group for a £200m multi currency revolving facility agreement which 
commenced 16 March 2009 and matures 30 June 2012. The facility was co-ordinated by Lloyds Bank plc (Co-ordinator and Agent)  
and the mandated lead arrangers were Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Societe General S.A. both of which had a £40m commitment. The 
remaining commitment was provided by Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Abbey National Treasury Services plc, Unicredit SpA and Caixa 
D'Estalvis I Pensions De Barcelona, each with a £30m commitment. Interest is currently charged on this loan at LIBOR  
plus 2.00% per annum. 
The same Guarantor Group supports the £60m multi currency revolving credit facility provided by HSBC Bank plc, £30m, and Lloyds 
TSB Bank plc, £30m, which commenced on 13 June 2008 and matures on 13 June 2011. Interest is charged on each of these facilities 
at LIBOR plus 0.95% on drawings less than 50% of the loan principal and at LIBOR plus 1.05% on drawings over 50% of the loan principal. 
A potential liability may arise in the future if one of the Group members defaults on the loan facility. Each guarantor, including  
Burberry Group plc would be liable to cover the amounts outstanding, including principal and interest elements. 
I. Employee costs 
No employees were employed by the Company during the year to 31 March 2009 (2008: nil).  SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
130 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 
Registrar  
Any enquiries relating to your shareholding, for example transfers 
of shares, change of name or address, amalgamation of share 
accounts, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be 
referred to the Company’s Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect 
House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, 
telephone: 0871 384 2839 (or +44 121 415 7047 from outside 
the UK).  
In addition, Equiniti offer a range of shareholder information 
online at www.shareview.co.uk. A textphone facility for those 
with hearing difficulties is available by calling: 0871 384 2266  
(or +44 121 415 7028 from outside the UK).  
Share dealing  
Equiniti Limited offer a telephone and internet dealing service. 
Terms and conditions and details of the commission charges are 
available on request.  
For telephone dealing please telephone 08456 037 037 between 
8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing 
visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. Shareholders will need the 
reference number shown on their share certificate.  
ShareGift  
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which 
makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to consider donating 
their shares to charity through ShareGift, a donation scheme 
operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation (registered charity 
1052686). A ShareGift donation form can be obtained from 
Equiniti Limited. Further information is available at 
www.sharegift.org or by telephone on +44 (0) 20 7930 3737.  
Amalgamating share accounts  
Shareholders who have more than one account due to 
inconsistency in the name and address details may avoid 
duplicate mailings by asking the Registrar to amalgamate  
their holdings.  
Share price information  
The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available on the 
Group’s website at www.burberryplc.com.  
Dividend Reinvestment Plan  
The Group’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) enables 
shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy further shares  
in the Company. Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from 
the Registrars. If you would like your final and future dividends  
to qualify for the DRIP completed application forms must be 
returned to the Registrars by 16 July 2009.  
Dividends payable in foreign currencies  
The Registrar is able to pay dividends to shareholders in over 30 
countries worldwide through the Overseas Payment Service. An 
administrative fee will be deducted from each dividend payment. 
Contact the Registrar for further information.  
Demerger from GUS plc – capital gains tax  
Following the demerger of Burberry, and the GUS plc share 
consolidation, the base cost (for UK capital gains tax purposes) 
of Burberry shares is calculated by reference to the base cost of 
any old GUS plc shares held at 7.00am on 13 December 2005. 
The base cost of a Burberry share is 13.103% of the base cost 
of old GUS shares.  
Electronic communication  
Shareholders may at any time choose to receive all shareholder 
documentation in electronic form via the internet, rather than 
through the post in paper format. Shareholders who decide to 
register for this option will receive an email each time a statutory 
document is published on the internet. Shareholders who wish 
to receive documentation in electronic form should register at 
www.shareview.co.uk.  
Company website  
This Annual Report and other information on Burberry including 
share price information and results announcements, is available 
via the internet on the Group’s website at www.burberryplc.com  
Financial calendar   
First quarter trading update  15 July 2009 
Annual General Meeting   16 July 2009 
First half trading update  14 October 2009 
Interim results announcement  17 November 2009 
Third quarter trading update  January 2010 
Second half trading update  April 2010 
Preliminary results announcement  May 2010 
  Shareholder information CONTINUED 
  Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008/09 131 
 
Dividends   
Record date    3 July 2009 
Final date for return of DRIP mandate forms  16 July 2009 
Payment date and DRIP purchase   30 July 2009 
Interim dividend payable   
Expected
January 2010 
An interim dividend of 3.35p per share was paid on 29 January 
2009. A final dividend of 8.65p per share has been proposed 
and, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on  
16 July 2009, will be paid on 30 July 2009 to shareholders  
on the register at the close of business on 3 July 2009.  
Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK bank account, 
with the tax voucher being sent to the shareholders address.  
A dividend mandate form is available from the Registrar or at 
www.shareview.co.uk.  
Unauthorised brokers (boiler room scams)  
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited 
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free 
company reports. These are typically from overseas based 
‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders offering to sell them  
what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US  
or UK investments.  
More detailed information can be found on the FSA website,  
at www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk.  
If you receive unsolicited investment advice:  
• Make sure you get the correct name of the person  
and organisation  
• Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA  
before getting involved. You can check this at 
www.fsa.gov.uk/register 
• The FSA also maintains a list of unauthorised overseas firms 
who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors. This list can 
be found at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/ 
alerts/index.shtml 
• Any approach from such organisations should be reported to 
the FSA using the online form so that this list can be kept up 
to date and any other appropriate action can be considered  
• Inform the Registrar  
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be  
eligible to received payment under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.  
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company  
endorses will only be included in Company mailings.  
Registered office  
Burberry Group plc  
Horseferry House 
Horseferry Road 
London  
SW1P 2AW 
Telephone: +44 (0)20 3367 3000  
Fax: +44 (0)20 3367 4910  
www.burberryplc.com  
Registered in England and Wales  
Registered Number 03458224  EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
132
Executive directors
Angela Ahrendts
Chief Executive Officer
Stacey Cartwright
Executive Vice President
Chief Financial Officer
Senior management
Christopher Bailey
Creative Director
John Douglas
Senior Vice President
Information Technology
Emilio Foa
Senior Vice President
Emerging Markets
Joy Frommer
President
Europe
Stephen Gilbert
Senior Vice President
Retail Development
Andy Janowski
Senior Vice President
Supply Chain
Andrew Maag
Senior Vice President
Menswear
Michael Mahony
Senior Vice President
Commercial Affairs and General Counsel
Sarah Manley
Senior Vice President
Marketing and Communications
Matt McEvoy
Senior Vice President
Strategy and Licensing
Pascal Perrier
President
Asia Pacific
Paul Price
Senior Vice President
Non-Apparel
Reg Sindall
Executive Vice President
Corporate Resources
Michele Smith
Senior Vice President
Womenswear
Eugenia Ulasewicz
President
Americas  
