   Strategic Report
Introduction
8 Chairman’s Letter
12 Chief Executive Officers’ Letters
14 Brand, Business, Culture
Burberry Group Overview
22 Business Model 
24 Operating Model
25 Channel Mix
26 Regional Mix
27 Product Mix
29 Market Overview
Strategic Themes
32 Leverage the Franchise
35 Intensify Accessories
37 Accelerate Retail-Led Growth
39 Invest in Under-Penetrated Markets
41 Pursue Operational Excellence
Great Brand, Great Company
44 Our People
47 Burberry Beyond
Performance
54 Group Financial Highlights
61 Principal Risks
Board and Governance
66 Board of Directors
70 Directors’ Report
74 Corporate Governance Report
88 Directors’ Remuneration Report
107 Senior Leadership Team
Financial Statements
110 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
111  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members  
of Burberry Group plc
115 Group Income Statement
116 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
117 Group Balance Sheet
118 Group Statement of Changes in Equity
119 Group Statement of Cash Flows
120 Notes to the Financial Statements
160 Five Year Summary
162  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members  
of Burberry Group plc
164 Company Balance Sheet
165 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
169 Shareholder Information
2
2013/2014 Annual Report
Table of  
contents Adjusted profit before tax (Year to 31 March)
Adjusted profit before tax is stated before adjusting items.
Reported profit before tax £444m (2013: £351m)
£461m 
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
461
428
376
298
215
Dividend per share (Year to 31 March)
Net cash (As at 31 March)
Capital expenditure (Year to 31 March)
Adjusted diluted EPS (Year to 31 March)
Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before adjusting items. 
Reported diluted EPS 72.1p (2013: 57.0p)
£154m 
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
154
176
153
108
70
32.0p 
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
32.0
29.0
25.0
20.0
14.0
£403m 
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
403
297
338
298
262
75.4p 
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
75.4
70.0
61.6
48.9
35.1
Total revenue (Year to 31 March)
2010* has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
Adjusted profit before tax and adjusted EPS is defined in note 2 of the financial statements.
£2,330m 
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010*
2,330
1,999
1,857
1,501
1,185
3
2013/2014 Annual Report
Financial 
Highlights  Strategic Report  7
Introduction
Strategic Report 
This is Burberry’s Strategic Report for the financial year ending 31 March 2014. 
The Report sets out information on the Burberry brand, business operations, strategy, 
people and its activities aimed at driving positive social, cultural and environmental 
impacts. The following messages from Sir John Peace, Angela Ahrendts and 
Christopher Bailey, highlight Burberry’s performance during the year and the 
outlook for the Company. The management team at Burberry measures its performance relative to a consistent set 
of objectives – ensuring clarity and consistency of Burberry’s luxury brand positioning, 
producing sustainable sector-leading growth, and being a great company.
Sir John Peace
Chairman 
 ·
The establishment of Beauty as Burberry’s fifth product 
division, which recorded some early successes including 
the launch of two new fragrances, the opening of the 
first Burberry Beauty Box pilot store in London and the 
integration of Beauty and fashion across product, events 
and marketing. While the new product division has made 
a modest financial contribution in 2013/14, reflecting 
the complexities and challenges of this transition year, 
we expect our investment in this category to be a key 
component of future growth.
 ·
The further integration of physical and digital platforms 
to enhance the brand experience across all touchpoints, 
from investments that leverage data and insight in 
the creation of increasingly personalised customer 
experiences, to more integrated, emotive storytelling 
across our online and offline worlds.
 ·
A sustained focus on reclaiming Burberry’s menswear 
heritage, including the return of the men’s runway show 
to London and investments in design and merchandising. 
With about 20% sales increase in mainline stores during 
the year, the growth of menswear presents exciting future 
potential as we look to further build this underdeveloped 
dimension of the brand.
 ·
Continued investment in flagship markets, strengthening 
the brand’s position in the 25 cities that account for the 
majority of its retail sales. Of the 25 store openings in 
the year, about half were in these markets, while specific 
product, merchandising and service initiatives were 
further honed and developed to address the travelling 
luxury customers flowing through these urban centres, 
with particular attention to the Chinese consumer.
 ·
The engagement of all business functions in laying 
foundations to transform the brand in Japan, the second 
largest luxury market in the world. With licences expiring 
in 2015, the year saw the development of plans to ensure 
a smooth exit of local product from the market and 
preparations to forcefully assert Burberry’s global luxury 
positioning in the months and years ahead. 
This activity contributed to a strong annual financial 
performance for 2013/14 while positioning Burberry 
well for the future. Total revenue increased 17% to 
£2,330 million, with adjusted before tax profit up 8% 
Within that context, we can report a strong year for 
Burberry in 2013/14. While representing this year’s efforts, 
the results also reflect the disciplined pursuit and execution 
of a uniform strategy over the past several years – 
a strategy designed to produce near-term results 
and reinforce the foundation for future success.
Burberry operates today in a period of unprecedented 
change for the consumer sphere, which includes the luxury 
sector: from the evolving dynamics between the physical 
and digital worlds; to the emergence of a new class of 
younger luxury consumer in developing markets; and the 
increasing role that travel plays in luxury consumption – 
a trend further intensified by dramatic increases in 
outbound travel from China. Alongside these dynamics, 
overall growth of the luxury sector has moderated over the 
last two years, following its post-financial crisis acceleration. 
Burberry’s strategy has proven effective in both concept 
and execution in responding to this evolving environment. 
This Report sets out the significant progress delivered 
across all five of the brand’s strategic themes during the 
year, with highlights including the following.
8
Strategic Report – Introduction
Chairman’s 
Letter to £461 million. The retail/wholesale business achieved 
a 17% increase in adjusted operating profit on a 19% 
revenue gain to £2,251 million, driven by the 15% revenue 
growth and 12% comparable store sales increase in retail. 
Excluding Beauty, wholesale sales grew 2%, with gains 
in the Americas and Asia partially offset by continued 
softness in Europe. Beauty, in its first year of operation, 
contributed wholesale revenue of £144 million, while 
licensing revenue, excluding Beauty, increased 2% 
underlying, reflecting growth in global categories against 
a slight decline in legacy licences. Capital investment 
totalled £154 million and the Group ended the year 
with a £403 million net cash position. The Board has 
recommended a 10% increase in the full year dividend 
to 32.00p, and will aim to move progressively from a 
40% payout ratio to 50% over three years reflecting 
our ongoing focus on shareholder returns.
In addition to the strategic and financial performance 
outlined above, 2013/14 also marked a significant leadership 
transition at Burberry. In October, Angela Ahrendts 
informed the Board that she had decided to step down 
as Chief Executive Officer and the Board unanimously 
agreed that Christopher Bailey would be her successor 
in the newly-created position of Chief Creative and Chief 
Executive Officer, a role he assumed on 1 May 2014. 
Angela moves on after eight remarkable years with 
Burberry, having built a great culture and management 
team, and leading the Company through an incredible 
transformation. We are all hugely grateful for her efforts 
and accomplishments and wish her well in her 
future endeavours.
While this is a significant change, the CEO transition to 
Christopher is a natural progression. Christopher has been 
at Burberry since 2001 and as Chief Creative Officer has 
overseen all consumer-facing activities including product 
design, creative marketing, store design, consumer 
technology and digital innovation. I have no doubt that 
Christopher’s vision and leadership, supported by an 
outstanding management team, will keep Burberry on 
the forefront creatively, digitally and financially, creating 
further value for shareholders in the next exciting stage 
of its evolution. 
The Board is also evolving, as it builds further relevant 
skills and competencies for the future. Good progress has 
been made on the Board’s succession plan during the year 
with the appointment of Matthew Key and Jeremy Darroch 
as non-executive directors and the announcement that 
Carolyn McCall will be joining the Board as a non-executive 
director on 1 September 2014. These appointments bring 
additional mobile, digital, media, financial, consumer 
travel and general management experience to the Board, 
reflecting the Group’s strategy. 
Consistent with past practice, we reward our people on 
a basis which is strongly aligned to sustainable long-term 
performance and delivering value to our shareholders. 
At the same time, we must take into account the global 
markets in which the Group operates and from which it 
recruits, so as to attract and retain high calibre individuals. 
For the first time shareholders will have a binding vote on 
our remuneration policy, in relation to which we consulted 
with a number of our leading institutional shareholders and 
investor advisory bodies. The details are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report contained herein.
Finally, a word on culture. Each year I remark that 
Burberry’s strong results reflect the contributions of 
teams across the business – and this continues to be true. 
The line separating strong and median performance in this 
dynamic, highly competitive industry is thin, and a united 
team and vibrant culture can make all the difference. 
Accordingly, Burberry continues to invest in areas that 
foster the further development of its distinctive culture, 
including internal communication activities, career 
development opportunities, compensation plans and 
organisational initiatives, including the opening at the end 
of the year of our second headquarters building, uniting 
all London-based employees on a single campus. The 
internal values that define the Burberry culture continue 
to be expressed through investment externally, in ethical 
trading and sustainability efforts, community involvement 
activities and the Burberry Foundation, to name a few.
Burberry’s present and future success is dependent upon 
the hard work and commitment of our talented global team 
and I thank them for their efforts during the year. I would 
also like to thank our shareholders, customers, partners 
and all those who engage with the brand for their continued 
support, as we look to the future with confidence.
KPI: Growth in adjusted diluted EPS (Year to 31 March) 
A key valuation metric for Burberry’s shareholders.
75.4p +8%
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
75.4 +8%
70.0 +14%
61.6 +26%
48.9 +39%
35.1 +16%
Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before adjusting items.
Reported diluted EPS 72.1p (2013: 57.0p).
9
Strategic Report – Introduction   Stepping down from my position as Burberry’s Chief Executive Officer  
brings a host of reflections on my near nine years in the position. 
Angela Ahrendts
Angela Ahrendts stepped down as Chief Executive 
Officer on 30 April 2014. 
Rather than the specific initiatives, I am more reminded 
of the principles and values through which we wrote 
Burberry’s latest chapter. We put the brand first. 
Our internal ethos of collaboration, intuition and trust. 
The aspiration to be not only a great brand, but a great 
company, with all that implies in a larger societal context. 
Serving in this role for almost nine years has been a 
privilege, an honour, a remarkable experience. I thank the 
entire Burberry community – Board, team, franchise and 
licensing partners, customers and suppliers – for the 
inspiration and partnership during these years. 
Now, Christopher Bailey, Burberry’s Chief Creative and 
Chief Executive Officer, adds the CEO responsibilities to his 
mandate. Working alongside him and the rest of the senior 
team has been among the greatest aspects of the position. 
Together, they will explore exciting opportunities – Beauty 
has just begun to operate, the Japan transformation is well 
underway, the digital world offers boundless possibilities – 
all within the scope of a brand momentum that has never 
been stronger. I look forward to watching as the extended 
team, under Christopher’s exceptional vision and 
leadership, writes Burberry’s next chapter.
12
Strategic Report – Introduction
Chief Executive 
Officers’ Letters It has been an honour to work alongside Angela in shaping Burberry’s 
recent history over the past nine years, and I am privileged today to 
lead this magnificent ‘old, young’ company into its next chapter.
Christopher Bailey
Christopher Bailey was appointed Chief Creative 
and Chief Executive Officer on 1 May 2014.
As my role evolves in this, my thirteenth year at Burberry, 
I believe there have never been greater opportunities for 
our brand globally, or more compelling ways to engage, 
entertain and inspire consumers with our rich and 
inimitable story. 
In Burberry we have something truly unique: a company 
whose story threads through British history and culture, 
from the wardrobes of the Royal Family, through the 
factories of Yorkshire and mills of Scotland, to some 
of the world’s great acts of exploration and many of 
the icons of our popular culture. 
Deeply rooted in expert craftsmanship and innovative 
design, and brought to life both physically and digitally, 
this story defines both who we are today and what we 
can become. In an increasingly competitive marketplace, 
and as luxury consumers globally place ever-greater 
emphasis on provenance, it gives Burberry that most 
precious of things: an authentic and clear identity. 
As such, remaining true to this identity will be critical 
to building and maintaining competitive advantage, 
and to capitalising on the many opportunities that 
lie ahead of us. 
True to the character of this great British brand, these 
opportunities are both old and young. Outerwear, our 
oldest product, continued to underpin our revenue growth 
in this most recent financial year. Looking ahead, we will 
leverage this momentum through an online and offline 
celebration of our heritage that will amplify consumer 
engagement with our most iconic products and further 
clarify our unique brand identity, both in established 
markets and the emerging economies that remain a 
consistent strategic focus. Similarly Japan – an old market 
for Burberry, but a new and under-penetrated opportunity 
for the modern brand. The coming year will see us start to 
shape Burberry’s future in what remains the second-largest 
luxury market in the world. Beauty, now firmly established 
as our fifth product division, reached its first anniversary 
of direct operation in April 2014. With the repositioning of 
the fragrance portfolio and the broadening of our nascent 
make-up business, we are still early in the cycle of this 
under-represented category for the brand and see 
significant potential ahead. And then there is digital, 
where innovative partnerships and a creative mindset 
will continue to unlock significant commercial opportunities 
and engaging experiences in what remains a very new, 
and increasingly mobile, world. 
This is not to say we underestimate what it will take to 
realise these possibilities in the months and years ahead. 
Luxury sector growth has moderated from the highs of the 
recent past and consumer behaviour is evolving quickly. Yet  
I am confident that we have the skills, expertise and focus 
to enable continued outperformance: a closely connected 
culture that allows us to retain our entrepreneurial spirit 
as we grow; the brightest and best talent at all levels of the 
organisation; and an outstanding group of senior executives 
leading the business across our three organisational pillars 
of Design, Product and Communication; the Regions; 
and Operations and Finance. There is no more powerful 
foundation for our future success than the united global 
teams established in recent years.
Looking ahead, I believe that a consistent and focused 
approach to our strategic goals, values and authentic 
brand identity will enable us to live up to the high 
standards we set ourselves and which people have for us, 
while never losing sight of our human and environmental 
responsibilities. As our customers, shareholders and global 
teams, you sit at the heart of this next stage of our journey, 
and I thank you all for your continued support.
13
Strategic Report – Introduction  Founded in 1856, Burberry today remains quintessentially British, with outerwear  
at its core. Digital luxury positioning and the optimisation across innovative mediums of 
the trench coat, trademark check and Equestrian Knight Device heritage icons, make the 
brand purer, more compelling and more relevant globally, across genders and generations.
brand
Strategic Report – Introduction
15 Disciplined execution, constant evolution and balance across channels, 
regions and products underpin the management of the business. 
Innovative product design, digital marketing initiatives and dynamic 
retail strategies drive consistent performance.
BUSINESS
16
Strategic Report – Introduction  A closely connected, creative thinking culture encourages cross-functional 
collaboration, intuition and a meritocratic ethos. United by open communication  
and a pure brand vision, and inspired by the Company’s core values – Protect,  
Explore and Inspire – compassionate global teams give back to their communities 
through the Burberry Foundation and socially responsible initiatives.
CULTURE
18
Strategic Report – Introduction   Burberry group 
overview
Burberry is a global luxury brand that designs, produces and sells luxury 
products. The following pages set out the Company’s business and operating 
models and information relating to its sales channels, regional presence, 
products and the external market in which it operates.
21
Strategic Report  The Company designs, produces and sells products 
under the Burberry brand. Product conception, design 
and development are housed in Burberry’s London 
headquarters. Fabrics and other materials are sourced 
from, and finished products manufactured at, both 
Company-owned facilities in the UK and through an 
external supplier network, predominantly located in Europe. 
Marketing content and programmes, traditional and digital, 
are developed internally to communicate brand and product 
attributes to consumers. Burberry products are sold 
globally through proprietary retail platforms and third-party 
wholesale customers. In selected categories, Burberry 
relies on the product and distribution expertise of licensing 
partners to develop the business. These activities are 
executed by a global team of over 10,000 employees.
Brand
 ·
Authentic British heritage, a rich association with 
history and culture – royalty, explorers, VIPs.
 ·
Globally recognised icons, including the trench coat, 
trademark check and Equestrian Knight Device.
 ·
Key attributes of craftsmanship, innovation and design.
 ·
Appeal across genders and generations.
 ·
Brand values of Protect, Explore, Inspire.
Business MODEL: A DISTINCTIVE 
GLOBAL LUXURY BRAND
Founded in 1856, Burberry is a global luxury brand with a distinctive British identity. 
Over the decades, the brand has built a reputation for craftsmanship, innovation and design. 
Since the invention of gabardine by Thomas Burberry more than 150 years ago, 
outerwear has been at the core of the business, and remains so today – 
best expressed through the iconic Burberry trench coat.
Business
 ·
Products created in keeping with brand attributes 
to appeal to luxury consumers:
 – primary categories include women’s and men’s apparel 
and accessories and Beauty.
 ·
Brand engagement driven by innovative use of digital, 
social and traditional media to connect audiences 
globally with the brand:
 – with emphasis on the millennial consumer.
 ·
Owned distribution network consisting of:
 – offline: 497 directly operated stores and concessions 
operating in 32 countries;
 – online: burberry.com digital platform active in 
11 languages; and
 – ongoing initiatives to integrate online and offline to 
create a seamless and consistent brand experience, 
however and wherever the consumer chooses to 
engage with the Burberry brand.
 ·
Third-party distribution network includes 70 franchise 
stores in an additional 28 countries and approximately 
1,400 wholesale department and specialty store doors 
in over 80 countries.
 ·
Consumer touch-points aligned with the goal 
of communicating pure brand message.
 ·
Functional infrastructure to support execution 
from conception to consumer.
Culture
 ·
Democratic, trusting and entrepreneurial ethos.
 ·
Team-oriented, empowered, highly connected 
organisation.
 ·
Constant focus on creative-commercial balance.
 ·
Committed to Great Company values – sustainable 
business practices and creating social shared value.
22
Strategic Report – Burberry Group Overview  *  During the year Europe, Middle East, India and Africa (‘EMEIA’) was 
formed integrating the former regions of Europe and Rest of World.
24
Strategic Report – Burberry Group Overview
 The business is structured by channel, region and  
product division, supported by core corporate functions.
Operating 
model
By Product By Function
Accessories Design
Womens Marketing
Mens
Merchandising  
and Planning
By Region
Asia Pacific
Europe, Middle East, 
India and Africa*
Americas
By Channel
Retail
(including Digital)
Wholesale
Licensing
Childrens Supply Chain
Operations  
and Finance
Beauty Burberry sells its products to the end consumer through both retail (including digital)  
and wholesale channels. For 2013/14, retail accounted for 70% of revenue and 
wholesale 27%. Burberry also has licensing agreements in Japan and globally, 
leveraging the local and technical expertise of its licence partners. 
Retail 
Revenue
£1,623m
+15%
Licensing 
Revenue
£79m
(23%)
Wholesale 
Revenue
£628m
+32%
Revenue by channel
Underlying is calculated at constant exchange rates
Licensing
Includes income from Burberry’s licensees, 
about 80% from Japan with the balance 
from global product licences (eyewear 
and watches) and the European wholesale 
childrens licence
 ·
23% underlying decline  
(2% growth excluding the fragrance  
licence income in 2012/13)
 ·
Royalty income from Japan broadly 
unchanged at constant exchange rates
 ·
Global product licences delivered  
double-digit percentage growth  
(watches and eyewear)
Wholesale
Includes sales to department stores, multi-
brand specialty accounts, Travel Retail and 
franchisees who operate 70 stores, and 
Beauty to nearly 100 distributors globally
 ·
32% underlying growth  
(2% growth excluding first  
time contribution from Beauty)
 ·
Beauty wholesale revenue of £144m 
in first year of direct operation
 ·
Net five new franchise stores opened, 
including stores with new partners in 
Barbados, Chile and Colombia
Retail
Includes 215 mainline stores, 227 concessions 
within department stores, digital commerce 
and 55 outlets
 ·
15% underlying growth
 ·
12% comparable sales growth
 ·
25 mainline store openings, including a 
flagship in Shanghai and the first Burberry 
Beauty Box in Covent Garden, London
25
Strategic Report – Burberry Group Overview
Channel 
mix Burberry operates in three regions. For 2013/14, Asia Pacific 
represented 39% of retail/wholesale revenue, Europe, Middle East, 
India and Africa (EMEIA) 36% and Americas 25%.
Americas
 ·
24% underlying growth
 ·
Retail accounted for about 60% of revenue
 ·
High single-digit comparable sales growth
 ·
Digital penetration in the United States 
more than twice the Group average
EMEIA
 ·
17% underlying growth
 ·
Retail accounted for about 65% of revenue
 ·
High single-digit comparable sales growth
 ·
About 40% of mainline transactions to 
travelling luxury customers
Asia Pacific
 ·
18% underlying growth
 ·
Retail accounted for about 85% of revenue
 ·
Double-digit comparable sales growth led 
by Greater China, especially Hong Kong
 ·
Travel Retail, which makes up the majority 
of wholesale in the region, performed well
Asia Pacific  
Revenue
£870m
Mainline stores: 65
Concession stores: 155
EMEIA  
Revenue
£812m
Mainline stores: 72
Concession stores: 61
Americas  
Revenue
£569m
Mainline stores: 78
Concession stores: 11
Retail/wholesale revenue by destination
Underlying is calculated at constant exchange rates 
and includes first-time contribution of Beauty wholesale 
revenue, predominantly in EMEIA and Americas
26
regional 
mix
Strategic Report – Burberry Group Overview Accessories
 ·
Large leather goods accounted for about  
half of mainline accessories revenue
 ·
Continued innovation in core leather and 
check programmes and key iconic shapes
 ·
Mens accessories increased by over 20%,  
now representing just over 20% of mainline 
retail accessories revenue 
Womens
 ·
Core outerwear was over half of mainline revenue
 ·
Spring/Summer 2014 (S/S14) Prorsum outperformed
Mens
 ·
Outerwear about 40% of mainline revenue
 ·
Launch of Travel Tailoring drove about 40% 
growth year-on-year in this category
Childrens
 ·
Outerwear about 35% of mainline revenue
 ·
Prorsum-inspired collections strong
Beauty 
 ·
First year of direct operation
 ·
Complex and challenging transition period; 
infrastructure now built
 ·
Successful Brit Rhythm fragrance launches 
for both men and women
Retail/wholesale revenue by product division
Underlying is calculated at constant exchange rates
Childrens
Revenue
£79m
+8%
Beauty
Revenue
£151m
n/a
Accessories
Revenue
£816m
+12%
Womens
Revenue
£684m
+10%
Mens
Revenue
£521m
+12%
Burberry has a diversified product offering across apparel, accessories and Beauty  
and by gender. For 2013/14, accessories represented 36% of retail/wholesale revenue,
womens 30%, mens 23%, childrens 4% and Beauty 7%.
Burberry Prorsum – 5%
The most fashion forward collection centred around runway 
shows, providing the design inspiration for the brand
Burberry London – 45%
The tailored collection, typically what a customer 
wears on weekdays for work
Burberry Brit – 50%
The most casual collection, typically worn 
on the weekend
Apparel Pyramid 
% of mainline retail apparel revenue
27
Strategic Report – Burberry Group Overview
product 
mix  Europe also benefited from the growth of luxury tourism, 
particularly from emerging markets, while local consumption 
remained volatile for the sector. The travelling luxury 
consumer is estimated to account for over half the luxury 
sales in major markets in the region. 
In the Americas, luxury sector growth accelerated in 
real terms as consumer confidence in the wider economy 
improved, surpassing Asia as the fastest-growing region. 
Although it remains a predominantly local market, luxury 
tourism, particularly from China, is becoming increasingly 
relevant in the Americas region. 
Globally, digital commerce continued to gain importance, 
with the USA leading the way. This channel has grown 
tenfold since 2003 and now accounts for around 5% 
of the global luxury goods market. It is believed that the 
increasing use of digital platforms for browsing and 
shopping partially explains the decreasing store traffic 
across the luxury sector.
When looking at demand across key product categories 
in the luxury sector, accessories continued to outperform, 
with men’s accessories growing at a double-digit 
percentage rate. Within ready-to-wear, mens continued to 
grow ahead of womens. Beauty sector growth slowed to 
2% during 2013 from 4% in 2012, with deceleration in both 
the cosmetic and fragrance markets, especially in Europe.
Outlook
Industry analysts expect the luxury sector to grow  
mid-single digits in the medium term at constant foreign 
exchange rates, as the anticipated wider global economic 
recovery continues. These growth forecasts are supported 
by long-term demographic trends, particularly the 
expansion of the consuming classes in emerging markets, 
increasing urbanisation and the growth of global travel. 
*  Bain & Company and Fondazione Altagamma 2013 Luxury Goods 
Worldwide Market Report (October 2013).
Macroeconomic environment
In 2013 the global economy continued its recovery growing 
at 3%, in line with 2012. While the beginning of the year 
saw continued uncertainty in the Eurozone and concerns 
around China’s economic growth prospects, in aggregate 
macroeconomic indicators accelerated throughout the year. 
In Europe recovery continued to be slow, with European 
Union GDP growth flat. Despite ongoing government 
austerity measures, there were positive signs in the region, 
as periphery countries’ key macroeconomic indicators 
showed improvement. In the USA, quarterly GDP growth 
accelerated throughout the year to an annual growth rate 
of 1.9%. More importantly for the luxury retail sector, 
this was accompanied by a continued increase in 
personal consumption.
Improving sentiment in developed economies was partially 
offset by a slowdown in emerging markets. China GDP 
grew by 7.7%, in line with 2012, and accounted for half 
of global growth. Performance in other key developing 
luxury markets was mixed with Russia and the Middle 
East slowing during the year, while the Brazilian economy 
accelerated slightly to 2.3%. 
Luxury sector*
Against this global backdrop, analysts estimate that luxury 
sector growth slowed to 2% in 2013, following three years 
of reported double-digit growth. However, excluding 
currency effects, the sector grew at closer to 6% in line 
with 2012. 
In mainland China, now the world’s fourth largest luxury 
market, sales growth slowed to 4% at constant foreign 
exchange rates, driven by new government policies on 
gift giving and Chinese customers increasingly shifting 
their luxury shopping abroad. This travelling luxury 
consumer outflow helped drive luxury sales in the 
rest of Asia and Europe.
In many South-East Asian markets, the impact of this 
travelling consumer growth was further enhanced by 
increasing domestic consumption, particularly in the fast-
growing economies of Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia.
29
market  
overview
Strategic Report – Burberry Group Overview  31
Strategic Report
Strategic Themes
Over the last eight years, Burberry has consistently focused on delivering against 
its five strategic themes, which have sustained its growth during the period.  
These strategic themes are: Leverage the Franchise; Intensify Accessories;  
Accelerate Retail-Led Growth; Invest in Under-Penetrated Markets; and Pursue 
Operational Excellence. The following pages set out the Company’s key activities 
and initiatives during the year in the execution of these strategies. Burberry continued to strengthen and extend the brand 
through product and marketing excellence. The Company 
advanced its menswear offering and newly integrated 
fragrance and beauty operations. The strength of the 
Burberry brand contributed to the 17% revenue growth.
Key 2013/14 highlights include:
Product excellence
As a global luxury brand, product excellence – 
craftsmanship, innovation, design – remains central 
to the business.
Outerwear
 ·
Accounting for approximately half of Burberry’s mainline 
apparel sales, outerwear is at the core of Burberry’s 
business. The brand’s oldest product was among the 
fastest-growing categories in the year.
Menswear
 ·
Menswear, among the fastest-growing product 
categories in the luxury sector, remained a key focus 
area for the Group, accounting for over 20% of retail 
and wholesale revenue.
 – Burberry continued to optimise men’s assortments 
through product elevation – increased fabrics quality 
and detailing – sub-categories expansion and 
improved product flow.
 – In tailoring, to better meet the lifestyle needs of 
Burberry’s core luxury customer, travel tailoring was 
introduced. This new collection uses innovative natural 
memory fabrics to better maintain the suit structure 
against the demands of travel. Retail sales of men’s 
tailoring grew by about 40%.
 – Reasserting its British roots, Burberry’s S/S14 Mens 
Show returned to London after over ten years in Milan.
 – Accounting for over 20% of retail and wholesale 
revenue, menswear was the fastest-growing 
product division in the year.
Beauty
 ·
Burberry’s decision to integrate Beauty – the most widely 
encountered expression of the brand – in October 2012 
led to direct operation commencing April 2013. Following 
a complex and challenging transition, Beauty is now the 
Group’s fifth product division. Through the integration 
of luxury and fashion with beauty, Burberry seeks a 
clear point of differentiation in the category.
 ·
 Brit Rhythm for Men, the first fragrance following 
integration was introduced in September. The digitally 
led launch, was accompanied by a Brit Rhythm inspired 
ready-to-wear collection.
 ·
 Beauty played an integral part of the womenswear 
fashion shows, with full runway exposure, next season’s 
nail collections immediately available for order and 
personalised greetings from a backstage Beauty Booth 
linked to Twitter followers globally.
 ·
The Group opened the first Burberry Beauty Box in 
London’s Covent Garden in December. This original 
concept allows customers to explore the connections 
between make-up, fragrance and luxury accessories 
in a dedicated retail space.
 ·
 The female counterpart to the Brit Rhythm for Men,  
the Brit Rhythm for Women fragrance, was launched 
in January 2014.
Global brand engagement
Burberry seeks to extend the brand’s reach and 
engagement through marketing excellence and innovation.
Social media
 ·
 2013/14 saw new partnerships and strategies in the 
social media sphere.
 ·
 In collaboration with Google, Burberry launched 
‘Burberry Kisses’, an internet-based platform enabling 
users to capture and send virtual kisses. In a digital first, 
through contact with a touch screen or desktop camera, 
participants captured their ‘kiss’ in Burberry Beauty lip 
colour, recorded a personalised message and sent their 
‘kiss’ via email.
Enhance consumer resonance and operate more effectively 
through exacting use of brand assets and co-ordinated action 
across the global organisation. One brand, one company.
32
Strategic Report – Strategic Themes
LEVERAGE 
THE FRANCHISE  ·
 As part of the highly anticipated iPhone 5s launch, Apple 
teamed with Burberry on the womenswear S/S14 show, 
capturing runway imagery through the camera feature of 
the device, prior to its release. Images were posted 
dynamically live to 13 outdoor screens across London, 
New York and Hong Kong. This collaboration achieved 
record levels of social media engagement. 
 ·
Burberry announced an innovative partnership with 
the mobile messaging platform WeChat at the Burberry 
Prorsum Womenswear Autumn/Winter 2014 (A/W14) 
Show. WeChat facilitated the delivery of Burberry’s 
most personalised show experience, and in addition, 
the A/W14 show generated the most social media 
buzz in Burberry brand history, measured across 
all social platforms.
 ·
 Art of the Trench, launched in 2009, continued to be an 
important social platform to celebrate the iconic trench 
coat. Since inception, Art of the Trench has recorded 
almost 24 million page views from over 200 countries. 
In 2013/14, the platform was integral to key brand 
events in Shanghai and Paris.
 ·
Burberry again finished the year as the most followed 
luxury brand on Facebook with over 17 million fans. 
Its Twitter following grew to nearly three million and 
Instagram to almost 1.4 million.
Marketing innovation
 ·
In creating more holistic experiences to better connect 
consumers with the brand, our teams compose Burberry 
stories to be expressed across consumer touchpoints – 
product, events, traditional and social media and PR – 
in a range of conceptual variation. The ‘Burberry Love’ 
theme, which developed throughout the year, provides 
a good illustration.
 – The story began early in 2013 with the mens 
and womenswear A/W13 fashion shows in which 
heart-patterned prints and the Crush handbag 
were featured on the runways.
 – The women’s show included a live performance 
of ‘Hold Me’ by Tom Odell, an artist featured on 
the Burberry Acoustic website.
 – Burberry Kisses then launched in June.
 – The A/W13 ad campaign was centred around 
intimate portraits of real-life couple Sienna Miller 
and Tom Sturridge.
 – The initiative concluded with the festive period 
‘With Love’ message and product offering.
 – Such themes integrate the commercial and artistic 
dimensions of the Burberry brand. 
 ·
 Runway Made to Order, Burberry’s online platform 
allowing customers worldwide to be the first to 
own pieces from next season’s collection, further 
evolved with ‘smart personalisation’ for ready-to-wear 
and accessories.
 ·
 Key partnerships also strengthened the brand’s presence 
in flagship markets. As part of iconic Parisian Printemps 
department store’s ‘London Mania’ campaign, Burberry 
led the celebration with entertaining installations across 
the store – window animations, a pop-up store, a Paris 
Art of the Trench initiative and a limited edition collection.
Transforming Japan
 ·
Burberry strengthened its presence in this important 
luxury market through the continued roll-out of the global 
collection and the Roppongi store opening. This is an 
important step in aligning the local brand perception with 
the global positioning and away from its premium status 
under the current licensees. Burberry has four stores and 
ten concessions in Japan selling the global collection, 
which, combined with a small wholesale business, 
generated revenue of about £25m and was break even.
External recognition
Burberry was also recognised externally during the year.
 ·
 Listed in Interbrand ‘Top 100 Global Brands’ for the fifth 
consecutive year.
 ·
 Recognised by Fast Company as the seventh most 
innovative brand in retail.
 ·
 Led media think tank L2’s ‘Fashion Digital IQ index’ for 
the third consecutive year.
 ·
 Awarded ‘Best Brand’ and Christopher Bailey named 
‘Menswear Designer of the Year’ at the British 
Fashion Awards.
KPI: Total revenue growth (Year to 31 March)  
Measures the appeal of the brand to consumers, be it 
through Burberry stores or those of its department store 
or specialty retail customers.
£2,330m +17%
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010*
2,330 +17%
1,999 +8%
1,857 +23%
1,501
1,185 
+24%
Retail Wholesale Licensing
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i.e. at constant exchange rates.
2010* has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
33
Strategic Report – Strategic Themes  In 2013/14, accessories remained Burberry’s largest 
product division accounting for 36% of retail/wholesale 
revenue, delivering revenue growth of 12%. 
Key developments in 2013/14 include:
Large leather goods
 ·
Large leather goods remained at the core of Burberry’s 
accessories business, accounting for around half of all 
mainline accessories revenue. Growth was driven by 
strategically focusing on key iconic product shapes 
and solid leather styles and collections.
 ·
The Orchard bag, originally launched at the womenswear 
A/W12 runway show, and introduced as a replenishment 
style last year, continued to be one of the best-selling bags 
of the year. The Crush, which was launched in the A/W13 
collection, was a key focus of the Festive Campaign.
Mens accessories
 ·
Mens accessories continued to be one of Burberry’s 
fastest-growing product categories, benefiting from 
investment in product design and merchandising. Sales 
in the category grew by over 20% and accounted for just 
over 20% of total mainline accessories revenue. Growth 
in this category was consistently strong across regions 
and on burberry.com.
Soft accessories
 ·
Soft accessories such as scarves, hats and gloves, 
continued to be one of Burberry’s fastest-growing 
accessories categories, supported by seasonless 
product strategy and year-round gifting initiatives. 
Iconic cashmere mufflers made in Scotland continued 
to be a key growth driver in this category.
Watches 
 ·
Building on the successful launch of the men’s Britain 
watch last year, Burberry introduced the women’s Britain 
watch and a series of limited edition collections including 
the Britain’s first automatic chronograph movement for 
men and Runway Made to Order at the Mens S/S14 show.
Eyewear 
 ·
Burberry continued to integrate eyewear in company 
initiatives with a focus on expanding distribution and 
visibility of this key fashion entry point to the brand. 
Burberry introduced the Spark collection, which was 
supported by music-based marketing campaigns 
featuring British bands.
KPI: Growth in accessories revenue (Year to 31 March)
Measures the success of Burberry’s initiatives to expand in 
this category, which includes large and small leather goods, 
scarves and shoes.
£816m +12%
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010*
816 +12%
729 +8%
689 +22%
563
417 
+32%
Revenue is retail/wholesale only. Growth rate is year-on-year underlying 
change i.e. at constant exchange rates.
2010* has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
2013 has been re-presented to exclude Beauty revenue. 2010 to 2012 include 
Beauty revenue.
Capitalise on opportunities in under-penetrated accessory categories  
by combining Burberry’s creative expertise and iconic branding with  
intensified investment in product development, sourcing and marketing.
35
INTENSIFY 
ACCESSORIES
Strategic Report – Strategic Themes  In 2013/14, retail revenue grew 15% and accounted for 
70% of total revenues. Comparable sales for the year 
were up 12%.
Key developments in 2013/14 include:
Blurring of the physical and digital sales channels
 ·
As luxury consumers become increasingly mobile and 
global, Burberry’s digital and physical store innovations 
worked together to create a seamless customer 
experience online and offline. 
 ·
Burberry equipped all sales associates with access 
to iPads in store. These can be used to access  
burberry.com, allowing customers in physical stores 
to explore the full Burberry offering.
 ·
The continued roll-out of the collect-in-store service 
allowed customers to purchase online and collect 
their orders in selected stores as early as the following 
day. Collect-in-store is now available in about 
120 stores worldwide.
 ·
Online traffic and sales conversions continued to grow 
during the year reflecting Burberry’s digital investment, 
with burberry.com receiving 70 million site visits.
Customer focus
 ·
In an increasingly complex luxury environment, 
Burberry continued to invest in global customer 
analytics and insight capabilities to better understand 
changing consumer trends and to inform the execution 
of its strategies.
 ·
There was continued ongoing investment in the Burberry 
Private Clients team expanding its consultant base and 
elevating the customer value proposition through unique 
experiences at London fashion shows and Art of the 
Trench events worldwide.
 ·
Burberry rolled out the Customer 1-2-1 platform to all 
mainline stores globally. The customer permission-based 
iPad application tool allows sales associates to create 
and view customer profiles in one place, including a 
visual wardrobe, global transaction history online and 
offline, and recorded product and fit preferences.
Driving productivity
 ·
Burberry continued to build on various initiatives to 
drive productivity online and offline including sales 
associate and store manager training, expanded 
Burberry Private Clients presence, improved 
merchandising and optimised assortments. This 
helped to drive comparable sales growth of 12%. 
Store investment
 ·
25 mainline stores were opened, including Shanghai, 
Tokyo, Mexico City and New Delhi. Major renovations 
included Coral Gables (Miami), Manhasset (New York) 
and Marina Bay Sands (Singapore).
KPI: Growth in retail revenue (Year to 31 March)
Includes comparable store sales growth (measuring  
growth in productivity of existing stores), plus revenue  
from new space.
£1,623m +15% 
15%
12%
31%
32%
15%
Comparable stores New space China acquisition
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i.e. at constant exchange rates.
Comparable store sales growth is defined as the annual percentage increase
in sales from stores that have been opened for more than 12 months, adjusted
for closures and refurbishments.
KPI: Number of stores (Year to 31 March)  
Measures the reach of Burberry directly operated stores  
around the world.
497 +28 stores  
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010*
497
469
444
417
312
Mainline Concessions Outlets
2010* has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
Apply a dynamic digital retail mindset across the organisation and  
processes to drive growth in all distribution channels – online and offline.
37
Strategic Report – Strategic Themes
ACCELERATE 
RETAIL-LED GROWTH  In 2013/14, Burberry opened a net 20 stores in emerging 
markets, bringing the total number to 193. 
Key developments in 2013/14 include:
Engaging the Chinese luxury consumer globally
 ·
The importance of the Chinese consumer to the global 
luxury sector continued to increase, accounting for 25% 
of global luxury spend in 2013, up from 23% in 2012. 
Burberry focused on engaging this consumer both when 
shopping in China and while travelling abroad.
 ·
Chinese consumers continued to respond strongly to 
the brand; Burberry was named L2 think tank’s brand 
with the highest ‘digital IQ’ in China and by Sina Weibo 
as its most influential brand account.
 ·
Key brand events in 2013 included the opening of the 
L’Avenue and K11 stores in Shanghai, which were 
accompanied by the Shanghai Art of the Trench exhibition.
 ·
To coincide with the key festivals of Lunar New Year 
and Golden Week, Burberry launched festive campaigns, 
including bespoke product assortments focused on 
gifting, in stores in China, key tourist destinations and 
on burberry.com.
 ·
Using insights gained from customer research teams, 
Burberry optimised assortments and merchandising 
in flagship markets worldwide, to better service the 
Chinese consumer. 
 ·
Burberry continued to invest online and offline to ensure 
the best service to the Chinese customer at home and 
abroad. Burberry expanded the Private Clients team in 
China, continued to integrate Mandarin-speaking sales 
associates into teams across top tourist destinations 
outside Asia, and launched a customer service account 
on Sina Weibo and WeChat.
Focusing on travel retail 
 ·
With the increasing importance of the travelling luxury 
consumer, Burberry increased marketing investment 
in key transport hubs and global tourist destinations. 
 ·
Burberry expanded travel retail assortments with 
a focus on accessories and developed new store 
concepts for stores in this channel. 
 ·
Burberry won tenders to convert airport wholesale 
accounts into retail in Hong Kong and Milan and to 
open new stores in Rome and Madrid airports. 
Developing emerging markets 
 ·
In November, three stores previously operated by a 
franchisee were acquired in Thailand, one of the high-
potential luxury markets and a key tourist destination. 
 ·
Burberry expanded the brand’s footprint in emerging 
markets with the opening of five new franchise stores 
in Turkey, Mongolia, Egypt and the brand’s first store 
in Lithuania.
 ·
Burberry continued to build its presence in Brazil 
which remains a challenging market.
Elevating wholesale presence
 ·
In the Americas, Burberry continued to further align the 
brand’s wholesale presence with its global positioning. 
In 2013/14, all Holt Renfrew stores in Canada were 
converted to retail shop-in-shops. 
KPI: Number of stores in emerging markets (At 31 March)
Measures the reach of the Burberry brand in these high 
potential countries.
193 +20 stores   
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
193
173
154
136
111
Emerging markets include: China, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, 
Russia, Brazil, India and other parts of South East Asia, South Africa 
and Latin America.
Focus on and invest in under-penetrated markets. For Burberry, these include 
opportunities in both developed markets like the United States and the growth 
economies of China, India and the Middle East. A range of distribution  
channels and business arrangements are used to address these opportunities.
Strategic Report – Strategic Themes
INVEST IN UNDER-PENETRATED 
MARKETS
39  In 2013/14 the adjusted retail/wholesale operating margin 
declined 30 bps to 17.5% reflecting the integration of Beauty. 
Excluding the dilutive impact of Beauty, the adjusted 
operating margin would have increased by 40 bps to 18.2%. 
Key developments in 2013/14 include:
Supply chain 
 ·
The Beauty supply chain infrastructure was developed to 
support the recently integrated Beauty business, adding 
resources across sourcing, logistics and distribution.
 ·
Burberry combined digital inventory pools with retail 
stock in the Americas to optimise inventory management 
and increase stock availability to customers.
 ·
In the Americas, Burberry moved its digital commerce 
operations in-house, with all online customer orders 
fulfilled by the distribution centre in New Jersey.
Technology
 ·
Burberry continued to invest in technology to enable 
the front and back-end applications needed to support 
the Group’s digital strategy and growth ambitions. 
These included the development of the Customer 1-2-1 
platform and the infrastructure to support Beauty and 
Burberry Kisses.
 ·
Burberry World was rolled out in December to supply 
chain partners, fully integrating the back-end operations, 
providing access to front-end brand information through 
a single portal, streamlining processes and enhancing 
information flows. 
Planning
 ·
Burberry continued to implement the global brand 
assortment, to offer a consistent product range across 
the Group’s online and offline retail channels. This global 
assortment delivers brand consistency and operating 
efficiencies while allowing for regional product nuances.
 ·
Inventory management continued to improve, supported 
by further assortment optimisation, consolidation of 
stock locations and embedded global processes. 
 ·
Continued investment in the Business Intelligence insights 
enabling Burberry to leverage SAP in order to generate 
enhanced, globally consistent performance reporting. 
Process investments 
 ·
Increased focus on the commercial procurement 
process drove further efficiencies and cost savings.
 ·
In March 2014, Burberry expanded into the Horseferry 
House Two building, which is adjacent to the current 
global headquarters. The 291,000 sq.ft. site will bring 
all London based employees into the expanded location  
and allow room for future growth. 
KPI: Retail/wholesale gross margin (Year to 31 March) 
Measures, among other things, how effectively Burberry  
sources its products.
70.2% -40 bps   
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010*
70.2%
70.6%
68.1%
64.9%
61.0%
2010* has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
KPI: Adjusted retail/wholesale operating profit margin
(Year to 31 March) 
Measures how Burberry’s initiatives and its investment  
to improve its business processes, including sourcing,  
IT and logistics are impacting its profit margin.
17.5% -30 bps  
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010*
17.5%
17.8%
16.4%
15.6%
12.7%
Adjusted operating profit margin is stated before adjusting items.
2010* has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
Continue to pursue operational excellence consistent  
with the brand’s product and marketing expertise.
41
Strategic Report – Strategic Themes
PURSUE OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE  Great brand,  
great company
Burberry’s culture underpins the brand and business internally and externally. 
Through Burberry Beyond, Burberry is committed to inspiring sustainable action, 
‘Burberry Impact’, supporting employee volunteering programmes, ‘Burberry Engage’, 
and inspiring the next generation of creative thinkers, ‘Burberry Invest’. 
The following pages set out information on Our People and Burberry Beyond.
Strategic Report
43 People
The Burberry ethos is to establish its business as a 
vibrant global community made up of diverse individuals, 
from varied backgrounds, who are connected through 
shared values and purpose. Burberry has maintained 
its commitment to supporting diversity and equal 
opportunities in its recruitment, talent development and 
reward structures. With over 10,000 employees operating 
in 34 countries, Burberry’s employees derive from over 
100 different nationalities and have an age span of between 
17 and 77 years.
Burberry strives to ensure that its processes for hiring, 
developing and promoting its employees are fair and that 
women have the opportunity to be represented at every 
level of the organisation. As at 31 March 2014, of a global 
employee population of 10,604, 68% (7,253) were female 
and 32% (3,351) were male, with women occupying 49 
(38%) of the 128 senior management roles. Please see page 
79 for information on the diversity of the Burberry Board. 
Women are consistently well represented in Burberry’s 
talent development programmes, with 70% of participants 
selected for the 2014 Leadership Council being female. 
This diversity continues to enrich and strengthen Burberry’s 
culture, helping to drive its success as a luxury brand. 
Recruit
Burberry’s increased social media exposure helped to 
increase the total annual applications to over 160,000, 
a 7% uplift on the previous year. A 132% year-on-year 
increase in Burberry followers on LinkedIn led to 
approximately 22,000 applications being made via the 
platform, comprising around 14% of overall applications 
received by the Company this year. Burberry was ranked 
30th globally and 12th in the UK as LinkedIn’s Most 
InDemand Employer. 
On the basis that direct recruitment is more effective, 
including in relation to costs, a new corporate team 
structure was implemented for resourcing, with a specialist 
resourcing partner supporting each function in meeting 
their recruitment needs. During the year this has led to 
81% of recruitment being conducted directly and an 
almost three-fold growth in employee referrals.
An intensified focus on Burberry’s recruitment strategy 
and employer brand supported the launch in March 2014 
of a new multilingual careers website, featuring rich brand 
content and detailed material developed specifically to 
provide candidates with a stronger sense of the employee 
experience at Burberry.
Retain
Burberry takes steps to identify and nurture high potential 
employees. In particular, high potential employees are invited 
to participate in the Burberry Leadership Council, which 
provides them with opportunities to evolve their leadership 
skills through international networking opportunities, global 
strategy off-sites, mentoring from senior executives and 
leadership training workshops. In 2013/14, 56 employees 
took part in the Leadership Council, 55% of whom are 
based in the regions across both retail and office teams.
Burberry continued to strengthen its retail teams thereby 
securing a talent pipeline for the future. The Retail 
Management Programme, which prepares retail associates 
for a career in store management, was rolled out to 
associates in the EMEIA region and extended in Asia 
Pacific to include external graduate recruits. To reflect 
the critical role of the store manager, a tailored training 
and development programme focusing on Burberry’s 
vision for luxury service has been rolled out globally 
to better support store managers and empower them 
to actively drive the performance of their stores.
The on-boarding programme which inducts new retail 
associates into the Company was enhanced with 
the introduction of a new, bespoke Retail Manager  
on-boarding programme, which includes face-to-face 
training, in-store placements and e-learning. This 
programme has been rolled out globally to all regions.
Reward 
Burberry continued to strengthen the link between reward 
and performance across the organisation, with all employees 
able to participate in a bonus or incentive scheme. 
In addition, Burberry’s All Employee Freeshare Plan operated 
across 32 countries enabling all employees to share in 
the ongoing success of the business and reinforcing 
Burberry recognises that its people are its greatest asset and therefore it strives to 
attract the best talent worldwide, to provide meaningful development opportunities 
for employees at all levels and to reward and recognise high performance. 
44
OUR 
People
Strategic Report – Great Brand, Great Company the Company’s connected culture. In recognition of the 
positive impact of its global share plans, Burberry won 
the ifs ProShare 2013 award for ‘Best overall performance 
in fostering employee share ownership (1,001 – 15,000 
employees)’ and was particularly lauded for its extensive 
communication and translation of plan information and for 
providing a high level of accessibility for employees across 
multiple locations.
Burberry also continued to operate its innovative seasonal 
programmes, which provide employees with benefits which 
aid them in their general well-being and enable them to 
connect and engage with the brand through a shared 
celebration of key brand moments such as the Prorsum 
shows, key store openings and other special events. 
The Burberry Icon Awards programme, which recognises 
employees across the regions and corporate who have 
gone above and beyond their normal responsibilities 
in their performance and contribution to the Burberry 
brand, business and culture, reached its seventh 
anniversary. A new digital nominations platform within 
Burberry World enhanced employee engagement and 
increased accessibility of the programme, with a record 
15,097 nominations received globally. 99 awards were 
presented across four regions, in categories inspired 
by the Burberry brand, heritage and core values. 
The Long Service Awards scheme celebrated the loyalty 
and commitment of around 580 employees who reached 
milestone service anniversaries with Burberry, including 
seven employees with 30 years’ service or more.
Connect
Burberry continued to establish connections between its 
employees, contractors and partners, leveraging digital 
technology and, in particular, Burberry World, to enhance 
training, talent development, collaboration and visibility 
of information across all its global locations.
Over the year, bi-monthly ‘Chat Live’ interviews offered 
employees insights into the varied backgrounds and 
inspiring paths that have led some of the organisation’s 
key leaders to their current roles, across both retail 
and corporate, with the discussions being filmed and 
streamed live to offices and stores globally, providing 
all employees with the opportunity to take part in a live 
question and answer session. As part of the Burberry 
‘Speaker Series’, external commercial and philanthropic 
leaders were also invited to motivate and inspire 
employees, with their views recorded and shared 
with all locations through Burberry World.
‘Connect’, a new section of Burberry World, was launched 
to provide digital HR tools for employees globally to 
support international mobility and succession planning, 
share plans management and resourcing. As part of the 
initiative an ‘Ask HR’ service, enabling employee queries 
to be raised and handled online, was launched in the UK 
and parts of Europe, with further regions to follow. Connect 
has been designed to enable employees to manage many 
aspects of their work and careers at Burberry while offering 
enhanced visibility and control for the business.
Burberry’s global community includes a network of 
key global partners with whom it collaborates closely. 
A variety of tailored communications programmes have 
strengthened partner relationships and further extended 
the reach of the Burberry brand and culture. Over the 
course of the year the partner network within Burberry 
World more than doubled, with over 1,600 individual 
partners now connected to the Burberry teams through 
the platform and able to access brand information and 
news as well as group conversations focused around 
specific initiatives or business areas. 
Human rights statement
Burberry recognises its responsibility to seek to protect 
human rights wherever it operates. Burberry has conducted 
a materiality analysis of its operations and activities which 
has enabled Burberry to identify the principal human rights 
risks that might arise in the course of its business activities. 
The Company believes that these risks arise principally in 
relation to its own workforce, its supply chain and with 
its customers.
Burberry’s Human Rights Policy sets out the procedures 
which the Company has put in place to protect and uphold 
human rights in this context, including the mechanisms to 
redress any instances of potential infringement which may 
arise in connection with the Company’s operations and 
activities. This policy was developed with reference to the 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights. Responsibility for this policy lies with Burberry’s 
Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer.
Given Burberry’s global footprint, the implementation of 
this policy can be challenging. Burberry has established 
a strong global team who work to promote human rights 
and good labour practices in the Burberry workplace 
as well as in the Company’s supply chain. Please see 
‘Burberry Beyond’ on page 47 for more information on 
this. Additional grievance mechanisms have also been 
established in areas where local labour laws are weak, 
absent or poorly enforced.
45
Strategic Report – Great Brand, Great Company  Burberry Impact – Leveraging our creative thinking 
culture to inspire sustainable action
The Burberry Impact programme, covering ethical trade 
and environmental sustainability, aims to make meaningful 
and lasting improvements to workers’ employment and 
workplace conditions as well as to reduce the Company’s 
environmental impact. These commitments, informed by 
baseline assessments, were developed in partnership 
with Forum for the Future and with support from the 
Ethical Trading Initiative. The programme is supported 
by an advisory committee of external expert stakeholders 
and the Responsibility Council which is chaired by the Chief 
Corporate Affairs Officer and includes senior executives 
representing key business operations.
Ethical Trading
Burberry has a long-established commitment to making 
meaningful and lasting improvements to workers’ 
employment and workplace conditions. This commitment 
is underpinned by Burberry’s Ethical Trading Policy, which 
includes the Burberry Code of Conduct and the Human 
Rights, Migrant Worker and Homeworker Policy (amongst 
others). This policy is in alignment with the United Nations 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental 
Conventions of the International Labour Organization and 
the Ethical Trading Initiative
^
.
The majority of Burberry products are made in Europe, 
with Italy being the largest individual sourcing country 
by value and volume, whilst our iconic trench coat 
continues to be manufactured in the UK and our iconic 
heritage scarf in Scotland. 
Supplier factories, including manufacturing sites, 
subcontractors and licensees are assessed based on 
their compliance with the Ethical Trading Policy and 
relevant labour and environmental laws by the Ethical 
Trading team prior to commencing production
^
. 
As the supply chain continues to evolve, supporting safe 
and fair working conditions among its suppliers remains 
a priority. Burberry continues to provide its suppliers 
with tools to support compliance with the Ethical Trading 
Policy and relevant labour laws. These might consist 
of engagement activities, including announced and 
unannounced audits, monitoring, continuous improvement 
programmes, and the confidential worker hotline
^
. 
The Burberry Ethical Trading team is coordinated 
from London with locally based regional teams in 
key sourcing locations.
When Burberry identifies that working conditions do not 
meet its Ethical Trading Code of Conduct, the Company 
works closely with its suppliers to see that the required 
improvements are made. If a supplier is not committed to 
meeting Burberry’s expectations and over time has made 
no significant progress, as a last resort Burberry may take 
the decision to terminate the business relationship. More 
details about how Burberry operates day-to-day can be 
found at burberryplc.com/corporate_responsibility.
Burberry partners closely with its strategic suppliers to 
enable them to take responsibility for the labour conditions 
in their own supply chains. Burberry believes that it is 
important to work with its suppliers in a way which will 
enable them to support the needs of their own workers. 
This year, Burberry continued to provide a confidential 
and free non-governmental organisation (NGO) run hotline 
to factories with which Burberry has an ongoing business 
relationship. Burberry provides this service even in cases 
where Burberry only represents a very small percentage 
of a factory’s overall production. In total, the hotline 
was accessible to 20,000
^
 workers in 61
^
 factories. An 
independent review by the Economic Rights Institute is 
currently under way to determine ways to further improve 
this service for existing workers and to increase grievance 
system access for additional workers.
Women continue to represent a significant proportion of the 
workforce in Burberry’s supply chain. This year Burberry 
continued to support the Business for Social Responsibility 
HERproject, that provides basic health education to female 
workers, helping to improve their health and build their 
confidence and participation in the workplace.
KPI: Number of audits, supplier visits, training sessions, 
improvement programmes and hotline training visits
855
^
 +2%
2014
2013
2012
855
^
839
756
Burberry Beyond encompasses all activities relating to Burberry’s commitment  
to driving positive social, cultural and environmental impacts globally, underpinned  
by three pillars: Burberry Impact; Burberry Engage; and Burberry Invest.
47
Strategic Report – Great Brand, Great Company
Burberry  
BEYOND Across the supply chain, Burberry endeavours to contribute to sustainable change by collaborating with its peers in the 
luxury goods industry as well as with other stakeholders including Business for Social Responsibility and the UN Global 
Compact, as well as through its membership of the tripartite Ethical Trading Initiative and Sustainable Apparel Coalition.
Environmental sustainability
Burberry is committed to addressing the global challenge posed by climate change and is seeking to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions throughout its value chain. In 2012 Burberry conducted an independent assessment of its environmental 
impact which measured the CO 2e impacts arising from materials, energy, water, chemical inputs and waste, across all 
areas of Burberry’s business and its supply chain. This enabled the identification of risks and priority areas for the business 
to focus reduction efforts at a regional, functional and raw material level. Leveraging the results of this 2012 assessment, 
a set of five-year targets were developed which are aligned to the Company’s business model and its pursuit of operational 
excellence. Progress made to date against these targets is detailed below.
2017 targets Progress
Product
As a design-led luxury brand, Burberry 
continues to invest in the design and 
quality of its products. As part of this 
investment, Burberry is committed to 
reducing the impact of its products on 
the environment. 
  Go to burberryplc.com for more 
information on product targets
Raw materials
^
 
Reduce the environmental impact of Burberry’s three key raw materials namely, cotton, 
leather and PVC.
Chemical use in manufacturing 
Eliminate usage of those chemicals that have a negative impact on the environment 
beyond legal limits.
Packaging
^
 
100% of point-of-sale packaging will be sustainably sourced (where alternatives 
are available).
Process
Burberry continues to pursue its aim 
of being recognised for its operational 
excellence. An important part of this is 
Burberry’s commitment to integrating 
sustainability considerations as part 
of its business operations including 
in relation to its suppliers. 
  Go to burberryplc.com for more 
information on process targets
Internal manufacture
^
 
Reduce the energy use from Burberry’s two UK manufacturing sites by 25%*.
Suppliers 
Work with key suppliers to assist them in reducing their energy use by up to 20%.
Mills 
Work with key mills to assist them to reduce their water consumption by up to 20%.
Transport 
Reduce carbon emissions from the transport of Burberry products by 10%.
Distribution centres
^
 
Reduce energy use in Burberry’s five third-party distribution centres by 10%*.
Property
Burberry continues to leverage 
the sustainability expertise of its 
construction team to adopt more 
sustainable practices and improve 
energy efficiency in both existing 
and new builds. Although Burberry 
continues to expand its global  
footprint by opening stores in  
existing and new markets reflecting  
the growth of the business, Burberry 
remains committed to minimising 
the environmental impact of 
this expansion.
  Go to burberryplc.com for more 
information on property targets
Energy use reduction
^
 
Reduce Burberry controlled store and office energy usage by up to 15%.
Sustainable consumables 
60% of office products to be sustainably sourced (where available).
Renewable energy 
All Burberry controlled stores and offices to be powered either by on-site or green tariff 
renewable energy (where tariffs are available).
Build certifications
^
 
All new builds being sustainable-build certified.
Sustainable construction materials 
30% of wood and steel by spend to be sourced from either recycled materials or from 
certified supply chains.
Construction waste recycling 
30% of construction waste to be recycled for global major projects.
LED lighting
^
 
75% of lighting per store which is LED or energy efficient in new concept stores.
*
 
When normalised by a relevant productivity factor.
Key 
 Good progress  Just starting  Not started
48
Strategic Report – Great Brand, Great Company Cotton and leather account for around 50% of Burberry’s 
environmental impacts from unprocessed and finished 
materials. The examples below illustrate Burberry’s 
progress towards meeting its targets.
Cotton
Burberry has a 30-year relationship with a yarn supplier 
in Peru that spins the cotton used to make the iconic 
Burberry trench coat. In partnership with the supplier and 
CottonConnect, an organisation specialising in promoting 
sustainable cotton farming, Burberry has conducted 
research and subsequently introduced a farmer training 
programme which aims, over the next three years, to 
educate these Peruvian farmers and encourage them 
to adopt practices which would reduce the environmental 
impact of their cotton production
^
. This includes reducing 
the use of pesticides, fertiliser and water, as well as 
water stewardship.
Leather
Burberry remains committed to increasing the proportion 
of leather within its accessories supply chain that 
originates from tanneries that have Leather Working 
Group Certification. Currently 70% (sq.m) of leather 
used in our accessories is sourced from tanneries which 
have this certification
^
. Through the detailed assessment 
process, Burberry has been able to work with these 
tanners to help them improve efficiency of chemical 
and water use in their processes as well as to validate 
that their waste water treatment processes are effective
^
.
Beyond the tanneries, work has continued to develop 
traceability systems of exotic skins. This work is being 
pursued with key stakeholders including luxury peers, 
NGOs and intergovernmental organisations to ensure 
compliance with our animal welfare standards and 
sustainability.
Global Greenhouse Gas emissions data  
(Year to 31 March)^
Kg of CO2e
Current
reporting
year FY14
Comparison
year FY13
Comparison
year FY12
Emissions from:
Combustion of fuel and 
operation of facilities 
(Scope 1)
1,761,321 1,371,486 1,759,977
Electricity, heat, steam and 
cooling purchased for own 
use (Scope 2)
40,059,839 35,577,354 30,819,504
Total emissions (Scope 1 & 2) 41,821,160 36,948,840 32,579,481 
Intensity measurement 
(Kg CO2e per £1,000 
sales revenue)
18.0 18.5 17.5
Note:
Burberry applies an operational control approach to defining its organisational 
boundaries. Data is reported for sites where it is considered that Burberry 
has the ability to influence energy management. Data is not reported for sites 
where Burberry has a physical presence, but does not influence the energy 
management for those sites, such as a concession within a department store. 
Overall, the emissions inventory reported equates to 91% of our sq.ft (gross 
internal space). We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate emissions 
and apply conversion factors from DEFRA and IEA guidance. All material 
sources of emissions are reported. Refrigerant gases and fuels consumed in 
Company vehicles were deemed not material and are not reported. Further 
detail is within our basis of reporting at burberryplc.com
Burberry Engage – Harnessing the passions 
and talents of Burberry employees through 
volunteering programmes
Burberry is committed to driving positive social, cultural 
and environmental impacts globally, by engaging its 
employees, leveraging their core business skills together 
with their individual talents and experience, and 
empowering them to make a real difference in the 
communities where they live and work. 
Burberry continued to encourage its employees to 
dedicate their time, skills and passions during working 
hours to impactful volunteering programmes aimed 
at improving the lives of young people in their local 
communities. Opportunities for such engagement 
ranged from 18 month one-to-one mentoring experiences, 
to one-off career exploration events held in Burberry 
stores and offices around the globe. 
Biannual seasonal initiatives, held in the summer and 
winter, offered additional engagement opportunities, such 
as charity gift drives, community revitalisation projects and 
special event engagement. For example, from November 
to January, employees helped to brighten the holidays 
of over 3,000 disadvantaged young people via gift drives, 
holiday themed volunteering and inspirational outings. 
49
Strategic Report – Great Brand, Great Company In addition to benefiting young people, Burberry believes 
that volunteering helps to facilitate the development of 
employee relationships, enhances key workplace skills 
and contributes to personal fulfilment. In 2013/14, 2,400
^
 
employees in 68
^
 cities dedicated over 8,000
^
 hours 
to supporting and inspiring young people in their 
local communities. 
KPI: Volunteering hours
Hours volunteered by Burberry employees
8,000
^
2014
2013
2012
8,000
^
8,000
5,500
Burberry Invest – Supporting and inspiring the 
next generation of creative thinkers
Burberry supports innovative organisations and 
programmes in its communities worldwide, combining 
employees’ dedication, knowledge and creativity with 
corporate financial support and in-kind donations. 
Burberry continued to donate 1% of Group profit before 
tax to charitable causes
^
, with the majority focused on 
the Burberry Foundation, an independent charity that aims 
to help young people realise their dreams and potential 
through the power of their creativity (UK registered charity 
number 1154468). Today, the Foundation is active in 
14 cities around the world.
In addition to direct funding of innovative youth charities, 
the Foundation continued to strengthen and expand 
Burberry Create, its bespoke creative training and 
employability programme. The programme is designed 
to leverage the full range of Burberry’s competence to 
develop young people’s creative thinking and problem-
solving skills through practical work experience, access 
to today’s technology, business challenges and mentoring. 
This year, partnerships with ARK Schools in London, HIVE 
Chicago Learning Network and Junior Achievement China 
enabled the Foundation to pilot new delivery methods with 
an eye for scale and even greater impact. Since launching 
in May 2012, the programme has enriched the lives of over 
300 young people in London, New York, Hong Kong, 
Shanghai, Beijing and Chengdu. 
The Foundation continued its Christmas coat donation 
programme, benefiting over 900 disadvantaged young 
people in London, New York and Hong Kong and bringing 
total coat donations since its launch in 2008 to 11,000. 
This year, the Foundation focused more specifically on 
job seekers for this initiative. Other in-kind donations 
included non-trademark fabric and materials to assist 
young people enrolled in art and design courses. 
In response to the devastation caused by Typhoon Haiyan 
in November 2013, Burberry and its employees together 
donated £300,000 to UNICEF and other disaster relief 
organisations to help rebuild the lives of the children and 
families impacted.
KPI: Community donations £ 
Direct contributions made by Burberry
£4.6m
^
 +7%
2014
2013
2012
4.6
^
4.3
3.7
Governance
A global governance system connects Burberry’s global 
community on people issues, ethical trading, community 
investment and environmental sustainability policies 
and initiatives.
The Chief Corporate Affairs Officer is responsible for ethical 
trade, community and environmental sustainability matters 
and reports on these topics to the Group Risk Committee 
and the Board. He also chairs the Responsibility Council 
and sits on the Supply Chain Impact Committee.
An advisory board of external stakeholders was established 
in 2012 to oversee the Burberry Impact strategy for ethical 
trade and environmental sustainability.
To reflect the Company’s continued expansion, Burberry 
strengthened its health and safety team and resources 
globally. Occupational health and safety compliance is 
reviewed triannually in stores and annually in offices and 
supply chain sites. All improvement plans are monitored 
by the Global Health and Safety Committee, chaired by 
the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer.
External assurance and performance indicators
Burberry appointed Ernst & Young LLP to provide limited 
external assurance over selected statements and 2013/14 
performance data. The statements and data that formed 
part of the review are denoted with a 
^
. See the full 
independent assurance statement and the basis of 
reporting at burberryplc.com.
50
Strategic Report – Great Brand, Great Company   PERFORMANCE
53
Strategic Report 
The following pages set out the highlights of the Group financial performance  
during the year to 31 March 2014 and the outlook for the coming financial year.  
The principal risks facing the Group during the year, including the nature and  
extent of these risks, are also set out in this section. 54
Strategic Report – Performance
Group FInancial 
highlights
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2014 2013 reported FX underlying
Revenue 2,329.8 1,998.7 17 17
Cost of sales (671.3) (556.7) (21)
Gross margin 1,658.5 1,442.0 15
Operating expenses* (1,198.2) (1,013.9) (18)
Adjusted operating profit 460.3 428.1 8 8
Net finance credit/(charge)* 0.7 (0.3) –
Adjusted profit before taxation 461.0 427.8 8
Adjusting items (16.6) (77.1)
Profit before taxation 444.4 350.7 27
Taxation (112.1) (91.5)
Non-controlling interest (9.8) (4.9)
Attributable profit 322.5 254.3
Adjusted EPS (pence)~ 75.4 70.0 8
EPS (pence)~ 72.1 57.0 26
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (millions)~ 447.3 446.5
Adjusted measures exclude adjusting items
* Excludes adjusting items, which are:
 – A charge of £14.9m in reported operating expenses being the amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset (2013: nil)
 – A put option liability finance charge of £1.7m in the reported net finance charge relating to the third party 15% economic interest in the Chinese business 
(2013: credit of £5.2m)
 – A charge of £82.9m in 2013 in reported operating expenses relating to the termination of the fragrance and beauty licence relationship (2014: nil)
 – A credit of £0.6m in 2013 in reported operating expenses relating to restructuring (2014: nil)
~ EPS is presented on a diluted basis
Revenue
(2013: £1,999m)
£2,330m +17%
Year end net cash
(2013: £297m)
£403m
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
(2013: 70.0p)
75.4p +8%
Adjusted profit before tax
(2013: £428m)
£461m +8%
Retail revenue 
(2013: £1,417m)
£1,623m +15%
Full year dividend per share
(2013: 29.0p)
32.0p +10% 55
Strategic Report – Performance
Retail 
70% of revenue (2013: 71%); with 215 mainline stores, 
227 concessions within department stores, digital 
commerce and 55 outlets.
 ·
Retail sales up 15% underlying and at reported FX
 ·
Comparable sales up 12% (H1: 13%; H2: 12%)
 ·
New space contributed the balance of growth (3%)
 ·
Digital performed strongly
With consumer behaviour rapidly evolving, Burberry 
focused on improving the customer experience both offline 
and online, driving 12% comparable sales growth. In-store, 
footfall remained weak but was offset by improved 
conversion, reflecting investment particularly in customer 
service. Online, both traffic and conversion grew, with the 
integration of digital into the regional infrastructure driving 
the growth of sales via iPads in-store and collect-in-store.
Mainline retail benefited from balanced growth in average 
selling prices and volume, the latter reflecting the success 
of product categories such as small leather goods, scarves, 
mens accessories and Beauty, which were featured in 
marketing campaigns around festive periods globally. 
Outerwear and large leather goods again delivered half 
of the growth, demonstrating the strength of the brand 
in these core categories. Mens was the fastest growing 
category, where Burberry is under-penetrated given its 
heritage. Investment in design, merchandising and key 
looks, coupled with product elevation and the launch 
of travel tailoring drove growth. 
Asia Pacific
With retail accounting for about 85% of revenue in the 
region, comparable sales growth in Asia Pacific was 
double-digit percentage throughout the year, led by 
Greater China, especially Hong Kong, following significant 
investment in real estate made in this flagship market. 
Mainland China delivered 11% comparable sales growth, 
management actions drove an improvement in Korea, 
while the small retail operation in Japan selling the global 
collection delivered strong revenue growth.
A net six stores and concessions were opened during the 
year, evolving the store portfolio in China, Korea and Hong 
Kong in particular.
Europe, Middle East, India and Africa (EMEIA)
In the EMEIA region, which was formed on 1 April 2013 
from the integration of Burberry operations in Europe and 
Rest of World, retail accounted for about 65% of revenue. 
Comparable sales growth was high single-digit percentage 
for the year, slowing slightly in the second half in major 
markets. For the year, performance was robust in the UK, 
France and Spain, but weaker in Italy and the United Arab 
Emirates. With about 40% of mainline transactions in 
EMEIA to travelling luxury customers, investment in 
marketing and customer service was concentrated in 
flagship markets.
A net four stores and concessions were added during 
the year (15 openings, 11 closures) reflecting relocations 
in markets including Germany and Saudi Arabia, two 
more stores in India (bringing the total to nine) and the 
first Burberry Beauty Box in Covent Garden, London.
Americas
About 60% of Americas revenue came from retail, with high 
single-digit comparable sales growth during the year. In the 
United States, domestic customers still account for about 
90% of transactions, with digital penetration more than 
twice the group average. 
The number of mainline stores in the Americas was 
unchanged year-on-year at 78, with three closures of small 
stores in the United States balanced by one additional store 
in Brazil (bringing the total to eight) and two openings in 
Mexico (bringing the total to four).
Revenue analysis
Revenue by channel
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2014 2013 reported FX underlying
Retail 1,622.6 1,416.6 15 15
Wholesale* 628.0 472.7 33 32
Licensing
#
79.2 109.4 (28) (23)
Revenue 2,329.8 1,998.7 17 17
* FY 2014 wholesale revenue includes £144.1m of Beauty sales. Excluding Beauty, wholesale revenue in FY 2014 increased 2% underlying and at reported FX
#  FY 2013 licensing revenue includes £27.1m from the terminated fragrance and beauty licence relationship. Excluding this, licensing revenue in FY 2014 increased 
2% underlying (down 4% at reported FX) 56
Strategic Report – Performance
Wholesale 
27% of revenue (2013: 24%); generated from sales of 
apparel and accessories to department stores, multi-brand 
specialty accounts, franchise stores and Travel Retail; as 
well as Beauty to around 100 distributors worldwide.
 ·
Excluding Beauty, wholesale revenue up 2% underlying 
and at reported FX (H1: down 7% underlying; H2: up 11%)
 ·
Net five new franchise stores globally, bringing total 
to 70 at 31 March 2014
 ·
Beauty wholesale revenue of £144m in first year of direct 
operation, in line with guidance
 ·
Wholesale revenue including Beauty up 32% underlying 
(up 33% at reported FX)
The first half of the year saw wholesale revenue, excluding 
Beauty, down 7% underlying. This reflected more 
conservative planning globally by wholesale customers 
for A/W13 and Burberry’s continued strategic rationalisation 
of wholesale accounts (particularly in Europe) and entry 
price products (particularly in North America). With strong 
brand momentum and some rephasing of deliveries into 
the fourth quarter of FY 2014 from the current first quarter, 
underlying wholesale revenue in the second half increased by 
11%, with Americas and Travel Retail showing double-digit 
growth and EMEIA up mid single-digit. 
The regional comments below all exclude Beauty.
Asia Pacific
Asia Pacific, which is the smallest wholesale region in the 
Group, is predominantly Travel Retail, with outperformance 
in Hong Kong and Korea during the year. One store and 
two concessions previously operated by a franchisee 
were acquired in Thailand, in line with Burberry’s strategy 
of taking greater control in high potential markets.
Europe, Middle East, India and Africa 
EMEIA is the Group’s largest wholesale region – at around 
45% of wholesale revenue. Further account rationalisation 
held back growth in Europe, while relationships with key 
strategic accounts were strengthened. Emerging markets 
revenue was subdued, reflecting softer consumer demand 
in larger markets, including Turkey.
Americas
Above average growth was delivered in the United States 
where Burberry continued to elevate its wholesale presence, 
both online and by opening more dedicated shop-in-shops 
in key department stores, while rationalising inappropriate 
doors and product ranges. Nine Holt Renfrew locations in 
Canada were converted from wholesale to retail concessions 
in the last quarter of the year. 
Beauty
Following the move to direct operation on 1 April 2013, 
Beauty wholesale revenue was £144m. In the first half, 
sales of established fragrances were impacted by many 
distributors being fully stocked by the previous licensee 
and by execution and supply chain issues during the 
complex transitional period. 
This revenue shortfall was offset by bringing forward 
the launch of the Brit Rhythm for Women fragrance into 
February 2014, building on the success of Brit Rhythm 
for Men in September 2013. To support the digitally-led 
launch, Burberry introduced Brit Rhythm inspired 
apparel, leveraging the halo of the campaign across 
all product divisions. 
Licensing 
3% of revenue (2013: 5%); of which about 80% is from 
Japan (split roughly 85% apparel and 15% from various 
accessories licences), with the balance from global product 
licences (eyewear and watches) and European wholesale 
childrenswear.
 ·
Licensing revenue up 2% underlying (down 4% at 
reported FX) excluding £27m from fragrance in FY 2013
 ·
In line with full year guidance
 ·
Licensing revenue including fragrance down 23% 
underlying (down 28% at reported FX)
Royalty income from Japan was £62m, unchanged  
year-on-year at constant exchange rates. Income from 
the apparel licence increased slightly, reflecting higher 
minimum payments, offset by the planned downsizing 
of the remaining accessories licences in Japan.
Eyewear and watches together delivered double-digit 
percentage growth. Product launches included the Spark 
and Trench eyewear collections, while The Britain watch 
remained the focus for elevating the collection to a more 
luxury positioning. 57
Strategic Report – Performance
Operating profit analysis
Adjusted operating profit
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2014 2013 reported FX underlying
Retail/wholesale 393.5 335.6 17 17
Licensing 66.8 92.5 (28) (23)
Adjusted operating profit 460.3 428.1 8 8
 Adjusted operating margin 19.8% 21.4%
Adjusted operating profit increased by 8% to £460.3m, including a £2.6m adverse FX impact. Adjusted operating margin 
fell to 19.8%, reflecting the channel mix shift as Beauty moved from high margin licensing to direct operation.
Adjusted retail/wholesale operating profit 
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2014 2013 reported FX
Revenue 2,250.6 1,889.3 19
Cost of sales (671.3) (556.7) (21)
Gross margin 1,579.3 1,332.6 19
 Gross margin 70.2% 70.6%
Operating expenses (1,185.8) (997.0) (19)
Adjusted operating profit 393.5 335.6 17
 Operating expenses as % of revenue 52.7% 52.8%
 Adjusted operating margin 17.5% 17.8%
On 19% revenue growth, retail/wholesale adjusted 
operating profit increased by 17% to £393.5m, including 
an FX benefit of £2.1m. The adjusted operating margin 
was 17.5%, compared to 17.8% last year (or 17.1% 
excluding the benefit of a lower performance-related 
pay charge in FY 2013). 
On a revenue base of £144.1m, Beauty wholesale in its 
first year of direct operation contributed incremental retail/
wholesale profit of £10.8m, in line with revised guidance. 
Gross margin was impacted by short-term supply chain 
issues and operating expenses were higher than planned, 
reflecting marketing investment behind the earlier launch 
of the Brit Rhythm for Women fragrance. With the transition 
year complete and Beauty now operating as the fifth 
product division, Beauty incremental retail/wholesale 
profit will not be reported separately going forward.
Excluding Beauty, the adjusted operating margin moved 
from 17.8% in FY 2013 to 18.2% in FY 2014. The gross 
margin increased by around 40 basis points, reflecting 
small gains from net price increases and the channel shift 
to retail. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue 
was flat year-on-year. About half of the increase came from 
general inflation and new space, with the balance from 
volume-related costs and increased investment in areas 
such as marketing, creative media and customer service, 
which drove the revenue growth. The performance-related 
pay charge was broadly unchanged in the full year, mainly 
as company performance did not meet internal targets.
Licensing operating profit 
Year to 31 March % change
£ million 2014 2013 reported FX
Revenue 79.2 109.4 (28)
Cost of sales – – –
Gross margin 79.2 109.4 (28)
 Gross margin 100% 100%
Operating expenses (12.4) (16.9) 27
Operating profit 66.8 92.5 (28)
 Operating margin 84.3% 84.6%
As previously discussed, licensing revenue declined by 
23% on an underlying basis (down 28% at reported FX), 
largely reflecting the termination of the fragrance and 
beauty licence relationship. With the direct operation of 
Beauty, allocated operating expenses year-on-year were 
reduced. Operating profit of £66.8m was after a negative 
FX impact of £4.7m, largely reflecting the movement in the 
effective yen rate from £1:Yen127 in FY 2013 to £1:Yen137 
in FY 2014. 58
Strategic Report – Performance
Adjusting items 
Year to 31 March
£ million 2014 2013
Amortisation of fragrance and 
beauty licence intangible (14.9) –
China put option liability finance  
(charge)/credit (1.7) 5.2
Termination of licence relationship – (82.9)
Restructuring credit – 0.6
(16.6) (77.1)
The charge of £14.9m relates to the amortisation of the 
fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset of £70.9m 
which was recognised in FY 2013. This asset will be 
amortised on a straight line basis over the period 
1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The China put option liability finance charge of £1.7m 
relates to fair value movements, including the discount 
unwind, on the put option liability over the non-controlling 
interest in the acquired Chinese business. 
Non-controlling interest 
The movement in the profit attributable to the non-
controlling interest from £4.9m in FY 2013 to £9.8m in 
FY 2014 primarily reflects Burberry taking full effective 
ownership of the retail business in Japan from 29 March 
2013. This business was loss-making in FY 2013.
Taxation 
The tax rate on adjusted profit in FY 2014 was 24.7% 
(2013: 25.8%), largely reflecting the lower UK corporation 
tax rate. 
The tax charge of £112.1m (2013: £91.5m) gave an effective 
tax rate on reported profit of 25.2% (2013: 26.1%). Tax on 
exceptional items has been recognised as appropriate. 
Net cash
Net cash at 31 March 2014 was £403m, an increase of 
£106m year-on-year. Cash inflow from operations was 
£536m, a similar level to last year. Capital expenditure was 
£154m, below guidance reflecting both phasing of new 
projects and timing on payments of existing projects. Other 
major outflows were tax of £111m and dividends of £131m.
Inventory at 31 March 2014 was £420m (2013: £351m). 
Excluding Beauty (£61m), this was an 11% increase  
year-on-year at constant exchange rates, compared  
to 15% retail sales growth. 
Outlook 
Retail: In FY 2015, net new space is expected to contribute 
low to mid single-digit percentage growth to total retail 
revenue. Burberry plans to open about 20-25 mainline 
stores and close between 15-20, with openings biased to 
flagship markets and travel retail, while further evolving the 
store portfolio in China and the Middle East in particular. 
Wholesale: Excluding Beauty, Burberry expects 
wholesale revenue at constant exchange rates to be 
broadly unchanged in the six months to 30 September 2014 
(2013: £244m). Excluding rephased deliveries and ongoing 
strategic initiatives, such as conversion from wholesale to 
direct control and account rationalisation, revenue growth 
of around 5% is planned. 
For Beauty, the fifth product division, wholesale revenue 
is expected to grow by about 25% at constant exchange 
rates in FY 2015.
Retail/wholesale profit: If exchange rates* remain at current 
levels, the full impact on reported retail/wholesale profit in 
FY 2015 will be material. As an indication, rebasing FY 2014 
retail/wholesale profit for current exchange rates would 
reduce reported profit by about £40m and adjusted 
operating margin from 17.5% to around 16.3%.
Burberry increased retail/wholesale operating margin by 
about 200 basis points over the last three years. Its goal 
to further improve margin remains unchanged, although 
this may be impacted in FY 2015 by continued planned 
investment in areas such as flagship markets, customer 
service, digital and people in addition to potential 
FX headwinds. 
Licensing: For FY 2015, Burberry expects broadly 
unchanged revenue at constant exchange rates in both 
Japan and global product licences, the latter reflecting 
the rationalisation and elevation of watch distribution. 
At current exchange rates*, reported licensing revenue 
in FY 2015 will be reduced by about £10m given the 
movement in the sterling/yen rate. 
Tax rate: The tax rate on adjusted profit for FY 2015 
is currently expected to be about 23%.
* Rates as at 12 May 2014, taking into account the current hedged positions 59
Strategic Report – Performance
Capital expenditure: Spend of about £200m is planned 
in FY 2015, with about three-quarters on retail.
Dividend: It is the Board’s intention to move progressively 
over the next three years to a 50% dividend payout ratio, 
based on full year adjusted diluted EPS. 
Beauty: Looking to FY 2016 and FY 2017, Burberry is 
targeting mid-teens percentage growth from fragrance, 
built around key pillars, such as Brit, while developing both 
traditional and non-traditional distribution channels. These 
include offline in directly-operated stores and those of key 
partners; online on burberry.com and with third-party digital 
players; and in Travel Retail, where Burberry is significantly 
under-penetrated. Product development continues in 
make-up, while we continue to evaluate the Burberry 
Beauty Box concept, both as a retail format and foundation 
for beauty counters. 
Japan: With the Japan licences expiring in June 2015, 
Burberry has a significant opportunity to build a growing 
and profitable business in Japan, offering the global 
collection to the core luxury consumer in the second 
largest domestic luxury market in the world. Burberry 
currently has four stores and ten concessions in Japan 
selling the global collection, which, combined with a 
small wholesale business, generated revenue of about 
£25m and was breakeven.
Building on this base, Burberry plans to add free-standing 
stores and department store concessions, while leveraging 
owned digital capabilities and those of third parties. 
Committed store openings include Omotesando and 
Shinjuku, Tokyo, and Osaka, while planning to add about 
ten concessions a year in FY 2016 and 2017. By FY 2017, 
retail revenue of over £100m is targeted with incremental 
profit of about £25m.
To facilitate the brand transformation, Burberry has 
agreed with the apparel licensee, Sanyo Shokai, an orderly 
transition, including exiting the licensed Burberry product 
from the primary channel by September 2015. In addition, 
a new three-year licence with the same partner has been 
signed for the continued use of the Blue and Black Labels 
in Japan, which have strong appeal to younger consumers 
in the contemporary apparel market. These labels will 
have no association with the Burberry brand. 
In FY 2016, licensing income will include royalty income 
of about £18m relating to the existing licences including 
the orderly transition and exit of local licensed product; 
and about £5m from the new Blue and Black Label licence 
including the minimum payment for the first six months 
from September 2015. In FY 2017, licensing income from 
the new Blue and Black Label licence is expected to be 
around £10m including the minimum payment for six months 
and variable thereafter. The FY 2016 and FY 2017 guidance 
is all at current exchange rates (as at 12 May 2014).
Store portfolio
Directly-operated stores
Stores Concessions Outlets Total
Franchise
stores
At 31 March 2013 206 214 49 469 65
Additions 25 25 9 59 12
Closures (17) (14) (3) (34) (4)
Transfers 1 2 – 3 (3)
At 31 March 2014 215 227 55 497 70
Store portfolio by region
Directly-operated stores
At 31 March 2014 Stores Concessions Outlets Total
Franchise
stores
Asia Pacific 65 155 12 232 15
EMEIA 72 61 24 157 51
Americas 78 11 19 108 4
Total 215 227 55 497 70  Effective management of risk is essential to the execution of the 
 Group’s strategic themes, the achievement of sustainable shareholder  
value, the protection of the brand and ensuring good governance.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the 
nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take 
in achieving its strategic objectives (its risk appetite), and  
for ensuring that risks are managed effectively. The Board 
has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility  
for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems 
of internal control and risk management methodology. 
As part of this review, the Audit Committee considers 
the principal risks facing the Group and the nature and 
extent of these risks. The Group’s Internal Audit and Risk 
Assurance function facilitates a risk assessment process  
in each key business area and global support function  
to review the significant risks facing its operations and to 
record the relevant controls and actions in place to mitigate 
these. The detailed assessments are then consolidated  
to provide input into the overall Group risk assessment. See 
the Corporate Governance Report for further details of the 
Group’s risk management processes and internal controls.
The Board and the executive management team use a 
combination of different and complementary skills to 
assess the risks facing the business. In determining its 
risk appetite the Board considers a variety of information 
when reviewing the Group operations and in approving key 
matters reserved for its decision. This information includes:
 ·
updates provided by senior management on key 
strategic and operational matters;
 ·
discussion and approval by the Board of the Group’s 
three-year Strategic plan and budget;
 ·
information provided for the purposes of deciding 
whether to approve those significant matters which 
have been reserved for the Board; and
 ·
Group risk assessments facilitated by the Group’s 
Internal Audit and Risk Assurance Function and 
the reports of the external auditors.
The risks set out in the table on the following pages 
represent the principal risks and uncertainties which 
may adversely impact the performance of the Group and 
the execution of its key Strategic Themes. The Strategic 
Themes are set out on pages 32 to 41. Other factors could 
also adversely affect Group performance and so the risks 
set out should not be considered to be a complete set of 
all potential risks and uncertainties.
The key steps the Group takes to address these principal 
risks are described in the table under ‘Mitigation’. It is not 
possible for the Group to implement controls to respond  
to all the risks it may face, and the steps the Group has 
taken to address certain risks (including those listed) 
may not manage these risks effectively.
The principal risks are not listed in order of significance  
and each of the risks should be considered independently. 
If more than one of the events contemplated by the risks 
set out occur, it is possible that the combined overall 
impact of such events may be compounded. 
Since the last annual report, the Group’s assessment of 
its principal risks has incorporated the following matters.
 ·
 The Group has been directly operating its Beauty 
business since 1 April 2013 and this business has been 
fully integrated into the Group. Consequently the risks 
associated with the integration of the Beauty business 
set out in the last annual report no longer apply.
 ·
The Group’s revenues are increasingly dependent 
on consumers from the Asia region with a significant 
proportion of the Group’s sales to Asian consumers 
globally. Consequently this risk has been included 
as a principal risk.
 ·
The Group operates on a global basis and earns 
revenues, incurs costs and makes investments in a 
number of currencies. The volatility in exchange rates 
could have a significant impact on the Groups reported 
results. Consequently this risk has been included as a 
principal risk.
The Group’s Strategic Report from pages 5 to 63 has been 
approved by the Board (please see the statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities on page 110).
Catherine Sukmonowski
Company Secretary
20 May 2014
61
Strategic Report – Performance
PRINCIPAL 
RISKs Risk Business & Strategic Theme impact Mitigation
The Group’s operations depend  
on IT systems and operational 
infrastructure in order to 
trade efficiently. Increasingly 
technology is also being used 
to stream major events and 
to communicate through 
social media.
A failure in these systems or a denial of service 
could have a significant impact on the Group’s 
operations and reputation, and potentially 
result in the loss of sensitive information. 
 Leverage the franchise
 Accelerate retail-led growth
 Invest in under-penetrated markets
 Pursue operational excellence
A number of controls to maintain the integrity and 
efficiency of the Group’s IT systems are in place, including 
recovery plans which would be implemented in the event 
of a major failure. The IT disaster recovery plans are tested 
on a regular basis. IT security is continually reviewed and 
updated and third-party IT security specialists are used 
to regularly test these controls.
Sustained economic slowdown. The Group’s performance remains strong; 
however, the sustained economic slowdown  
has  or could: (i) reduced consumer wealth 
leading to a reduction in demand; (ii) impacted 
the financial stability of suppliers and their  
ability to secure finance which could disrupt 
the Group’s supply chain or lead to an increase 
in bad debts; and (iii) impacted the financial 
stability and recovery of banks and other 
financial institutions, all of which could 
adversely impact sales and profitability. 
 Accelerate retail-led growth
 Invest in under-penetrated markets
The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate local 
economic risks. In addition, the Group’s financial reporting 
and review processes are designed to highlight any 
change in ongoing sales performance. Counterparty 
credit checks are in place for all key customers and 
suppliers, and flexible payment terms are used to assist 
suppliers as required. Group Treasury monitors the credit 
ratings of financial institutions which hold Group deposits 
to enable the Group to take appropriate action should 
there be a downgrade in their credit ratings.
The Group’s revenues are 
increasingly dependent 
on consumers from the 
Asia region.
A significant proportion of the Group’s 
sales are to Asian consumers globally. 
Consequently any change to consumer tastes 
or the economic, regulatory, social and/or 
political environment in Asia could adversely 
impact Asian consumers’ disposable income, 
confidence and travel which could impact 
the Group’s revenue and profits. 
 Leverage the franchise
 Accelerate retail-led growth
 Invest in under-penetrated markets
The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate reliance 
on particular consumers. In addition, the Group 
continues to focus on engaging with the Chinese luxury 
consumer, both in China and while travelling abroad, 
including: by optimising product assortments and 
merchandising; and investing in digital and in-store 
services such as Mandarin-speaking sales associates 
across top tourist destinations outside China. The Group 
is preparing plans for the transition of its global business 
in Japan following the expiration of its licence with Sanyo 
Shokai and Mitsui & Company.
Volatility in foreign exchange 
rates could have a significant 
impact on the Group’s 
reported results.
The Group operates on a global basis and earns 
revenues, incurs costs and makes investments 
in a number of currencies. The Group’s financial 
results are reported in Sterling. The majority of 
reported revenues are earned in non-sterling 
currencies, with a significant proportion of costs 
in Sterling. Therefore the Sterling value of 
reported revenues, profits and cash flows may 
be reduced as a result of currency exchange 
rate movements.
 All strategic themes
The Group seeks to hedge anticipated significant external 
transactional cash flows using financial instruments. 
The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net 
assets of non-sterling subsidiaries when translated into 
sterling for reporting purposes, but the Group has not 
entered into any transactions for this purpose in the 
current or previous year.
Major incidents such as natural 
catastrophes, global pandemics  
or terrorist attacks affecting  
one or more of the Group’s key 
locations could significantly  
impact its operations.
A major incident at a key location could 
significantly impact business operations,  
with the impact clearly varying depending  
on the location and its nature. The impact  
of the loss of a distribution hub would  
clearly differ from a global pandemic, 
but both would impact revenue and profits.
 All strategic themes
Business continuity plans are in place to mitigate 
operational risks, but cannot ensure the uninterrupted 
operation of the business, particularly in the short-term. 
The regional spread of the Group’s key distribution hubs 
also helps to mitigate risk. There is a Group incident 
management framework in place that addresses the 
reporting and management of major incidents, and this is 
tested each year using third-party specialists in this field. 
Tailored plans have also been produced during the year  
for a number of high impact events.
Failure by the Group or 
associated third parties to 
act in accordance with ethical 
and environmental standards.
A failure to act appropriately could result  
in penalties, adverse press coverage and 
reputational damage with a resulting drop  
in sales and profit.
 Leverage the franchise
A number of initiatives are in place, led by the Corporate 
Responsibility function. These include the continuing 
activities set out in the Great Brand, Great 
Company section. 
62
Strategic Report – Performance Risk Business & Strategic Theme impact Mitigation
The Group’s operations 
(including now its Beauty 
division) are subject to a 
broad spectrum of regulatory 
requirements in the various 
jurisdictions in which the 
Group operates. The pace of 
change and the consistency 
of application of legislation 
can vary significantly across 
these jurisdictions, particularly 
in an environment where public 
sector debt is often high and 
tax revenues are falling.
Failure to comply with these requirements 
could leave the Group open to civil and/or 
criminal legal challenge, significant penalties 
and reputational damage.
 All strategic themes
The Group continually monitors and seeks to improve its 
processes to gain assurance that its licensees, suppliers, 
franchisees, distributors and agents comply with the 
Group’s contractual terms and conditions, its ethical 
and business policies and relevant legislation. Specialist 
teams at corporate and regional level, supported by 
third-party specialists where required, are responsible for 
ensuring employees are aware of regulations relevant to 
their roles. A number of these teams were strengthened 
during the year. Assurance processes are in place to 
monitor compliance, with results being reported to the 
Group Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee.
Over-reliance on key vendors. The Group relies on a small number of vendors 
in key product categories, and for specialist 
digital and IT services. Failure of one of these 
businesses to deliver products or services would 
have a significant impact on business operations.
 Leverage the franchise
 Intensify accessories
The Group continues to strengthen its supply chain 
management function to enable it to evolve and develop 
its manufacturing base to reduce dependence on key 
vendors. The Group has continued to strengthen its 
internal digital and IT teams and continues to facilitate 
knowledge transfer to internal resources. Annual 
financial checks are carried out on all key vendors.
Loss of key management or 
the inability to attract and 
retain key employees.
The loss of key individuals or the inability to 
recruit and retain individuals with the relevant 
talent and experience would disrupt the 
operation of the business and adversely impact 
the Group’s ability to deliver its strategies.
 All strategic themes
Competitive incentive arrangements currently exist, 
with specific initiatives in place designed to retain key 
individuals. Recent regulatory changes may make it 
more difficult to remain competitive in the global market 
for executive talent. Recruitment is ongoing and talent 
review and succession planning programmes are 
in place and have been updated during the year.
A substantial proportion of 
Group profits is reliant upon 
its licensed business in Japan 
and other key licensed product 
categories.
The licence with Sanyo Shokai and Mitsui & 
Company in Japan (the ‘Sanyo Licence’) expires 
in 2015, whereupon the royalty income under 
the licence will cease.
The Group expects licensees to maintain 
operational and financial control over their 
businesses. Should licensees fail to manage 
their operations effectively or be affected by  
a major incident, the royalty income may 
decline, directly impacting Group profits.
 Leverage the franchise
The Group is planning for the transition of its business 
in Japan following the expiration of the Sanyo Licence.
To minimise risks in Japan the Group has its own 
operations in Tokyo. There are minimum royalty payments 
specified in its licence agreements, including the Sanyo 
Licence. Under its licence agreements, the Group can 
control product development, marketing and distribution. 
Regular licensee royalty reviews take place to monitor 
compliance with licence terms, which can manage but 
not eliminate non-compliance.
The significant growth and pace  
of change within the business  
puts pressure on both internal  
and external resources.
Failure to effectively manage the pace of 
change will inevitably adversely impact the 
Group’s operations and return on investment.
 All strategic themes
Governance processes are in place for each major 
strategic initiative and these are supplemented by regular 
meetings with senior management to review operational 
performance. Management and operational structures 
are continually reviewed to ensure that these support 
the Group’s growth. 
The Group operates in a number  
of emerging markets which are 
typically more volatile than 
developed markets, and are 
subject to changing economic, 
regulatory, social and political 
developments that are beyond 
the Group’s control. 
Infrastructure and services 
also tend to be less developed.
Seizure of assets or staff. Related party 
business practice that is inconsistent with 
the Group’s ethical standards and the UK 
regulatory environment. Increased operational 
costs due to country specific processes driven 
by the regulatory environment.
 Leverage the franchise
 Accelerate retail-led growth
 Invest in under-penetrated markets
The Group uses the services of professional consultants 
to advise on legal and regulatory issues when entering 
new markets, to undertake due diligence and to monitor 
ongoing developments. The Group works with franchisees 
or partners who compensate for its relative lack of 
experience in a number of these markets.
Unauthorised use of the  
Group’s trademarks and 
other proprietary rights.
Trademarks and other intellectual property 
(IP) rights are fundamentally important to the 
Group’s reputation, success and competitive 
position. Unauthorised use of these, as well 
as the distribution of counterfeit products, 
damages the Burberry brand image and profits.
 Leverage the franchise
 Intensify accessories
 Accelerate retail-led growth
 Invest in under-penetrated markets
The Group’s global Brand Protection team has 
continued to expand during the year to enable the Group 
to strengthen its brand protection efforts in a number of 
high risk markets, including in the digital environment. 
Given the Group’s emphasis on digital innovation the 
team places a particular focus on this area. Where 
infringements are identified these are addressed through 
a mixture of criminal and civil legal action and negotiated 
settlement. IP rights are driven largely by national laws 
which afford varying degrees of protection and 
enforcement priorities depending on the country. 
Consequently, the Group cannot necessarily be as 
effective in all jurisdictions in addressing IP issues.
63
Strategic Report – Performance  Board and 
Governance Chairman
Sir John Peace (65)
†
Chairman
Sir John Peace became Chairman of the Board in June 
2002 and is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 
He is Chairman of Standard Chartered PLC and Experian 
plc. Previously he was Group Chief Executive of GUS 
plc from 2000 until 2006. Sir John is Lord-Lieutenant of 
Nottinghamshire and was knighted in 2011 for services 
to business and the voluntary sector.
Executive directors
Christopher Bailey (43)
Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Bailey became Chief Creative and Chief 
Executive Officer on 1 May 2014 having previously served 
as Chief Creative Officer since 2009. Christopher joined as 
Design Director in May 2001. Prior to working at Burberry, 
Christopher was the Senior Designer of Womenswear at 
Gucci in Milan from 1996 to 2001. From 1994 to 1996 he 
was the Womenswear Designer at Donna Karan.
Carol Fairweather (53)
Chief Financial Officer
Carol Fairweather became Chief Financial Officer in July 
2013 having joined Burberry in June 2006. She previously 
held the position of Senior Vice President, Group Finance. 
Prior to joining Burberry, Carol was Director of Finance at 
News International Limited from 1997 to 2005 and UK 
Regional Controller at Shandwick plc from 1991 to 1997.
John Smith (56)
Chief Operating Officer
John Smith became Chief Operating Officer in March 
2013, having previously been a non-executive director 
from December 2009. John was Chief Executive of BBC 
Worldwide from 2004 to 2012. John joined the BBC in 
1989, where he held the positions of Chief Operating 
Officer, Director of Finance, Property & Business Affairs 
and Finance Director. He previously served as a non-
executive director of Severn Trent plc and Vickers PLC, 
and on the Accounting Standards Board from 2001 to 2004.
Non-executive directors
Philip Bowman (61)
*†‡
Senior Independent Director
Philip Bowman was appointed as a non-executive director 
in June 2002 and is the Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Philip is Chief Executive 
of Smiths Group plc. He previously held the positions of 
Chief Executive at Scottish Power plc and Chief Executive 
at Allied Domecq plc. His earlier career included five years 
as a director of Bass plc. He was previously Chairman of 
Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc and a non-executive 
director of Scottish & Newcastle plc and British Sky 
Broadcasting Group plc.
Ian Carter (52)
*†‡
Non-executive director
Ian Carter was appointed as a non-executive director 
in April 2007 and is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. He is President of Hilton Hotels Corporation 
Global Operations. Previously Ian was CEO of Hilton 
International Company and Executive Vice President of 
Hilton Hotels Corporation, and a director of Hilton Group 
plc until the acquisition of Hilton International by Hilton 
Hotels Corporation in February 2006. He previously served 
as an Officer and President of Black & Decker Corporation 
between 2001 and 2004.
Jeremy Darroch (51)
*†‡
Non-executive director
Jeremy Darroch was appointed as a non-executive director 
in February 2014. He is Chief Executive Officer of British 
Sky Broadcasting Group plc, a position he has held since 
2007 having joined the company as Chief Financial Officer 
in 2004. Prior to Sky, Jeremy was Group Finance Director 
of DSG International plc (formerly Dixons Group plc) and 
spent 12 years at Procter & Gamble in a variety of roles 
in the UK and Europe. Jeremy also previously served 
as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee of Marks and Spencer Group plc. 
66
Board and Governance
Board of 
Directors Stephanie George (57)
*†‡
Non-executive director
Stephanie George was appointed as a non-executive 
director in March 2006. She also sits on the Board of 
Lincoln Center. Previously Stephanie was Executive Vice 
President and Chief Marketing Officer at Time Inc. Before 
this, Stephanie spent 12 years at Fairchild Publications, 
first as publisher of W magazine and then as President, 
Women’s Wear Daily Media Worldwide.
Matthew Key (51)
*†‡
Non-executive director
Matthew Key was appointed as a non-executive director 
in September 2013. He has recently been Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer of Telefónica Digital, the global 
innovation arm of Telefónica. He stepped down from this 
role in March 2014. He previously served as Chairman 
and CEO of Telefónica Europe plc (formerly O2 plc), Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of O2 UK, 
and Chief Financial Officer for Vodafone UK. Prior to 
this, he held various financial positions at Kingfisher plc, 
Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages Limited and Grand 
Metropolitan Plc. Matthew is also Chairman of the 
Dallaglio Foundation, which is a charity focused on 
disengaged youth.
David Tyler (61)
*†‡
Non-executive director
David Tyler was appointed as a non-executive director 
in June 2002, having been a director of the Company 
since 1997. He is currently Chairman of J Sainsbury plc 
and Chairman of Hammerson plc. David was Group 
Finance Director of GUS plc from 1997 until its demerger 
in October 2006, Chairman of Logica plc from 2007 to 2012 
and Chairman of 3i Quoted Private Equity plc from 2007 to 
2009. He was a non-executive director of Experian plc from 
2006 to 2012 and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc from 2007 
to 2009. Earlier in his career, David worked at Unilever plc, 
County NatWest Limited and Christie’s International plc.
Key to membership of committees
* Audit Committee
† Nomination Committee
‡ Remuneration Committee
67
Board and Governance Back row: David Tyler, Ian Carter, Stephanie George, Sir John Peace, Matthew Key, Jeremy Darroch, Philip Bowman 
Front row: John Smith, Angela Ahrendts, Christopher Bailey, Carol Fairweather  Strategic Report
Burberry Group plc is required by the Companies Act 2006 
to prepare a Strategic Report that includes a fair review 
of the Company’s business, the development and the 
performance of the Company’s business during the year, of 
the position of the Company at the end of the financial year 
to 31 March 2014 and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties faced by the Company. The Strategic Report 
can be found on pages 5 to 63. The Corporate Governance 
Report is set out on pages 74 to 87, is incorporated by 
reference and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
Revenue and profit
Revenue from the continuing business during the period 
amounted to £2,329.8m (2013: £1,998.7m). The profit for 
the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 
was £322.5m (2013: £254.3m).
Dividends
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 23.20p 
per ordinary share (2013: 21.00p) in respect of the year 
to 31 March 2014 be paid on 31 July 2014 to those 
persons on the Register of Members as at 4 July 2014.
An interim dividend of 8.80p per ordinary share was paid 
to shareholders on 24 January 2014 (2013: 8.00p). This 
will make a total dividend of 32.00p per ordinary share 
in respect of the financial year to 31 March 2014. The 
aggregate dividends paid and recommended in respect 
of the year to 31 March 2014 total £140.4m (2013: £126.4m).
Directors
The names and biographical details of the directors as 
at the date of this report are set out on pages 66 and 67 
and are incorporated by reference into this report. Angela 
Ahrendts held office during the year and stepped down 
as a director on 30 April 2014. Stacey Cartwright stepped 
down as a director on 12 July 2013.
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, all of the current 
directors will offer themselves for election or re-election.
The Notice of this year’s Annual General Meeting sets out 
why the Board believes the directors should be elected 
or re-elected. Details of the directors’ service agreements 
and letters of appointment are given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106.
The directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated 
financial statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2014.
Directors’ share interests
The interests of the directors holding office at 31 March 
2014 in the shares of the Company are shown within the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 102. There were 
no changes to the beneficial interests of the directors 
between the period 31 March 2014 and 20 May 2014.
Directors’ insurance and indemnities
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal 
action brought against its directors. In accordance with 
section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying third-
party indemnity provisions are in place for the directors 
in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, 
to the extent permitted by law. Both the insurance and 
indemnities applied throughout the financial year ended 
31 March 2014 and through to the date of this report.
Share capital
Details of the issued share capital, together with details 
of movements in the issued share capital of Burberry 
Group plc during the year are shown in note 22 which 
is incorporated by reference and deemed to be part 
of this report.
The Company has one class of ordinary share which 
carries no right to fixed income. Each share carries the 
right to one vote at general meetings of the Company. 
The ordinary shares are listed on the Official List and 
traded on the London Stock Exchange. As at 31 March 
2014, the Company had 443,642,290 ordinary shares in 
issue. The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company 
proposes to renew the authority granted by ordinary 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2013, 
to repurchase up to just under 10% of its issued share 
capital. Further details are provided in the Notice of 
this year’s Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2013, shareholders 
approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate 
nominal value of £73,000 and to allot shares for cash other 
than pro rata to existing shareholders. Resolutions will be 
proposed at this year’s Annual General Meeting to renew 
these authorities.
70
Board and Governance
Directors’ 
report No person has any special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully 
paid. There are no specific restrictions on the size of 
holding or on the transfer of shares which are both 
governed by the general provisions of the Articles of 
Association and prevailing legislation. The directors 
are not aware of any agreements between holders of 
the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on 
the transfer of securities or voting rights. The directors 
have no current plans to issue shares other than in 
connection with employee share schemes.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 
26. The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all 
dividends payable by the Company in respect of the 
ordinary shares held by it. In addition, the Burberry 
Group plc SIP Trust has waived all dividends payable 
by the Company in respect of the unappropriated ordinary 
shares held by it. The total dividends waived by the trusts 
in the year to 31 March 2014 were in aggregate £1.3m 
(2013: £1.0m).
With regard to the appointment and replacement 
of directors, the Company follows the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and is governed by its Articles 
of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and related 
legislation. The Articles of Association may be amended 
by special resolution of the shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 March 2014, the Company had been notified under 
Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the 
following major interests in its issued ordinary share capital:
Number of
ordinary shares
% of total
voting rights
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 35,086,942 7.90
Thornburg Investment Management 22,193,131 5.03
JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99
Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99
FMR LLC 21,867,513 4.98
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 21,664,800 4.97
Massachusetts Financial Services 
Company 20,073,645 4.61
As at 20 May 2014, the Company had not received 
any further notifications under Rule 5 of the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of major interests in its issued 
ordinary share capital.
Interests in own shares
Details of the Company’s interests in its own shares are 
set out in note 22 to the financial statements. 
Political donations
The Company made no political donations during the 
year in line with its policy (2013: £nil). In keeping with the 
Company’s approach in prior years, shareholder approval 
is being sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, 
as a precautionary measure, for the Company and its 
subsidiaries to make donations and/or incur expenditure 
which may be construed as ‘political’ by the wide definition 
of that term included in the relevant legislation. Further 
details are provided in the Notice of this year’s Annual 
General Meeting.
Greenhouse Gas emissions
The disclosures concerning the Company’s greenhouse 
gas emissions required by the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 
are included in the Burberry Beyond section of the Strategic 
Report on page 49.
Employment policies
Diversity and inclusion
The Group takes a very inclusive approach to diversity. 
As a global business, Burberry values people of all cultures, 
nationalities, races, religions and ethnicities, regardless 
of characteristics such as gender, gender identity and/or 
expression, age, disability or sexual orientation. Burberry 
is passionate about attracting, developing and rewarding 
the most talented and skilled individuals, regardless of 
background. The Group encourages its employees to work 
across functions, geographies and cultures to enhance 
understanding and create a connected global community. 
As the Group continues to grow globally, it is building 
on its long-term commitment to diversity and inclusion – 
embracing the cultures of all the countries where we do 
business. Burberry is committed to making the necessary 
adjustments to support the employment of people with 
disabilities and provide training and development to 
ensure they have the opportunity to achieve their potential. 
In a situation where an employee becomes disabled during 
their employment, the Group will endeavour to assist the 
employee by offering additional training, adapting the job 
if appropriate or by offering a transfer to another position.
71
Board and Governance Health and safety
The Group has a health and safety strategy and policy 
approved by the Board and a Global Health and Safety 
Committee which is chaired by the Chief Corporate 
Affairs Officer & General Counsel. Each region has a local 
Committee which assists with the implementation of the 
health and safety strategy. Strategic direction on health 
and safety matters is provided by the Director of Health 
and Safety supported by a global team. There have been 
a number of internal and external health and safety audits 
carried out to provide assurance globally.
Further information regarding the Group’s employment 
policies are provided in the Great Brand, Great Company 
section on pages 44 to 50.
Employee involvement
Employee communication
The Group believes that employee communication 
is important to enhance the Company culture and 
connectivity, and to motivate and retain its employees. 
A global communications programme, incorporating 
various physical and digital methods and channels, 
enables all employees to connect and collaborate closely, 
and to understand key strategies and other matters of 
interest and importance, quickly and efficiently.
Social media platform ‘Burberry Chat’ is the key digital 
channel used by the Company to communicate internally. 
However, other methods and channels are also used, 
including face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums 
with senior management, email and instant messaging. 
Monthly video updates, highlight the Group’s performance 
and its ongoing strategic initiatives. There is also a monthly 
creative thinking programme called ‘Burberry Chat Live’, 
which broadcasts interviews with employees from around 
the world. The Company also uses videos and digital web 
pages to communicate key initiatives, events and other 
brand messages, to enhance internal communication, 
employee connectivity and the Burberry culture.
Employee share ownership
The Group recognises the importance of good relationships 
with employees of all levels and runs incentive schemes 
and share ownership schemes for the benefit of employees. 
Further details of these schemes are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106.
The Group again intends to grant free share awards 
or cash-based awards to all eligible employees during 
2014/15. The Group also intends, where possible, to 
invite employees to take part in the Sharesave Scheme.
Further details on the Group’s approach to employee 
involvement and communications are provided in the 
Our People section on pages 44 and 45. 
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and 
policies are set out within note 25 to the financial statements. 
Note 25 also details the Group’s exposure to foreign 
exchange, share price, interest, credit, capital and liquidity 
risks. These notes are incorporated by reference and are 
deemed to form part of this report.
Significant contracts – change of control
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose 
that in the event of a change of control, the Company’s 
borrowings under the Group’s £300m Revolving Credit 
Facility (dated 28 March 2011) could become repayable.
Details of the service agreements of the executive 
directors are set out on page 96 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
The provisions of the Company’s employee share plans may 
cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest 
upon a change of control.
72
Board and Governance Independent auditors
In accordance with section 418(2) of the Companies Act 
2006, each of the Company’s directors in office as at the 
date of this report confirms that:
 ·
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware; and
 ·
he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought 
to have taken as a director in order to make himself 
or herself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
The Group’s auditors are PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
A resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Note 7 in the financial statements states the auditors’ 
fees both for audit and non-audit work.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the Financial Review on pages 54 to 
59, along with details of the Group’s cash flows. Details of 
the Group’s liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in notes 18 and 21. Financial risk management 
objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging 
activities, and exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk 
are described in note 25.
The directors have reviewed the Group’s forecasts and 
projections. These include the assumptions around the 
Group’s products and markets, expenditure commitments, 
expected cash flows and borrowing facilities. Taking into 
account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, 
and after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly the directors consider it 
appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be 
held at the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, 
London EC1Y 8YY commencing at 11.00am on Friday, 
11 July 2014. The Notice of this year’s Annual General 
Meeting will be available to view on the Company’s 
website at burberryplc.com.
The directors consider that each of the proposed 
resolutions to be considered at the Annual General 
Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders and are most likely to promote the success of 
the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole. 
The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders 
vote in favour of each of the proposed resolutions, as the 
directors intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
By order of the Board
Catherine Sukmonowski
Company Secretary
20 May 2014
Registered Office: 
Horseferry House 
Horseferry Road 
London
SW1P 2AW
Registered Number: 03458224
73
Board and Governance Dear Shareholder,
The Board’s role is to provide leadership to the Group to 
assist it in achieving its strategic aims, and to promote 
the long-term success of the Group for the benefit of its 
shareholders and those with whom we connect. For an 
iconic brand like Burberry with a 158-year heritage guided 
by the values – to protect, explore and inspire – we believe 
that this is an important responsibility. 
The Board’s role is particularly important during times of 
significant change. In October, Angela Ahrendts informed 
the Board that she had decided to step down as Chief 
Executive Officer and the Board unanimously agreed 
that Christopher Bailey would be her successor as Chief 
Creative and Chief Executive Officer. Christopher assumed 
this role on 1 May. I want to thank Angela personally for 
building a great culture and leading the Company through 
its transformation over the last eight years. 
The appointment of Christopher as Chief Creative and 
Chief Executive Officer is a natural progression. Christopher 
has been at Burberry since 2001 and has overseen all 
consumer-facing activities including products, creative 
marketing, store design, consumer technology and digital 
innovation. Christopher will continue to create and drive 
the vision for the Company closely supported by an 
outstanding and experienced senior management team. 
The Board is also in a period of evolution as it has 
been focused on how to build on its relevant skills 
and competencies for the future in accordance with its 
succession plan. Good progress has been made on this 
during the year, with the announcement of the appointment 
of three new non-executive directors. Longer-serving 
Board members will step down as appropriate but it is 
important to ensure stability while new Board members 
settle into their roles. The Board will continue to focus 
on its succession plan during the coming year.
I am delighted to welcome Matthew Key and Jeremy 
Darroch who have joined the Board as non-executive 
directors during the year, and Carolyn McCall who will join 
the Board as a non-executive director on 1 September 
2014. These appointments bring additional mobile, digital, 
media, financial, consumer travel and general management 
experience to the Board, reflecting the Group’s strategy. 
Carol Fairweather joined the Board in July and assumed 
the role of Chief Financial Officer on Stacey Cartwright’s 
departure, and John Smith is now well established as 
the Group’s Chief Operating Officer. 
The 2013/14 Board effectiveness review confirmed that the 
Board had performed well, maintaining its business focus 
despite a number of key challenges during the year. As the 
Board has been in transition during the year, the Board 
will be conducting an externally facilitated review during 
2014/15 and will report its findings next year.
The year ahead will continue to be impacted by a challenging 
external environment and significant regulatory changes to 
the rules on directors’ remuneration and narrative reporting. 
Burberry continues to experience growth and the evolution 
of its business. The Board and I will endeavour to ensure 
that we continue to grow in a long-term and sustainable way 
for our shareholders and wider stakeholders, and to provide 
appropriate support to ensure a smooth management 
transition and Board evolution.
Sir John Peace
Chairman
Governance 
 “The Board is collectively responsible for promoting Burberry’s  
long-term success, for setting its strategic aims and ensuring 
a framework of prudent and effective controls.”
This report sets out the Board’s approach and work during 
the financial year 2013/14 and, together with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106, includes details 
of how the Company has applied and complied with the 
principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (‘the Code’). The directors consider that the Company 
has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout 
the year, with the exception of conducting an externally 
facilitated board effectiveness review. The rationale for 
not conducting an externally facilitated review is set out 
on page 77.
Our Board
The Board currently consists of ten members – the 
Chairman, the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, 
the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and 
six independent non-executive directors. Christopher 
Bailey was appointed as Chief Creative and Chief Executive 
Officer and as a director on 1 May 2014 following Angela 
Ahrendts stepping down on 30 April 2014. A list of directors 
and their biographies is set out on pages 66 and 67.
The Chairman, Sir John Peace, has led the Board as 
Chairman since 2002. The Chairman is responsible for 
leading and managing the business of the Board and 
ensuring its effectiveness. He sets the agenda for 
Board discussions and ensures that the Board receives 
accurate, timely and clear information, particularly in 
relation to the Company’s performance. He promotes 
a culture of openness and trust which allows for debate 
and constructive challenge of the executive directors.
74
Board and Governance
Corporate
Governance report The Chairman works collaboratively with the Chief Creative 
and Chief Executive Officer, Christopher Bailey, in setting 
the Board agenda and ensuring any actions agreed by the 
Board are effectively implemented.
During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact 
and met with the Senior Independent Director and other 
non-executive directors outside of formal Board meetings. 
The Chairman also met with the non-executive directors 
without the executive directors being present.
The Chairman is also responsible to shareholders for the 
Company’s performance and has regular discussions with 
the Company’s main institutional shareholders.
The major commitments of the Chairman are detailed in his 
biography on page 66 and have not changed during the year.
The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, 
supports the Chairman in his role and leads the non-
executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman. 
The Senior Independent Director is also available as an 
additional point of contact for shareholders.
The Non-executive directors provide strong experience 
and independent support to the Board. They assist in the 
development of strategy and provide constructive challenge 
and support to management.
The Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, 
Christopher Bailey, is responsible for the management of 
the business, developing the Group’s strategic direction for 
consideration and approval by the Board and implementing 
the agreed strategy. The Chief Creative and Chief Executive 
Officer is assisted by members of his senior management 
team who meet regularly. Members of the senior 
management team are identified on page 107.
The Company Secretary, Catherine Sukmonowski, 
is responsible for supporting the Chairman in the delivery  
of the corporate governance agenda. 
Role of the Board
 “Burberry continues to experience growth and evolution of its 
business while in a period of transition in its leadership. It is 
the responsibility of the Board to ensure we continue to grow in 
a controlled and sustainable way for our shareholders and wider 
stakeholders, and to provide appropriate support to ensure a 
smooth management transition and Board evolution.”
The Board is ultimately responsible for promoting the  
long-term success of the Group. The Board leads and 
provides direction for management by setting strategy and 
overseeing its implementation by management. The Board 
is also responsible for oversight of the Group’s systems 
of governance, internal control and risk management.
Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved 
for approval by the Board. These include decisions on the 
Group’s strategy, the annual budget and operating plans, 
major capital expenditure and transactions, financial 
results, the dividend, the approval of risk appetite and 
other governance issues. The matters reserved for the 
Board’s decision are set out in writing and available 
on the Company’s website at burberryplc.com.
Role of the Board Committees
The Board is supported in its activities by a number of 
committees including the following principal committees: 
Audit Committee; Nomination Committee; and 
Remuneration Committee. All the non-executive directors 
are members of each of the principal committees of the 
Board. The Board believes this to be appropriate as the 
Board remains relatively small and this ensures the linkage 
between the work of the Committees and the Board.
The terms of reference of each of the principal committees 
can be viewed on the Company’s website at burberryplc.com.
The Committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage 
third-party consultants and independent professional 
advisors and can call upon other resources of the Group to 
assist them in discharging their respective responsibilities. 
Audit
Committee
Chief Creative and 
Chief Executive
Officer
Risk
Committee
Senior
Management Team
Global Health and
Safety Committee
Global Ethics
Committee
Board
Remuneration
Committee
Supply Chain
Risk Committee
Nomination
Committee
75
Board and Governance Month Strategy/Business Focus Oversight and Risk Governance
May Japan strategy and updates on 
various business areas/projects.
Review of 2012/13 financial 
year preliminary results 
announcement, Annual Report 
and Accounts and dividend policy.
Review of risk and internal controls 
process and risk appetite.
Business controls.
Review of non-audit fees.
Review of Notice of AGM.
UK Governance Code and other 
regulatory requirements for 
Annual Report.
Preparation for AGM.
Board succession matters.
July Update on various business  
areas/projects.
Business focus: inventory 
planning and management.
AGM.
Review of Chairman and 
non-executive director fees.
Board succession matters.
September Annual strategy session 
(two days).
Product showroom presentation 
and ‘meet and greet’ with senior 
management.
Strategic risks and impact 
on the three-year plan.
Board succession matters.
October/November Digital systems and opportunities 
update.
Review of 2013/14 interim results 
and dividend.
Review of risk, internal control 
framework and business controls.
Review of audit plan for 2013/14 
and reappointment of auditors.
Investor relations update.
Regulatory compliance update.
Consideration of Treasury Policy.
Board and management 
succession matters.
February Strategic opportunities, 
digital commerce and 
Japan strategy update.
Business focus: Beauty business.
Business focus: operational 
efficiency.
Business controls and approach 
to technology risk.
Investor relations update.
Board and management 
succession matters.
March Year end review of the business.
2014/15 budget approval.
Business focus: foreign 
exchange impacts.
Business focus: digital systems.
Independent investor audit results.
Board effectiveness review.
Review of conflicts of interest.
Board and management 
succession matters.
Annual Report planning.
In addition to the relevant committee members and the 
Company Secretary, external advisors and, on occasion, 
other directors and members of the senior management 
team attend committee meetings but only at the invitation 
of the Chairmen of the Committees.
Set out on pages 82 to 86 are reports from the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. The report of the Remuneration 
Committee is set out on pages 88 to 106.
Board effectiveness
 “In the face of a number of key challenges during the year, 
particularly changes to the management team, the Board did not 
lose its focus on ensuring the creation of shareholder value over the 
medium and long-term. The Chairman is commended for his skill 
in leading the Board through these changes and maintaining the 
Board’s business focus.”
Highlights of Board activities during 2013/14
During the year the Board held six scheduled meetings, 
including an in-depth two-day session on strategy, and 
one ad hoc meeting. Between meetings directors spend a 
significant amount of time on Board and Committee related 
matters. The Board considers that it met sufficiently often 
to enable the directors to discharge their duties effectively.
The Board agendas were shaped to ensure that discussion 
was focused on the Group’s strategic priorities and key 
monitoring activities, as well as reviews of significant 
issues. In addition, to allow for opportunities for the Board 
to engage with senior management to discuss key elements 
of the business, a number of Board dinners were held 
during the year. The table below gives the highlights of how 
the Board spent its time during its 2013/14 financial year 
(but is not an exhaustive list of topics covered). Further 
information on the Group’s strategic focus during the year is 
set out in the Strategic Themes section starting on page 32.
76
Board and Governance Evaluating our performance in 2013/14
The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance 
and that of its Committees each financial year, with an 
external evaluation once every three years. In the normal 
course the Board would have undertaken its next externally 
facilitated review during the year. However, given that the 
Board has been in transition during the year with the Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and non-executive 
director changes, the Board decided to postpone the 
external review until 2014/15. This was on the basis that an 
external review would provide more valuable insight if it took 
place after this transition was complete and new Board 
members had the opportunity to settle into their roles.
In keeping with its approach over the last few years, the 
Board and Committee effectiveness review continued to 
follow a more discursive approach by encouraging the 
directors to express their views on any area of Board and 
Committee effectiveness. This approach has worked well 
as it reflects the collaborative nature of the Board and has 
encouraged the open airing of ‘top of mind’ thoughts or 
concerns. Written feedback from the review was obtained 
from each director and a report of the key themes and 
recommended actions arising from the review was 
provided to the Directors as a backdrop for Board 
discussion. The Chairman also spoke to Board members 
on an individual basis.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent 
Director, also considered the performance of the Chairman 
without the Chairman present. It was noted that in the face 
of a number of key challenges during the year, particularly 
changes to the management team, the Board did not lose 
its focus on ensuring the creation of shareholder value over 
the medium and long-term. The Chairman was commended 
for his skill in leading the Board through the various 
challenges and for ensuring that the Board maintained 
its business focus.
Below is a summary of the key views and recommendations 
identified in the 2013/14 Board effectiveness review and the 
actions taken in response to last year’s review.
Key Themes 2012/13 Review 2013/14 Review
Views/recommendations Actions taken Views/recommendations
Board composition Adoption of a succession plan to 
refresh the Board over the next 
two years and alignment on core 
competencies required.
Board succession was a key 
focus during the year with 
the appointment of three 
new non-executive directors. 
(See pages 66 and 67).
The Board succession 
process is not yet complete 
but the consensus is that 
it is progressing well.
Board/Committee 
focus
The right balance is being struck 
between time spent on strategy, 
risks and monitoring.
Strong alignment of views on what 
should be the strategic focus for 
2013/14.
Welcome continued opportunities 
for non-executive director 
engagement and interaction with 
senior management.
The annual strategy session 
agenda reflected the areas of 
focus recommended in the review.
Continued opportunities were 
made available for engagement 
outside of formal meetings and 
interaction with a wide range of 
senior management. (See 
Highlights of Board activities 
during 2013/14 on page 76).
Strategy must continue to be 
a strong focus for the Board. 
Directors continue to be strongly 
aligned on the key areas for 
strategic focus in the coming year.
The Board should ensure that 
appropriate support is provided 
to new Board members during this 
time of transition. The involvement 
of senior management in Board 
meetings and more informal 
meetings continues to be 
important particularly to provide 
non-executive directors with 
additional insight.
Board/Committee 
effectiveness
Overall the existing Board and 
Committee structure works well 
and provides a good standard of 
governance as well as support to 
management. The Board operates 
with a high level of trust.
The discursive approach to the 
Board effectiveness review was 
preferred as it encouraged open 
debate. 
The Board effectiveness review 
continued to follow the more 
discursive approach by 
encouraging the directors 
to express their views on any 
area of Board and Committee 
effectiveness.
The Board performed well, 
maintaining its business focus 
despite a number of key 
challenges during the year, 
particularly changes to the 
management team. The Chairman 
is commended for his skill in 
leading the Board through these 
changes. The Committees 
performed well, particularly 
in dealing with a number of 
significant regulatory changes. 
There is an opportunity to optimise 
more ‘two-way’ engagement with 
the Board during meetings to 
ensure management is leveraging 
on non-executive director 
experience, particularly during 
this time of transition.
77
Board and Governance Time allocation
Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of 
appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of his 
or her directorship. The Chairman and the non-executive 
directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary 
for the proper performance of their duties. This is expected 
to be approximately 20 days each year for basic duties. The 
Chairman and Senior Independent Director are expected to 
spend additional time over and above this to discharge their 
added responsibilities.
External directorships
The Board’s executive directors are permitted to hold only 
one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.  
Details of the directors’ other directorships can be found 
in their biographies on pages 66 and 67.
Board and Committee composition
The non-executive directors are drawn from a wide range of 
industries and backgrounds, including mobile, digital, media, 
retail, financial services, hotels and hospitality, marketing and 
accountancy. They have extensive experience of complex 
organisations with global reach, including experience of 
the Group’s key markets of Europe, the Americas and Asia. 
Their varied yet relevant experience brings a wealth of 
insight to Board discussions and important support to the 
management team. The biographical details of the current 
directors can be found on pages 66 and 67 of this 
Annual Report.
Management changes
In October, Angela Ahrendts informed the Board that she 
would step down as Chief Executive Officer and the Board 
agreed that Christopher Bailey would be appointed her 
successor as Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer. 
Angela formally stepped down as Chief Executive Officer 
and as a director on 30 April 2014 and Christopher was 
appointed on 1 May 2014. Carol Fairweather joined the 
Board as an executive director on 11 July 2013 and 
assumed the role of Chief Financial Officer on Stacey 
Cartwright’s departure on 31 July 2013. 
Board succession
The Nomination Committee continued its focus on evolving 
the Board’s relevant skills and competencies for the future 
under its succession plan. Good progress has been made 
on this during the year with the appointment of Matthew 
Key and Jeremy Darroch as non-executive directors, and 
the announcement that Carolyn McCall would be appointed 
as a non-executive director effective from 1 September 2014. 
These appointments bring additional mobile, digital, media, 
financial, consumer travel and general management 
expertise to the Board reflecting the Group’s strategy.
Longer serving Board members will step down as 
appropriate but it is important to ensure stability while 
evolving the Board so that new Board members have the 
opportunity to settle into their roles before longer serving 
members step down. The Board is aiming to make further 
appointments during the year. 
All new Board appointments are based on merit, keeping 
in mind the Board composition principles adopted by the 
Committee. These principles are to:
 ·
maintain current core competencies;
 ·
add new competencies which reflect the evolution 
of the Group’s business;
 ·
ensure compatibility with Burberry’s culture and 
values; and 
 ·
promote diversity, including in terms of gender.
Please see the Report from the Nomination Committee on 
page 86 for more information on the appointment process. 
The table below gives details of directors’ attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended  
31 March 2014. 
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration
Scheduled Ad hoc
Sir John Peace 6/6 1/1 – 4/4 –
Angela Ahrendts
1
6/6 1/1 – 4/4 –
Philip Bowman 6/6 1/1 3/3 4/4 6/6
Ian Carter 6/6 1/1 3/3 4/4 6/6
Stacey Cartwright
5
1/1 – – – –
Jeremy Darroch
2
1/2 – 1/1 0/1 1/2
Stephanie George 6/6 1/1 3/3 4/4 6/6
Carol Fairweather
 3
5/5 1/1 – – –
Matthew Key
 4
4/4 1/1 2/2 3/3 4/4
John Smith 6/6 1/1 – – –
David Tyler 6/6 1/1 3/3 4/4 6/6
1 Angela Ahrendts stepped down from the Board and the Nomination Committee on 30 April 2014. 
2  Jeremy Darroch was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Committees on 5 February 2014. Jeremy was unable to attend one Board, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee meeting due to a commitment made prior to his appointment.
3 Carol Fairweather was appointed to the Board on 11 July 2013.
4 Matthew Key was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2013 and as a member of the Committees on 26 September 2013.
5 Stacey Cartwright stepped down from the Board on 12 July 2013.
78
Board and Governance Diversity and inclusion
Board succession planning is focused on ensuring the 
right mix of skills and experience for the Board. The Board 
believes in the importance of diverse Board membership.
Following Angela Ahrendts stepping down as a director, 
of the ten directors currently on the Board, two are women 
including one of the executive directors (comprising 20% of 
total membership). Once Carolyn McCall joins the Board on 
1 September 2014 women will comprise 27% of the Board, 
meeting the goal set out by Lord Davies on diversity 
in Britain’s boardrooms, of a minimum of 25% female 
representation on FTSE 100 boards by 2015. The Board 
will monitor diversity and take such steps as it considers 
appropriate to maintain Burberry’s position as a 
meritocratic and diverse business.
The Board believes that it is critical that women are able 
to succeed at all levels of the organisation. Currently, of 
a total workforce of 10,604, approximately 68% is female 
and approximately 38% of senior management is female.
More broadly, diversity is at the heart of Group culture 
which is characterised by a meritocratic and collaborative 
ethos. At our Group headquarters in London, 59 different 
nationalities are represented.
The Company continues to focus on evolving its strategies 
for recruiting and developing key talent within the business 
in a way which promotes the Group’s cultural values and 
diverse and meritocratic environment. See the Our People 
section on page 44.
Board tenure
0 – 5 years
5 – 10 years
10 years or above
The balance of tenure of service of the directors is set 
out in the diagram above. At the time of the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting, Sir John Peace, Philip Bowman and 
David Tyler will have served on the Board for 12 years.
The Board is satisfied that all of our non-executive directors 
are independent. The performance of Philip Bowman, 
David Tyler, Stephanie George and Ian Carter has been 
subject to a rigorous review including with regard to their 
independence. The Board has concluded that they 
contribute valuable insight and experience to Board 
deliberations and continue to provide independent and 
constructive challenge to the executive directors. On that 
basis and keeping in mind the need to ensure a smooth 
succession as part of the Board succession plan, the 
Board concluded that these directors remain effective  
non-executive directors.
Information flow and professional development
The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary 
in the planning of the agendas and schedule of Board and 
Committee meetings and in ensuring that information is 
made available to Board members on a timely basis and 
is of a quality appropriate to enable the Board to effectively 
discharge its duties. 
As set out in the table ‘Highlights of Board activities during 
2013/14’ on page 76, the Board is kept up to date on legal, 
regulatory, compliance and governance matters through 
advice and regular papers from the Company Secretary, 
the General Counsel and other advisors.
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing 
and facilitating a tailored induction programme for new 
directors and their ongoing training. During the year newly 
appointed directors received an induction covering the key 
business areas and operations, the corporate functions, 
strategy and the Burberry brand and culture. In addition, 
non-executive directors are provided with opportunities to 
meet with members of senior management and to visit key 
stores and markets. The Chairman considers the training 
needs of directors on an ongoing basis.
The Board have direct access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary and the appointment and 
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved 
for the Board as a whole. Directors may also obtain, in 
the furtherance of their duties, independent professional 
advice, if necessary, at the Group’s expense.
Re-election of directors
At the Annual General Meeting in 2013, all continuing 
directors offered themselves for re-election. Each director 
was re-elected and no director received less than 93% 
in favour of the votes cast. At the Annual General Meeting 
in 2014, all of the directors will again retire and all will offer 
themselves for re-election or, in the case of the newly 
appointed directors, for election.
The Board believes that each of the directors standing 
for re-election or election are effective and, accordingly, 
the Board recommends that shareholders approve the 
resolutions to be proposed at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting relating to the re-election or election of 
the directors.
Managing conflicts of interest
All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to 
avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct 
or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest 
with the Company and the Group.
Under the Group’s Articles of Association, the Board has 
the authority to approve ‘situational’ conflicts of interest 
and has adopted procedures to manage and, where 
appropriate, to approve such conflicts. Authorisations 
granted by the Board are recorded by the Company 
Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board at 
its next meeting.
79
Board and Governance A review of situational conflicts which have been authorised 
is undertaken by the Board annually. Following the last 
review, the Board concluded that the conflicts had been 
appropriately authorised, no circumstances existed which 
would necessitate that any prior authorisation be revoked 
or amended, and the authorisation process continued to 
operate effectively.
Engagement with shareholders
The Board believes that effective leadership also 
involves maintaining an open and constructive dialogue 
with shareholders and other stakeholders, and seeks 
to achieve this in various ways including at the Annual 
General Meeting.
The Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer give presentations to institutional 
shareholders and analysts immediately following the 
release of the half and full year results which are then 
made available on the Group’s website at burberryplc.com. 
The Group’s Investor Relations and Company Secretariat 
departments act as the centre for ongoing communication 
with shareholders, investors and analysts.
The Chairman also maintains a regular dialogue with major 
shareholders to hear their views and to discuss issues of 
mutual importance and communicates their views to the 
other members of the Board. During the year a combination 
of our Chairman, the former Chief Executive Officer, the 
Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief 
Financial Officer and the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee met with 21 of our top 25 investors. Topics 
discussed included (but were not limited to) the Company’s 
performance, Board and management succession, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Group’s proposed 
new share plan. The Senior Independent Director and all 
the other non-executive directors are available to meet 
with shareholders as required. 
The Group also conducted its regular independent investor 
audit of its major investors through Makinson Cowell, a 
capital markets advisory firm, to gauge investor perception. 
The investor audit findings were presented to the Board.
Effective internal controls
The Group has a clear and consistent strategy as reflected 
in its key strategic themes. The strategy has been 
developed to exploit identified opportunities through the 
Group’s business model. Where material risks have been 
identified within our business, the Group has implemented 
an appropriate internal control environment to endeavour  
to mitigate such risks.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system 
of internal controls and risk management, and it discharges 
its duties in this area by:
 ·
determining the nature and extent of the significant risks 
it is willing to accept in achieving the Group’s strategic 
objectives (the Board’s risk appetite); and
 ·
ensuring that management implement effective systems 
of risk identification, assessment and mitigation.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the 
responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls. The Audit Committee uses information 
drawn from a number of different sources to carry out 
this responsibility including:
 ·
objective assurance provided by Internal Audit through 
its annual work plan, which is approved by the Audit 
Committee and focuses on the principal risks identified  
in the risk assessment and key internal controls;
 ·
regular reports to the Audit Committee from executive 
management and key Group assurance functions 
detailing their risk management and compliance 
approaches and highlighting any significant issues;
 ·
key outcomes from discussions at the Group’s 
Risk Committee; and
 ·
further objective assurance is provided by 
external auditors.
The internal control framework has been in operation for the 
whole of the year under review and continues to operate up 
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
Regular self-certification has also been in place for key 
finance processes to confirm the documented control 
framework continues to efficiently and effectively manage 
risk. The system of internal controls is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business 
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed 
the assessment of risks and the Group’s internal control 
framework and has considered the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control in operation in the Group for 
the year covered by the Annual Report and Accounts and 
up to the date of its approval by the Board. This covered 
all material controls including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems. 
The process followed by the Board in reviewing the system 
of internal controls (as set out above) accords with the 
guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull 
Committee. It also accords with the provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code.
80
Board and Governance Group approach to managing risks
The Group has an integrated approach to risk management 
and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is used 
to inform the internal audit process and the design of 
internal controls.
A detailed three-year strategic plan and annual budget 
process provides the principal metrics against which the 
performance of the Group is measured. The strategic plan 
and budget are agreed with the Board together with defined 
performance targets and risks to delivery. The plan and the 
principal risks for delivering the strategy also form part of 
the Board’s annual review of Group strategy.
Executive management assess risk on a regular basis 
through the Group’s Risk Committee which meets at least 
three times per year and reports any key findings to the 
Audit Committee. The Group’s Risk Committee evaluates 
risk through reports made to it by Internal Audit and other 
assurance teams and management committees. The 
Committee benefits from cross-functional membership 
encompassing senior management of key areas such as 
IT, Finance, Legal, Brand Protection, Company Secretariat, 
Corporate Responsibility, Human Resources, Supply Chain, 
Asset and Profit Protection, and Health and Safety. The 
Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Operating Officer 
and its members include the Chief Financial Officer, the 
Chief Corporate Affairs Officer & General Counsel, the 
Vice President of Audit and Risk Assurance, the Company 
Secretary and other members of senior management.
The executive directors also meet with senior management 
on a regular basis to discuss performance, operational and 
budget issues to identify any emerging risks to achieving 
the budget and strategic plan.
All internal audit activity is conducted by the Internal Audit 
team under the leadership of the Vice President of Audit 
and Risk Assurance, who reports to the Chief Financial 
Officer, but also has an independent reporting line to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. In view of Internal Audit’s 
recommendations, management agrees and implements 
corrective action plans, which are tracked to completion 
by Internal Audit, with the results reported to executive 
management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
As part of the Board’s consideration of the principal risks 
facing the Group, the Vice President of Audit and Risk 
Assurance facilitates a risk assessment process in each 
key business area and global support function to review 
the significant risks facing its operations and to record 
the relevant controls and any actions in place to mitigate 
the risks. The materiality of the risk is measured based on 
financial and non-financial criteria, and the probability of 
the risk arising is also mapped. The detailed assessments 
are then consolidated to provide input into the Group risk 
assessment which is discussed by management at the Risk 
Committee prior to presentation to the Audit Committee. 
This process also enables Internal Audit to engage with 
senior management throughout the business on risk 
monitoring and management.
There are areas of the Group’s business where it is 
necessary to accept risks to achieve a satisfactory return 
for shareholders, such risks reflecting the Board’s overall 
appetite for risk. During 2013/14 the Audit Committee, in 
conjunction with the full Board, considered and reviewed 
the nature and extent of these risks. It is the Group’s 
objective to apply expertise to prudently manage rather 
than eliminate such risks including keeping them under 
frequent review.
For details of the principal risks which may adversely 
impact the performance of the Group and the execution 
of its strategies and the steps the Group takes to address 
these risks (where they are matters within Group control), 
see the Principal Risks section on pages 61 to 63.
Financial reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and 
maintaining adequate internal controls over financial 
reporting. These controls are designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 
external reporting purposes. 
The Group has comprehensive planning, budgeting, 
forecasting and monthly reporting processes in place. 
A summary of the Group’s financial results supported 
by commentary and performance measures is provided 
to the Board each month.
In relation to the preparation of the Group financial 
statements, the controls in place include:
 ·
a centre of expertise responsible for reviewing 
new developments in reporting requirements 
and standards to ensure that these are reflected 
in Group accounting policies;
 ·
a dedicated finance governance team which is 
responsible for developing the Group’s financial 
control processes and procedures and implementing 
them across the Group; and
 ·
a global finance structure consisting of employees 
with the appropriate expertise to ensure that Group 
policies and procedures are correctly applied. 
Effective management and control of the finance 
structure is achieved through the finance leadership 
team, consisting of key finance employees from the 
regions and corporate headquarters.
81
Board and Governance The reporting process is supported by transactional and 
consolidation finance systems. Reviews of controls are 
carried out by senior finance management. The results 
of these reviews are considered by the Board as part 
of its monitoring of the performance of controls around 
financial reporting.
The Audit Committee reviews the application of financial 
reporting standards and any significant accounting 
judgements made by management.
Control environment
The Group’s business model is based primarily on a central 
design, supply chain and distribution operation to supply 
products to global markets, via retail (including digital) and 
wholesale channels. This is reflected in the internal control 
framework which includes central direction, resource 
allocation, oversight and risk management of the key 
activities of marketing, inventory management, brand 
and technology development. This includes central 
support in relation to corporate governance, legal, brand 
protection, human resources, information systems and 
financial practice.
The Group has established procedures for the delegation 
of authorities to ensure that approval for matters that 
are considered significant is considered and given at an 
appropriate level, either because of their value or their 
materiality to the Group. In addition, the Group has policies 
and procedures in place that are designed to support risk 
management across the Group. These authorities, policies 
and procedures are kept under review as the Group 
continues to grow. These include policies relating  
to treasury, the conduct of employees and third parties  
with which the Group conducts business including 
prohibiting bribery and corruption.
Accountability and audit
The Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is 
required to be fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Group’s performance, business model and 
strategy. The Board is satisfied that it has met this 
obligation. A summary of the directors’ responsibilities for 
the financial statements is set out on page 110. The Report 
of the Auditors on page 111 includes a statement by the 
auditors concerning their reporting responsibilities.
Report of the Audit Committee
Dear Shareholder,
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity 
of financial information and to provide assurance to 
the Board that the Group’s internal controls and risk 
management systems are appropriate and regularly 
reviewed, together with overseeing the work of the external 
auditors, approving their remuneration and recommending 
their appointment.
During the year the Committee continued to focus on 
ensuring that the Group’s systems and controls are 
operating effectively, are responsive to a challenging 
external environment and are evolving in line with the 
Group’s growth, including the new Beauty business. 
The Committee also focused on a number of significant 
regulatory changes impacting accounting and corporate 
reporting requirements. 
The Audit Committee met three times during the year. 
In addition to the usual work of the Committee (as set out 
in the table on page 83), the Committee also considered 
the significant matters set out in the table on page 84.
Where these significant matters related to the financial 
statements for the year, the Committee requested papers 
from management setting out their approach, the key 
estimates and judgements applied and management’s 
recommendation. The Committee reviewed and challenged 
these papers, together with the findings of the external 
auditors, in order to conclude on the appropriateness 
of the treatment in the financial statements.
The Committee has a constructive and open relationship 
with management and the auditors and we thank them 
for their assistance during the year.
Philip Bowman
Chairman, Audit Committee
82
Board and Governance Committee membership
The following directors served as members of the 
Committee during the year ending 31 March 2014:
Members Appointment date
Philip Bowman (Chairman) 21 June 2002
Ian Carter 18 May 2007
Jeremy Darroch 5 February 2014
Stephanie George 19 May 2006
Matthew Key 26 September 2013
David Tyler 21 June 2002
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.  
The attendance record of Committee members is recorded 
in the table on page 78. In addition to the scheduled 
meetings the Chairman of the Committee meets separately 
with the Chief Financial Officer and the Vice President of 
Audit and Risk Assurance on a regular basis including prior 
to each meeting.
Regular attendees at Committee meetings include: the 
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer, the 
Vice President of Audit and Risk Assurance, the Chief 
Corporate Affairs Officer & General Counsel, the Company 
Secretary, the Senior Vice President – Group Finance, 
the Vice President – Group Financial Controller, the Vice 
President of Group Tax and the representatives of the 
external auditors.
The Board is satisfied that Philip Bowman as Chairman has 
recent and relevant financial experience and that all other 
Committee members have past employment experience 
in either finance or accounting roles or broad experience 
and knowledge of financial reporting and/or international 
businesses. Details of their experience can be found in 
their biographies on pages 66 and 67.
Role of the Committee
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee 
are set out in written terms of reference which are available 
on the Company’s website at burberryplc.com. The 
Committee reviews its terms of reference annually. In light 
of its key responsibilities, the Committee considered the 
following items of usual business during the financial year 
as set out in the table below.
Key Committee roles and responsibilities Usual business conducted during 2013/14
Financial Reports:
The integrity of the Group’s financial  
statements and formal announcements  
of the Group’s performance.
 ·
Review of the Annual Report and Accounts, annual financial statements, 
preliminary announcement, and interim announcement. On behalf of the 
Board the consideration of whether the processes and procedures in place 
ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy.
 ·
Assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern 
for the foreseeable future.
 ·
Consideration of the report of the external auditors on the financial 
statements  for the year, and on the year end audit.
 ·
Ensuring compliance with relevant regulations for financial reporting 
and UK Corporate Governance Code.
Risks and Internal Controls:
The Group’s internal financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk identification and 
management systems. Review of Group policies  
for identifying and assessing risks and arrangements for 
employees to raise concerns (in confidence)  
about possible improprieties.
 ·
Review of the Group’s statement in the Governance Report on internal 
controls and risk management.
 ·
Review of business risk assessments.
 ·
Treasury Policy review and compliance. 
 ·
Health and safety reviews.
 ·
Whistleblowing reports.
 ·
Anti-Bribery Policy compliance.
Internal Audit:
Review of the annual internal audit programme  
and the consideration of findings of any internal 
investigations and management’s response.
Review of effectiveness of the internal audit function.
 ·
Consideration of the result of internal audits and management responses  
to the findings.
 ·
Approval of the internal audit plan for 2014/15.
 ·
Review of internal audit resourcing.
External Auditors:
Recommending the appointment of external auditors, 
approving their remuneration and overseeing their work. 
Policies on the engagement of the external auditors for 
the supply of non-audit services.
 ·
Review and approval of the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for 
the Group’s external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , for the 2013/14 
financial year (see below). 
 ·
Review and approval of the audit plan for the year presented by the Group’s 
auditors in November 2013. Consideration of the key areas of risk and the 
audit approach applied to these areas, the proposed areas of coverage of 
the audit, changes of scope and areas of risk in the current year plan and 
the resource plan. 
 ·
Review of all non-audit services provided by the Group’s auditors during 
the period and the fees relating to the services provided (see page 85).
83
Board and Governance Significant matters for the year ended 31 March 2014 How the Audit Committee addressed these matters
The calculation of the fair value of the put option over the  
non-controlling interest in the Group’s business in China.
The Audit Committee reviewed and challenged the appropriateness 
of the key inputs used in the calculation of the fair value of this option. 
The Audit Committee also considered the sensitivity of the fair value 
to reasonable changes in inputs. Management’s proposed new 
disclosures relating to the valuation, which have been included in the 
accounts as a result of the adoption of IFRS 13, were reviewed and 
agreed. Further details of the valuation of the put option, which is  
valued at £51.3m at the year end, are set out in note 19 of the financial 
statements. The Audit Committee concluded that the fair value of the 
put option, the disclosure of the valuation methodology and of the 
impact of the judgements applied were appropriate in the financial 
statements for the period.
The recoverability of the cost of inventory and the resulting 
amount of provisioning required.
The Audit Committee considered the Group’s current provisioning 
policy, the historic loss rates incurred on inventory held at the balance 
sheet date and the nature and condition of current inventory. As this 
was the first year of the Group holding Beauty inventory, the Audit 
Committee requested management to set out their intended approach 
for estimating the recoverable amount for Beauty inventory. The 
Committee also requested management to provide a detailed analysis 
of Beauty inventory at the year end, in order to consider the application 
of the agreed approach. The Audit Committee concluded that the 
carrying value of inventory was appropriate. Movements in inventory 
provisioning are set out in note 16 of the financial statements.
Income and deferred taxes. The Vice President of Group Tax, who reports to the Audit Committee at 
each meeting, presented a detailed update of the Group’s tax strategy, 
developments relating to discussions with tax authorities and the status 
of ongoing tax audits. The Audit Committee reviewed and challenged 
the appropriateness of assumptions and judgements applied in order to 
estimate the amount of assets and liabilities to be recognised in relation 
to uncertain income tax and deferred tax positions. The Audit 
Committee concluded that the assets and liabilities recognised and 
disclosures contained in the financial statements for the period were 
appropriate. Details of movements in tax balances are set out in notes  
9 and 14 of the financial statements.
Other. At the May and November meetings, the Audit Committee also 
considered management’s papers on the following subjects:
 ·
assessment of the carrying value of goodwill;
 ·
impairment assessments of property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets; and
 ·
impairment assessments of trade receivables.
84
Board and Governance External auditors
The Committee oversees the work undertaken by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. During the year the 
Committee met with the external auditors without 
members of management being present.
Appointment and fees
The Committee has primary responsibility for making 
a recommendation on the appointment, reappointment 
and removal of the external auditors. The Committee 
assesses on an annual basis the qualifications, expertise, 
resources and independence of the external auditors 
and the effectiveness of the previous audit process. 
Over the course of the year, the Committee has reviewed 
the audit process and the quality and experience of the 
audit partners engaged in the audit. The Committee also 
reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement 
for the 2013/14 financial year. Details of the fees paid to the 
external auditors during the financial year can be found in 
note 7 in the financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have remained in place as 
auditors since prior to the IPO of the Company in 2002. 
They were reappointed with a new lead audit partner 
following a formal tender process undertaken by the 
Group for the 2010/11 financial year. The external auditors 
are required to rotate the audit engagement partner every 
five years. The current audit partner commenced his 
engagement for the 2010/11 financial year and is not 
subject to rotation until after the audit of the Group’s 
financial statements for the 2014/15 financial year has 
been concluded.
During the year, the Committee approved the 
reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement 
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Group’s external 
auditor. The Committee recommended to the Board that 
it proposes to shareholders that PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP be reappointed as the Group’s external auditors at 
the Group’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Non-audit services
The Committee recognises that the independence 
of the external auditors is an essential part of the 
audit framework and the assurance that it provides. 
The Committee has adopted a policy which sets out 
a framework for determining whether it is appropriate 
to engage the Group’s auditors for non-audit services. 
Key considerations set out in the policy include whether 
the services:
 ·
are naturally tangential to the audit and which the 
auditors are best placed to provide;
 ·
cannot be regarded as naturally tangential to the audit, 
but where the external auditors are in a position to 
provide the best service to the Group due to their 
previous experience, network within and knowledge of 
the Group, or market leadership in a particular area; and
 ·
represent a real threat to the perceived or actual 
independence of the audit team.
Under the policy, the auditors may provide non-audit 
services that do not prejudice their independence, subject 
to prior approval as set out in the policy. Proposed fees 
above a certain level must be approved by the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee. Such fees must be activity based and 
not success related. At the half year and year end, the Audit 
Committee reviews all non-audit services provided by the 
auditors during the period and the fees relating to such 
services. If during the year Group expenditure for non-audit 
services exceeds £1.0m, all further requests for work must 
be referred to the Chairman of the Committee.
During the year, the Group spent £0.6m on non-audit 
services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (being 
32% of audit and audit-related fees). Further details can be 
found in note 7. 
85
Board and Governance Report of the Nomination Committee
Dear Shareholder,
The role of the Nomination Committee is to:
 ·
review the balance and composition of the Board and 
its Committees, ensuring that they remain appropriate;
 ·
be responsible for overseeing the Board’s succession 
planning requirements including the identification and 
assessment of potential Board candidates and making 
recommendations to the Board for its approval; and
 ·
keep under review the leadership needs of, and 
succession planning for, the Group in relation to both  
its executive directors and other senior executives.  
This includes the consideration of recommendations 
made by the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer 
for changes to the executive membership of the Board. 
During 2013/14 the Committee has focused heavily 
on executive and Board succession with the following 
key outcomes. 
 ·
The appointment on 1 May 2014 of Christopher Bailey 
as Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer succeeding 
Angela Ahrendts. The appointment of Carol Fairweather 
as a director on 11 July 2013, who succeeded Stacey 
Cartwright as Chief Financial Officer on 31 July 2013.
 ·
Implementation of the Board succession plan to refresh 
the Board over a two-year period. This has been aimed 
at balancing Board evolution with stability and in keeping 
with the Board’s composition principles including 
promoting diversity including in terms of gender. Good 
progress has been made on this during the year with 
the appointment of Matthew Key and Jeremy Darroch 
as non-executive directors, and the announcement that 
Carolyn McCall is appointed as a non-executive director 
effective from 1 September 2014. (See Board succession 
on page 78 and Diversity and inclusion on page 79).
Board succession and composition will remain a priority 
for the coming year as the Board continues to execute 
its succession plan.
Sir John Peace
Chairman, Nomination Committee
Committee membership
The following directors served as members of the 
Committee during the year ended 31 March 2014:
Members Appointment date
Sir John Peace (Chairman) 21 June 2002
Angela Ahrendts* 23 March 2007
Philip Bowman 21 June 2002
Ian Carter 18 May 2007
Jeremy Darroch 5 February 2014
Stephanie George 23 March 2007
Matthew Key 26 September 2013
David Tyler 23 March 2007
*  Angela Ahrendts stepped down as a member of the Committee 
on 30 April 2014.
Role of the Committee
The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination 
Committee are set out in written terms of reference 
which are available on the Company’s website at 
burberryplc.com. The Committee reviews its terms 
of reference annually.
Activities during the year
The Nomination Committee met four times during the 
year under review. The table on page 78 gives details of 
directors’ attendance at these meetings. The Committee 
spent a significant amount of time overseeing the process 
which led to the appointment of Christopher Bailey as Chief 
Creative and Chief Executive Officer, and the appointments 
of Matthew Key, Jeremy Darroch and Carolyn McCall as 
non-executive directors. The external search firm, Lygon 
Group, was used in the appointments of Matthew Key, 
Jeremy Darroch and Carolyn McCall. Due to Christopher 
Bailey’s unique qualities and deep experience with the 
business, it was agreed that it was not necessary to use 
an external search firm or advertise for his appointment. 
Lygon Group has no other connection with the Company.
Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include 
the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and General Counsel 
and the Company Secretary.
86
Board and Governance Annual General Meeting and annual re-election 
of directors
As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Notice of the 2013 Annual General Meeting was sent to 
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. 
A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions put before 
shareholders. All directors, other than Stacey Cartwright, 
who stepped down as a director at the Annual General 
Meeting, attended the 2013 Annual General Meeting and 
the Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of each 
of the Committees were available to answer 
shareholders’ questions.
Voting at the upcoming 2014 Annual General Meeting will 
be by way of poll. The results of the voting at the Annual 
General Meeting will be announced and details of the 
votes will be available to view on the Group’s website at 
burberryplc.com as soon as possible after the meeting.
It is the intention that all directors, including the Chairmen 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, 
will attend the 2014 Annual General Meeting and will be 
available to answer shareholders’ questions.
All directors have, since the 2011 Annual General Meeting, 
offered themselves for annual re-election in accordance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. At the 2014 
Annual General Meeting, all of the directors will again retire 
and all will offer themselves for re-election or, in the case 
of the newly appointed directors, for election. 
The biographical details of the current directors can be 
found on pages 66 and 67 of this Annual Report. The 
Chairman confirms that, following the internal evaluation 
during the year led by the Chairman, the performance of 
each of the directors standing for election continues to 
be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles, 
including commitment of time for Board and Committee 
meetings and any other duties. Accordingly, the Board 
recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions 
to be proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting relating 
to the re-election or election of the directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the directors, 
including the expected time commitment, are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office.
Other governance disclosures
Tax policy
The Group is committed to complying with global tax 
regulations in a responsible manner with due regard to 
governments and shareholders, and to engage in open 
and constructive relationships with tax authorities in the 
territories in which it operates. The Group’s tax planning 
is consistent with this responsible approach, and it will not 
enter into arrangements simply to achieve a tax advantage.
Tax governance framework
The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for the Group’s 
tax policy which is implemented with the assistance of the 
finance leadership team. This is reviewed on an ongoing 
basis as part of the regular financial planning cycle. In 
addition, the Group’s tax status is reported regularly to the 
Group Risk Committee. The Audit Committee is responsible 
for monitoring all significant tax matters including the 
Group’s tax policy. Audit Committee meetings are regularly 
attended by a number of Group officers and employees 
including the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President 
Group Tax and the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer & General 
Counsel, who oversees all corporate responsibility matters.
Share capital
Further information about the Company’s share capital, 
including substantial shareholdings, can be found in the 
Directors’ Report on pages 70 to 73.
87
Board and Governance Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 March 2014. This is the first year 
in which Burberry must comply with the new legislation on the disclosure of directors’ remuneration and shareholders will, 
for the first time, have a binding vote on our remuneration policy. I hope that you find this report clear and comprehensive 
and I look forward to hearing your feedback on the information presented.
The Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) aims to ensure that directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration is 
internationally competitive, taking into account the global markets in which Burberry operates and from which it recruits, 
so as to attract and retain high-calibre individuals, and is also strongly aligned to sustainable long-term performance 
delivering value to our shareholders. The Group’s remuneration policy, underpinned by these principles, is set out 
on pages 90 to 97 of this report.
There has been significant change to Burberry’s executive team during 2013/14. Christopher Bailey has been appointed the 
Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer (CC & CEO) of Burberry following Angela Ahrendts stepping down and moving 
to Apple after an impressive eight years as Chief Executive Officer. Carol Fairweather became Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 
and has performed strongly in that role after Stacey Cartwright stepped down. John Smith is now well established as the 
Group’s Chief Operating Officer (COO).
In 2013/14, Burberry grew revenue 17%, adjusted profit before tax (‘Adjusted PBT’) 8% and reported profit before tax 
27% in a challenging global environment. Management’s consistent execution of key strategies and dynamic response to 
challenges and opportunities delivered this strong performance. Against this backdrop, the annual bonus paid out at 70% 
of maximum, as Adjusted PBT for the year was between the target and maximum levels set by the Committee. Underlying 
growth in Adjusted PBT over the last three years has been 14.2% per annum and so the Co-Investment Plan awards granted 
in 2011 will vest in full.
The Committee has reviewed the executive remuneration arrangements during the year following the changes to the executive 
team and to address the expiry of our long-term share incentive plans. The Committee’s review took account of Burberry’s 
strategic plan, the performance and growth of the Group, the growth and outlook in the global luxury goods sector and 
global market practice. In addition, the Committee has given careful consideration to shareholder preferences for alignment 
of incentives with business strategy, the adoption of forfeiture provisions on variable pay and higher shareholding requirements. 
The Committee consulted with a number of our leading institutional shareholders and investor advisory bodies on the 
proposed changes to remuneration arrangements. The initial proposals were refined in light of the constructive feedback 
received and are both summarised below and reflected in our future remuneration policy.
88
Board and Governance
Directors’
Remuneration Report New Executive Share Plan
We plan to simplify the long-term share incentive arrangements by introducing a single new Executive Share Plan (ESP) 
to replace the existing Co-Investment Plan and Restricted Share Plan which have worked well in promoting sustainable 
long-term growth and have enabled us to recruit and largely retain a world-class management team. The details of the 
proposed ESP are included in our remuneration policy, but highlighted below are the key features of the plan.
 ·
Annual awards of shares of up to 400% of salary (with a plan maximum of 600% of salary to be used in exceptional 
circumstances only), with vesting subject to performance. This is consistent with the current share plans.
 ·
Awards of shares would primarily vest based on (1) growth in adjusted profit, (2) a measure to incentivise the efficient 
use of capital and (3) revenue growth, each of which would be measured over three years, consistent with the current 
share plans. However, such financial performance will also be judged against the execution of Burberry’s strategy to 
ensure long-term sustainable growth.
 ·
50% of awards would vest after the three-year performance period and 50% would vest after a further one-year 
holding period.
 ·
To ensure continued alignment of executive interests with those of shareholders, the Committee will strengthen 
requirements under the Group’s executive shareholding policy. Executive directors will continue to be required to 
retain 50% of any share award that vests (net of tax) until a specific holding is achieved. This holding will be increased 
from 1.5 times to 2 times salary for executive directors with the exception of the CC & CEO, who will be required to 
hold at least 500,000 shares (as explained in more detail below).
 ·
The ESP will include a ‘malus’ provision, whereby unvested shares or awards may be forfeited in whole or in part 
in the event of a material misstatement of the Group’s audited financial results.
Remuneration for Christopher Bailey as CC & CEO
We set out on page 104 the details of Christopher Bailey’s remuneration in his new role of CC & CEO. Aside from  
a one-off performance-based share award for taking on the CEO responsibility, there has been no increase to 
Christopher Bailey’s remuneration compared to that which he received in his previous role as Chief Creative Officer 
(CCO). The key elements of his remuneration going forward are as follows, other elements being in line with those 
for the other executive directors.
 ·
Annual salary of £1,100,000 plus an annual allowance of £440,000.
 ·
As part of his appointment as CC & CEO – a one-off, performance based grant of 500,000 shares.
 ·
A requirement to retain 50% of any share award that vests (net of tax) until a holding of 500,000 shares is achieved. 
The Committee has determined this level of holding in light of the one-off award of shares granted on appointment.
Finally, we set out on page 104 details of the final payments made or to be made to Angela Ahrendts on her departure 
from Burberry. As disclosed on our website when Angela stepped down on 30 April 2014, the payments made to Angela 
were in line with those set out in her service agreement, outstanding share awards reflected her contractual entitlement 
and she did not receive any payment relating to her departure from the Company.
The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders on any key changes to executive remuneration arrangements, 
including the targets that will be set for the first awards under the new ESP, and looks forward to gaining your support on 
both sections of this report when it is put to the vote at the Annual General Meeting in July 2014.
Ian Carter
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
89
Board and Governance Summary contents
The remuneration report is set out in the following sections:
1. Directors’ remuneration policy
2. Directors’ remuneration in 2013/14
3. Outstanding share interests
4. Directors’ remuneration in 2014/15
5. Further information on remuneration for Christopher Bailey as CC & CEO
6. Further information on remuneration for Angela Ahrendts
7. Remuneration Committee in 2013/14
8. Five-year performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration
1. Directors’ remuneration policy 
Burberry’s directors’ remuneration policy (‘remuneration policy’) as set out in this report will be put to shareholders for 
approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) to be held on 11 July 2014. It is the Committee’s intention that the 
remuneration policy will legally take effect from the date of the 2014 AGM. The remuneration policy is largely consistent 
with previous years, aside from the adoption of the new Executive Share Plan (subject to shareholders’ approval at the 
2014 AGM). The Committee intends that this remuneration policy should apply until the 2017 AGM.
The Committee believes the Group’s remuneration should be strongly linked to performance and internationally competitive, 
taking into account the global markets in which it operates and from which it recruits. The remuneration policy is based on 
the following principles.
 ·
Linked to the success and strategy of the business: the overall remuneration framework should provide a balance 
between key short-term and long-term business objectives. Variable pay for executive directors includes (1) an annual 
cash bonus based on the financial performance of Burberry (currently adjusted profit before tax as per the audited 
income statement (‘Adjusted PBT’) is the sole performance measure), and (2) long-term share-based incentives linked 
primarily to the financial performance of the Company but having regard to the delivery of objectives set in accordance 
with the Company’s long-term strategic themes.
 ·
Shareholder value: remuneration should provide close alignment with long-term value creation for shareholders through 
the selection of appropriate performance measures and targets, be tied to the future success of the Company, emphasise 
variable pay and deliver a significant proportion of remuneration in shares, some of which are expected to be retained 
in accordance with the Group’s executive shareholding policy.
 ·
Competitive in the global talent market: total remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain 
exceptional talent within the global luxury goods and digital sectors. Total remuneration for executive directors and other 
senior executives is therefore benchmarked against Burberry’s main global competitors for talent and comparable UK 
companies. The Committee recognises that, for each executive, the relative importance of each of these reference groups 
may be different depending on the skills and experience required to undertake the specific role. Benefits are based on 
competitive market practice for each executive depending on individual circumstances.
90
Board and Governance 1.1. Directors’ remuneration policy effective from 11 July 2014
Purpose Maximum annual opportunity 
and link to performance
Operation
Executive directors
Base salary 
To recognise the 
responsibilities, 
experience and ability of 
our talent in a competitive 
global environment, 
keeping our people 
focused on, and 
passionate about, 
the brand.
Maximum annual increase (per individual executive 
director): 15% of salary.
Annual increases are normally in line with the 
average increase for all employees and below 
the maximum shown. 
Salary levels and increases for executive directors are 
set within the same framework and ranges as those 
for all other employees, taking into account individual 
performance and overall contribution to the business 
during the year, cost to the Company and the external 
economic climate.
Salaries are benchmarked annually against global 
companies of similar size and/or global reach within 
relevant sectors. Depending on the role, this comprises 
companies in the luxury goods sector and/or companies 
with high-profile global brands particularly in the digital 
sector, and to a lesser extent comparable UK companies 
and/or companies with a high growth profile. Salaries are 
reviewed, although not necessarily increased, annually.
The Committee considers the impact of any base salary 
increase on the total remuneration package.
The Committee retains the ability to recognise, for 
example, development in role, change in responsibility, 
and/or other matters relating to the role or incumbent. 
In these situations the Committee reserves the discretion 
to make annual increases above the maximum 
increase shown.
Annual bonus 
To reward executive 
directors for achieving 
annual financial targets 
linked to the strategic 
plan agreed by 
the Board.
Maximum awards are:
 ·
225% of salary
Performance measure(s):
 ·
100% linked to adjusted profit performance
Percentage of maximum bonus payable at each level 
of performance:
 ·
25% at threshold
 ·
50% at target
 ·
100% at maximum
The Committee reviews the performance measure 
annually to ensure it remains appropriate and is aligned 
with Burberry’s strategy.
Adjusted profit will be the primary measure used by 
management and the Committee believes strong 
performance in adjusted profit is key to delivering 
superior shareholder returns. Ultimately, the successful 
implementation of the key strategic themes is reflected 
in the adjusted profit.
Targets are set before the start of each year by reference 
to budget, the strategic plan, long-term financial goals, 
latest projections for the relevant year and broker earnings 
estimates for Burberry and its competitors.
Targets will be disclosed retrospectively following 
completion of the relevant financial year, provided 
they are not deemed to be commercially sensitive.
50% of bonus will be deferred in shares for three years 
until executive shareholding guidelines are met.
Use of judgement: The Committee may determine 
that it is appropriate to adjust (down or up) the bonus 
outcome. This may take into account factors such as 
misalignment of adjusted profit performance with other 
financial and operational measures of performance or 
targets no longer being appropriate. It is anticipated that 
any adjustment would be infrequent and in exceptional 
circumstances only. Details of any applications of 
judgement would be disclosed at the time in the relevant 
remuneration report.
91
Board and Governance Purpose Maximum annual opportunity 
and link to performance
Operation
Burberry Executive 
Share Plan (ESP) 
(proposed and subject 
to shareholder 
approval at 2014 AGM) 
To focus executives 
on, and reward them for, 
sustainable long-term 
performance and 
successful execution of 
the Group’s long-term 
strategy.
To help maintain the 
stability of the top 
executive team, and 
align executives’ 
interests with those 
of shareholders.
Maximum awards are:
 ·
400% of salary (in normal circumstances)
 ·
 600% of salary (in exceptional circumstances, 
to be determined at the Committee’s discretion)
Performance measures for executive directors to 
be measured over three years:
 ·
50% to 60% on growth in adjusted profit:
 – 25% vesting for threshold performance
 – 100% vesting for maximum performance
 – Straight-line vesting in between
 ·
20% to 25% on a measure to incentivise the efficient 
use of capital:
 – 25% vesting for threshold performance
 – 100% vesting for maximum performance
 – Straight-line vesting in between
 ·
20% to 25% on revenue growth:
 – 25% vesting for threshold performance
 – 100% vesting for maximum performance
 – Straight-line vesting in between
Vesting: 50% after three years, remaining 50% after 
four years.
Subject to the ESP being approved at the 2014 AGM, 
the first awards will be made in 2015.
Targets for the measures will be calibrated ahead of each 
annual grant by reference to the latest strategic plan, 
long-term financial goals, latest three-year projections 
and broker earnings estimates for Burberry and its 
competitors. The threshold targets will be calibrated to be 
of median difficulty, and the maximum targets will be of 
upper quartile difficulty. Targets will be disclosed ahead of 
each annual grant.
Growth in adjusted profit has been chosen as it continues 
to be the primary financial measure used by shareholders 
and management, and the Committee believes strong 
growth in adjusted profit is key to delivering superior 
shareholder returns. The efficient use of capital measure 
is intended to incentivise management to combine 
superior growth in profit and revenue with attractive 
return on incremental investment but not to act as a 
disincentive to invest. Burberry’s strategy is designed 
to deliver both profit and revenue growth and therefore 
to align with strategy a measure based on revenue growth 
is proposed as a transparent and quantifiable indicator 
of performance. 
Where the information is not deemed by the Committee 
to be commercially sensitive, commentary will be 
provided on an annual basis outlining progress against 
the targets and, for completed cycles, detail on the 
performance achieved.
A cash payment equivalent to the value of dividends which 
would have been received during the vesting period will be 
paid only in respect of shares that vest.
Discretion: The Committee retains the discretion to 
grant awards of up to 600% of salary in exceptional 
circumstances and to vary the weighting applied to each 
measure within the ranges shown. The Committee will 
consult with major shareholders in advance of applying 
such discretion to grant awards of up to 600%.
Use of judgement: The Committee will have the ability 
to adjust down or up the calculated level of vesting by 
reference to the quality of earnings and effective execution 
of strategy to ensure the growth delivered is long-term 
sustainable growth. Details of any adjustments would be 
disclosed in the relevant remuneration report.
Malus provision: Unvested shares or awards may 
be forfeited in whole or in part in the event of a 
material misstatement in the Company’s audited 
financial statements.
All-employee 
share plans  
To encourage 
employee share 
ownership at all levels.
Sharesave: maximum savings amount of £6,000 per 
annum, with which shares can be purchased with a 
20% discount. 
Share Incentive Plan and International Freeshare Plan: 
awards with a value of up to £500 per annum.
Burberry operates two all-employee share plans:
The Sharesave Scheme offers eligible employees 
(including executive directors) an opportunity to enter 
into a three or five-year savings contract to save a portion 
of their salary which can be used to purchase Burberry 
shares, normally at the end of the savings contract, 
at up to a 20% discount to the market price at the date 
of invitation.
Awards of shares or a cash equivalent (where the use of 
shares is not possible) are made annually to all eligible 
employees under the UK Share Incentive Plan and 
International Freeshare Plans.
Discretion: The Committee reserves the right to increase 
the maxima to the extent that the change is made on the 
same basis for all employees participating in the plan.
Pensions 
To offer market-
competitive benefits.
Maximum company contribution: 30% of salary 
per annum
Executive directors participate in defined contribution 
arrangements.
Participants may elect to receive some or all of their 
entitlement as a cash allowance.
92
Board and Governance Purpose Maximum annual opportunity 
and link to performance
Operation
Other benefits 
and allowances  
To promote the 
well-being of 
employees, allowing 
them to focus on 
the business.
The aggregate maximum value of all other benefits and 
allowances is not anticipated to exceed £100,000 per 
individual per annum.
The Committee may agree that the Company will pay 
additional allowances linked to relocation or international 
assignment. For the purposes of providing a maximum, 
it is not expected that this would exceed £250,000 in any 
year for one individual.
For the CC & CEO only, the maximum value of all cash 
allowances is £440,000 per annum, as agreed in his 
previous role, prior to his appointment as an executive 
director. He is also entitled to receive the non-cash 
benefits, as noted to the right; the value of these is not 
expected to exceed £20,000 per annum.
Benefit levels are reviewed on an annual basis and the cost 
to the Company of providing benefits can vary due to a 
number of factors.
Benefits for executive directors may include, but are not 
limited to:
 ·
private medical insurance
 ·
life assurance
 ·
long-term disability insurance
 ·
car allowance
 ·
clothing allowance
 ·
employee discount
Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
Discretion: The Committee retains the discretion to 
provide other benefits to the executive directors as 
deemed necessary.
Discretion to honour all prior commitments 
The Committee reserves the right to make any payments where the terms were agreed before this policy came into effect or prior to an individual 
being appointed a director of the Company. These payments will include the satisfaction of share awards previously granted.
Outstanding Co-
Investment Plan 
(CIP) awards (prior 
commitments)  
To allow payment of 
awards made under 
previous policy.
Maximum awards (subject to investment of bonus):
 ·
400% of salary (that is a two-times match on a 
maximum bonus of 200% of salary)
The performance measure that determines vesting 
is growth in Adjusted PBT over three years.
It is the Committee’s intention that outstanding CIP 
awards should be allowed to pay out according to the 
terms on grant.
Further details are contained in the remuneration report for 
the year of grant and will be included in the remuneration 
report for the final year of the performance period.
Malus provision: None.
Outstanding 
Restricted Share Plan 
(RSP) awards (prior 
commitments) 
To allow payment 
of outstanding awards, 
made under 
previous policy.
Maximum awards:
 ·
200% of salary
 ·
One-off exceptional award of 300% of salary (granted 
to the CC & CEO in his previous role, prior to his 
appointment as an executive director)
Performance conditions for executive directors:
 ·
50% on growth in Adjusted PBT over three years
 ·
50% on relative TSR vs. sector peers over three years
It is the Committee’s intention that outstanding RSP 
awards should be allowed to pay out according to the 
terms on grant.
Further details are contained in the remuneration report for 
the year of grant and will be included in the remuneration 
report for the final year of the performance period.
Malus provision: None.
Outstanding 
exceptional share 
awards (prior 
commitments) 
To allow payment of 
outstanding awards, 
made under prior 
commitments to 
Christopher Bailey.
(1) In Christopher Bailey’s prior role as Chief 
Creative Officer.
Maximum outstanding awards:
 ·
1,350,000 shares
Vesting conditions are continued employment over three, 
four and five years from date of grant
(2) On Christopher Bailey’s appointment to CC & CEO.
Maximum outstanding award:
 ·
500,000 shares
Vesting conditions are key strategic performance 
objectives, as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee at date of grant, and continued employment 
over three, four and five years from date of grant
It is the Committee’s intention that outstanding 
exceptional share awards should be allowed to 
pay out according to the terms on grant.
Further details will be included in the remuneration report 
for the year when any awards are included in the single 
figure of total remuneration.
In the case of the award on appointment to the CC & CEO, 
the Committee will disclose further details on the key 
strategic performance objectives at the time they are 
considered not to be commercially sensitive and will 
provide commentary on progress towards these 
objectives on an annual basis.
Notes:
Adjustment of share awards: The number of shares subject to an award can be adjusted on a rights issue, special dividend, demerger or variation of capital or 
similar transaction. Awards will vest on a takeover to the extent performance conditions are achieved and the number of shares will be generally prorated to reflect 
early vesting. Alternatively, they can be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company. The Committee can also allow full or partial vesting 
on a demerger, special dividend, distribution in specie or if the participant is relocated in circumstances which would give rise to unfavourable tax treatment. Share 
awards can be satisfied by a cash payment equal to the value of shares the participant would otherwise have received.
In respect of our share plans, this table presents a summary of the key and relevant information for the Plan Rules. It is the Committee’s intention that these plans 
will operate in accordance with the Plan Rules as approved by shareholders.
93
Board and Governance Purpose Maximum annual opportunity Operation
Non-executive directors
Chairman – fees 
To attract and retain a 
high-calibre chairman 
by offering a market-
competitive fee.
Maximum increase: 10% of fee (per annum over period 
since last review date).
The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
The fee level is reviewed at least every three years by 
the Committee, with reference to UK market levels in 
companies of a similar size, the time commitment and 
personal contribution. The fee was last reviewed in 
July 2013.
The fee is paid in cash.
Non-executive 
directors (NEDs)  
– fees  
To attract and retain 
high-calibre non-
executive directors 
by offering market-
competitive fees.
Maximum increase for each type of fee (per individual 
director): 10% of fee (per annum over period since last 
review date).
The non-executive directors are paid a basic fee. The 
Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
and the Senior Independent Director are paid an 
additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
Fee levels are reviewed at least every three years by the 
Board, with reference to UK market levels in companies 
of a similar size. The fees were last reviewed in July 2013.
Fees are paid in cash.
Chairman and NEDs 
– other benefits 
To enable the Chairman 
and non-executive 
directors to undertake 
their roles.
Non-executive directors receive a £2,000 attendance 
allowance per meeting for attendance at Board 
meetings outside of their country of residence (except 
the Chairman) and, as brand ambassadors, discount 
on Burberry products.
Attendance allowances are paid in cash.
Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
NEDs – additional fees 
To allow flexibility to 
provide additional fees 
if required.
Maximum additional fee: £20,000 The Company has the discretion to pay an additional 
fee to a non-executive director should the Company 
require significant additional time commitment in 
exceptional circumstances.
The Company currently has no intention to use 
this discretion.
1.2. Policy on recruitment and promotion arrangements
The Committee will pay new directors in accordance with the approved remuneration policy and all its elements as set 
out in the table above. The ongoing annual remuneration arrangements for new executive directors will therefore comprise 
base salary, annual bonus, ESP award, pension, benefits and all employee share plans. In addition, the recruitment policy 
below permits the Committee to take the following actions, as appropriate, in the best interests of the Company and 
therefore shareholders.
 ·
For an internal appointment, any commitment made in respect of the prior role will be allowed to pay out according 
to its terms. 
 ·
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will pay certain allowances linked 
to relocation, as appropriate, and will meet expenses / reimburse an executive against additional costs on appointment. 
In addition, the Committee may agree that the Company will pay certain allowances linked to repatriation on termination 
of employment.
 ·
For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional cash and/or share based elements to take account of 
remuneration relinquished when leaving a former employer. As far as possible and appropriate, such payments would 
reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the relinquished remuneration.
 ·
If necessary, the Committee may offer additional cash and/or share based elements to secure an appointment. The 
Committee would determine the performance conditions and time horizons that would apply to such awards at the time. 
Such awards would be limited to 600% of salary.
 ·
If necessary, the Committee may enter into a service contract with a longer initial notice period, reducing to 12 months 
or less on a rolling basis to secure the appointment of an executive from an environment where longer notice periods 
are market practice.
For internal appointments the terms and conditions of the individual employment prior to the appointment will remain in 
force unless the Committee otherwise decides and the individual agrees.
94
Board and Governance 1.3. Supplementary information
External directorships
The Board’s executive directors are permitted to hold only one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company 
and may retain the fees payable from such an appointment. Details of the directors’ other directorships can be found 
in their biographies on pages 66 and 67 and the associated fees are shown in the notes to the single figure of total 
remuneration table on page 99.
Remuneration policy in the rest of the Company
The remuneration arrangements for executive directors outlined in section 1.1. above are consistent with those for the 
other senior executives, although quantum and award opportunities vary by executive level.
During its deliberations on executive remuneration, the Committee considers the reward framework for all employees 
worldwide, ensuring that the principles applied are consistent with the executive remuneration policy. Merit increases 
awarded to executives are determined within the broader context of employee remuneration. All employees are eligible 
for an annual bonus based on performance and executive share plans are extended through the organisation to senior 
executives and high-potential employees as and where appropriate. The principle of shareholder alignment is reflected 
throughout the organisation through our all employee share plans, which are (where legally possible) extended to all 
eligible Burberry employees globally. 
Indicative total remuneration levels
A substantial portion of executive director remuneration is dependent on Company performance. The charts below 
illustrate indicative levels of total remuneration which would be received by each executive director under the remuneration 
policy above for the first complete financial year in which the policy will apply (from 1 April 2015) at each of: (1) maximum,  
(2) target and (3) below threshold performance scenarios.
Executive director total remuneration at different levels of performance
Target
Maximum
Below threshold
Target
Maximum
Below threshold
£0.7m 100%
£0.8m 100%
20% 22% 58% £3.4m
33% 18% 49% £2.0m
33% 18% 49% £2.4m
20% 22% 58% £4.1m
Fixed Short-term variable Long-term variable
John Smith
Chief Operating Ofcer
Carol Fairweather
Chief Financial Ofcer
£2m £4m £6m £8m £10m £0m
Target
Christopher Bailey
Chief Creative & Chief Executive Ofcer
Maximum
Below threshold
100% £1.9m
31% 18% 51% £6.1m
18% 22% 60% £10.3m
Notes:
 – ‘Maximum’ remuneration includes fixed pay plus 100% of annual bonus opportunity and a 400% of salary ESP award.
 – ‘Target’ remuneration includes fixed pay plus 50% of annual bonus opportunity and a 200% of salary ESP award.
 – ‘Below threshold’ remuneration includes fixed pay only (salary, pension and cash allowances).
 – No share price growth or dividend payments have been applied to share awards included in these indicative total remuneration figures.
 – Salaries are assumed to be at the levels that will apply from 1 July 2014.
 – The CC & CEO’s 2014 exceptional share award has been included in the chart above on an annualised basis – the same approach will be taken in each 
year until the award has vested in full. His 2010 and 2013 exceptional share awards have been excluded, as they do not form part of the general policy 
or his remuneration as CC & CEO.
95
Board and Governance Policy on service agreements and termination provisions
Executive directors
The Company’s general policy on directors’ service agreements is that they operate on a rolling basis with no specific 
end date and include a 12-month notice period both to and from the Company.
Date of current service 
agreement
Date employment 
commenced
Notice period to the 
Company
Notice period from the 
Company
Christopher Bailey 30 April 2014 7 May 2001 6 months 12 months
John Smith 6 February 2013 4 March 2013 12 months 12 months
Carol Fairweather 11 July 2013 12 June 2006 6 months 12 months
Standard terms on termination
 ·
Salary, benefits and allowances: Executive directors continue to receive salary, benefits and allowances during their 
notice period. Pursuant to the terms of Business Protection Agreements (which set out restrictive covenants and terms 
relating to the non-solicitation of employees) in place with the executive directors (except the CC & CEO), payments equal 
to salary for the duration of certain restrictive covenants may be made if the employer chooses to enforce them to protect 
Burberry’s continuing business.
 ·
Annual bonus paid in cash: An executive considered to be a ‘good leaver’ (for example leaving the Company on 
retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee) may remain eligible for 
a prorated payment of the annual bonus subject to achievement of bonus targets. An executive who has left employment 
for a reason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period or before the payment is due, 
or who has given or been given notice in those circumstances at the time of payment, will not be eligible to receive 
an annual bonus. The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the payment of annual bonus to leavers, 
as outlined below.
 ·
CIP invested shares: An executive leaving the Company for any reason is entitled to retain all invested shares held.
 ·
CIP matching awards: For an executive considered to be a ‘good leaver’ (including leaving the Company on retirement, 
redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee), outstanding awards will be 
prorated for time and vest subject to performance on the original vesting date. Upon a change in control of the Company, 
outstanding awards will be prorated for time and vest subject to performance at the point of change in control. For an 
executive whose employment is terminated for any other reason (such as leaving to join a competitor company) during the 
performance period, CIP matching awards will lapse in full. The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the 
extent to which CIP matching awards vest for leavers, as outlined below.
 ·
RSP awards: For an executive considered to be a ‘good leaver’ (including leaving the Company on retirement, 
redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee), outstanding awards will be  
prorated for time and vest subject to performance. Upon a change in control of the Company, outstanding awards 
will vest subject to performance at the point of change in control. For an executive whose employment is terminated 
for any other reason (such as leaving to join a competitor company) during the performance period, RSP awards 
will lapse in full. The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the extent to which RSP awards vest 
for leavers, as outlined below.
 ·
ESP awards (proposed): For an executive considered to be a ‘good leaver’ (including leaving the Company on 
retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or as decided by the Committee), outstanding awards 
will be prorated for time and vest subject to performance on the original vesting date. Upon a change in control of the 
Company, outstanding awards will be prorated for time and vest subject to performance at the point of change in control. 
For an executive whose employment is terminated for any other reason (such as leaving to join a competitor company) 
during the performance period, ESP awards will lapse in full. The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and 
the extent to which awards vest for leavers, as outlined below.
 ·
Other: Reasonable disbursements (for example, legal or professional fees, relocation costs) will be paid.
 ·
Discretion: In the Committee’s experience, directors leave for a wide variety of reasons and individual circumstances, 
which do not all fall within the ‘good leaver’ categories outlined above. The Committee therefore retains discretion to 
approve payments to individuals based on individual circumstances and performance while in office. In applying any 
such discretion, the Committee will make any decisions by considering the best interests of shareholders and those 
of the remaining employees including directors. Where awards are subject to performance conditions, these would be 
tested at the end of the relevant period(s) and any award which is allowed to vest would be prorated for time in office.
96
Board and Governance Christopher Bailey
The Company has agreed specific arrangements with Christopher Bailey in relation to termination of his employment in 
substitution for the first two bullets of the standard terms described in the previous section. These specific arrangements 
are described below.
The Company may terminate Christopher Bailey’s service agreement without cause by giving 12 months’ written notice. 
The Company may terminate the service agreement immediately, in its sole discretion, by written notice and electing to 
pay to Christopher Bailey either (1) a lump sum representing his salary in lieu of the unexpired notice period within 14 days 
of termination or (2) in monthly instalments of 1/12 of his annual salary and 1/12 of his annual allowance of £440,000 in 
lieu of the unexpired notice period or until Christopher Bailey commences any new employment or engagement if earlier. 
Christopher Bailey must use his reasonable endeavours to seek alternative employment during the balance of his unexpired 
notice period. The Company will also pay Christopher Bailey a bonus for the year in which employment terminated subject 
to achievement of the performance targets and other requirements of the bonus arrangements for that year, prorated to 
actual service in the bonus year. The bonus would be paid on the usual bonus payment date. 
Christopher Bailey may terminate his service agreement at any time for ‘Good Reason’, provided he has requested that the 
Company remedy the relevant breach within 14 days of notification and the Company has failed to do so. ‘Good Reason’ 
means the Company is guilty of serious and continued non-observance or breach of the terms of the service agreement or 
of any applicable substantial laws which are detrimental to Christopher Bailey. On termination for ‘Good Reason’ Christopher 
Bailey is entitled to a lump sum payment representing his salary in lieu of notice. The Company will also pay Christopher 
Bailey a bonus for the year in which employment terminated subject to achievement of the performance targets and other 
requirements of the bonus arrangements for that year, prorated to actual service in the bonus year. The bonus would be 
paid on the usual bonus payment date. 
The Company may terminate the service agreement on health grounds by giving Christopher Bailey not less than six months’ 
notice once Christopher Bailey’s entitlement to Company sick pay has been exhausted or he has been incapacitated 
for more than 26 weeks (whether or not continuous) in any period of 52 weeks. The Company may, in its sole discretion, 
terminate the employment by making a payment of 130 per cent of his salary, and pay the allowance in lieu of notice within 
14 days of termination. The Company will also pay Christopher Bailey a bonus for the year in which employment terminated 
subject to achievement of the performance targets and other requirements of the bonus arrangements for that year, 
prorated to actual service in that year. The bonus would be paid on the usual bonus payment date. 
If Christopher Bailey dies during his employment with the Company, the Company will pay his estate his salary to the 
termination date and a bonus calculated as for an ill health termination described above.
Upon termination of the service agreement, Christopher Bailey’s entitlements (if any) under the relevant share plans 
in which he participates will be determined in accordance with the rules of those plans, as described above.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors serve under Letters of Appointment with the Company. Non-executive directors may continue 
to serve subject to the annual re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting of the Company, subject to six 
months’ notice by either party. There are no provisions for compensation for loss of office, or payments in lieu of notice in 
the Letters of Appointment.
1.4. Development of directors’ remuneration policy
In developing and reviewing the directors’ remuneration policy, the Committee is mindful of the views of shareholders 
and is sensitive of the relativities of arrangements for senior executives to those for employees more generally.
The Committee proactively seeks feedback from shareholders when considering any significant changes to remuneration 
for executive directors. The Committee also listens to and takes into consideration investor views more generally throughout 
the year. For example, during the year the Company consulted with its leading shareholders on the proposed ESP and 
remuneration policy and refined the proposals based on the feedback received.
Base salary increases awarded to executives are determined within the broader context of Company-wide salary increases. 
Given the scale, geographic spread and the diversity of roles of the Company’s employees, the Committee does not proactively 
consult with employees specifically on the remuneration policy for directors. Employees are free to communicate their views 
internally on any topic including by using the Burberry internal social media platform or using the employee confidential 
helpline. In addition, many of the Company’s employees are shareholders, through the Sharesave and Free Share plans, 
and they, like other shareholders, are able to express their views on directors’ remuneration at each general meeting.
97
Board and Governance 2. Directors’ remuneration in 2013/14
The information set out in this section has been subject to external audit where indicated.
2.1. Single figure of total remuneration outcomes for 2013/14 (audited)
The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration received or receivable by the directors in respect of 
the 2013/14 year (or the three-year performance period ending on 31 March 2014 in respect of the 2011 Co-Investment 
Plan awards).
The remuneration for Angela Ahrendts relates to the period 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014, during which she served 
as Chief Executive Officer. The remuneration for Carol Fairweather relates to the period 11 July 2013 to 31 March 2014, 
the period during which she served as a director and Chief Financial Officer. The remuneration for Stacey Cartwright 
relates to the period from 1 April 2013 to 12 July 2013, when she stepped down from the Board. Christopher Bailey 
was not a director during the year and so his remuneration does not appear in this table.
Salary/fees
£’000
Benefits/
allowances
£’000
Bonus
£’000
CIP
£’000
RSP
£’000
Total LTI
£’000
Pension
£’000
Total
£’000
Executive directors
Angela Ahrendts
Year to 31 March 2014 1,057 467 1,492 4,662 – 4,662 317 7,995
Year to 31 March 2013 1,020 439 1,545 7,591 – 7,591 306 10,901
John Smith
Year to 31 March 2014 575 48 604 – – – 173 1,400
Year to 31 March 2013 110 6 – – – – 14 130
Carol Fairweather
Year to 31 March 2014 302 23 308 325 – 325 91 1,049
Former executive directors
Stacey Cartwright
Year to 31 March 2014 175 11 – – – – 53 239
Year to 31 March 2013 615 40 698 3,208 968 4,176 185 5,714
Non-executive directors
Sir John Peace
Year to 31 March 2014 388 388
Year to 31 March 2013 350 2 352
Philip Bowman
Year to 31 March 2014 130 130
Year to 31 March 2013 115 2 117
Ian Carter
Year to 31 March 2014 109 12 121
Year to 31 March 2013 84 14 98
Stephanie George
Year to 31 March 2014 78 12 90
Year to 31 March 2013 70 14 84
David Tyler
Year to 31 March 2014 78 78
Year to 31 March 2013 76 2 78
Matthew Key
Year to 31 March 2014 47 47
Jeremy Darroch
Year to 31 March 2014 15 15
Note:
Each executive director is entitled to an annual pension contribution or allowance equal to 30% of base salary.
98
Board and Governance The table below details the benefits/allowances received by the executive directors during the 2013/14 year:
2013/14 benefits/allowances 
(£’000s)
Overseas
allowance
Car
allowance
Clothing
allowance
Private
medical
insurance
Life
assurance
Long-term
disability
insurance
Tax and other
professional
 advice 
Total
£’000
Angela Ahrendts 344 18 25 23 9 6 42 467
John Smith – 17 15 2 11 3 – 48
Carol Fairweather – 7 11 3 1 1 – 23
Former executive directors
Stacey Cartwright – 5 4 – 1 1 – 11
Notes:
 – It is the intention of Carol Fairweather and John Smith that 100% of their 2013/14 annual bonus after tax will be invested in shares under the CIP.
 – The amounts shown for 2011 CIP awards vesting for Angela Ahrendts and Carol Fairweather (for year to 31 March 2014) assume a share price of £14.75, 
based on the average share price over the three months to 31 March 2014, and payments of £233,595 and £16,259 respectively in lieu of dividends, 
because these awards are yet to vest.
 – 2010 CIP awards vested in full on 10 June 2013 at a share price of £14.29. The amount shown for Angela Ahrendts also includes a payment of £423,798 
in lieu of dividends.
 – John Smith became an executive director on 4 March 2013, having previously served as a non-executive director until that date. Salary/fees for John Smith 
for the year to 31 March 2013 comprise non-executive fees of £64,000 and executive director salary of £46,000. Allowances paid in cash for the same period 
comprise £2,000 while a non-executive director and £2,000 for allowances received as an executive director.
 – Fees for Matthew Key relate to the period from 1 September 2013 (his appointment date) to 31 March 2014.
 – Fees for Jeremy Darroch relate to the period from 5 February 2014 (his appointment date) to 31 March 2014.
 – Stacey Cartwright served as a non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline plc from 1 April 2011 and it was agreed that fees earned in connection with 
this appointment can be retained by her. From 1 April 2013 to 12 July 2013 fees for this appointment were £29,960 (1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013: £85,000).
 – Stacey Cartwright continued as an employee to receive salary, benefits and pension contribution for the period when she had stepped down from the Board, 
from 12 July 2013 until her leaving date of 31 July 2013 (salary of £31,000, benefits/allowances of £2,084 and pension of £9,434) – these amounts are not 
included in the table above. For the full year to 31 March 2013, Stacey Cartwright served as Chief Financial Officer and was therefore entitled to an annual 
bonus, her 2010 CIP award, which vested in full (214,944 shares at a price of £14.29, plus a dividend equivalent payment of £136,489) and the first tranche (50%) 
of her 2010 RSP award which vested at 87% (67,860 shares at a share price of £14.27) – these are included in the table above. Stacey Cartwright did not receive 
any payment for loss of office or otherwise in respect of her departure from the Company.
 – No payment has been made to a past director other than to Stacey Cartwright, as stated above.
2.2. Salary for 2013/14
Angela Ahrendts held the role of Chief Executive Officer for the 2013/14 year and left the Company on 30 April 2014. Her 
annual salary was £1,066,000 from 1 July 2013. John Smith became an executive director on 4 March 2013 with a salary of 
£575,000, this will be reviewed in July 2014. Carol Fairweather became an executive director on 11 July 2013 and her salary 
was increased on 1 October 2013 from £350,000 to £450,000 to reflect her new role. Carol Fairweather’s salary will be 
reviewed in July 2014.
2.3. Annual bonus outcomes 2013/14 (audited)
For the year to 31 March 2014, the 2013/14 Adjusted PBT achieved was between the target and maximum level set by 
the Committee, which resulted in bonuses for the executive directors of 70% of maximum, as set out in the table below.
Annual bonus for 2013/14
Maximum bonus
opportunity
(% of salary)
2013/14
bonus payment
(% of maximum)
2013/14
bonus payment
(% of salary)
2013/14
bonus payment
(£’000)
Angela Ahrendts 200% 70% 140% 1,492
John Smith 150% 70% 105% 604
Carol Fairweather 135% 70% 95% 308
Targets will be disclosed in the 2014/15 report unless the Board deems them to be commercially sensitive.
For the final time, in respect of 2013/14 bonuses, executive directors (excluding Angela Ahrendts) can choose to invest 
the full amount into shares and any invested amounts are eligible for matching awards under the Co-Investment Plan. 
Christopher Bailey, John Smith and Carol Fairweather intend to invest 100% of their bonuses (after the deduction of tax) 
into Burberry shares under the CIP. Further details of the associated matching awards are shown in the Summary of key 
remuneration aspects in 2014/15 for executive directors on page 103, full details will appear in the 2014/15 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
99
Board and Governance 2.4. Co-Investment Plan outcomes for 2013/14 (audited)
In June 2011, Angela Ahrendts and Carol Fairweather were awarded Co-Investment Plan (‘CIP’) matching awards of 300,252 
and 20,898 shares respectively. Vesting was subject to performance from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2014, as follows: 25% 
of awards vest if growth in Adjusted PBT is 5% per annum over three years, 100% vest if Adjusted PBT growth is equal to 
or exceeds 10% per annum over three years. The vesting outcome based on three-year Adjusted PBT growth is calculated 
using Adjusted PBT as disclosed in the annual accounts. Actual Adjusted PBT growth over the three-year period to 
31 March 2014 at constant exchange rates was 14.2%, therefore 100% of awards will vest in June 2014, as set out 
in the table below.
CIP outcomes for 2013/14
2011
CIP award
(no. of
matching shares)
2011
CIP Adjusted
PBT growth
targets over
three years (p.a.)
Level of
Adjusted PBT
growth achieved
over three years
#
2013/14
CIP vesting
(% of maximum)
2013/14
CIP vesting
(£’000)*
Angela Ahrendts 300,252 Threshold: 5%
Maximum: 10%
14.2% p.a. 100% 4,662
Carol Fairweather 20,898 100% 325
*  The amounts shown for 2011 CIP awards vesting for Angela Ahrendts and Carol Fairweather (for year to 31 March 2014) assume a share price of £14.75, 
based on the average share price over the three months to 31 March 2014, and payments of £233,595 and £16,259 respectively in lieu of dividends, 
because these awards are yet to vest.
#
  The level of Adjusted PBT achieved is lower than the reported 2013/14 Adjusted PBT due to adjustments made by the Committee to reflect both constant 
exchange rates and the deduction of items disallowed by the Committee for remuneration purposes.
John Smith became an executive director on 4 March 2013 and so did not receive a CIP award in 2011.
2.5. Restricted Share Plan outcomes for 2013/14 (audited)
No Restricted Share Plan (‘RSP’) awards are due to vest for the 2013/14 year, as no RSP awards were granted to executive 
directors under the plan in 2011.
2.6. Change in the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration relative to all employees
The table below sets out the year-on-year change (2013/14 vs. 2012/13) of Angela Ahrendts’s salary, benefits and annual 
bonus received in her role as Chief Executive Officer, compared to the year-on-year change for comparator group of  
UK-based employees.
Salary Benefits Bonus
Chief Executive Officer Year-on-year change (%) +3.6% +5.7% -3.4%
Employees* Year-on-year change (%) +3.5% 0% -3.4%
*  The comparator group includes employees in senior corporate roles based in the UK. This group has been chosen as these employees have a remuneration 
package with a similar structure to the CEO (including salary, benefits/allowances and annual bonus) and being UK-based, most closely reflects the economic 
environment encountered by the CEO. For the comparator group of employees, the salary and bonus year-on-year changes include the annual salary review 
but exclude any additional changes made in the year (to salary or bonus levels), for example on promotion. In 2013/14, the bonus outturn based on Adjusted PBT 
performance was 70% of maximum, compared to 75% of maximum in 2012/13. The 0% increase for benefits for the comparator group of employees reflects 
no change to benefits policies or levels during the year. It does not reflect any changes to the level of benefits an individual may have received as a result of a 
change in role, for example on promotion. For all employees, the average salary increase was 3.5% (including annual salary review but excluding any additional 
changes). A meaningful year-on-year change for benefits and bonus for all employees cannot be provided due to the variation in structure of these pay elements 
across roles and regions.
2.7. Relative importance of spend on pay for 2013/14
The table below sets out the total payroll costs for all employees over 2013/14 compared to total dividends payable 
for the year.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2013/14 2012/13
Dividends paid during the year (total) £m 130.7 113.5
% change +15.2%
Payroll costs for all employees £m 441.3 387.0
% change +14.0%
Average number of full-time equivalent employees 9,698 8,867
% change +9.4%
100
Board and Governance 3. Outstanding share interests
The information set out in this section has been subject to external audit where indicated.
3.1. Conditional share awards granted in 2013/14 (audited)
The table below summarises the long-term conditional share awards granted to directors during 2013/14.
Summary of conditional share awards granted in 2013/14
Type of award
Performance
measure
Vesting
schedule
Performance
period end Director
Basis of
award
Number of
shares awarded
Face value
at grant
3
CIP matching 
share awards
1
Growth in
Adjusted PBT
over three years
25% for 5% p.a.
100% for 10%
p.a. or above
Straight-line
vesting between
31/3/2016 Angela
Ahrendts
4
1.5x invested
2012/13 bonus
170,116 £2,317,500
John Smith – –
Carol
Fairweather
1.125x invested
2012/13 bonus
21,677 £295,313
RSP share 
awards
2
Growth in
Adjusted PBT
over three years
(50%)
25% for 10% p.a.
5
100% for 15%
p.a. or above
Straight-line
vesting between
31/3/2016 Angela
Ahrendts
4
2x salary 157,343 £2,132,000
TSR vs. sector
peers over three
years (50%)
25% for median
100% for upper
quartile or above
Straight-line
vesting between
John Smith 1.5x salary 63,653 £862,500
Carol
Fairweather
1x salary 25,830 £350,000
1  The CIP matching shares were awarded on 14 June 2013 and will vest after three years, subject to the performance conditions outlined above. John Smith 
became an executive director on 4 March 2013 and so did not receive either a bonus for 2012/13 or a CIP matching award in 2013/14.
2  The RSP shares were awarded on 14 June 2013 and will vest 50% after three years, and 25% after each of four and five years, subject to the performance 
conditions outlined above.
3  The face value of each award has been calculated using the share price at the date of grant (£13.62 for CIP matching awards and £13.55 for RSP awards). 
As receipt of these is conditional on performance, the actual value of these awards may be nil. Vesting outcomes will be disclosed in the 2016/17 
remuneration report.
4  The CIP and RSP awards granted to Angela Ahrendts during 2013/14 lapsed in full upon her departure from Burberry, as noted on page 104.
5 The threshold PBT target for RSP awards was set at a stretching 10% p.a. to reflect that awards above 1x salary had been granted.
3.2. Further information on conditional share awards granted in 2013/14 (audited)
TSR performance vs. sector peers
50% of the RSP share awards granted in 2013/14 vest subject to Burberry’s three-year TSR performance relative to sector 
peers. The TSR peer group for the 2013 awards comprises: Coach, Compagnie Financière Richemont, Estée Lauder, Fossil, 
Fifth & Pacific (formerly Liz Claiborne), Geox, Hermès International, Hugo Boss, Inditex, Kering (formerly PPR), Luxottica 
Group, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Nike, Nordstrom, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks, Swatch, Tiffany & Co, and Tod’s. 
The vesting outcome based on relative TSR is calculated by Towers Watson.
Growth in Adjusted PBT
The vesting outcome based on three-year Adjusted PBT growth is calculated using Adjusted PBT as disclosed in the 
annual accounts, subject to any adjustments made by the Committee to reflect any items deemed to be outside of 
management’s control.
101
Board and Governance 3.3. Total interests in shares (audited)
The table below summarises the total interests of the directors in ordinary shares of Burberry Group plc as at 31 March 
2014. There have been no changes in the period up to and including 20 May 2014 (apart from those detailed in notes 3 
and 6 below). These include beneficial and conditional interests and the interests of their connected persons in shares.
Director Type of award Date of grant
Conditional
(with
performance)
Conditional
(continued
employment)
Unconditional
but
unexercised
Number
of shares
owned Total
Angela Ahrendts
5
RSP 01-Jun-09 – 112,500 –
RSP
1,3
14-Jun-13 157,343 – –
CIP
2
07-Jun-11 300,252 – –
CIP
2,3
18-Jul-12 326,736 – –
CIP
2,3
14-Jun-13 170,116 – –
One-off NCO
3
08-Dec-10 500,000 – –
SAYE/SIP
3
25-Jun-10 – 2,773 –
Total 1,454,447 115,273 – 685,011 2,254,731
John Smith RSP
1
14-Jun-13 63,653 – –
SAYE/SIP 20-Jun-13 – 737 –
Total 63,653 737 – 2,560 66,950
Carol Fairweather 
4
RSP 25-Jun-08 – – 6,250
RSP 01-Jun-09 – 10,000 –
RSP 10-Jun-10 – 13,050 –
RSP
1
13-Jun-12 39,651 – –
RSP
1
14-Jun-13 25,830 – –
CIP
2
07-Jun-11 20,898 – –
CIP
2
18-Jul-12 32,178 – –
CIP
2
14-Jun-13 21,677 – –
SAYE/SIP 20-Jun-13 – 737 –
Total 140,234 23,787 6,250 52,653 222,924
Sir John Peace – – – 195,738 195,738
Philip Bowman – – – 75,000 75,000
Ian Carter – – – 34,790 34,790
Stephanie George – – – 41,600 41,600
David Tyler – – – 44,000 44,000
Matthew Key – – – 1,260 1,260
Jeremy Darroch – – – – –
Former directors
Stacey Cartwright
7
 
(holding as at 12 July 2013) RSP
1,6
01-Jun-09 –  66,250  – 
RSP
1,6
10-Jun-10 –  33,930  – 
RSP
1,6
13-Jun-12 83,333  –  – 
CIP
2,6
18-Jul-12 148,516  –  – 
Total 231,849  100,180  –  452,261 784,290
1 RSP awards are subject to the same performance conditions as outlined on page 103.
2 CIP awards are subject to the same performance conditions as outlined on page 103.
3  Awards lapsed in full upon Angela Ahrendts’ departure in accordance with the rules of each plan and as outlined on page 104 (the ‘One-off NCO’  
was a nil-cost option award).
4 Carol Fairweather exercised the following awards during the year:
 – 35,651 shares under CIP (granted 9 June 2010). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (14 June 2013) was 1362.30p; 
 – 10,000 shares under RSP (granted 1 June 2009). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (14 June 2013) was 1362.30p; 
 – 13,050 shares under RSP (granted 10 June 2010). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (14 June 2013) was 1362.30p.
5 Angela Ahrendts exercised the following awards during the year:
 – 501,536 shares under CIP (granted 9 June 2010). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (26 November 2013) was 1499.196p; 
 – 112,500 shares under RSP (granted 1 June 2009). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (26 November 2013) was 1499.196p. 
6 Awards lapsed in full upon Stacey Cartwright’s departure in accordance with the rules of each plan.
7 Stacey Cartwright exercised during the year:
 – 214,944 shares under CIP (granted 9 June 2010). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (14 June 2013) was 1362.30p;
 – 10,076 shares under RSP (granted 10 August 2006). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (14 June 2013) was 1362.30p;
 – 2,521 shares under RSP (granted 27 November 2006). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (14 June 2013) was 1362.30p;
 – 15,746 shares under RSP (granted 11 June 2007). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (14 June 2013) was 1362.30p;
 – 66,250 shares under RSP (granted 1 June 2009). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (14 June 2013) was 1362.30p;
 – 33,930 shares under RSP (granted 10 June 2010). The market value of Burberry shares on the date of exercise (14 June 2013) was 1362.30p.
102
Board and Governance Shareholding policy
To ensure continued alignment with the interests of shareholders, the Board has increased the minimum shareholding 
requirement for directors and senior executives to the following levels:
 ·
500,000 shares for the CC & CEO;
 ·
two-times base salary for other executive directors;
 ·
one-times base salary for other senior executives; and
 ·
the Chairman and non-executive directors are expected to hold shares with a market value of £6,000  
for each year of their appointment.
Senior executives are expected to retain 50% of shares acquired on the exercise of options and awards net of tax,  
until such guidelines are met.
As at 31 March 2014 (at the closing share price of £13.95), the value of shares owned by John Smith and Carol Fairweather 
was £35,712 and £734,509 respectively (or 6% and 163% of their respective salaries as at that date). Both John and Carol 
became executive directors during 2013 and will now be expected to make progress towards their executive shareholding 
requirement of two-times salary. As at 31 March 2014, Angela Ahrendts had fulfilled her shareholding requirement and 
held shares worth £9,555,903 (or 896% of her salary). As at 31 March 2014, all of the non-executive directors had fulfilled 
the requirement to hold shares with a market value of £6,000 for each year of their appointment, with the exception 
of Jeremy Darroch who was appointed towards the end of the year. As at her leaving date, Stacey Cartwright had fulfilled 
her shareholding requirement.
4. Directors’ remuneration in 2014/15
It is the Committee’s intention that the remuneration policy, once approved by shareholders, will be applied immediately 
following approval. The table below summarises how the remuneration policy will be implemented for executive directors 
in the year 2014/15. Carol Fairweather will receive a salary increase of 11.1% to reflect her strong performance as CFO 
and to address that her salary was set at below market levels when she was appointed as CFO.
Summary of key remuneration aspects in 2014/15 for executive directors
Element Performance measure(s) Director Maximum level
Base salary – Christopher Bailey £1,100,000
(no increase)
John Smith £592,000
(3.0% increase)
Carol Fairweather £500,000
(11.1% increase)
Annual bonus Annual Adjusted PBT 
The Board considers the
forward-looking PBT
bonus targets to be
commercially sensitive
and so they will
be disclosed
retrospectively only
Christopher Bailey 200% of salary
John Smith 150% of salary
Carol Fairweather 150% of salary
CIP matching awards (final 
awards under this plan)
Three-year growth in
Adjusted PBT
25% for 5% p.a.
100% for 10% p.a.
Straight-line
vesting between
Christopher Bailey 196% of salary
(1.4x invested 13/14 bonus)
John Smith 110% of salary
(1.05x invested 13/14 bonus)
Carol Fairweather 99% of salary
(1.05x invested 13/14 bonus)
RSP share awards (final 
awards under this plan)
Three-year growth in
Adjusted PBT (50%)
25% for 5% p.a.
100% for 15% p.a.
Straight-line
vesting between
Three-year TSR vs.
sector peers (50%)
25% for median
100% for upper quartile
Straight-line
vesting between
Christopher Bailey 100% of salary
John Smith 100% of salary
Carol Fairweather 150% of salary
103
Board and Governance The table below sets out the fee structure for the Chairman and non-executive directors for 2014/15.
Summary of Chairman and NED fees for 2014/15
Fee level
£’000
Chairman
1
400
Non-Executive Director 80
Senior Independent Director 20
Audit Committee Chair 35
Remuneration Committee Chair 35
Attendance allowance
2
2
1 The Chairman is not eligible for committee chairmanship fees or attendance allowances.
2 Non-executive directors receive an attendance allowance for each meeting attended outside of their country of residence.
5. Further information on remuneration for Christopher Bailey as CC & CEO
Christopher Bailey’s remuneration as CC & CEO is detailed below. Aside from a one-off performance-based share award 
for taking on the CEO role, there has been no increase to Christopher’s remuneration compared to that he received 
in his previous role as Chief Creative Officer (CCO). The elements of his remuneration going forward are as follows:
 ·
Salary of £1,100,000 plus an annual allowance of £440,000 and a pension allowance of 30% of salary.
 ·
An annual performance-based bonus of up to 200% of salary and eligible to participate in the performance-based 
executive share plans. In line with the other executive directors, Christopher will invest his 2013/14 bonus in full 
and will be granted awards under the CIP and RSP for the final time in 2014/15, as outlined on page 103.
 ·
As part of his appointment, Christopher will be awarded a one-off, performance based grant of 500,000 shares  
(similar to that previously granted to Angela Ahrendts in 2010). These will vest on a phased basis from 2017 to 2019.
 ·
Christopher will continue to be required to retain 50% of any share award that vests (on a net of tax basis) until 
his shareholding guideline is achieved. The Committee has determined that he will be required to hold at least 
500,000 shares.
In his previous role as CCO, Christopher was granted a number of share awards including under the Company’s 
performance-based executive share plans. These will vest between 2014 and 2018. In addition Christopher was granted 
one-off share awards (not performance based) of 350,000 shares in December 2010 and 1,000,000 shares in July 2013. 
These will vest between 2015 and 2018.
6. Further information on remuneration for Angela Ahrendts
The table of total remuneration outcomes for 2013/14 (on page 98) details the remuneration Angela Ahrendts received during 
2013/14. She stepped down from the Board and departed Burberry on 30 April 2014. Angela continued to receive her regular 
salary, pension contribution and benefit payments until 30 April 2014.
Upon her departure, Angela Ahrendts had fulfilled the CEO role for the complete 2013/14 financial year and the 
Remuneration Committee determined that she would receive an annual bonus, based on Adjusted PBT performance 
for the year 2013/14, as shown in the table on page 99.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that Angela Ahrendts’s outstanding 2011 Co-Investment Plan (CIP) matching 
award of 300,252 shares will vest, as shown in the table on page 100. The three-year performance period was completed 
on 31 March 2014 prior to Angela Ahrendts’s departure and she had fulfilled the role of CEO for the duration of the period. 
In respect of the 2011 CIP shares that vest, Angela Ahrendts will also receive a cash payment equivalent to the value of 
dividends which would have been received on these shares during the vesting period.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that Angela Ahrendts’s outstanding final tranche of her 2009 Restricted 
Share Plan (RSP) of 112,500 shares will vest. The three-year performance period was completed on 31 March 2012.
104
Board and Governance The following outstanding share awards held by Angela Ahrendts have vesting dates in the future (the relevant vesting years 
are shown in brackets) and lapsed in full upon her departure from Burberry, in accordance with the rules of each plan:
 ·
500,000 shares – One-off nil-cost option award granted in 2010 (2015)
 ·
326,736 shares – CIP matching award granted in 2012 (2015)
 ·
170,116 shares – CIP matching award granted in 2013 (2016)
 ·
157,343 shares – RSP share award granted in 2013 (2016)
 ·
2,773 shares – All employee SAYE 2010 award (2015)
Angela will not be receiving any payment relating to her departure from the Company.
7. Remuneration Committee in 2013/14
7.1. Committee membership
The following directors served as members of the Committee throughout the financial year ending 31 March 2014:
Ian Carter (Chairman)
Philip Bowman
Jeremy Darroch (from 5 February 2014)
Stephanie George
Matthew Key (from 26 September 2013)
David Tyler
7.2. Advisors to the Committee during 2013/14
At the invitation of the Committee, except where their own remuneration was being discussed, the following people attended 
meetings and provided advice to the Committee: Sir John Peace (Chairman), Angela Ahrendts (Chief Executive Officer), 
Carol Fairweather (Chief Financial Officer), Michael Mahony (Chief Corporate Affairs Officer), Anne-Soline Thorndike 
(Senior Vice President, Reward and Recognition) and Catherine Sukmonowski (Company Secretary).
During the 2013/14 financial year, the Committee received external advice from Towers Watson, as detailed in the table 
below. Towers Watson has been the appointed independent advisor to the Committee since 2011 and were selected at 
that time following a formal tender process. Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group, which 
is responsible for the development and maintenance of the voluntary Code of Conduct that clearly sets out the role 
of executive remuneration consultants and the professional standards by which they advise their clients and, as such, 
the Committee is satisfied that their advice is objective and independent.
Linklaters LLP provided advice to the Committee in relation to compliance with legislation, namely the regulations governing 
the disclosure of directors’ remuneration in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
External advisors and fees
Advisors
Services provided 
to the Committee
Other services provided
to the Company
Fees for Committee
assistance
Towers Watson (TW) Appointed by the Committee, to 
provide advice on the ongoing 
operation of employee and 
executive share plans together 
with advice on executive 
remuneration.
A term of the engagement between the Committee 
and TW is that any additional consulting services 
provided by TW to management are reported on a 
regular basis to the Committee. Where an actual or 
potential conflict may occur, such work is agreed by 
the Chairman of the Committee prior to 
commencement.
TW provides market benchmarking information to 
management in relation to a small number of roles 
which fall below the remit of Committee review.
£110,772 
Fees charged on a time and 
expense basis
105
Board and Governance 7.3. Remuneration report voting results
The table below shows the results of the shareholder advisory vote on the 2012/13 Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
As mentioned earlier in this report, the Committee listens to and takes into consideration investor views throughout 
the year, including the feedback received at the 2013 AGM.
2013 AGM voting results
Vote Votes for Votes against Votes withheld
Any issues raised and
Company response
Advisory vote on 2012/13 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report
308,452,943
(96.83%)
10,085,661
(3.17%)
4,159,334 Not applicable
8. Five-year performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration
The first chart below shows the Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) for Burberry Group plc compared to the companies in 
the FTSE 100 index assuming £100 was invested on 31 March 2009. The FTSE 100 was selected because Burberry became 
a constituent on 10 September 2009 and prior to that had a market capitalisation close to that of companies at the lower 
end of the FTSE 100 index.
The second chart below shows the total remuneration earned by the incumbent chief executive officer over the same five-year 
period, along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned in relation to each type of incentive. The total amounts are 
based on the same methodology as used for the table on page 98 (Single figure of total remuneration for 2013/14).
Five-year TSR performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration
£
300
200
150
50
100
0
Burberry FTSE 100
Value of £100 invested on 31 March 2009
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
600
500
550
250
450
400
350
 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
Angela Ahrendts (CEO to 30 April 2014)
Total remuneration (£’000s) 7,362 16,003 9,574 10,901 7,995
Bonus (% of maximum) 100% 100% 100% 75% 70%
CIP (% of maximum) 100% 100% – 100% 100%
RSP (% of maximum) 42.5% – 100% – –
EPP* (% of maximum) 15% 50% – – –
*  The ‘EPP’ was the Burberry Exceptional Performance Share Plan, a one-off long-term incentive plan under which performance-based awards were granted in 
2007 only. Details of this plan can be found in the relevant historical directors’ remuneration reports.
Approval
This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Ian Carter
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
20 May 2014
106
Board and Governance Executive directors
Christopher Bailey
Chief Creative and  
Chief Executive Officer*
Carol Fairweather
Chief Financial Officer
John Smith
Chief Operating Officer
Senior management
Roberto Canevari
Chief Supply Chain Officer
Simona Cattaneo
Senior Vice President, Beauty
John Douglas 
Chief Technology Officer
Fabrizio Fabbro 
Senior Vice President,  
Creative Operations
Alessandro Fabrini
Senior Vice President Beauty, 
Watches & Eyewear 
Stephen Gilbert
Senior Vice President, Architecture
Luc Goidadin
Chief Design Officer
Jan Heppe
President, Americas
Donald Kohler
Chief Merchandising  
Operations Officer
Andrew Maag
CEO Europe, Middle East,  
India, Africa & Americas
Michael Mahony
Chief Corporate Affairs  
Officer & General Counsel
Sarah Manley
Chief Marketing Officer
Matt McEvoy
Chief of Strategy &  
New Business Development
Pascal Perrier
Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific 
Paul Price
Chief Merchandising Officer
Steve Sacks
Chief Customer Officer
Greg Stogdon
Senior Vice President, Creative Media
Mark Taylor
Chief People Officer
* From 1 May 2014
107
Board and Governance
SENIOR Leadership 
Team  FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Strategic Report; the Directors’ Report;  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report; and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have 
prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union (the EU), and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors 
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements 
the directors are required to: 
·
select suitable applicable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
·
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
·
state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively; and 
·
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company 
will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides  
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 66 to 67 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 
·
the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and 
·
the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position  
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
These statements were approved by the Board on 20 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
Sir John Peace Carol Fairweather 
Chairman Chief Financial Officer 
110
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Strategic Report; the Directors’ Report;  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report; and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have 
prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union (the EU), and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors 
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements 
the directors are required to: 
·
select suitable applicable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
·
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
·
state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively; and 
·
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company 
will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides  
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 66 to 67 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 
·
the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and 
·
the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position  
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
These statements were approved by the Board on 20 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
Sir John Peace Carol Fairweather 
Chairman Chief Financial Officer 
 
Report on the Group Financial Statements 
Our opinion  
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
·
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the Group’s profit and cash flows  
for the year then ended; 
·
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union; and 
·
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report. 
What we have audited 
The Group financial statements, which are prepared by Burberry Group plc, comprise: 
·
the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2014;  
·
the Group Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;  
·
the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, and Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended;  
·
the Analysis of Net Cash as at 31 March 2014; and  
·
the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union. Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in 
the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements 
and are identified as audited. 
What an audit of financial statements involves  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
·
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
·
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and  
·
the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, 
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of 
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Overview of our audit approach 
Materiality 
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures 
and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 
£20 million. This represents approximately 5% of profit before taxation.  
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 
£0.75 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
111
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Overview of the scope of our audit 
The Group is structured across two channels to market, being retail/wholesale and licensing. The Group financial statements 
are a consolidation of 98 reporting units, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and holding companies across the two 
channels to market.  
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the 
reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network 
firms operating under our instruction. Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of 
involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole. 
Accordingly, we identified six reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information,  
either due to their size or their risk characteristics, providing 79% coverage over Group revenue and 91% coverage over profit 
before taxation. This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to taxation, litigation, 
impairment and earnings per share, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements  
as a whole. 
Areas of particular audit focus 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect  
of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, 
forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered 
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtained audit evidence through testing the 
effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year. This is not a complete list 
of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit. We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee. Their report 
on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 84. 
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus 
China put option liability valuation  
The valuation of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the 
Group’s business in China is based on a number of assumptions,  
the key ones being the future performance of the Group’s business 
in China; the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple; and 
the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account  
the risk free rate in China (refer to note 19 of the accounts).  
We focused on this area because of the inherent judgement  
involved in determining these assumptions and the magnitude of the  
put option liability. 
We considered and challenged the reasonableness of key assumptions 
by comparing the key assumptions to benchmark ranges, performing 
sensitivity analysis and confirming whether methods had been 
consistently applied. 
We tested the calculation of the liability to determine whether it was 
consistent with prior periods and with the terms of the put option.  
We also assessed the appropriateness of disclosures relating to the 
valuation. 
Inventory valuation  
Judgement is required to assess the appropriate level of provisioning  
for items which may be ultimately sold below cost. 
The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to 
changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing the level  
of judgement involved in estimating provisions (refer to note 16 of the 
accounts). 
For both finished goods and raw materials, we tested the methodology 
for calculating the provisions, challenged the appropriateness and 
consistency of judgements and assumptions, and considered the  
nature and suitability of historic data used in estimating the provisions.  
In doing so we understood the ageing profile of inventory, the process 
for identifying specific problem inventory and historic loss rates. 
Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures  
The directors are required to apply significant judgement when 
determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of tax 
assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of 
jurisdictions (refer to notes 9 and 14 of the accounts). 
We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and judgement 
in estimating the amount of provision required, which is increased  
due to the numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates. 
We held meetings with the Group’s tax team and local management to 
understand tax developments and related tax risks, any associated 
technical tax issues, and the status of any current tax litigation. 
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the financial 
statements, or the rationale for not recording a provision, having read  
the latest correspondence between the Group and the various tax 
authorities, and having obtained written responses from the Group’s 
external advisors containing their views on material tax exposures. 
 
112
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Overview of the scope of our audit 
The Group is structured across two channels to market, being retail/wholesale and licensing. The Group financial statements 
are a consolidation of 98 reporting units, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and holding companies across the two 
channels to market.  
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the 
reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network 
firms operating under our instruction. Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of 
involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole. 
Accordingly, we identified six reporting units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information,  
either due to their size or their risk characteristics, providing 79% coverage over Group revenue and 91% coverage over profit 
before taxation. This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to taxation, litigation, 
impairment and earnings per share, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements  
as a whole. 
Areas of particular audit focus 
In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect  
of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, 
forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered 
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtained audit evidence through testing the 
effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year. This is not a complete list 
of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit. We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee. Their report 
on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 84. 
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus 
China put option liability valuation  
The valuation of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the 
Group’s business in China is based on a number of assumptions,  
the key ones being the future performance of the Group’s business 
in China; the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple; and 
the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account  
the risk free rate in China (refer to note 19 of the accounts).  
We focused on this area because of the inherent judgement  
involved in determining these assumptions and the magnitude of the  
put option liability. 
We considered and challenged the reasonableness of key assumptions 
by comparing the key assumptions to benchmark ranges, performing 
sensitivity analysis and confirming whether methods had been 
consistently applied. 
We tested the calculation of the liability to determine whether it was 
consistent with prior periods and with the terms of the put option.  
We also assessed the appropriateness of disclosures relating to the 
valuation. 
Inventory valuation  
Judgement is required to assess the appropriate level of provisioning  
for items which may be ultimately sold below cost. 
The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to 
changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing the level  
of judgement involved in estimating provisions (refer to note 16 of the 
accounts). 
For both finished goods and raw materials, we tested the methodology 
for calculating the provisions, challenged the appropriateness and 
consistency of judgements and assumptions, and considered the  
nature and suitability of historic data used in estimating the provisions.  
In doing so we understood the ageing profile of inventory, the process 
for identifying specific problem inventory and historic loss rates. 
Completeness and valuation of provisions for tax exposures  
The directors are required to apply significant judgement when 
determining whether, and how much, to provide in respect of tax 
assessments leading to uncertain tax positions in a number of 
jurisdictions (refer to notes 9 and 14 of the accounts). 
We focused on this area due to the inherent complexity and judgement 
in estimating the amount of provision required, which is increased  
due to the numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates. 
We held meetings with the Group’s tax team and local management to 
understand tax developments and related tax risks, any associated 
technical tax issues, and the status of any current tax litigation. 
We assessed the appropriateness of provisions recorded in the financial 
statements, or the rationale for not recording a provision, having read  
the latest correspondence between the Group and the various tax 
authorities, and having obtained written responses from the Group’s 
external advisors containing their views on material tax exposures. 
 
 
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus 
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition  
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume that we consider the risk of fraud arising  
in revenue recognition. Whilst revenue recognition and measurement  
is not complex for the Group, revenue targets form part of the Group’s 
key performance measures which could create an incentive to record 
revenue incorrectly.  
We focused on this area given the magnitude of revenue transactions 
that occur. 
We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls 
over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised  
in the financial statements. We also tested journal entries posted to 
revenue accounts to identify unusual or irregular items.  
We understood and challenged the appropriateness of revenue 
recognition policies. 
Risk of management override of internal controls  
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this. We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the 
arrangements for staff to ‘whistle-blow’ inappropriate actions, and 
interviewed senior management and the Group’s internal audit function. 
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements 
relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors 
that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.  
We performed unpredictable audit procedures and tested key 
reconciliations and journal entries. 
Going concern  
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 73, in relation to going concern. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to prepare the Group’s financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting. The going 
concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to 
do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the 
directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law have not been made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate Governance Statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent 
Company’s compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’). We have nothing to report 
having performed our review. 
On page 110 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C.1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual 
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to 
assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. On page 84, as required by C.3.8 of the Code, the Audit 
Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were 
addressed. Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
·
the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
·
the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
113
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Other information in the Annual Report 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
·
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements; or 
·
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or 
·
is otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 110, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown  
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Other matters  
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended  
31 March 2014 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.  
 
 
Andrew Kemp 
Senior Statutory Auditor, 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,  
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors,  
London, 20 May 2014 
114
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc Other information in the Annual Report 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
·
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements; or 
·
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or 
·
is otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 110, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown  
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Other matters  
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended  
31 March 2014 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.  
 
 
Andrew Kemp 
Senior Statutory Auditor, 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,  
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors,  
London, 20 May 2014 
 
  Note 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
 Continuing operations    
 Revenue 3 2,329.8 1,998.7 
 Cost of sales  (671.3) (556.7) 
 Gross profit  1,658.5 1,442.0 
 Net operating expenses 4 (1,213.1) (1,096.2) 
 Operating profit  445.4 345.8 
     
 Financing    
 Finance income  3.9 3.4 
 Finance expense  (3.2) (3.7) 
 Other financing (charges)/income  (1.7) 5.2 
 Net finance (charge)/income 8 (1.0) 4.9 
 Profit before taxation 5 444.4 350.7 
 Taxation 9 (112.1) (91.5) 
 Profit for the year  332.3 259.2 
     
 Attributable to:    
 Owners of the Company  322.5 254.3 
 Non-controlling interest  9.8 4.9 
 Profit for the year  332.3 259.2 
     
 Earnings per share     
 Basic 10 73.6p 58.3p 
 Diluted 10 72.1p 57.0p 
     
   £m £m 
 Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation:    
 Profit before taxation  444.4 350.7 
 Adjusting items:    
 Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible 6 14.9 – 
 Termination of licence relationship 6 – 82.9 
 Restructuring credit relating to continuing operations 6 – (0.6) 
 Put option liability finance charge/(credit) 6 1.7 (5.2) 
 Adjusted profit before taxation – non-GAAP measure  461.0 427.8 
     
 Adjusted earnings per share – non-GAAP measure    
 Basic 10 77.0p 71.6p 
 Diluted 10 75.4p 70.0p 
     
 Dividends per share    
 Interim  11 8.80p 8.00p 
 Proposed final (not recognised as a liability at 31 March) 11 23.20p 21.00p 
115
Group Income Statement  
 Note 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Profit for the year  332.3 259.2 
Other comprehensive income
1
:    
Cash flow hedges 22 (5.0) 5.7 
Foreign currency translation differences  (54.6) 36.0 
Tax on other comprehensive income:    
Cash flow hedges  1.3 (1.3) 
Foreign currency translation differences  4.6 (1.4) 
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year, net of tax  (53.7) 39.0 
Total comprehensive income for the year  278.6 298.2 
    
Total comprehensive income attributable to:    
Owners of the Company  272.5 291.1 
Non-controlling interest  6.1 7.1 
  278.6 298.2 
1 All items included in other comprehensive income may subsequently be reclassified to profit and loss in a future period. 
 
 
 Note 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
ASSETS    
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 12 195.4 210.2 
Property, plant and equipment 13 398.4 409.1 
Investment properties  2.6 2.7 
Deferred tax assets 14 116.0 117.6 
Trade and other receivables 15 42.3 39.9 
Derivative financial assets 17 0.5 0.2 
  755.2 779.7 
Current assets    
Inventories 16 419.8 351.0 
Trade and other receivables 15 231.4 159.6 
Derivative financial assets 17 4.6 20.1 
Income tax receivables  9.0 9.4 
Cash and cash equivalents 18 545.5 426.4 
  1,210.3 966.5 
Total assets  1,965.5 1,746.2 
    
LIABILITIES    
Non-current liabilities    
Trade and other payables 19 (107.4) (108.0) 
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (1.0) (0.8) 
Derivative financial liabilities 17 (0.9) (0.7) 
Retirement benefit obligations  (0.6) (0.6) 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 20 (15.9) (19.8) 
  (125.8) (129.9) 
Current liabilities    
Bank overdrafts and borrowings 21 (143.0) (129.8) 
Derivative financial liabilities 17 (1.6) (0.1) 
Trade and other payables 19 (399.8) (339.8) 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 20 (10.7) (12.9) 
Income tax liabilities  (76.6) (80.9) 
  (631.7) (563.5) 
Total liabilities  (757.5) (693.4) 
Net assets  1,208.0 1,052.8 
    
EQUITY    
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company    
Ordinary share capital 22 0.2 0.2 
Share premium account  204.8 203.6 
Capital reserve 22 40.0 37.0 
Hedging reserve 22 5.6 9.3 
Foreign currency translation reserve 22 104.7 151.0 
Retained earnings  810.1 615.9 
Equity attributable to owners of the Company  1,165.4 1,017.0 
Non-controlling interest in equity  42.6 35.8 
Total equity  1,208.0 1,052.8 
The consolidated financial statements of Burberry Group plc (registered number 03458224) on pages 115 to 159 were 
approved by the Board on 20 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
Sir John Peace Carol Fairweather 
Chairman Chief Financial Officer 
116
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income  
 Note 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Profit for the year  332.3 259.2 
Other comprehensive income
1
:    
Cash flow hedges 22 (5.0) 5.7 
Foreign currency translation differences  (54.6) 36.0 
Tax on other comprehensive income:    
Cash flow hedges  1.3 (1.3) 
Foreign currency translation differences  4.6 (1.4) 
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year, net of tax  (53.7) 39.0 
Total comprehensive income for the year  278.6 298.2 
    
Total comprehensive income attributable to:    
Owners of the Company  272.5 291.1 
Non-controlling interest  6.1 7.1 
  278.6 298.2 
1 All items included in other comprehensive income may subsequently be reclassified to profit and loss in a future period. 
 
 
 Note 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
ASSETS    
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets 12 195.4 210.2 
Property, plant and equipment 13 398.4 409.1 
Investment properties  2.6 2.7 
Deferred tax assets 14 116.0 117.6 
Trade and other receivables 15 42.3 39.9 
Derivative financial assets 17 0.5 0.2 
  755.2 779.7 
Current assets    
Inventories 16 419.8 351.0 
Trade and other receivables 15 231.4 159.6 
Derivative financial assets 17 4.6 20.1 
Income tax receivables  9.0 9.4 
Cash and cash equivalents 18 545.5 426.4 
  1,210.3 966.5 
Total assets  1,965.5 1,746.2 
    
LIABILITIES    
Non-current liabilities    
Trade and other payables 19 (107.4) (108.0) 
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (1.0) (0.8) 
Derivative financial liabilities 17 (0.9) (0.7) 
Retirement benefit obligations  (0.6) (0.6) 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 20 (15.9) (19.8) 
  (125.8) (129.9) 
Current liabilities    
Bank overdrafts and borrowings 21 (143.0) (129.8) 
Derivative financial liabilities 17 (1.6) (0.1) 
Trade and other payables 19 (399.8) (339.8) 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 20 (10.7) (12.9) 
Income tax liabilities  (76.6) (80.9) 
  (631.7) (563.5) 
Total liabilities  (757.5) (693.4) 
Net assets  1,208.0 1,052.8 
    
EQUITY    
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company    
Ordinary share capital 22 0.2 0.2 
Share premium account  204.8 203.6 
Capital reserve 22 40.0 37.0 
Hedging reserve 22 5.6 9.3 
Foreign currency translation reserve 22 104.7 151.0 
Retained earnings  810.1 615.9 
Equity attributable to owners of the Company  1,165.4 1,017.0 
Non-controlling interest in equity  42.6 35.8 
Total equity  1,208.0 1,052.8 
The consolidated financial statements of Burberry Group plc (registered number 03458224) on pages 115 to 159 were 
approved by the Board on 20 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
Sir John Peace Carol Fairweather 
Chairman Chief Financial Officer 
117
Group Balance Sheet  
  
Attributable to owners  
of the Company    
 Note 
Ordinary 
share 
capital
£m 
Share 
premium 
account
£m 
Other 
reserves
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m 
Total 
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interest 
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Balance as at 31 March 2012  0.2 202.6 157.4 507.1 867.3 24.1 891.4 
Profit for the year  – – – 254.3 254.3 4.9 259.2 
Other comprehensive income:        
Cash flow hedges 22 – – 5.7 – 5.7 – 5.7 
Foreign currency translation differences  – – 33.8 – 33.8 2.2 36.0 
Tax on other comprehensive income  – – (2.7) – (2.7) – (2.7) 
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – 36.8 254.3 291.1 7.1 298.2 
Transfer between reserves  – – 3.1 (3.1) – – – 
Transactions with owners:         
Employee share incentive schemes         
Value of share options granted  – – – 24.9 24.9 – 24.9 
Value of share options transferred to liabilities  – – – (1.3) (1.3) – (1.3) 
Tax on share options granted  – – – (1.9) (1.9) – (1.9) 
Exercise of share awards  – 1.0 – – 1.0 – 1.0 
Purchase of own shares by ESOP trusts  – – – (46.4) (46.4) – (46.4) 
Capital contribution by non-controlling interest  – – – – – 0.4 0.4 
De-recognition of non-controlling interest 29 – – – (4.2) (4.2) 4.2 – 
Dividends paid in the year  – – – (113.5) (113.5) – (113.5) 
Balance as at 31 March 2013  0.2 203.6 197.3 615.9 1,017.0 35.8 1,052.8 
Profit for the year  – – – 322.5 322.5 9.8 332.3 
Other comprehensive income:        
Cash flow hedges 22 – – (5.0) – (5.0) – (5.0) 
Foreign currency translation differences  – – (50.9) – (50.9) (3.7) (54.6) 
Tax on other comprehensive income  – – 5.9 – 5.9 – 5.9 
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – (50.0) 322.5 272.5 6.1 278.6 
Transfer between reserves  – – 3.0 (3.0) – – – 
Transactions with owners:         
Employee share incentive schemes         
Value of share options granted  – – – 25.4 25.4 – 25.4 
Value of share options transferred to liabilities  – – – (0.8) (0.8) – (0.8) 
Tax on share options granted  – – – 3.8 3.8 – 3.8 
Exercise of share awards  – 1.2 – – 1.2 – 1.2 
Sale of own shares by ESOP trusts  – – – 1.7 1.7 – 1.7 
Purchase of own shares by ESOP trusts  – – – (24.7) (24.7) – (24.7) 
Capital contribution by non-controlling interest  – – – – – 0.7 0.7 
Dividends paid in the year  – – – (130.7) (130.7) – (130.7) 
Balance as at 31 March 2014  0.2 204.8 150.3 810.1 1,165.4 42.6 1,208.0 
 
 
118
Group Statement of Changes in Equity  
  
Attributable to owners  
of the Company    
 Note 
Ordinary 
share 
capital
£m 
Share 
premium 
account
£m 
Other 
reserves
£m 
Retained 
earnings
£m 
Total 
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interest 
£m 
Total 
equity
£m 
Balance as at 31 March 2012  0.2 202.6 157.4 507.1 867.3 24.1 891.4 
Profit for the year  – – – 254.3 254.3 4.9 259.2 
Other comprehensive income:        
Cash flow hedges 22 – – 5.7 – 5.7 – 5.7 
Foreign currency translation differences  – – 33.8 – 33.8 2.2 36.0 
Tax on other comprehensive income  – – (2.7) – (2.7) – (2.7) 
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – 36.8 254.3 291.1 7.1 298.2 
Transfer between reserves  – – 3.1 (3.1) – – – 
Transactions with owners:         
Employee share incentive schemes         
Value of share options granted  – – – 24.9 24.9 – 24.9 
Value of share options transferred to liabilities  – – – (1.3) (1.3) – (1.3) 
Tax on share options granted  – – – (1.9) (1.9) – (1.9) 
Exercise of share awards  – 1.0 – – 1.0 – 1.0 
Purchase of own shares by ESOP trusts  – – – (46.4) (46.4) – (46.4) 
Capital contribution by non-controlling interest  – – – – – 0.4 0.4 
De-recognition of non-controlling interest 29 – – – (4.2) (4.2) 4.2 – 
Dividends paid in the year  – – – (113.5) (113.5) – (113.5) 
Balance as at 31 March 2013  0.2 203.6 197.3 615.9 1,017.0 35.8 1,052.8 
Profit for the year  – – – 322.5 322.5 9.8 332.3 
Other comprehensive income:        
Cash flow hedges 22 – – (5.0) – (5.0) – (5.0) 
Foreign currency translation differences  – – (50.9) – (50.9) (3.7) (54.6) 
Tax on other comprehensive income  – – 5.9 – 5.9 – 5.9 
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – (50.0) 322.5 272.5 6.1 278.6 
Transfer between reserves  – – 3.0 (3.0) – – – 
Transactions with owners:         
Employee share incentive schemes         
Value of share options granted  – – – 25.4 25.4 – 25.4 
Value of share options transferred to liabilities  – – – (0.8) (0.8) – (0.8) 
Tax on share options granted  – – – 3.8 3.8 – 3.8 
Exercise of share awards  – 1.2 – – 1.2 – 1.2 
Sale of own shares by ESOP trusts  – – – 1.7 1.7 – 1.7 
Purchase of own shares by ESOP trusts  – – – (24.7) (24.7) – (24.7) 
Capital contribution by non-controlling interest  – – – – – 0.7 0.7 
Dividends paid in the year  – – – (130.7) (130.7) – (130.7) 
Balance as at 31 March 2014  0.2 204.8 150.3 810.1 1,165.4 42.6 1,208.0 
 
 
 
 Note 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Cash flows from operating activities    
Operating profit   445.4 345.8 
Termination of licence relationship  – 71.3 
Depreciation  105.6 94.5 
Amortisation  33.0 16.7 
Net impairment charges  12.3 11.3 
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  (1.3) 0.1 
(Gain)/loss on derivative instruments   (3.8) 2.0 
Charges in respect of employee share incentive schemes  25.4 24.9 
Proceeds from settlement of equity swap contracts  15.7   – 
Increase in inventories  (68.2) (39.2) 
Increase in receivables  (73.8) (32.0) 
Increase in payables  45.2 27.6 
Cash generated from operating activities  535.5 523.0 
Interest received  3.4 3.5 
Interest paid  (2.6) (2.6) 
Taxation paid  (111.1) (99.0) 
Net cash generated from operating activities  425.2 424.9 
    
Cash flows from investing activities    
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (129.5) (158.1) 
Purchase of intangible assets  (24.5) (17.8) 
Payment to terminate licence relationship  – (144.1) 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  3.0   – 
Proceeds from sale of asset held for sale  – 0.1 
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired  (2.6) (1.0) 
Net cash outflow from investing activities  (153.6) (320.9) 
    
Cash flows from financing activities    
Dividends paid in the year  11 (130.7) (113.5) 
Capital contributions by non-controlling interest  0.7 0.4 
Issue of ordinary share capital   1.2 1.0 
Sale of own shares by ESOP trusts  1.7   – 
Purchase of own shares by ESOP trusts  (24.7) (46.4) 
Repayments of borrowings  – (1.3) 
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (151.8) (159.8) 
    
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   119.8 (55.8) 
Effect of exchange rate changes   (13.9) 12.8 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  296.6 339.6 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  402.5 296.6 
Analysis of Net Cash 
 Note 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents as per the Balance Sheet 18 545.5 426.4 
Bank overdrafts 21 (143.0) (129.8) 
Net cash  402.5 296.6 
119
Group Statement of Cash Flows  
1. Basis of preparation 
Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries (the Group) is a global luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer. The Group 
also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the ‘Burberry’ trade marks. All of the companies which 
comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc (the Company) directly or indirectly. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. 
A number of new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective and have been adopted for the first time by the 
Group from 1 April 2013. Those which have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group are: 
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 
This standard establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures about fair value measurements, when such 
measurements are required or permitted by other IFRSs. It also replaces and expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements 
in other IFRSs, including IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures. The application of IFRS 13 has not had a material impact on the fair value 
measurement of the Group’s assets and liabilities.  
In line with the transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has applied the new fair value measurement guidance prospectively, and has not 
provided any comparative information for new disclosures. The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 have been updated 
to reflect these disclosures accordingly (refer to note 2 and note 19).  
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures 
As a result of the amendments to IFRS 7, the Group has expanded its disclosures about the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities  
(refer to note 17).  
Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation 
The amendment required entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether or not they will be recycled 
through profit or loss at a later date, when specific conditions are met. The amendments were effective from 1 July 2012, and have been adopted 
by the Group from 1 April 2013. The impact on the Group has been limited to presentation. 
The Group has elected to early adopt the following new standards and amendments as of 1 April 2013, which have been issued, 
endorsed by the EU and are effective from 1 January 2014. 
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 
This standard establishes the principles for the presentation and preparation of consolidated financial statements and replaces similar principles set 
out in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities. IFRS 10 introduces a new control 
model that is applicable to all investees, where control is defined as whether the investor has power over an investee; exposure or rights to variable 
returns from its involvement with the investee; and ability to use its power to affect those returns. The adoption of this new standard has had no 
impact on the consolidation of investments held by the Group and there has been no impact on the financial position or financial performance of  
the Group. 
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 
IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities – Non-Monetary Contributions by Ventures, and removes 
the option to account for jointly-controlled entities using proportionate consolidation. Currently the Group does not hold any interests in joint 
arrangements, and therefore the adoption of this new standard has had no impact on the financial position or financial performance of the Group. 
IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities 
This standard requires disclosure of information about the nature of, and risks associated with, the Group’s interests in other entities, as well as 
the impact of these interests on the Group’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The Group’s financial statements for the year 
ended 31 March 2014 have been updated to reflect these disclosures accordingly (refer to note 28). 
Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets 
These amendments remove the unintended consequences of IFRS 13 on the disclosures required under IAS 36. The amendments require disclosure 
of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units (CGUs) for which an impairment loss or reversal has been recognised during the 
period. The Group has decided to early adopt the amendment as of 1 April 2013, with additional disclosure included in note 13. 
 
120
Notes to the Financial Statements  
1. Basis of preparation 
Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries (the Group) is a global luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer. The Group 
also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the ‘Burberry’ trade marks. All of the companies which 
comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc (the Company) directly or indirectly. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical 
cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. 
A number of new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective and have been adopted for the first time by the 
Group from 1 April 2013. Those which have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group are: 
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 
This standard establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures about fair value measurements, when such 
measurements are required or permitted by other IFRSs. It also replaces and expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements 
in other IFRSs, including IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures. The application of IFRS 13 has not had a material impact on the fair value 
measurement of the Group’s assets and liabilities.  
In line with the transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has applied the new fair value measurement guidance prospectively, and has not 
provided any comparative information for new disclosures. The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 have been updated 
to reflect these disclosures accordingly (refer to note 2 and note 19).  
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures 
As a result of the amendments to IFRS 7, the Group has expanded its disclosures about the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities  
(refer to note 17).  
Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation 
The amendment required entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether or not they will be recycled 
through profit or loss at a later date, when specific conditions are met. The amendments were effective from 1 July 2012, and have been adopted 
by the Group from 1 April 2013. The impact on the Group has been limited to presentation. 
The Group has elected to early adopt the following new standards and amendments as of 1 April 2013, which have been issued, 
endorsed by the EU and are effective from 1 January 2014. 
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 
This standard establishes the principles for the presentation and preparation of consolidated financial statements and replaces similar principles set 
out in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities. IFRS 10 introduces a new control 
model that is applicable to all investees, where control is defined as whether the investor has power over an investee; exposure or rights to variable 
returns from its involvement with the investee; and ability to use its power to affect those returns. The adoption of this new standard has had no 
impact on the consolidation of investments held by the Group and there has been no impact on the financial position or financial performance of  
the Group. 
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 
IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities – Non-Monetary Contributions by Ventures, and removes 
the option to account for jointly-controlled entities using proportionate consolidation. Currently the Group does not hold any interests in joint 
arrangements, and therefore the adoption of this new standard has had no impact on the financial position or financial performance of the Group. 
IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities 
This standard requires disclosure of information about the nature of, and risks associated with, the Group’s interests in other entities, as well as 
the impact of these interests on the Group’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The Group’s financial statements for the year 
ended 31 March 2014 have been updated to reflect these disclosures accordingly (refer to note 28). 
Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets 
These amendments remove the unintended consequences of IFRS 13 on the disclosures required under IAS 36. The amendments require disclosure 
of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units (CGUs) for which an impairment loss or reversal has been recognised during the 
period. The Group has decided to early adopt the amendment as of 1 April 2013, with additional disclosure included in note 13. 
 
 
1. Basis of preparation (continued) 
As at 31 March 2014, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, which may be relevant 
to the Group’s results, were issued but not yet effective:  
IFRS 9 Financial instruments 
This standard is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, and introduces new 
requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and financial liabilities. The complete standard does not currently have an effective  
date and it has not currently been endorsed by the EU. Any potential impact of this new standard will be quantified closer to the date of adoption. 
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation  
These amendments clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the Balance Sheet. The amendments 
have been endorsed by the EU and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, and are not considered to have a material 
impact on the presentation of the Group’s financial assets or liabilities.  
Basis of consolidation 
The Group’s annual financial statements comprise those of Burberry Group plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries, presented 
as a single economic entity. The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using 
consistent accounting policies across the Group.  
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity 
when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to effect 
those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred 
to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group. Where there is a loss 
of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the portion of the reporting period during 
which the Group had control. Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised profits on transactions between Group 
companies are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements. The Group treats transactions with non-controlling 
interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between 
any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in 
equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.  
Key sources of estimation and judgement  
Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure 
of contingent liabilities. If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on management’s best judgement 
at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be 
updated as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change. 
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The key areas where the estimates 
and assumptions applied have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities 
are discussed below: 
Put option liability over non-controlling interest 
The calculation of the fair value of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the Group’s business in China is based on 
the contractual agreement and requires the application of key assumptions around both the future performance of the Group’s 
business in China; the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple; and the risk adjusted discount rate in China, taking into 
account the risk free rate in China. Refer to notes 19 and 25 for further details of the put option liability. 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash 
generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions and 
estimates. Refer to note 13 for further details of property, plant and equipment. 
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group is required to test at least annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. The recoverable amounts of cash 
generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation 
of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash generating unit and the choice of a suitable 
discount rate in order to calculate the present value. Refer to note 12 for further details of goodwill balances. 
121
Notes to the Financial Statements  
1. Basis of preparation (continued) 
Key sources of estimation and judgement (continued) 
Impairment of the fragrance and beauty intangible asset 
The fragrance and beauty intangible asset is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that  
the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. Where a review for impairment is carried out, the recoverable amount of the 
intangible asset is determined from a value-in-use calculation of the anticipated incremental income earned by the Group as a 
result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence. The value-in-use calculation 
is prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions and estimates of the future trading performance of the Beauty product 
division. Refer to note 12 for further details of the fragrance and beauty intangible asset. 
Inventory provisioning 
The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.  
As a result it is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of inventories and the associated provisioning required. 
When calculating the inventory provision, management considers the nature and condition of the inventory, as well as applying 
assumptions around anticipated saleability of finished goods and future usage of raw materials. Refer to note 16 for further 
details of the carrying value of inventory. 
Income and deferred taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the provision for income 
taxes in each territory. There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which 
the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates 
of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were 
initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which 
such determination is made. Refer to notes 9 and 14 for further details of income and deferred tax balances. 
Impairment of trade receivables 
The Group is required to make an estimate of the recoverable value of trade receivables. When assessing impairment of trade 
receivables, management considers factors including the ageing profile of debtors as well as any specific known problems 
or risks. Given global economic conditions and the range of countries the Group trades in, unanticipated future events may 
occur that could impact the appropriateness of the assessment made as to the recoverability of the Group’s trade receivables. 
Refer to notes 15 and 25 for further details on the net carrying value and credit quality of trade receivables. 
2. Accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies of the Group are: 
a) Revenue 
Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied  
(less returns, trade discounts and allowances) and royalties receivable. 
Wholesale sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, 
with provisions made for expected returns and allowances. Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates 
of transactions with customers. Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return 
levels. Royalties receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, 
which is typically on the basis of production volumes.  
In arrangements where the Group acts as a purchasing agent to facilitate the procurement of Burberry branded products 
on behalf of its licensees, the purchases and sales from the supplier to the licensee are not recorded as transactions by the 
Group. Any costs incurred by the Group are recorded as operating expenses and any agency fees receivable are recorded 
as operating income. 
b) Segment reporting 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker. The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance, has been 
identified as the Board of Directors.  
122
Notes to the Financial Statements  
1. Basis of preparation (continued) 
Key sources of estimation and judgement (continued) 
Impairment of the fragrance and beauty intangible asset 
The fragrance and beauty intangible asset is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that  
the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. Where a review for impairment is carried out, the recoverable amount of the 
intangible asset is determined from a value-in-use calculation of the anticipated incremental income earned by the Group as a 
result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence. The value-in-use calculation 
is prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions and estimates of the future trading performance of the Beauty product 
division. Refer to note 12 for further details of the fragrance and beauty intangible asset. 
Inventory provisioning 
The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.  
As a result it is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of inventories and the associated provisioning required. 
When calculating the inventory provision, management considers the nature and condition of the inventory, as well as applying 
assumptions around anticipated saleability of finished goods and future usage of raw materials. Refer to note 16 for further 
details of the carrying value of inventory. 
Income and deferred taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Judgement is required in determining the provision for income 
taxes in each territory. There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which 
the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates 
of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were 
initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which 
such determination is made. Refer to notes 9 and 14 for further details of income and deferred tax balances. 
Impairment of trade receivables 
The Group is required to make an estimate of the recoverable value of trade receivables. When assessing impairment of trade 
receivables, management considers factors including the ageing profile of debtors as well as any specific known problems 
or risks. Given global economic conditions and the range of countries the Group trades in, unanticipated future events may 
occur that could impact the appropriateness of the assessment made as to the recoverability of the Group’s trade receivables. 
Refer to notes 15 and 25 for further details on the net carrying value and credit quality of trade receivables. 
2. Accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies of the Group are: 
a) Revenue 
Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied  
(less returns, trade discounts and allowances) and royalties receivable. 
Wholesale sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, 
with provisions made for expected returns and allowances. Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates 
of transactions with customers. Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return 
levels. Royalties receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, 
which is typically on the basis of production volumes.  
In arrangements where the Group acts as a purchasing agent to facilitate the procurement of Burberry branded products 
on behalf of its licensees, the purchases and sales from the supplier to the licensee are not recorded as transactions by the 
Group. Any costs incurred by the Group are recorded as operating expenses and any agency fees receivable are recorded 
as operating income. 
b) Segment reporting 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker. The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance, has been 
identified as the Board of Directors.  
 
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
c) Business combinations 
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an 
acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed  
at the date of exchange. Contingent payments are remeasured at fair value through the Income Statement. All transaction 
costs are expensed to the Income Statement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed 
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any 
non-controlling interest. Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity, and are 
initially measured either at fair value or at a value equal to the non-controlling interests’ share of the identifiable net assets 
acquired. The choice of the basis of measurement is an accounting policy choice for each individual business combination. 
The excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest over the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net 
assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement. 
d) Share schemes 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes, under which services are received from 
employees (including executive directors) as consideration for equity instruments of the Company. The cost of the share based 
incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant. Appropriate 
option pricing models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made. 
The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance 
conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant. Vesting conditions which relate to non-market 
conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest. The estimate of the number 
of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.  
In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date. The grant date fair value is estimated 
for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date. 
The cost of the share based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding 
increase in equity. 
When options and awards are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held 
in an ESOP trust, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme. The proceeds received from the exercises, 
net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium accounts.  
e) Leases 
The Group is both a lessor and lessee of property, plant and equipment. Determining whether an arrangement is or contains 
a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement. Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental 
to ownership of an asset are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Gross rental expenditure/income in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the 
leases. Certain rental expenses are determined on the basis of revenue achieved in specific retail locations and are accrued 
for on that basis. 
Amounts paid to/received from the landlord to acquire or transfer the rights to a lease are treated as prepayments/accrued 
income on the lease contract. Lease incentives, typically rent free periods and capital contributions, are held on the Balance 
Sheet in accruals and deferred income and recognised over the term of the lease.  
Finance leases where the Group is a lessee are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the lower of fair value of the 
leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Interest is charged to the Income Statement and credited 
to the lease liability using the effective interest rate method. Lease liabilities are held in Trade and other payables on the 
Balance Sheet. The capitalised leased assets are held in property, plant and equipment on the Balance Sheet, and are 
depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the leased asset.  
f) Dividend distributions 
Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plc’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividend 
becomes a committed obligation. Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders. Interim 
dividends are recognised when paid. 
123
Notes to the Financial Statements  
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
g) Pension costs 
Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held 
in an independently administered fund. The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the 
Income Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes. 
h) Intangible fixed assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value 
of identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill on acquisition is recorded as an intangible fixed asset. Fair values are attributed 
to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition 
at that date. Adjustments are also made to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.  
Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful economic life. Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment losses recognised on 
goodwill are not reversed in future periods. 
Trade marks, licences and other intangible assets 
The cost of securing and renewing trade marks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets such as key 
money is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits are 
expected to accrue, typically ten years for trade marks, or the term of the lease or licence. The useful economic life of trade 
marks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying 
agreement and the nature of the asset. 
Computer software 
The cost of acquiring computer software (including licences and separately identifiable external development costs) 
is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for 
its intended use. Software costs are amortised by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, 
which are up to five years. 
i) Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, 
based on historical revalued amounts, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value. Assets 
in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and transferred to completed assets when 
substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred. Cost includes the original purchase 
price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. 
Depreciation 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the 
assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: 
Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life 
Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated 
Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years 
Leaseholds  Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease 
Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 – 8 years 
Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment 2 – 5 years 
Office equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment 5 years 
Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years 
Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated 
Profit/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 
Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment represent the difference between the net proceeds 
and net book value at the date of sale. Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional. 
124
Notes to the Financial Statements  
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
g) Pension costs 
Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held 
in an independently administered fund. The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the 
Income Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes. 
h) Intangible fixed assets 
Goodwill 
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value 
of identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill on acquisition is recorded as an intangible fixed asset. Fair values are attributed 
to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition 
at that date. Adjustments are also made to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.  
Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful economic life. Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment losses recognised on 
goodwill are not reversed in future periods. 
Trade marks, licences and other intangible assets 
The cost of securing and renewing trade marks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets such as key 
money is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits are 
expected to accrue, typically ten years for trade marks, or the term of the lease or licence. The useful economic life of trade 
marks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying 
agreement and the nature of the asset. 
Computer software 
The cost of acquiring computer software (including licences and separately identifiable external development costs) 
is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for 
its intended use. Software costs are amortised by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, 
which are up to five years. 
i) Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, 
based on historical revalued amounts, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value. Assets 
in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and transferred to completed assets when 
substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred. Cost includes the original purchase 
price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. 
Depreciation 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the 
assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: 
Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life 
Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated 
Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years 
Leaseholds  Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease 
Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 – 8 years 
Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment 2 – 5 years 
Office equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment 5 years 
Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years 
Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated 
Profit/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 
Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment represent the difference between the net proceeds 
and net book value at the date of sale. Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional. 
 
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
j) Impairment of non-financial assets 
Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. 
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs 
to sell and value-in-use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there 
are separately identifiable cash flows (cash generating units). Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, for which an impairment 
has been previously recognised are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date. 
k) Investment properties 
Investment properties are freehold properties held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation. Investment properties 
are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value. Cost includes the original 
purchase price plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Investment properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis 
over an estimated useful life of up to 50 years.  
l) Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or 
geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified 
as held for sale. Discontinued operations are presented on the Income Statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax. 
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale 
transaction rather than through continued use, and a sale within the next 12 months is considered to be highly probable.  
Assets classified as held for sale cease to be depreciated and they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less cost to sell. 
m) Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost consists of all costs of purchase, costs of conversion, 
design costs and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. For inventories relating 
to the Beauty product division, including raw materials and finished goods, cost is measured using a weighted average method. 
For all other product divisions, the cost of inventories is determined using a first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, taking account of 
the fashion seasons for which the inventory was offered. Where necessary, provision is made to reduce cost to no more than 
net realisable value having regard to the nature and condition of inventory, as well as its anticipated utilisation and saleability. 
n) Taxation 
Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge. 
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the  
Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and  
it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using  
tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases 
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, if the temporary 
difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that 
at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised. 
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised.  
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.  
125
Notes to the Financial Statements  
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
n) Taxation (continued) 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances 
on a net basis. 
o) Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which 
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the 
obligation can be reliably estimated. When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated 
based on the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The present value is calculated 
using forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks 
reflected in future cash flow estimates. 
Property obligations 
A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return 
the leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease. Where a leased property is no longer expected 
to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised 
for that portion of the lease excess to the Group’s requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through 
value-in-use.  
Restructuring costs 
Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan has 
been approved and communicated. Examples of restructuring related costs include employee termination payments, contract 
termination penalties and onerous contract payments. 
p) Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown 
in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are 
cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net 
of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable 
to owners of the Company. 
q) Financial instruments 
A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or 
substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred. A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified 
in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.  
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method except 
for derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge accounting, and are held at fair 
value. The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost approximate their carrying amount  
due to the short maturity of these instruments. 
126
Notes to the Financial Statements  
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
n) Taxation (continued) 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances 
on a net basis. 
o) Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which 
it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the 
obligation can be reliably estimated. When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated 
based on the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The present value is calculated 
using forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks 
reflected in future cash flow estimates. 
Property obligations 
A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return 
the leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease. Where a leased property is no longer expected 
to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised 
for that portion of the lease excess to the Group’s requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through 
value-in-use.  
Restructuring costs 
Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan has 
been approved and communicated. Examples of restructuring related costs include employee termination payments, contract 
termination penalties and onerous contract payments. 
p) Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown 
in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including 
any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are 
cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net 
of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable 
to owners of the Company. 
q) Financial instruments 
A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or 
substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred. A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified 
in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.  
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method except 
for derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge accounting, and are held at fair 
value. The fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost approximate their carrying amount  
due to the short maturity of these instruments. 
 
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
q) Financial instruments (continued) 
The Group classifies its instruments in the following categories: 
Financial instrument category Note Classification Measurement 
 Fair value
 
 measurement
  
hierarchy
2
 
Cash and cash equivalents 18 Loans and receivables Amortised cost   N/A 
Trade and other receivables 15 Loans and receivables Amortised cost   N/A 
Trade and other payables 19 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost   N/A 
Borrowings 21 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost   N/A 
Put option over non-controlling interest 19 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss   3 
Forward foreign exchange contracts
1
 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss   2 
Equity swap contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss   2 
Onerous lease 20 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost   N/A 
1 Hedge accounting is applied to cash flow hedges to the extent it is achievable. 
2 The fair value measurement hierarchy is only applicable for financial instruments measured at fair value. 
The measurements for financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised into different levels in the fair value hierarchy 
based on the inputs to the valuation technique used. The different levels are defined as follows: 
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the 
measurement date. 
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
or indirectly. 
Level 3: includes unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. 
Observable inputs are those which are developed using market data, such as publicly available information about actual events 
or transactions. The Group has an established framework with respect to measurement of fair values, including Level 3 fair 
values. The Group regularly reviews any significant inputs which are not derived from observable market data and considers, 
where available, relevant third-party information, to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of IFRS. 
The classification level in the fair value hierarchy is also considered periodically. Significant valuation issues are reported to the 
Audit Committee. 
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual 
and market rates and, in the case of forward foreign exchange contracts, after discounting using the appropriate yield curve  
as at the balance sheet date. All Level 2 fair value measurements are calculated using inputs which are based on observable 
market data. 
The fair value of the put option liability over non-controlling interest is derived using a present value calculation,  
incorporating observable and non-observable inputs. This valuation technique has been adopted as it most closely  
mirrors the contractual arrangement. 
The Group’s primary categories of financial instruments are listed below:  
Cash and cash equivalents 
On the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits with a maturity date of three months 
or less, held with banks and liquidity funds. In the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents also include bank 
overdrafts, which are recorded under current liabilities on the Balance Sheet. 
127
Notes to the Financial Statements  
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
q) Financial instruments (continued) 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet 
date. Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. 
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.  
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated 
at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised 
in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified 
as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months  
after the balance sheet date. 
Put option liabilities over non-controlling interest 
Put options over shares in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests are recognised initially at fair value through equity when 
granted. They are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in the 
Income Statement as other finance expenses and income.  
Derivative instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain 
trading transactions. The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly 
probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases. It designates foreign currency 
borrowings in a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries. 
When hedge accounting is applied, the Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging 
instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments 
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The 
method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, 
and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: (1) hedges of the fair value 
of recognised assets and liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or (2) hedges of highly probable forecast 
transactions (cash flow hedges); or (3) classified as held for trading. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income 
Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk. 
128
Notes to the Financial Statements  
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
q) Financial instruments (continued) 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet 
date. Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. 
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.  
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated 
at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised 
in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified 
as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months  
after the balance sheet date. 
Put option liabilities over non-controlling interest 
Put options over shares in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests are recognised initially at fair value through equity when 
granted. They are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in the 
Income Statement as other finance expenses and income.  
Derivative instruments 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain 
trading transactions. The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly 
probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases. It designates foreign currency 
borrowings in a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries. 
When hedge accounting is applied, the Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging 
instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments 
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. The 
method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, 
and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: (1) hedges of the fair value 
of recognised assets and liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or (2) hedges of highly probable forecast 
transactions (cash flow hedges); or (3) classified as held for trading. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income 
Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk. 
 
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
q) Financial instruments (continued) 
Derivative instruments (continued) 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is deferred 
in Other Comprehensive Income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately 
in the Income Statement. Amounts deferred in Other Comprehensive Income are recycled in the Income Statement in the 
periods when the hedged item affects the Income Statement. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge 
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity 
and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement. When a forecast transaction 
is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Income 
Statement within ‘other gains/(losses) — net’. If a derivative instrument is not designated as a hedge, the subsequent change 
to the fair value is recognised in the Income Statement within operating expenses or interest depending upon the nature of 
the instrument. 
Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses 
on the retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and will be reclassified to the Income 
Statement when the foreign operation that was hedged is disposed of.  
r) Foreign currency translation  
Functional and presentation currency 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial statements are 
presented in Sterling which is the Company’s functional and the Group’s presentation currency. 
Transactions in foreign currencies 
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency 
at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, 
which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. 
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise, except 
where these exchange differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of the Group, in which case such 
differences are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.  
Translation of the results of overseas businesses 
The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Group’s presentation currency of Sterling each month at the 
weighted average exchange rate for the month according to the phasing of the Group’s trading results. The weighted average 
exchange rate is used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions. The assets 
and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at the year end exchange rates. Differences arising on the retranslation of the 
opening net investment in subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign 
currency translation reserve.  
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities  
of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. 
The principal exchange rates used were as follows: 
  Average rate  Closing rate 
 
Year to
31 March
2014 
Year to
31 March
2013 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
As at
31 March
2013 
Euro 1.19 1.22 1.21 1.18 
US Dollar 1.59 1.58 1.67 1.52 
Chinese Yuan Renminbi 9.78 9.91 10.34 9.44 
Hong Kong Dollar 12.38 12.25 12.94 11.79 
Korean Won 1,734 1,758 1,771 1,691 
The average exchange rate achieved by the Group on its Yen royalty income, taking into account its use of Yen forward foreign 
exchange contracts on a monthly basis approximately 12 months in advance of royalty receipts, was Yen 137.0: £1 in the year 
to 31 March 2014 (2013: Yen 126.9: £1). 
129
Notes to the Financial Statements  
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
s) Adjusted profit before taxation  
In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Group’s ongoing business, the Group’s results 
include a presentation of Adjusted Profit before Taxation (‘adjusted PBT’). Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before taxation and 
before adjusting items. Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded in order to 
provide a consistent and comparable view of the underlying performance of the Group’s ongoing business. Generally this will 
include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature and any fair value movements on options held over equity 
interests held for non-speculative purposes. Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year and  
a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements. Adjusting items and their related tax 
impacts are added back/deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted earnings per share.  
3. Segmental analysis 
The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors. The Board reviews the Group’s internal 
reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources. Management has determined the operating segments based 
on the reports used by the Board. 
The Board considers the Group’s business through its two channels to market, being retail/wholesale and licensing.  
Retail/wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets 
and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts. 
The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a 
corporate level and implemented via the Group’s inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.  
Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from the Group’s partners in Japan and global licensees  
of fragrances, eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear. Licensing revenue from royalties received under the fragrance 
and beauty licence has been included in the licensing segment up to 31 March 2013. From 1 April 2013, following the termination 
of the licence relationship, revenue from the sale of Beauty products is reported as part of the retail/wholesale segment. 
The Board assesses channel performance based on a measure of adjusted operating profit. This measurement basis excludes 
the effects of adjusting items. The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes 
an allocation of corporate and central costs. Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating 
segment that is reviewed by the Board.  
  Retail/Wholesale  Licensing  Total 
 
Year to
31 March
2014
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Year to
31 March
2014
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Retail 1,622.6 1,416.6 – – 1,622.6 1,416.6 
Wholesale 628.0 472.7 – – 628.0 472.7 
Licensing – – 81.6 111.4 81.6 111.4 
Total segment revenue 2,250.6 1,889.3 81.6 111.4 2,332.2 2,000.7 
Inter-segment revenue
1
 – – (2.4) (2.0) (2.4) (2.0) 
Revenue from external customers 2,250.6 1,889.3 79.2 109.4 2,329.8 1,998.7 
       
Depreciation and amortisation 138.6 111.1 – – 138.6 111.1 
Net impairment charges 12.3 11.3 – – 12.3 11.3 
Other non-cash expenses       
Share based payments 21.6 19.9 3.8 5.0 25.4 24.9 
       
Adjusted operating profit 393.5 335.6 66.8 92.5 460.3 428.1 
Adjusting items
2
     (16.6) (77.1) 
Finance income     3.9 3.4 
Finance expense     (3.2) (3.7) 
Profit before taxation     444.4 350.7 
1 Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.  
2 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items. 
130
Notes to the Financial Statements  
2. Accounting policies (continued) 
s) Adjusted profit before taxation  
In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Group’s ongoing business, the Group’s results 
include a presentation of Adjusted Profit before Taxation (‘adjusted PBT’). Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before taxation and 
before adjusting items. Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded in order to 
provide a consistent and comparable view of the underlying performance of the Group’s ongoing business. Generally this will 
include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature and any fair value movements on options held over equity 
interests held for non-speculative purposes. Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year and  
a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements. Adjusting items and their related tax 
impacts are added back/deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted earnings per share.  
3. Segmental analysis 
The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors. The Board reviews the Group’s internal 
reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources. Management has determined the operating segments based 
on the reports used by the Board. 
The Board considers the Group’s business through its two channels to market, being retail/wholesale and licensing.  
Retail/wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets 
and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts. 
The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a 
corporate level and implemented via the Group’s inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.  
Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from the Group’s partners in Japan and global licensees  
of fragrances, eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear. Licensing revenue from royalties received under the fragrance 
and beauty licence has been included in the licensing segment up to 31 March 2013. From 1 April 2013, following the termination 
of the licence relationship, revenue from the sale of Beauty products is reported as part of the retail/wholesale segment. 
The Board assesses channel performance based on a measure of adjusted operating profit. This measurement basis excludes 
the effects of adjusting items. The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes 
an allocation of corporate and central costs. Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating 
segment that is reviewed by the Board.  
  Retail/Wholesale  Licensing  Total 
 
Year to
31 March
2014
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Year to
31 March
2014
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Retail 1,622.6 1,416.6 – – 1,622.6 1,416.6 
Wholesale 628.0 472.7 – – 628.0 472.7 
Licensing – – 81.6 111.4 81.6 111.4 
Total segment revenue 2,250.6 1,889.3 81.6 111.4 2,332.2 2,000.7 
Inter-segment revenue
1
 – – (2.4) (2.0) (2.4) (2.0) 
Revenue from external customers 2,250.6 1,889.3 79.2 109.4 2,329.8 1,998.7 
       
Depreciation and amortisation 138.6 111.1 – – 138.6 111.1 
Net impairment charges 12.3 11.3 – – 12.3 11.3 
Other non-cash expenses       
Share based payments 21.6 19.9 3.8 5.0 25.4 24.9 
       
Adjusted operating profit 393.5 335.6 66.8 92.5 460.3 428.1 
Adjusting items
2
     (16.6) (77.1) 
Finance income     3.9 3.4 
Finance expense     (3.2) (3.7) 
Profit before taxation     444.4 350.7 
1 Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.  
2 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items. 
 
3. Segmental analysis (continued)  
Segmental asset analysis 
  Retail/Wholesale  Licensing  Total 
 
Year to
31 March
2014
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Year to
31 March
2014
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2013 
£m 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Additions to non-current assets 160.9 253.6 – – 160.9 253.6 
       
Total segment assets 1,200.4 1,094.0 5.8 4.2 1,206.2 1,098.2 
Goodwill     80.2 86.3 
Cash and cash equivalents     545.5 426.4 
Taxation     125.0 127.0 
Assets relating to discontinued Spanish operations    8.6 8.3 
Total assets per Balance Sheet     1,965.5 1,746.2 
Additional revenue analysis 
Revenue by product division 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Accessories
1
 816.1 729.1 
Womens 684.0 618.2 
Mens 520.8 464.2 
Childrens/Other 78.4 72.6 
Beauty 151.3 5.2 
Retail/Wholesale 2,250.6 1,889.3 
Licensing 79.2 109.4 
Total 2,329.8 1,998.7 
1 The Accessories revenue for the year ended 31 March 2013 has been restated to exclude Beauty retail sales. 
 
Revenue by destination 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March 
2013
2 
£m 
Asia Pacific 870.3 745.3 
EMEIA
1
 811.5 680.7 
Americas 568.8 463.3 
Retail/Wholesale 2,250.6 1,889.3 
Licensing 79.2 109.4 
Total 2,329.8 1,998.7 
1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa. 
2 As a result of an internal reorganisation, the Europe and Rest of World divisions were integrated to form EMEIA. The results for the year ended 31 March 2013 have 
been re-presented to reflect this organisational change. 
Entity-wide disclosures 
Revenue derived from external customers in the UK totalled £213.2m for the year to 31 March 2014 (2013: £170.4m). 
Revenue derived from external customers in foreign countries totalled £2,116.6m for the year to 31 March 2014 
(2013: £1,828.3m).This amount includes £493.8m of external revenues derived from customers in the USA (2013: £417.8m) 
and £318.2m of external revenues derived from customers in China (2013: £267.5m). 
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is £213.7m  
(2013: £211.5m). The remaining £394.0m of non-current assets are located in other countries (2013: £421.1m), with £136.9m  
located in the USA (2013: £154.3m) and £84.3m located in China (2013: £73.5m). 
131
Notes to the Financial Statements  
4. Net operating expenses 
 Note 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March 
2013 
£m
1
 
Selling and distribution costs   673.6 573.1 
Administrative expenses  524.6 440.8 
    
Adjusting items    
Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible 6 14.9 – 
Termination of licence relationship 6 – 82.9 
Restructuring costs  6 – (0.6) 
Total  1,213.1 1,096.2 
1 The year ended 31 March 2013 has been re-presented to reallocate certain costs from selling and distribution costs to administrative expenses to better reflect  
the nature of these costs. 
5. Profit before taxation 
 Note 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to 
31 March
2013
£m 
Profit before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):    
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    
 Within cost of sales  0.8 0.5 
 Within selling and distribution costs  88.7 76.2 
 Within administrative expenses  16.1 17.7 
Amortisation of intangible assets     
 Within selling and distribution costs  2.2 2.0 
 Within administrative expenses  15.9 14.7 
Depreciation of investment properties  – 0.1 
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  (1.3) 0.1 
Net impairment charge relating to retail assets   12.3 11.3 
Employee costs
1
  441.3 385.6 
Operating lease rentals     
 Minimum lease payments  156.5 142.6 
 Contingent rents  83.2 73.7 
Net exchange loss/(gain) on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities  11.5 (5.0) 
Net exchange (gain)/loss on derivatives held for trading for the year  (4.2) 3.4 
Trade receivables net impairment (reversal)/charge  (1.5) 2.1 
    
Adjusting items    
Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible 6 14.9 – 
Put option liability finance charges 6 1.7 (5.2) 
Termination of licence relationship 6 – 82.9 
Restructuring costs 6 – (0.6) 
1 The employee costs figure for the year ended 31 March 2013 excludes costs relating to the setup of the Beauty product division which have been included within 
adjusting items. 
6. Adjusting items 
Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 
During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of £70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present 
value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and 
wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA. 
This asset is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017. The amortisation is presented  
as an adjusting item, which is consistent with the treatment of the cost recognised on termination of the licence relationship in the 
year ended 31 March 2013. The amortisation expense recognised for the year ended 31 March 2014 is £14.9m (refer to note 12).  
A related tax credit of £1.9m has also been recognised in the current period. 
132
Notes to the Financial Statements  
4. Net operating expenses 
 Note 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March 
2013 
£m
1
 
Selling and distribution costs   673.6 573.1 
Administrative expenses  524.6 440.8 
    
Adjusting items    
Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible 6 14.9 – 
Termination of licence relationship 6 – 82.9 
Restructuring costs  6 – (0.6) 
Total  1,213.1 1,096.2 
1 The year ended 31 March 2013 has been re-presented to reallocate certain costs from selling and distribution costs to administrative expenses to better reflect  
the nature of these costs. 
5. Profit before taxation 
 Note 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to 
31 March
2013
£m 
Profit before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):    
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    
 Within cost of sales  0.8 0.5 
 Within selling and distribution costs  88.7 76.2 
 Within administrative expenses  16.1 17.7 
Amortisation of intangible assets     
 Within selling and distribution costs  2.2 2.0 
 Within administrative expenses  15.9 14.7 
Depreciation of investment properties  – 0.1 
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets  (1.3) 0.1 
Net impairment charge relating to retail assets   12.3 11.3 
Employee costs
1
  441.3 385.6 
Operating lease rentals     
 Minimum lease payments  156.5 142.6 
 Contingent rents  83.2 73.7 
Net exchange loss/(gain) on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities  11.5 (5.0) 
Net exchange (gain)/loss on derivatives held for trading for the year  (4.2) 3.4 
Trade receivables net impairment (reversal)/charge  (1.5) 2.1 
    
Adjusting items    
Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible 6 14.9 – 
Put option liability finance charges 6 1.7 (5.2) 
Termination of licence relationship 6 – 82.9 
Restructuring costs 6 – (0.6) 
1 The employee costs figure for the year ended 31 March 2013 excludes costs relating to the setup of the Beauty product division which have been included within 
adjusting items. 
6. Adjusting items 
Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 
During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of £70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present 
value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and 
wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA. 
This asset is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017. The amortisation is presented  
as an adjusting item, which is consistent with the treatment of the cost recognised on termination of the licence relationship in the 
year ended 31 March 2013. The amortisation expense recognised for the year ended 31 March 2014 is £14.9m (refer to note 12).  
A related tax credit of £1.9m has also been recognised in the current period. 
 
6. Adjusting items (continued) 
Put option liability finance income/charge 
The financing charge of £1.7m for the year ended 31 March 2014 (2013: credit of £5.2m) relates to fair value movements and 
the unwinding of the discount on the put option liability over the non-controlling interest in Burberry (Shanghai) Trading Co., 
Ltd. Refer to note 19 for further details of the carrying value of the put option liability. No tax has been recognised on this item, 
as it is not considered to be deductible for tax purposes. 
Termination of licence relationship 
During the year ended 31 March 2013, a total of £82.9m was reported as an adjusting item relating to the termination of the 
fragrance and beauty licence relationship with Interparfums SA. A tax credit of £19.1m was recognised on this charge in the 
same period. The manufacture and distribution of Beauty products has been directly operated by the Group since 1 April 2013. 
No further costs relating to this transaction have been reported as adjusting in the current period. 
Restructuring costs 
No restructuring related items have been recognised in the year ended 31 March 2014. 
During the year ended 31 March 2013, a credit was recognised for the release of £0.6m of the restructuring provision held 
in respect of the cost efficiency programme announced in the year to 31 March 2009. A tax charge of £0.1m was recognised 
in relation to this adjusting item in the same period.  
7. Auditor remuneration 
Fees incurred during the year in relation to audit and non-audit services are analysed below. All work performed by the external 
auditors is controlled by an authorisation policy agreed by the Audit Committee. The overriding principle precludes the auditors 
from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence. Non-audit services are provided by the auditors 
where they are best placed to provide the service due to their previous experience or market leadership in a particular area. 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to 
31 March
2013
£m 
Audit services in respect of the accounts of the Company and consolidation 0.4 0.3 
Audit services in respect of the accounts of subsidiary companies 1.4 1.3 
Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 
Services relating to taxation   
Compliance services 0.1 0.2 
Advisory services 0.3 0.4 
Other non-audit related services 0.2 0.2 
Total 2.5 2.5 
8. Financing 
 Note 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Bank interest income  2.9 2.7 
Other finance income  1.0 0.7 
Finance income  3.9 3.4 
Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts  (1.6) (1.9) 
Bank charges  (1.4) (1.4) 
Other finance expense  (0.2) (0.4) 
Finance expense  (3.2) (3.7) 
Other financing (charges)/income — put option liability  6 (1.7) 5.2 
Net finance (charge)/income  (1.0) 4.9 
133
Notes to the Financial Statements  
9. Taxation 
Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Current tax   
UK corporation tax   
Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2014 at 23% (2013: 24%)  69.1 79.4 
Double taxation relief (0.8) (0.5) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3.8) 1.0 
 64.5 79.9 
Foreign tax   
Current tax on income for the year 50.9 37.2 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.2 10.2 
Total current tax 121.6 127.3 
   
Deferred tax   
UK deferred tax   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.3 (19.8) 
Impact of changes to tax rates 4.1 1.6 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 (1.2) 
 6.6 (19.4) 
Foreign deferred tax   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (16.9) (15.7) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 (0.7) 
Total deferred tax (9.5) (35.8) 
Total tax charge on profit  112.1 91.5 
Analysis of charge for the year recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Current tax   
Recognised in other comprehensive income   
Current tax (credit)/charge on exchange differences on loans (foreign currency translation reserve) (4.6) 6.8 
Total current tax recognised in other comprehensive income (4.6) 6.8 
Recognised in equity   
Current tax credit on share options (retained earnings) (9.6) (7.3) 
Total current tax recognised directly in equity (9.6) (7.3) 
   
Deferred tax   
Recognised in other comprehensive income   
Deferred tax charge/(credit) on cash flow hedges deferred in equity (hedging reserve) 0.9 (0.3) 
Deferred tax (credit)/charge on cash flow hedges transferred to income (hedging reserve) (2.2) 1.6 
Deferred tax credit on exchange differences on loans (foreign currency translation reserve) – (5.4) 
Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income (1.3) (4.1) 
Recognised in equity   
Deferred tax charge on share options (retained earnings) 5.8 9.2 
Total deferred tax recognised directly in equity 5.8 9.2 
 
134
Notes to the Financial Statements  
9. Taxation 
Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Current tax   
UK corporation tax   
Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2014 at 23% (2013: 24%)  69.1 79.4 
Double taxation relief (0.8) (0.5) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (3.8) 1.0 
 64.5 79.9 
Foreign tax   
Current tax on income for the year 50.9 37.2 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.2 10.2 
Total current tax 121.6 127.3 
   
Deferred tax   
UK deferred tax   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.3 (19.8) 
Impact of changes to tax rates 4.1 1.6 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 (1.2) 
 6.6 (19.4) 
Foreign deferred tax   
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (16.9) (15.7) 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 (0.7) 
Total deferred tax (9.5) (35.8) 
Total tax charge on profit  112.1 91.5 
Analysis of charge for the year recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Current tax   
Recognised in other comprehensive income   
Current tax (credit)/charge on exchange differences on loans (foreign currency translation reserve) (4.6) 6.8 
Total current tax recognised in other comprehensive income (4.6) 6.8 
Recognised in equity   
Current tax credit on share options (retained earnings) (9.6) (7.3) 
Total current tax recognised directly in equity (9.6) (7.3) 
   
Deferred tax   
Recognised in other comprehensive income   
Deferred tax charge/(credit) on cash flow hedges deferred in equity (hedging reserve) 0.9 (0.3) 
Deferred tax (credit)/charge on cash flow hedges transferred to income (hedging reserve) (2.2) 1.6 
Deferred tax credit on exchange differences on loans (foreign currency translation reserve) – (5.4) 
Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income (1.3) (4.1) 
Recognised in equity   
Deferred tax charge on share options (retained earnings) 5.8 9.2 
Total deferred tax recognised directly in equity 5.8 9.2 
 
 
9. Taxation (continued) 
The tax rate applicable on profit varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK due to the following factors: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Profit before taxation 444.4 350.7 
   
Tax at 23% (2013: 24%) on profit before taxation 102.2 84.2 
Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits  (2.9) (7.4) 
Permanent differences 3.4 0.9 
Current year tax losses not recognised 1.9 2.9 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.4 9.3 
Adjustments to deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 4.1 1.6 
Total taxation charge 112.1 91.5 
Total taxation recognised in the Group Income Statement arises on: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Adjusted profit before taxation 114.0 110.5 
Adjusting items (1.9) (19.0) 
Total taxation charge 112.1 91.5 
10. Earnings per share  
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company for the year 
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. Basic and diluted earnings per share 
based on adjusted profit before taxation are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.  
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Attributable profit for the year before adjusting items
1
 337.2 312.4 
Effect of adjusting items
1
 (after taxation) (14.7) (58.1) 
Attributable profit for the year  322.5 254.3 
1 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items. 
The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary 
shares in issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in the Group’s employee share option plan trusts 
(ESOP trusts). 
Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. In addition, 
account is taken of any options and awards made under the employee share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive 
effect when exercised. Refer to note 26 for additional information on the terms and conditions of the employee share 
incentive schemes. 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
Millions 
Year to
31 March
2013
Millions 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 437.9 436.2 
Dilutive effect of the employee share incentive schemes 9.4 10.3 
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 447.3 446.5 
135
Notes to the Financial Statements  
11. Dividends paid to owners of the Company 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Prior year final dividend paid 21.00p per share (2013: 18.00p) 92.1 78.6 
Interim dividend paid 8.80p per share (2013: 8.00p) 38.6 34.9 
Total  130.7 113.5 
A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2014 of 23.20p (2013: 21.00p) per share, amounting to £101.8m  
(2013: £91.5m), has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance 
sheet date. The final dividend to Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will 
be paid on 31 July 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 July 2014. 
12. Intangible assets 
Cost 
Goodwill
£m 
Trade marks, 
licences and 
other intangible 
assets
£m 
Computer 
software
1 
£m 
Intangible assets 
in the course of 
construction
1 
£m 
Total
£m 
As at 1 April 2012 81.2 25.7 67.6 2.3 176.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 5.1 0.1 0.8 
– 
6.0 
Additions – 73.2 9.3 
5.8 
88.3 
Disposals – – (2.1) 
– 
(2.1) 
Reclassifications from assets in the course  
of construction – – 2.3 (2.3) – 
As at 31 March 2013 86.3 99.0 77.9 
5.8 
269.0 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (6.8) (0.4) (1.6) 
– 
(8.8) 
Additions – 0.3 17.3 
8.4 
26.0 
Reclassifications from assets in the course  
of construction – – 4.9 (4.9) – 
Business combinations 0.7 – – 
– 
0.7 
As at 31 March 2014 80.2 98.9 98.5 9.3 286.9 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment    
 
 
As at 1 April 2012 – 12.3 31.4 – 43.7 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – – 0.5 – 0.5 
Charge for the year – 2.1 14.6 – 16.7 
Disposals – – (2.1) – (2.1) 
As at 31 March 2013 – 14.4 44.4 – 58.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.3) (1.0) – (1.3) 
Charge for the year – 17.2 15.8 – 33.0 
Net impairment charge on assets (note 13) – 1.0 – – 1.0 
As at 31 March 2014 – 32.3 59.2 – 91.5 
Net book value    
 
 
As at 31 March 2014 80.2 66.6 39.3 9.3 195.4 
As at 31 March 2013 86.3 84.6 33.5 
5.8 
210.2 
1 As at 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013, £2.3m and £5.8m respectively was reclassified from Computer software to Assets in the course of construction, as this was 
more reflective of the nature of these assets. 
Fragrance and beauty intangible asset 
During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of £70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the 
present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through 
retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence following the termination of the existing licence relationship with 
Interparfums SA. This asset is presented within the intangible asset category ‘trade mark, licences and other intangible assets’, 
and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017. The carrying value of the 
Beauty intangible at 31 March 2014 is £56.0m (2013: £70.9m). 
136
Notes to the Financial Statements  
11. Dividends paid to owners of the Company 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Prior year final dividend paid 21.00p per share (2013: 18.00p) 92.1 78.6 
Interim dividend paid 8.80p per share (2013: 8.00p) 38.6 34.9 
Total  130.7 113.5 
A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2014 of 23.20p (2013: 21.00p) per share, amounting to £101.8m  
(2013: £91.5m), has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance 
sheet date. The final dividend to Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will 
be paid on 31 July 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 July 2014. 
12. Intangible assets 
Cost 
Goodwill
£m 
Trade marks, 
licences and 
other intangible 
assets
£m 
Computer 
software
1 
£m 
Intangible assets 
in the course of 
construction
1 
£m 
Total
£m 
As at 1 April 2012 81.2 25.7 67.6 2.3 176.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 5.1 0.1 0.8 
– 
6.0 
Additions – 73.2 9.3 
5.8 
88.3 
Disposals – – (2.1) 
– 
(2.1) 
Reclassifications from assets in the course  
of construction – – 2.3 (2.3) – 
As at 31 March 2013 86.3 99.0 77.9 
5.8 
269.0 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (6.8) (0.4) (1.6) 
– 
(8.8) 
Additions – 0.3 17.3 
8.4 
26.0 
Reclassifications from assets in the course  
of construction – – 4.9 (4.9) – 
Business combinations 0.7 – – 
– 
0.7 
As at 31 March 2014 80.2 98.9 98.5 9.3 286.9 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment    
 
 
As at 1 April 2012 – 12.3 31.4 – 43.7 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – – 0.5 – 0.5 
Charge for the year – 2.1 14.6 – 16.7 
Disposals – – (2.1) – (2.1) 
As at 31 March 2013 – 14.4 44.4 – 58.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.3) (1.0) – (1.3) 
Charge for the year – 17.2 15.8 – 33.0 
Net impairment charge on assets (note 13) – 1.0 – – 1.0 
As at 31 March 2014 – 32.3 59.2 – 91.5 
Net book value    
 
 
As at 31 March 2014 80.2 66.6 39.3 9.3 195.4 
As at 31 March 2013 86.3 84.6 33.5 
5.8 
210.2 
1 As at 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013, £2.3m and £5.8m respectively was reclassified from Computer software to Assets in the course of construction, as this was 
more reflective of the nature of these assets. 
Fragrance and beauty intangible asset 
During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of £70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the 
present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through 
retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence following the termination of the existing licence relationship with 
Interparfums SA. This asset is presented within the intangible asset category ‘trade mark, licences and other intangible assets’, 
and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017. The carrying value of the 
Beauty intangible at 31 March 2014 is £56.0m (2013: £70.9m). 
 
12. Intangible assets (continued)  
Burberry (Thailand) Limited  
On 29 November 2013, the Group acquired assets with a fair value of £0.8m from a franchise partner in Thailand, for a total 
cash consideration of £1.5m. As a result of this transaction, £0.7m of goodwill has been recognised in the year ended  
31 March 2014.  
Impairment testing of goodwill 
The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to cash generating units: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
China
1
 40.7 44.7 
Korea 23.3 24.4 
Other 16.2 17.2 
Total 80.2 86.3 
1 The goodwill reported for China does not include any goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest.  
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired. The 
recoverable amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis. Value-in-use calculations 
for each cash generating unit are based on projected three year pre-tax discounted cash flows together with a discounted 
terminal value. The cash flows have been discounted at pre-tax rates reflecting the Group’s weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted for country specific tax rates and risks. Where the cash generating unit has a non-controlling interest which was 
recognised as its proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the acquisition date, 
the carrying amount of the goodwill has been grossed up, to include the goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest, 
for the purpose of impairment testing the goodwill attributable to the cash generating unit. The key assumptions contained 
in the value-in-use calculations include the future revenues, the margins achieved, the assumed life of the business and the 
discount rates applied. 
The value-in-use calculations have been prepared using management’s approved financial plans for the three years ending 
31 March 2017. These plans contain management’s best view of the expected performance for the year ending 31 March 2015 
and the expected growth rates for the two years ending 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2017. The plans are based on the 
performance achieved in the current year and management’s knowledge of the market environment and future business 
plans. A terminal value has been included in the value-in-use calculation based on the cash flows for the year ending 
31 March 2017 incorporating the assumption that there is no growth beyond 31 March 2017. 
For the material goodwill balances of China and Korea, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use 
calculations by assuming no growth beyond the year ending 31 March 2015. This sensitivity analysis indicated significant 
headroom between the recoverable amount under this scenario and the carrying value of goodwill and therefore management 
considered no further detailed sensitivity analysis was required. 
The pre-tax discount rates for China and Korea were 17.2% and 14.6% respectively (2013: 15.6%; 13.1%). 
No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the goodwill balance in the year as, for each cash 
generating unit, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying value. 
137
Notes to the Financial Statements  
13. Property, plant and equipment 
Cost 
 
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m 
Leasehold 
improvements
£m 
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
1
£m 
Assets in the 
course of 
construction 
£m 
Total
£m 
As at 1 April 2012  54.2 247.6 270.9 34.5 607.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  2.9 12.3 8.9 (0.4) 23.7 
Additions  15.0 53.5 78.0 18.8 165.3 
Disposals   – (17.9) (16.8) – (34.7) 
Transfer from assets held for sale  28.8 – 6.5 – 35.3 
Reclassification from assets in the course  
of construction 3.3 7.6 18.8 (29.7) – 
As at 31 March 2013  104.2 303.1 366.3 23.2 796.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (6.6) (25.4) (20.7) (1.7) (54.4) 
Additions  1.0 55.4 60.4 18.1 134.9 
Disposals   (2.3) (13.7) (12.0) (0.1) (28.1) 
Reclassification from assets in the course  
of construction – 10.2 10.3 (20.5) – 
Business combination – – 0.1 – 0.1 
As at 31 March 2014  96.3 329.6 404.4 19.0 849.3 
       
Accumulated depreciation and impairment          
As at 1 April 2012  16.9 110.4 151.1 – 278.4 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  0.5 6.1 4.6 – 11.2 
Charge for the year  1.3 37.2 55.9 – 94.4 
Disposals  – (17.9) (16.7) – (34.6) 
Transfer from assets held for sale  20.5 – 6.5 – 27.0 
Net impairment charge on assets  – 5.4 5.9 – 11.3 
As at 31 March 2013  39.2 141.2 207.3 – 387.7 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (2.0) (12.8) (12.5) – (27.3) 
Charge for the year  1.5 36.0 68.1 – 105.6 
Disposals  (2.0) (12.5) (11.9) – (26.4) 
Net impairment charge on assets  – 5.7 5.6 – 11.3 
As at 31 March 2014  36.7 157.6 256.6 – 450.9 
       
Net book value       
As at 31 March 2014  59.6 172.0 147.8 19.0 398.4 
As at 31 March 2013  65.0 161.9 159.0 23.2 409.1 
1 Included in fixtures, fittings and equipment are finance lease assets with a net book value of £2.8m (2013: £3.4m). 
In September 2010, £17.0m of assets were reclassified to assets held for sale, representing the carrying value of the freehold 
properties in Spain. The property was subsequently written down to its fair value less costs to sell. During the year ended  
31 March 2013 the conditions in the Spanish property market indicated that it may be difficult to realise the sale of the 
remaining property within 12 months. As a result, at 31 March 2013 £8.3m was transferred back into freehold land and 
buildings, representing the carrying value of this property. Management remains committed to selling the property and 
continues to actively market it as such. 
During the year to 31 March 2014, a net impairment charge of £12.3m (2013: £11.3m) was identified as part of the annual 
impairment review of the retail store assets, £11.3m charged against property, plant and equipment and £1.0m charged against 
intangible assets. The impairment charge relates to 29 retail cash generating units (2013: 20 cash generating units) for which 
the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is £10.0m (2013: £6.6m). 
Where indicators of impairment were identified, the impairment review compared the value-in-use of the assets to the carrying 
values at 31 March 2014. The pre-tax cash flow projections were based on financial plans of expected revenues and costs of 
each retail cash generating unit, as approved by management, and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the lease exit dates 
using growth rates and inflation rates appropriate to each store’s location. The pre-tax discount rates used in these calculations 
were between 12.4% and 18.3% (2013: between 11.8% and 18.2%), based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks. 
138
Notes to the Financial Statements  
13. Property, plant and equipment 
Cost 
 
Freehold land 
and buildings
£m 
Leasehold 
improvements
£m 
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
1
£m 
Assets in the 
course of 
construction 
£m 
Total
£m 
As at 1 April 2012  54.2 247.6 270.9 34.5 607.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  2.9 12.3 8.9 (0.4) 23.7 
Additions  15.0 53.5 78.0 18.8 165.3 
Disposals   – (17.9) (16.8) – (34.7) 
Transfer from assets held for sale  28.8 – 6.5 – 35.3 
Reclassification from assets in the course  
of construction 3.3 7.6 18.8 (29.7) – 
As at 31 March 2013  104.2 303.1 366.3 23.2 796.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (6.6) (25.4) (20.7) (1.7) (54.4) 
Additions  1.0 55.4 60.4 18.1 134.9 
Disposals   (2.3) (13.7) (12.0) (0.1) (28.1) 
Reclassification from assets in the course  
of construction – 10.2 10.3 (20.5) – 
Business combination – – 0.1 – 0.1 
As at 31 March 2014  96.3 329.6 404.4 19.0 849.3 
       
Accumulated depreciation and impairment          
As at 1 April 2012  16.9 110.4 151.1 – 278.4 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  0.5 6.1 4.6 – 11.2 
Charge for the year  1.3 37.2 55.9 – 94.4 
Disposals  – (17.9) (16.7) – (34.6) 
Transfer from assets held for sale  20.5 – 6.5 – 27.0 
Net impairment charge on assets  – 5.4 5.9 – 11.3 
As at 31 March 2013  39.2 141.2 207.3 – 387.7 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (2.0) (12.8) (12.5) – (27.3) 
Charge for the year  1.5 36.0 68.1 – 105.6 
Disposals  (2.0) (12.5) (11.9) – (26.4) 
Net impairment charge on assets  – 5.7 5.6 – 11.3 
As at 31 March 2014  36.7 157.6 256.6 – 450.9 
       
Net book value       
As at 31 March 2014  59.6 172.0 147.8 19.0 398.4 
As at 31 March 2013  65.0 161.9 159.0 23.2 409.1 
1 Included in fixtures, fittings and equipment are finance lease assets with a net book value of £2.8m (2013: £3.4m). 
In September 2010, £17.0m of assets were reclassified to assets held for sale, representing the carrying value of the freehold 
properties in Spain. The property was subsequently written down to its fair value less costs to sell. During the year ended  
31 March 2013 the conditions in the Spanish property market indicated that it may be difficult to realise the sale of the 
remaining property within 12 months. As a result, at 31 March 2013 £8.3m was transferred back into freehold land and 
buildings, representing the carrying value of this property. Management remains committed to selling the property and 
continues to actively market it as such. 
During the year to 31 March 2014, a net impairment charge of £12.3m (2013: £11.3m) was identified as part of the annual 
impairment review of the retail store assets, £11.3m charged against property, plant and equipment and £1.0m charged against 
intangible assets. The impairment charge relates to 29 retail cash generating units (2013: 20 cash generating units) for which 
the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is £10.0m (2013: £6.6m). 
Where indicators of impairment were identified, the impairment review compared the value-in-use of the assets to the carrying 
values at 31 March 2014. The pre-tax cash flow projections were based on financial plans of expected revenues and costs of 
each retail cash generating unit, as approved by management, and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the lease exit dates 
using growth rates and inflation rates appropriate to each store’s location. The pre-tax discount rates used in these calculations 
were between 12.4% and 18.3% (2013: between 11.8% and 18.2%), based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital 
adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks. 
 
14. Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are shown 
in the table below: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Deferred tax assets 116.0 117.6 
Deferred tax liabilities (1.0) (0.8) 
Net amount 115.0 116.8 
 
The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
As at 1 April 116.8 82.7 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (6.8) 3.4 
Credited to the Income Statement 9.5 35.8 
Credited to other comprehensive income 1.3 4.1 
Charged to equity (5.8) (9.2) 
As at 31 March 115.0 116.8 
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the off-setting of balances 
within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: 
Deferred tax liabilities 
 
Capital
allowances
£m 
Unrealised 
inventory
profit and 
other
inventory 
provisions
£m 
Derivative 
instruments
£m 
Unused tax 
losses 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total
£m 
As at 1 April 2012 26.8 (2.5) 1.5 (3.8) (9.9) 12.1 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 (0.1) – (0.3) 0.4 0.1 
(Credited)/charged to the Income Statement  (1.5) (0.9) – 4.1 (7.1) (5.4) 
As at 31 March 2013 25.4 (3.5) 1.5 – (16.6) 6.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (2.0) 0.3 – – 1.3 (0.4) 
(Credited)/charged to the Income Statement  (8.3) (0.4) – (0.2) 8.1 (0.8) 
As at 31 March 2014 15.1 (3.6) 1.5 (0.2) (7.2) 5.6 
Deferred tax assets 
 
Capital 
allowances
£m 
Unrealised 
inventory 
profit and 
other 
inventory 
provisions
£m 
Share 
schemes
£m 
Derivative 
instruments
£m 
Unused 
tax 
losses 
£m 
Other
1 
£m 
Total
£m 
As at 1 April 2012 3.8 36.2 36.6 (0.2) 4.7 13.7 94.8 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1.2) 1.9 – – 0.7 2.1 3.5 
Credited/(charged) to the Income Statement 23.3 (2.7) 4.1 – (2.7) 8.4 30.4 
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income – – – (1.3) – 5.4 4.1 
Charged to equity – – (9.2) – – – (9.2) 
As at 31 March 2013 25.9 35.4 31.5 (1.5) 2.7 29.6 123.6 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.4) (3.9) – – (0.1) (2.8) (7.2) 
(Charged)/credited to the Income Statement (5.3) (1.4) (0.2) – 0.1 15.5 8.7 
Credited to other comprehensive income – – – 1.3 – – 1.3 
Charged to equity – – (5.8) – – – (5.8) 
As at 31 March 2014 20.2 30.1 25.5 (0.2) 2.7 42.3 120.6 
1 Deferred tax balances within the Other category in the analysis above include temporary differences arising on provisions, deferred income and unrealised exchange 
differences deferred in equity. 
139
Notes to the Financial Statements  
14. Deferred taxation (continued)  
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through 
the future taxable profits is probable. The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of £20.1m (2013: £22.3m) in respect of 
losses and temporary timing differences amounting to £62.1m (2013: £68.7m) that can be set off against future taxable income. 
There is a time limit for the recovery of £14.9m of these potential assets (2013: £14.1m) which ranges from five to nine years 
(2013: six to ten years). 
Included within other temporary differences above is a deferred tax liability of £0.6m (2013: £0.6m) relating to unremitted 
overseas earnings. No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries 
where the Group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the 
foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance. The aggregate amount of temporary differences in 
respect of unremitted earnings is £150m (2013: £100m). 
15. Trade and other receivables 
 
 As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Non-current     
Deposits and other receivables   31.0 29.3 
Prepayments  11.3 10.6 
Total non-current trade and other receivables  42.3 39.9 
Current     
Trade receivables   171.2 116.6 
Provision for doubtful debts (5.3) (7.3) 
Net trade receivables  165.9 109.3 
Other financial receivables  14.1 10.4 
Other non-financial receivables  20.3 15.2 
Prepayments  27.5 21.6 
Accrued income  3.6 3.1 
Total current trade and other receivables  231.4 159.6 
Total trade and other receivables  273.7 199.5 
Included in total trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of £59.1m (2013: £47.4m). 
The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates 
or where uncertainty exists over recoverability. As at 31 March 2014, trade receivables of £14.1m (2013: £27.0m) were impaired. 
The amount of the provision against these receivables was £5.3m as of 31 March 2014 (2013: £7.3m). It was assessed that 
a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Current – 0.5 
Less than one month overdue 9.7 20.4 
One to three months overdue 0.7 1.8 
Over three months overdue 3.7 4.3 
 14.1 27.0 
As at 31 March 2014, trade receivables of £12.8m (2013: £5.4m) were overdue but not impaired. The ageing of these overdue 
receivables is as follows: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Less than one month overdue 7.6 3.7 
One to three months overdue 4.5 1.7 
Over three months overdue 0.7 – 
 12.8 5.4 
140
Notes to the Financial Statements  
14. Deferred taxation (continued)  
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through 
the future taxable profits is probable. The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of £20.1m (2013: £22.3m) in respect of 
losses and temporary timing differences amounting to £62.1m (2013: £68.7m) that can be set off against future taxable income. 
There is a time limit for the recovery of £14.9m of these potential assets (2013: £14.1m) which ranges from five to nine years 
(2013: six to ten years). 
Included within other temporary differences above is a deferred tax liability of £0.6m (2013: £0.6m) relating to unremitted 
overseas earnings. No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries 
where the Group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the 
foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance. The aggregate amount of temporary differences in 
respect of unremitted earnings is £150m (2013: £100m). 
15. Trade and other receivables 
 
 As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Non-current     
Deposits and other receivables   31.0 29.3 
Prepayments  11.3 10.6 
Total non-current trade and other receivables  42.3 39.9 
Current     
Trade receivables   171.2 116.6 
Provision for doubtful debts (5.3) (7.3) 
Net trade receivables  165.9 109.3 
Other financial receivables  14.1 10.4 
Other non-financial receivables  20.3 15.2 
Prepayments  27.5 21.6 
Accrued income  3.6 3.1 
Total current trade and other receivables  231.4 159.6 
Total trade and other receivables  273.7 199.5 
Included in total trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of £59.1m (2013: £47.4m). 
The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates 
or where uncertainty exists over recoverability. As at 31 March 2014, trade receivables of £14.1m (2013: £27.0m) were impaired. 
The amount of the provision against these receivables was £5.3m as of 31 March 2014 (2013: £7.3m). It was assessed that 
a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Current – 0.5 
Less than one month overdue 9.7 20.4 
One to three months overdue 0.7 1.8 
Over three months overdue 3.7 4.3 
 14.1 27.0 
As at 31 March 2014, trade receivables of £12.8m (2013: £5.4m) were overdue but not impaired. The ageing of these overdue 
receivables is as follows: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Less than one month overdue 7.6 3.7 
One to three months overdue 4.5 1.7 
Over three months overdue 0.7 – 
 12.8 5.4 
 
15. Trade and other receivables (continued) 
Movement on the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
As at 1 April 7.3 7.6 
Increase in provision for doubtful debts – 2.5 
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (0.5) (2.4) 
Unused provision reversed (1.5) (0.4) 
As at 31 March 5.3 7.3 
As at 31 March 2014 there were no impaired receivables within other receivables (2013: £nil).  
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-derivative financial assets excluding cash and cash equivalents by region are: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Asia Pacific 88.2 75.4 
EMEIA 70.8 53.0 
Americas 55.6 23.7 
 214.6 152.1 
16. Inventories 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Raw materials 36.3 14.7 
Work in progress 2.7 0.7 
Finished goods 380.8 335.6 
Total inventories 419.8 351.0 
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £646.2m (2013: £535.8m).  
The net movement in inventory provisions included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2014 was a cost of £13.3m 
(2013: £8.6m).  
The cost of finished goods physically destroyed in the year is £11.0m (2013: £5.5m). 
141
Notes to the Financial Statements  
17. Derivative financial instruments 
Cash flow hedges 
The Group Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency. To reduce exposure to currency 
fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign 
exchange contracts. These transactions are recorded as cash flow hedges. The Group’s foreign currency denominated 
transactions arise principally from royalty income, sales and purchases.  
Master netting arrangements 
The Group’s forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts are entered into under International Swaps and 
Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting arrangements. In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each 
counterparty on a single day in respect of all transactions outstanding in the same currency are aggregated into a single 
amount that is payable by one party to the other. In certain circumstances, such as when a default occurs, all outstanding 
transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable  
in settlement of all transactions. The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Balance Sheet as the 
Group’s right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as default. The Group’s Balance Sheet 
would not be materially different if it had offset its forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts subject  
to these ISDA agreements. 
Derivative financial assets 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 4.6 8.3 
Equity swap contracts – held for trading 0.5 12.0 
Total position 5.1 20.3 
Comprising:   
Total non-current position 0.5 0.2 
Total current position 4.6 20.1 
Derivative financial liabilities 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges (1.2) (0.1) 
Equity swap contracts – held for trading (1.3) (0.7) 
Total position (2.5) (0.8) 
Comprising:   
Total non-current position (0.9) (0.7) 
Total current position (1.6) (0.1) 
Net derivative financial instruments 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts 218.4 200.1 
Notional principal amounts of the outstanding equity swap contracts 17.9 20.1 
142
Notes to the Financial Statements  
17. Derivative financial instruments 
Cash flow hedges 
The Group Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency. To reduce exposure to currency 
fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign 
exchange contracts. These transactions are recorded as cash flow hedges. The Group’s foreign currency denominated 
transactions arise principally from royalty income, sales and purchases.  
Master netting arrangements 
The Group’s forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts are entered into under International Swaps and 
Derivatives Association (ISDA) master netting arrangements. In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each 
counterparty on a single day in respect of all transactions outstanding in the same currency are aggregated into a single 
amount that is payable by one party to the other. In certain circumstances, such as when a default occurs, all outstanding 
transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable  
in settlement of all transactions. The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Balance Sheet as the 
Group’s right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as default. The Group’s Balance Sheet 
would not be materially different if it had offset its forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts subject  
to these ISDA agreements. 
Derivative financial assets 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 4.6 8.3 
Equity swap contracts – held for trading 0.5 12.0 
Total position 5.1 20.3 
Comprising:   
Total non-current position 0.5 0.2 
Total current position 4.6 20.1 
Derivative financial liabilities 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges (1.2) (0.1) 
Equity swap contracts – held for trading (1.3) (0.7) 
Total position (2.5) (0.8) 
Comprising:   
Total non-current position (0.9) (0.7) 
Total current position (1.6) (0.1) 
Net derivative financial instruments 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts 218.4 200.1 
Notional principal amounts of the outstanding equity swap contracts 17.9 20.1 
 
17. Derivative financial instruments (continued) 
Contractual maturities of derivatives used for hedging 
The gross inflows/(outflows) disclosed in the table below represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating 
to derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes. They are usually not closed out prior 
to the contractual maturity. The foreign currency cash flows shown are based on spot rates at balance sheet date. 
   Contractual maturities 
  
Carrying amount
£m 
Contractual cash 
flows
£m 
1 to 6
months
£m 
6 to 12 
months 
£m 
1 to 2
years
£m 
As at 31 March 2014       
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:       
Outflow   (214.1) (99.2) (106.6) (8.3)
Inflow   217.3 101.5 107.5 8.3 
  3.4 3.2 2.3 0.9 – 
As at 31 March 2013       
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging:       
Outflow   (194.8) (116.0) (78.8) – 
Inflow   202.6 120.6 82.0 – 
  8.2 7.8 4.6 3.2 – 
The contractual maturity profile of non-current financial liabilities is shown in note 25. 
18. Cash and cash equivalents 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand 275.4 234.7 
Short-term deposits  270.1 191.7 
Total  545.5 426.4 
19. Trade and other payables 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March 
2013
1 
£m 
Non-current   
Put option liability over non-controlling interest 51.3 55.0 
Other payables 4.4 5.1 
Deferred income and non-financial accruals 51.7 47.9 
Total non-current trade and other payables 107.4 108.0 
Current    
Trade payables 174.3 118.2 
Other taxes and social security costs 48.5 43.6 
Deferred consideration – 1.1 
Other payables 5.7 9.1 
Accruals  140.1 140.6 
Deferred income and non-financial accruals 31.2 27.2 
Total current trade and other payables 399.8 339.8 
Total trade and other payables 507.2 447.8 
1 As at 31 March 2013, £19.0m was reclassified from Deferred income and non-financial accruals to Other taxes and social security costs, as this was more reflective  
of the nature of these liabilities. 
Included in total trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of £131.4m (2013: £118.7m) of which £51.7m are 
non-current (2013: £47.9m). 
143
Notes to the Financial Statements  
19. Trade and other payables (continued) 
Put option liability over non-controlling interest 
Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group 
company, retains a 15% economic interest in the Group’s business in China. Put and call options exist over this interest stake 
which are exercisable after 1 September 2015 in the case of the call option, and after 1 September 2020 in the case of the put 
option. The net present value of the put option has been recognised as a non-current financial liability under IAS 39. 
The value of the put option liability is £51.3m at 31 March 2014 (2013: £55.0m). The movement in the liability for the period 
includes an increase of £1.7m relating to unrealised fair value movements, as described in note 6, offset by the impact of 
translation of the put liability to the Group’s presentational currency. 
The key inputs applied in arriving at the value of the put option are the future performance of the Group’s business in China; 
the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple; and the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account the risk free 
rate in China. The future performance of the business is estimated by using management’s business plans together with long-
term observable growth forecasts. 
The carrying value of the put option liability is dependent on assumptions applied in determining these key inputs, and is subject 
to change, in the event that there is a change in any of those assumptions. The valuation is updated at every reporting period or 
more often if a significant change to any input is observed. 
A 10% increase/decrease in the future performance of the Group’s business in China at the put option exercise date would result 
in a £5.1m increase/decrease in the carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2014, and a corresponding £5.1m 
loss/gain in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2014. 
A 1% increase/decrease in the risk adjusted discount rate for China would result in a £3.0m decrease/£3.1m increase in the 
carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2014, and a corresponding £3.0m gain/£3.1m loss in the profit before 
taxation for the year ended 31 March 2014. 
Ultimately, the put option liability is subject to a contractual cap of £200m. The undiscounted value of the put option liability 
at 31 March 2014 is £115.3m (2013: £144.5m). 
144
Notes to the Financial Statements  
19. Trade and other payables (continued) 
Put option liability over non-controlling interest 
Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group 
company, retains a 15% economic interest in the Group’s business in China. Put and call options exist over this interest stake 
which are exercisable after 1 September 2015 in the case of the call option, and after 1 September 2020 in the case of the put 
option. The net present value of the put option has been recognised as a non-current financial liability under IAS 39. 
The value of the put option liability is £51.3m at 31 March 2014 (2013: £55.0m). The movement in the liability for the period 
includes an increase of £1.7m relating to unrealised fair value movements, as described in note 6, offset by the impact of 
translation of the put liability to the Group’s presentational currency. 
The key inputs applied in arriving at the value of the put option are the future performance of the Group’s business in China; 
the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple; and the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account the risk free 
rate in China. The future performance of the business is estimated by using management’s business plans together with long-
term observable growth forecasts. 
The carrying value of the put option liability is dependent on assumptions applied in determining these key inputs, and is subject 
to change, in the event that there is a change in any of those assumptions. The valuation is updated at every reporting period or 
more often if a significant change to any input is observed. 
A 10% increase/decrease in the future performance of the Group’s business in China at the put option exercise date would result 
in a £5.1m increase/decrease in the carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2014, and a corresponding £5.1m 
loss/gain in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2014. 
A 1% increase/decrease in the risk adjusted discount rate for China would result in a £3.0m decrease/£3.1m increase in the 
carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2014, and a corresponding £3.0m gain/£3.1m loss in the profit before 
taxation for the year ended 31 March 2014. 
Ultimately, the put option liability is subject to a contractual cap of £200m. The undiscounted value of the put option liability 
at 31 March 2014 is £115.3m (2013: £144.5m). 
 
20. Provisions for other liabilities and charges 
 
Property 
obligations
£m 
Restructuring 
costs
£m 
Other 
costs 
£m 
Total
£m 
Balance as at 1 April 2012 18.5 3.5 1.3 23.3 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.6 – (0.2) 0.4 
Created during the year 10.1 – 5.0 15.1 
Discount unwind 0.4 – – 0.4 
Utilised during the year (1.8) (1.0) (0.6) (3.4) 
Released during the year (2.0) (0.6) (0.5) (3.1) 
Balance as at 31 March 2013 25.8 1.9 5.0 32.7 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1.6) – – (1.6) 
Created during the year 6.3 – 0.2 6.5 
Discount unwind 0.2 – – 0.2 
Utilised during the year (3.4) (0.4) (0.9) (4.7) 
Released during the year (4.4) – (2.1) (6.5) 
Balance as at 31 March 2014 22.9 1.5 2.2 26.6 
 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Analysis of total provisions:   
Non-current 15.9 19.8 
Current 10.7 12.9 
Total  26.6 32.7 
The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases and property reinstatement costs which are expected 
to be utilised within 22 years. Of the total £1.5m restructuring provision (2013: £1.9m), £1.4m represents a current liability  
(2013: £1.7m). The £0.1m non-current portion relates to an onerous lease (2013: £0.2m). 
21. Bank overdrafts and borrowings 
Included within bank overdrafts is £140.9m (2013: £125.6m) representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group. 
The Group has a number of committed and uncommitted overdraft and borrowing facilities agreed with third-party banks.  
At 31 March 2014, the Group held bank overdrafts of £2.1m (2013: £4.2m) excluding balances on cash pooling arrangements. 
On 28 March 2011, a £300m multi-currency revolving credit facility was agreed with a syndicate of third-party banks.  
At 31 March 2014, there were no outstanding drawings (2013: £nil). Interest is charged on this facility at LIBOR plus 0.90% 
on drawings less than £100m; at LIBOR plus 1.05% on drawings between £100m and £200m; and at LIBOR plus 1.20% 
on drawings over £200m. The facility matures on 30 June 2016.  
145
Notes to the Financial Statements  
22. Share capital and reserves 
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number £m 
Ordinary shares of 0.05p (2013: 0.05p) each   
As at 1 April 2012 438,768,108 0.2 
Allotted on exercise of options during the year 3,392,223 – 
As at 31 March 2013 442,160,331 0.2 
Allotted on exercise of options during the year 1,481,959 – 
As at 31 March 2014 443,642,290 0.2 
At 31 March 2014, there were no 0.05p ordinary shares in issue held as treasury shares (2013: 30,027). 
The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum 
of 10% of its issued share capital. During the year to 31 March 2014, no ordinary shares were repurchased by the Company 
under this authority (2013: nil).  
The cost of own shares held by the Group has been offset against retained earnings, as the amounts paid reduce the profits 
available for distribution by the Company. As at 31 March 2014 the amounts offset against this reserve are £69.7m  
(2013: £88.1m). As at 31 March 2014, the ESOP trusts held 5.2m shares (2013: 6.9m) in the Company, with a market  
value of £72.5m (2013: £91.7m). In the year to 31 March 2014 the Burberry Group plc ESOP trust has waived its entitlement  
to dividends of £1.3m (2013: £1.0m). 
During the year profits of £3.0m (2013: £3.1m) have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements 
of subsidiaries. The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising 
on the purchase of own shares. 
  Other Reserves 
 
 Capital
reserve
£m 
Hedging
reserve
£m 
Foreign currency 
translation reserve 
£m 
Total
£m 
Balance as at 1 April 2012  33.9 4.9 118.6 157.4 
Other comprehensive income:          
Cash flow hedges — gains deferred in equity    – 6.9   – 6.9 
Cash flow hedges — gains transferred to income    – (1.2)   – (1.2) 
Foreign currency translation differences    – – 33.8 33.8 
Tax on other comprehensive income    – (1.3) (1.4) (2.7) 
Total comprehensive income for the year    – 4.4 32.4 36.8 
Transfer between reserves  3.1 –   – 3.1 
Balance as at 31 March 2013  37.0 9.3 151.0 197.3 
Other comprehensive income:        
Cash flow hedges — gains deferred in equity    – 4.2   – 4.2 
Cash flow hedges — gains transferred to income    – (9.2)   – (9.2) 
Foreign currency translation differences    – – (50.9) (50.9) 
Tax on other comprehensive income    – 1.3 4.6 5.9 
Total comprehensive expense for the year    – (3.7) (46.3) (50.0) 
Transfer between reserves  3.0 –   – 3.0 
Balance as at 31 March 2014  40.0 5.6 104.7 150.3 
146
Notes to the Financial Statements  
22. Share capital and reserves 
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number £m 
Ordinary shares of 0.05p (2013: 0.05p) each   
As at 1 April 2012 438,768,108 0.2 
Allotted on exercise of options during the year 3,392,223 – 
As at 31 March 2013 442,160,331 0.2 
Allotted on exercise of options during the year 1,481,959 – 
As at 31 March 2014 443,642,290 0.2 
At 31 March 2014, there were no 0.05p ordinary shares in issue held as treasury shares (2013: 30,027). 
The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum 
of 10% of its issued share capital. During the year to 31 March 2014, no ordinary shares were repurchased by the Company 
under this authority (2013: nil).  
The cost of own shares held by the Group has been offset against retained earnings, as the amounts paid reduce the profits 
available for distribution by the Company. As at 31 March 2014 the amounts offset against this reserve are £69.7m  
(2013: £88.1m). As at 31 March 2014, the ESOP trusts held 5.2m shares (2013: 6.9m) in the Company, with a market  
value of £72.5m (2013: £91.7m). In the year to 31 March 2014 the Burberry Group plc ESOP trust has waived its entitlement  
to dividends of £1.3m (2013: £1.0m). 
During the year profits of £3.0m (2013: £3.1m) have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements 
of subsidiaries. The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising 
on the purchase of own shares. 
  Other Reserves 
 
 Capital
reserve
£m 
Hedging
reserve
£m 
Foreign currency 
translation reserve 
£m 
Total
£m 
Balance as at 1 April 2012  33.9 4.9 118.6 157.4 
Other comprehensive income:          
Cash flow hedges — gains deferred in equity    – 6.9   – 6.9 
Cash flow hedges — gains transferred to income    – (1.2)   – (1.2) 
Foreign currency translation differences    – – 33.8 33.8 
Tax on other comprehensive income    – (1.3) (1.4) (2.7) 
Total comprehensive income for the year    – 4.4 32.4 36.8 
Transfer between reserves  3.1 –   – 3.1 
Balance as at 31 March 2013  37.0 9.3 151.0 197.3 
Other comprehensive income:        
Cash flow hedges — gains deferred in equity    – 4.2   – 4.2 
Cash flow hedges — gains transferred to income    – (9.2)   – (9.2) 
Foreign currency translation differences    – – (50.9) (50.9) 
Tax on other comprehensive income    – 1.3 4.6 5.9 
Total comprehensive expense for the year    – (3.7) (46.3) (50.0) 
Transfer between reserves  3.0 –   – 3.0 
Balance as at 31 March 2014  40.0 5.6 104.7 150.3 
 
23. Financial commitments 
The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease 
arrangements. The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group has commitments relating 
to future minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Amounts falling due:   
Within one year 166.0 139.9 
Between two and five years 407.2 343.6 
After five years 197.2 177.6 
Total  770.4 661.1 
The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue (‘revenue leases’) have been 
based on the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease. Under certain revenue leases, there 
are no minimums and therefore no financial commitment is included in the table above. As a result, the amounts charged 
to the Income Statement may be materially higher than the financial commitment at the prior year end.  
The total of future minimum payments to be received under non-cancellable leases on investment properties and subleases 
on land and buildings is as follows: 
  Leases  Subleases 
 
As at
31 March
2014
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Amounts falling due:     
Within one year 0.7 0.7 0.5 1.2 
Between two and five years 3.0 3.0 1.8 1.5 
After five years 0.7 1.5 – 0.2 
Total  4.4 5.2 2.3 2.9 
24. Capital commitments 
 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Capital commitments contracted but not provided for:   
Property, plant and equipment 26.1 25.8 
Intangible assets 2.2 1.6 
Total  28.3 27.4 
Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major 
capital expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets. 
147
Notes to the Financial Statements  
25. Financial risk management 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, cash and short-term deposits, external borrowings, trade  
and other receivables, and trade and other payables arising directly from operations. 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks (including foreign exchange risk, share price risk 
and interest rate risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk. 
Risk management is carried out by Group Treasury based on forecast business requirements to reduce financial risk and  
to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash assets safely and profitably. Group 
Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements. The policies 
of the Group treasury department are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors. The Group uses derivative instruments 
to hedge certain risk exposures. 
Market risk 
Foreign exchange risk 
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures. 
The Group’s Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency. To reduce exposure to currency 
fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging external foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward 
foreign exchange contracts (see note 17).  
The Group’s treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated external cash flows in each major foreign currency  
that qualify as ‘highly probable’ forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes within the current or previous year. 
The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for 
reporting purposes. It has not entered into any specific transactions for this purpose within the current or previous year. 
At 31 March 2014, the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of Sterling strengthening/weakening  
by 20% (2013: 20%) against other currencies with all other variables held constant. The effect on translating foreign currency 
denominated net cash, trade, intercompany and other financial receivables and payables and financial instruments at fair value 
through profit or loss would have been to decrease/increase operating profit for the year by £7.2m (2013: decrease/increase 
£9.3m). The effect on translating forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges and Sterling denominated 
loans held as a net investment in overseas subsidiaries would have been to decrease/increase equity by £16.1m  
(2013: decrease/increase £6.4m) on a post-tax basis. 
The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other than 
the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward foreign exchange contracts used to manage 
currency exposure. Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, borrowings and other amounts to be received or paid in 
cash. Amounts exclude intercompany balances which eliminate on consolidation. Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of 
these assets and liabilities are recognised in ‘Net operating expenses’ with the exception of the put liability over the non-controlling 
interest which are recognised in ‘Other financing income and charges’.  
 As at 31 March 2014 As at 31 March 2013 
 
Monetary 
Assets 
Monetary 
Liabilities Net 
Monetary 
Assets 
Monetary 
Liabilities Net 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Sterling 0.1 (0.3) (0.2) 0.2 – 0.2 
US Dollar 31.0 (22.7) 8.3 0.6 (4.7) (4.1) 
Euro 52.3 (57.9) (5.6) 41.4 (23.3) 18.1 
Chinese Yuan Renminbi
1
 – (51.3) (51.3) – (55.0) (55.0) 
Other currencies 6.9 (3.6) 3.3 1.9 (2.0) (0.1) 
Total  90.3 (135.8) (45.5) 44.1 (85.0) (40.9) 
1 The balance includes the put option over the non-controlling interest (see note 19). 
148
Notes to the Financial Statements  
25. Financial risk management 
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, cash and short-term deposits, external borrowings, trade  
and other receivables, and trade and other payables arising directly from operations. 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks (including foreign exchange risk, share price risk 
and interest rate risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk. 
Risk management is carried out by Group Treasury based on forecast business requirements to reduce financial risk and  
to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash assets safely and profitably. Group 
Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements. The policies 
of the Group treasury department are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors. The Group uses derivative instruments 
to hedge certain risk exposures. 
Market risk 
Foreign exchange risk 
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures. 
The Group’s Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency. To reduce exposure to currency 
fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging external foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward 
foreign exchange contracts (see note 17).  
The Group’s treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated external cash flows in each major foreign currency  
that qualify as ‘highly probable’ forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes within the current or previous year. 
The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for 
reporting purposes. It has not entered into any specific transactions for this purpose within the current or previous year. 
At 31 March 2014, the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of Sterling strengthening/weakening  
by 20% (2013: 20%) against other currencies with all other variables held constant. The effect on translating foreign currency 
denominated net cash, trade, intercompany and other financial receivables and payables and financial instruments at fair value 
through profit or loss would have been to decrease/increase operating profit for the year by £7.2m (2013: decrease/increase 
£9.3m). The effect on translating forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges and Sterling denominated 
loans held as a net investment in overseas subsidiaries would have been to decrease/increase equity by £16.1m  
(2013: decrease/increase £6.4m) on a post-tax basis. 
The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other than 
the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward foreign exchange contracts used to manage 
currency exposure. Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, borrowings and other amounts to be received or paid in 
cash. Amounts exclude intercompany balances which eliminate on consolidation. Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of 
these assets and liabilities are recognised in ‘Net operating expenses’ with the exception of the put liability over the non-controlling 
interest which are recognised in ‘Other financing income and charges’.  
 As at 31 March 2014 As at 31 March 2013 
 
Monetary 
Assets 
Monetary 
Liabilities Net 
Monetary 
Assets 
Monetary 
Liabilities Net 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Sterling 0.1 (0.3) (0.2) 0.2 – 0.2 
US Dollar 31.0 (22.7) 8.3 0.6 (4.7) (4.1) 
Euro 52.3 (57.9) (5.6) 41.4 (23.3) 18.1 
Chinese Yuan Renminbi
1
 – (51.3) (51.3) – (55.0) (55.0) 
Other currencies 6.9 (3.6) 3.3 1.9 (2.0) (0.1) 
Total  90.3 (135.8) (45.5) 44.1 (85.0) (40.9) 
1 The balance includes the put option over the non-controlling interest (see note 19). 
 
25. Financial risk management (continued) 
Share price risk 
The Group is exposed to employer’s national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share based 
incentive schemes. 
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employer’s national insurance liability due to movements in the Group’s share price, 
the Group has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards. The Group does not 
seek hedge accounting treatment for equity swaps. The Group monitors its exposure to fluctuations in the employer’s national 
insurance liability on an ongoing basis. An increase/decrease in the share price of 50.0p would have resulted in an 
increase/decrease in profit after tax of £0.1m (2013: £1.2m). 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short-term deposits and 
external borrowings. 
The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2014 are £143.0m (2013: £129.8m). This includes cash pool overdraft balances 
of £140.9m (2013: £125.6m) which are offset by cash balances for the purpose of interest calculations. At 31 March 2014, 
if interest rates on the remaining borrowings of £2.1m (2013: £4.2m) had been 100 basis points higher/lower (2013: 100 basis 
points) with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been £nil (2013: £nil) lower/higher, 
as a result of higher/lower interest expense on floating rate borrowings. 
The fixed rate financial liabilities consist of amounts owed under a finance lease of £2.6m (2013: £3.2m). 
The floating rate financial assets, being short-term deposits, are £270.1m as at 31 March 2014 (2013: £191.7m).  
At 31 March 2014, if interest rates on short-term deposits had been 100 basis points higher/lower (2013: 100 basis points),  
with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been £1.3m (2013: £1.5m) higher/lower, as a result 
of higher/lower interest income on short-term deposits. 
The Group has no other significant floating rate foreign currency borrowings and therefore is not materially exposed 
to movements in foreign currency interest rates. 
Credit risk 
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number 
of different customers with no single debtor representing more than 7% of the total balance due. The Group has policies 
in place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history. Sales to retail customers 
are made in cash or via major credit cards. In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the 
result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant and default rates have historically been very low. An ageing 
of overdue receivables is included in note 15.  
During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group entered into a retail leasing arrangement in the Republic of Korea.  
As part of this arrangement, a KRW 27bn (£16.0m) 15 year interest free loan was provided to the landlord. The Group holds  
a registered mortgage over the leased property for the equivalent value of the loan which acts as collateral. At 31 March 2014 
the discounted fair value of the loan is £8.6m (2013: £8.7m). Other than this arrangement, the Group does not hold any other 
collateral as security. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date with respect to trade and other receivables 
is approximated by the carrying amount on the Balance Sheet. 
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain 
derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum  
exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure  
to any financial institution and only deposits funds with independently rated financial institutions with a minimum rating of ‘A’ 
other than where required for operational purposes. A total of £29.1m was held with institutions with a rating below ‘A’ at  
31 March 2014, of which £27.0m was held in a UK government majority owned institution. These amounts are monitored  
on a weekly basis and regularly reported to the Board. 
The Group has deposited €nil (2013: €0.1m), CHF 0.3m (2013: CHF 0.3m), INR 0.2m (2013: INR 0.2m) and AED 0.3m  
(2013: AED 0.3m) which is held as collateral at a number of European banks. 
149
Notes to the Financial Statements  
25. Financial risk management (continued) 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs 
and close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain 
flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available. For further details of this, see note 21.  
All short-term trade and other payables, accruals, bank overdrafts and borrowings mature within one year or less. The carrying 
value of all financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows. 
The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s non-current financial liabilities, excluding 
derivatives used for hedging, is as follows: 
 
 As at 
 31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
 31 March 
2013
£m 
In more than one year, but not more than two years  5.9 7.6 
In more than two years, but not more than three years  3.0 3.6 
In more than three years, but not more than four years  1.1 1.7 
In more than four years, but not more than five years  0.8 1.2 
In more than five years  117.5 148.0 
Total financial liabilities  128.3 162.1 
Non-current financial liabilities relate to other payables, onerous lease provisions and the put option liability over non-
controlling interests.  
Capital risk 
The Group manages its capital (defined as net cash plus equity excluding non-controlling interest) to ensure that entities in the 
Group are able to operate as going concerns and optimise returns to shareholders. At 31 March 2014, the Group had net cash 
of £402.5m (2013: £296.6m) and total equity excluding non-controlling interest of £1,165.4m (2013: £1,017.0m). The Group has 
access to a facility of £300m which was undrawn at 31 March 2014. For further details refer to note 21. 
Cash is used to fund the continued investment in the Group and growth of the global brand. It is also used to make routine 
outflows of capital expenditure, tax and dividends. The Group's dividend policy sets its payout target as around 40% of 
adjusted diluted EPS. The Board reviews the Group’s dividend policy and funding requirements annually. 
The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within its committed bank credit facilities, and has been 
in compliance throughout the financial year. 
26. Employee costs  
Staff costs, including the cost of directors, incurred during the year are as shown below. Directors’ remuneration, which is 
separately disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106 and forms part of these financial statements, 
includes the notional gains arising on the exercise of share options and awards but excludes the charge in respect of these 
share options and awards recognised in the Group Income Statement. 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Wages and salaries 348.6 306.5 
Social security costs and other taxes 50.4 42.2 
Share based compensation (all awards and options settled in shares) 25.4 24.9 
Other pension costs  16.9 13.4 
Total 441.3 387.0 
150
Notes to the Financial Statements  
25. Financial risk management (continued) 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs 
and close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain 
flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available. For further details of this, see note 21.  
All short-term trade and other payables, accruals, bank overdrafts and borrowings mature within one year or less. The carrying 
value of all financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows. 
The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Group’s non-current financial liabilities, excluding 
derivatives used for hedging, is as follows: 
 
 As at 
 31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
 31 March 
2013
£m 
In more than one year, but not more than two years  5.9 7.6 
In more than two years, but not more than three years  3.0 3.6 
In more than three years, but not more than four years  1.1 1.7 
In more than four years, but not more than five years  0.8 1.2 
In more than five years  117.5 148.0 
Total financial liabilities  128.3 162.1 
Non-current financial liabilities relate to other payables, onerous lease provisions and the put option liability over non-
controlling interests.  
Capital risk 
The Group manages its capital (defined as net cash plus equity excluding non-controlling interest) to ensure that entities in the 
Group are able to operate as going concerns and optimise returns to shareholders. At 31 March 2014, the Group had net cash 
of £402.5m (2013: £296.6m) and total equity excluding non-controlling interest of £1,165.4m (2013: £1,017.0m). The Group has 
access to a facility of £300m which was undrawn at 31 March 2014. For further details refer to note 21. 
Cash is used to fund the continued investment in the Group and growth of the global brand. It is also used to make routine 
outflows of capital expenditure, tax and dividends. The Group's dividend policy sets its payout target as around 40% of 
adjusted diluted EPS. The Board reviews the Group’s dividend policy and funding requirements annually. 
The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within its committed bank credit facilities, and has been 
in compliance throughout the financial year. 
26. Employee costs  
Staff costs, including the cost of directors, incurred during the year are as shown below. Directors’ remuneration, which is 
separately disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106 and forms part of these financial statements, 
includes the notional gains arising on the exercise of share options and awards but excludes the charge in respect of these 
share options and awards recognised in the Group Income Statement. 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Wages and salaries 348.6 306.5 
Social security costs and other taxes 50.4 42.2 
Share based compensation (all awards and options settled in shares) 25.4 24.9 
Other pension costs  16.9 13.4 
Total 441.3 387.0 
 
26. Employee costs (continued) 
The average number of full-time equivalent employees (including executive directors) during the year was as follows:  
 Number of employees 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
Year to
31 March 
2013
2 
EMEIA
1 
4,757 4,342 
Americas 1,807 1,670 
Asia Pacific 3,134 2,855 
Total 9,698 8,867 
1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa. 
2 As a result of an internal reorganisation, the Europe and Rest of World divisions were integrated to form EMEIA. The results for the year ended 31 March 2013 have 
been re-presented to reflect this organisational change. 
Share options granted to directors and employees 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes for its directors and employees. Details 
of each of these schemes are set out in this note. The share option and award schemes have been valued using the Black-
Scholes option pricing model.  
The key inputs used in the Black-Scholes pricing model to determine the fair value include the share price at the 
commencement date; the exercise price attached to the option; the vesting period of the award; an appropriate risk-free 
interest rate; a dividend yield discount for those schemes that do not accrue dividends during the course of the vesting period; 
and an expected share price volatility, which is determined by calculating the historical annualised standard deviation of the 
market price of Burberry Group plc shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the vesting period of the 
option.  
The Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan, which has market-based performance conditions attached, has been valued  
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with a discount applied to this value, based on information obtained by running  
a Monte Carlo simulation model on the scheme.  
Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employer’s national insurance liability (or overseas 
equivalent) that may arise in respect of these schemes (refer to note 25). 
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme  
In the financial year ended 31 March 2007, a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (Sharesave) offering Burberry Group plc 
ordinary shares was introduced for employees. 
On 20 June 2013, further options were granted under this scheme with a three-year and five-year vesting period offered 
to employees. The savings contract commencement date for this grant was 1 September 2013. These options are exercisable 
for a period of up to six months from 1 September 2016 and 1 September 2018 for the three-year and five-year schemes 
respectively, with vesting dependent on continued employment, as well as a saving obligation over the vesting period.  
The exercise price for these options is calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding  
the invitation date. Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of a Burberry Group plc share  
from the London Stock Exchange.  
  
151
Notes to the Financial Statements  
26. Employee costs (continued)  
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (continued)  
The fair value per option for the grant was determined as £2.32. The key factors used in determining the fair value were 
as follows: 
   
Share price at contract commencement date  £15.34 
Exercise price  £12.20 
Life of award  Equivalent to
 vesting period 
Dividend yield  2.58% 
Expected volatility  37.7% 
Risk free interest rate  0.88% 
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 
 
Weighted 
average exercise
price 
Year to
31 March
2014 
Weighted average 
exercise 
price 
Year to
31 March
2013 
Outstanding at 1 April  895.7p 1,009,317 682.5p 1,022,728 
Granted during the year 1,220.0p 313,852 1,104.0p 355,589 
Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,020.5p (104,476) 873.9p (107,359) 
Withdrawn during the year 1,001.5p (34,893) 861.3p (15,872) 
Exercised during the year 549.5p (225,710) 321.8p (245,769) 
Outstanding at 31 March 1,066.0p 958,090 895.7p 1,009,317 
Exercisable at 31 March – – 321.0p 4,231 
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was £15.78 (2013: £12.80). 
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices: 
Option term 
Exercise
price 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at 
31 March 
2014 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at
31 March
2013 
30 June 2009 – 28 February 2013  321.0p – 4,231 
30 June 2009 – 28 February 2015 321.0p 48,331 58,996 
30 June 2010 – 28 February 2014 557.0p – 223,877 
30 June 2010 – 28 February 2016 557.0p 27,843 33,609 
24 June 2011 – 28 February 2015 1,049.0p 271,890 319,531 
24 June 2011 – 28 February 2017 1,049.0p 38,766 42,352 
22 June 2012 – 28 February 2016 1,104.0p 264,737 310,822 
22 June 2012 – 28 February 2018 1,104.0p 15,356 15,899 
20 June 2013 – 28 February 2017 1,220.0p 272,626 – 
20 June 2013 – 28 February 2019 1,220.0p 18,541 – 
Total  958,090 1,009,317 
Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 (the RSP)  
On 14 June 2013, 17 June 2013 and 25 November 2013, further awards of 2,539,323; 243,542 and 26,308 ordinary shares 
respectively were made to senior management under the RSP (2013: 2,569,147). Under the plan, participants may be awarded 
shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of two times base salary per annum. 
Awards granted in 2009 and 2010 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least upper quartile TSR relative to its global peers 
and at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT growth. A proportion of an award (12.5%) vests if TSR performance exceeds the 
median of the peer group or if adjusted PBT growth exceeds 3% per annum over three years. Vesting against each metric 
occurs on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum. Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% 
vests after three years. The remaining 50% vests in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.  
  
152
Notes to the Financial Statements  
26. Employee costs (continued)  
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (continued)  
The fair value per option for the grant was determined as £2.32. The key factors used in determining the fair value were 
as follows: 
   
Share price at contract commencement date  £15.34 
Exercise price  £12.20 
Life of award  Equivalent to
 vesting period 
Dividend yield  2.58% 
Expected volatility  37.7% 
Risk free interest rate  0.88% 
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 
 
Weighted 
average exercise
price 
Year to
31 March
2014 
Weighted average 
exercise 
price 
Year to
31 March
2013 
Outstanding at 1 April  895.7p 1,009,317 682.5p 1,022,728 
Granted during the year 1,220.0p 313,852 1,104.0p 355,589 
Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,020.5p (104,476) 873.9p (107,359) 
Withdrawn during the year 1,001.5p (34,893) 861.3p (15,872) 
Exercised during the year 549.5p (225,710) 321.8p (245,769) 
Outstanding at 31 March 1,066.0p 958,090 895.7p 1,009,317 
Exercisable at 31 March – – 321.0p 4,231 
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was £15.78 (2013: £12.80). 
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices: 
Option term 
Exercise
price 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at 
31 March 
2014 
Number of 
shares under 
option as at
31 March
2013 
30 June 2009 – 28 February 2013  321.0p – 4,231 
30 June 2009 – 28 February 2015 321.0p 48,331 58,996 
30 June 2010 – 28 February 2014 557.0p – 223,877 
30 June 2010 – 28 February 2016 557.0p 27,843 33,609 
24 June 2011 – 28 February 2015 1,049.0p 271,890 319,531 
24 June 2011 – 28 February 2017 1,049.0p 38,766 42,352 
22 June 2012 – 28 February 2016 1,104.0p 264,737 310,822 
22 June 2012 – 28 February 2018 1,104.0p 15,356 15,899 
20 June 2013 – 28 February 2017 1,220.0p 272,626 – 
20 June 2013 – 28 February 2019 1,220.0p 18,541 – 
Total  958,090 1,009,317 
Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 (the RSP)  
On 14 June 2013, 17 June 2013 and 25 November 2013, further awards of 2,539,323; 243,542 and 26,308 ordinary shares 
respectively were made to senior management under the RSP (2013: 2,569,147). Under the plan, participants may be awarded 
shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of two times base salary per annum. 
Awards granted in 2009 and 2010 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least upper quartile TSR relative to its global peers 
and at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT growth. A proportion of an award (12.5%) vests if TSR performance exceeds the 
median of the peer group or if adjusted PBT growth exceeds 3% per annum over three years. Vesting against each metric 
occurs on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum. Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% 
vests after three years. The remaining 50% vests in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.  
  
 
26. Employee costs (continued)  
Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 (the RSP) (continued)  
Awards granted in 2011 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 15% per annum adjusted PBT growth over the three 
year vesting period. A proportion of an award (25%) vests if adjusted PBT growth exceeds 5% per annum. Vesting occurs 
on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum. Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% 
vest after three years. The remaining 50% vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. 
Awards granted in 2012 and 2013 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least upper quartile TSR relative to its global peers 
and at least 15% per annum adjusted PBT growth. A proportion of an award (12.5%) vests if TSR performance exceeds the 
median of the peer group or if adjusted PBT growth exceeds 10% per annum over three years. Vesting against each metric 
occurs on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum. Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50%  
vests after three years. The remaining 50% vests in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. 
Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares 
of the Company.  
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
Year to
31 March
2013 
Outstanding at 1 April  7,759,198 9,335,537 
Granted during the year 2,809,173 2,569,147 
Lapsed and forfeited during the year (658,330) (1,110,076) 
Exercised during the year (2,234,533) (3,035,410) 
Outstanding at 31 March 7,675,508 7,759,198 
Exercisable at 31 March 361,189 425,204 
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was £14.23 (2013: £12.86). 
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 
Term of the award 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2014 
Number of 
awards as at
31 March
2013 
21 July 2005 – 20 July 2015 5,411 11,612 
10 August 2006 – 9 August 2016 5,101 21,860 
27 November 2006 – 26 November 2016 2,124 4,645 
11 June 2007 – 10 June 2017 11,635 55,206 
21 November 2007 – 20 November 2017 373 15,853 
25 June 2008 – 24 June 2018 84,595 324,179 
1 June 2009 – 31 May 2019 937,542 2,026,748 
30 June 2009 – 29 June 2019 1,375 2,750 
20 November 2009 – 19 November 2019 1,250 3,000 
10 June 2010 – 9 June 2020 768,410 1,832,688 
22 November 2010 – 21 November 2020 26,199 32,442 
20 June 2011 – 19 June 2021 969,734 1,038,241 
21 November 2011 – 20 November 2021 58,405 59,165 
13 June 2012 – 12 June 2022 2,100,904 2,203,221 
16 November 2012 – 15 November 2022 127,588 127,588 
14 June 2013 – 13 June 2023 2,308,326 – 
17 June 2013 – 16 June 2023 243,542 – 
25 November 2013 – 24 November 2023 22,994 – 
Total 7,675,508 7,759,198 
153
Notes to the Financial Statements  
26. Employee costs (continued)  
Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 (the RSP) (continued)  
The fair values for the awards granted on 14 June 2013, 17 June 2013 and 25 November 2013 with PBT performance 
conditions were determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.  A discount was applied to the awards  
with the TSR performance condition, by applying the Monte Carlo model.   
 
14 June
2013 
17 June 
2013 
25 November
2013 
Fair value: PBT performance conditions £12.68 £12.68 £13.86 
Fair value: TSR performance conditions £4.60 £4.60 £5.03 
The key factors used in determining the fair value of the awards were as follows: 
 
14 June
2013 
17 June 
2013 
25 November
2013 
Share price at grant date £13.70 £13.70 £14.98 
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil 
Life of award Equivalent to
vesting period 
Equivalent to 
vesting period 
Equivalent to
vesting period 
Dividend yield 2.58% 2.58% 2.58% 
Expected volatility 37.6% 37.6% 37.5% 
Risk free interest rate 0.64% 0.64% 0.92% 
The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 
During previous financial years, options were granted to executive directors and senior management in respect of ordinary 
shares in the Company under the Executive Share Option Scheme. 
The options vested in three stages: 33% were exercisable after one year, 33% were exercisable after two years and  
the remaining 33% were exercisable after three years. The vesting of these share options was dependent on continued 
employment over the vesting period. 
The number of options outstanding and exercisable at 1 April 2013 was 100,833. These options were all exercised during  
the current year ended 31 March 2014, for a weighted average exercise price of £2.95. The weighted average share price  
at the respective exercise dates during the year was £14.92 (2013: £14.80). 
 
154
Notes to the Financial Statements  
26. Employee costs (continued)  
Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 (the RSP) (continued)  
The fair values for the awards granted on 14 June 2013, 17 June 2013 and 25 November 2013 with PBT performance 
conditions were determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.  A discount was applied to the awards  
with the TSR performance condition, by applying the Monte Carlo model.   
 
14 June
2013 
17 June 
2013 
25 November
2013 
Fair value: PBT performance conditions £12.68 £12.68 £13.86 
Fair value: TSR performance conditions £4.60 £4.60 £5.03 
The key factors used in determining the fair value of the awards were as follows: 
 
14 June
2013 
17 June 
2013 
25 November
2013 
Share price at grant date £13.70 £13.70 £14.98 
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil 
Life of award Equivalent to
vesting period 
Equivalent to 
vesting period 
Equivalent to
vesting period 
Dividend yield 2.58% 2.58% 2.58% 
Expected volatility 37.6% 37.6% 37.5% 
Risk free interest rate 0.64% 0.64% 0.92% 
The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 
During previous financial years, options were granted to executive directors and senior management in respect of ordinary 
shares in the Company under the Executive Share Option Scheme. 
The options vested in three stages: 33% were exercisable after one year, 33% were exercisable after two years and  
the remaining 33% were exercisable after three years. The vesting of these share options was dependent on continued 
employment over the vesting period. 
The number of options outstanding and exercisable at 1 April 2013 was 100,833. These options were all exercised during  
the current year ended 31 March 2014, for a weighted average exercise price of £2.95. The weighted average share price  
at the respective exercise dates during the year was £14.92 (2013: £14.80). 
 
 
26. Employee costs (continued) 
All Employee Share Plan 
Employees are offered awards of ordinary shares in the Company at a £nil exercise price under an All Employee Share Plan. 
On 17 July 2013, 205,050 ordinary shares were granted under this scheme (2013: 190,380). All awards vest after three years 
and the vesting of these share awards is dependent on continued employment over the vesting period. 
The fair value of the awards was determined as £15.00. The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: 
 
17 July
2013 
Share price at grant date £15.00 
Exercise price £nil 
Life of award Equivalent to vesting period 
Expected volatility 37.7% 
Risk free interest rate 0.59% 
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
Year to 
31 March
2013 
Outstanding at 1 April  454,190 348,920 
Granted during the year 205,050 190,380 
Lapsed and forfeited during the year (74,280) (72,920) 
Exercised during the year (126,550) (12,190) 
Outstanding at 31 March 458,410 454,190 
Exercisable at 31 March 53,320 27,710 
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was £14.56 (2013: £12.89). 
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 
Term of the award 
Number of  
awards as at  
31 March 
2014 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March
2013 
12 July 2002 – 18 July 2082
1
 3,700 4,450 
30 August 2003 – 18 July 2082
1
 4,250 6,000 
20 August 2004 – 18 July 2082
1
 7,050 10,100 
1 September 2005 – 18 July 2082
1
 4,960 7,160 
1 June 2010 – 1 September 2013 – 92,280 
19 July 2010 – 18 July 2082
1
 33,360 61,980 
1 June 2011 – 1 September 2014 55,050 66,510 
18 July 2011 – 18 July 2082
1
 38,850 43,650 
18 July 2012 – 18 July 2082
1
 54,510 61,950 
18 July 2012 – 18 September 2015 79,920 100,110 
17 July 2013 – 18 July 2082
1
 69,060 – 
17 July 2013 – 17 October 2016 107,700 – 
Total 458,410 454,190 
1 No date has been specified when awards lapse. The cessation date of the trust in which the awards are held is 18 July 2082. 
155
Notes to the Financial Statements  
26. Employee costs (continued) 
The Burberry Co-Investment Plan  
Executive directors and certain senior management are able to defer receipt of all or part of their annual bonus and invest 
it in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and Group performance during the year. 
The matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves within that period. The exercise 
price of these share awards is £nil. On 14 June 2013, 934,419 ordinary shares were awarded (2013: 1,734,471). The awards are 
also subject to secondary performance conditions. 
Awards granted in June 2011, 2012 and 2013 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT 
growth over the three year vesting period. A proportion of the award (25%) vests if growth in adjusted PBT achieves 5% per 
annum. Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum. None of the award vests if adjusted 
PBT growth is below 5% per annum. 
The fair value of the awards granted on 14 June 2013 was determined as £13.55. The key factors used in determining the fair 
value were as follows: 
 
14 June
2013 
Share price at grant date £13.55 
Exercise price £nil 
Life of award Equivalent to
vesting period 
Expected volatility 37.6% 
Risk free interest rate 0.64% 
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
Year to 
31 March
2013 
Outstanding at 1 April 5,179,615 4,096,240 
Granted during the year 934,419 1,734,471 
Lapsed and forfeited during the year (709,422) (604,032) 
Withdrawn during the year (4,276) (47,064) 
Exercised during the year (2,051,826) – 
Outstanding at 31 March 3,348,510 5,179,615 
Exercisable at 31 March – – 
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 
Term of the award 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2014 
Number of
awards as at
31 March
2013 
8 June 2010 – 7 June 2015 – 2,150,552 
7 June 2011 – 6 June 2016 1,351,474 1,409,022 
14 June 2011 – 13 June 2016 11,206 67,502 
18 July 2012 – 17 July 2017 1,225,803 1,552,539 
14 June 2013 – 13 June 2018 760,027 – 
Total 3,348,510 5,179,615 
 
December 2010 One-Off Grant 
On 8 December 2010, options in respect of 850,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award. 
The options are due to vest on 1 April 2015. Strategic and financial objectives linked to the long-term growth of the Group must 
be met in order for 500,000 of the options to vest. The vesting of all of the options is dependent on continued employment for 
the vesting period. The exercise price of these share options is £nil. 
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 March 2016. 
 
156
Notes to the Financial Statements  
26. Employee costs (continued) 
The Burberry Co-Investment Plan  
Executive directors and certain senior management are able to defer receipt of all or part of their annual bonus and invest 
it in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and Group performance during the year. 
The matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves within that period. The exercise 
price of these share awards is £nil. On 14 June 2013, 934,419 ordinary shares were awarded (2013: 1,734,471). The awards are 
also subject to secondary performance conditions. 
Awards granted in June 2011, 2012 and 2013 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT 
growth over the three year vesting period. A proportion of the award (25%) vests if growth in adjusted PBT achieves 5% per 
annum. Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum. None of the award vests if adjusted 
PBT growth is below 5% per annum. 
The fair value of the awards granted on 14 June 2013 was determined as £13.55. The key factors used in determining the fair 
value were as follows: 
 
14 June
2013 
Share price at grant date £13.55 
Exercise price £nil 
Life of award Equivalent to
vesting period 
Expected volatility 37.6% 
Risk free interest rate 0.64% 
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
Year to 
31 March
2013 
Outstanding at 1 April 5,179,615 4,096,240 
Granted during the year 934,419 1,734,471 
Lapsed and forfeited during the year (709,422) (604,032) 
Withdrawn during the year (4,276) (47,064) 
Exercised during the year (2,051,826) – 
Outstanding at 31 March 3,348,510 5,179,615 
Exercisable at 31 March – – 
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: 
Term of the award 
Number of 
awards as at 
31 March 
2014 
Number of
awards as at
31 March
2013 
8 June 2010 – 7 June 2015 – 2,150,552 
7 June 2011 – 6 June 2016 1,351,474 1,409,022 
14 June 2011 – 13 June 2016 11,206 67,502 
18 July 2012 – 17 July 2017 1,225,803 1,552,539 
14 June 2013 – 13 June 2018 760,027 – 
Total 3,348,510 5,179,615 
 
December 2010 One-Off Grant 
On 8 December 2010, options in respect of 850,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award. 
The options are due to vest on 1 April 2015. Strategic and financial objectives linked to the long-term growth of the Group must 
be met in order for 500,000 of the options to vest. The vesting of all of the options is dependent on continued employment for 
the vesting period. The exercise price of these share options is £nil. 
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 March 2016. 
 
 
26. Employee costs (continued) 
December 2010 One-Off Grant (continued) 
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Year to  
31 March 
2014 
Year to
31 March
2013 
Outstanding at 1 April 850,000 850,000 
Forfeited during the year (500,000) – 
Outstanding at 31 March 350,000 850,000 
Exercisable at 31 March – – 
June 2013 One-off Grant 
On 14 June 2013, options in respect of 1,000,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a £nil exercise price. 
The options are due to vest in three stages: 20% are exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant date; 40% are exercisable  
on the fourth anniversary of the grant date; and the remaining 40% are exercisable on the fifth anniversary of the grant date. 
The vesting of these options is dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period.  
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 15 July 2019. 
The fair value of the award was determined as £13.70.  The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: 
 
14 June
2013 
Share price at grant date £13.70 
Exercise price £nil 
Life of award Equivalent to
vesting period 
Expected volatility 37.6% 
Risk free interest rate 0.64% 
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 
 
Year to 
31 March
2014 
Outstanding at 1 April – 
Granted during the year 1,000,000 
Outstanding at 31 March 1,000,000 
Exercisable at 31 March – 
27. Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated 
on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Total compensation in respect of key management, who are defined 
as the Board of Directors and certain members of senior management, is considered to be a related party transaction. 
The total compensation in respect of key management for the year was as follows: 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Salaries and short-term benefits 15.0 9.5 
Termination payments – 0.4 
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.1 
Share based compensation 3.0 6.6 
Total  18.2 16.6 
 
157
Notes to the Financial Statements  
28. Principal subsidiaries 
Company Note Country of incorporation Nature of business 
EMEIA    
Burberry Limited   UK Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor 
Burberry Italy Retail Limited   UK Luxury goods retailer 
The Scotch House Limited
1
  UK Luxury goods brand and licensor 
Burberry France SASU  France Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Suisse) SA
1
  Switzerland Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Spain) Retail SL  Spain Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Italy SRL
1
  Italy Luxury goods wholesaler 
Burberry (Deutschland) GmbH  Germany Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Austria) GmbH  Austria Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Antwerp N.V.  Belgium Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Czech Rep s.r.o.   Czech Republic Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Hungary kft.  Hungary Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Ireland Limited   Ireland Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Netherlands BV  Netherlands Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Middle East LLC (49%)  United Arab Emirates Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry India Private Limited (51%)  India Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry Saudi Company Limited (60%)  Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Luxury goods retailer 
    
Americas    
Burberry Limited  USA Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Wholesale) Limited  USA Luxury goods wholesaler 
Burberry Canada Inc  Canada Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Brasil Participacoes Ltd   Brazil Luxury goods retailer 
Horseferry Mexico SA de CV  Mexico Luxury goods retailer 
    
Asia Pacific    
Burberry (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd  People’s Republic of China Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Asia Limited  Hong Kong Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Singapore) Distribution Company Pte Ltd  Singapore Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd  Australia Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry Korea Limited  Republic of Korea Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Taiwan) Co Ltd  Taiwan Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd  Malaysia Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Japan K.K.  Japan Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor 
Burberry International K.K. (71%) 29 Japan Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Thailand) Limited  Thailand Luxury goods retailer 
1 Held directly by Burberry Group plc. 
In accordance with Section 410(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2006, the above information is provided solely in relation 
to principal subsidiaries. 
As at 31 March 2014, all principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned, except where indicated differently above, 
and operate in the country in which they are incorporated with the exception of Burberry Italy Retail Limited, which operates 
principally in Italy. All shares held in subsidiary undertakings are ordinary shares, with the exception of Burberry Limited. 
The Group holds 100% of Burberry Limited’s ordinary and preference shares. All the subsidiary undertakings have been 
consolidated as at 31 March 2014. The Group has a 59% share in profits of Burberry Middle East LLC and has the power  
to appoint both the Chairperson and the majority of directors on the Board, thus establishing control. Non-operating 
intermediate holding and financing companies are excluded from the list above. Sparkle Roll Holding Limited, a non-Group 
company, holds a 15% economic interest in Burberry (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 
Details of all Burberry subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of Burberry Group plc to be filed at  
Companies House. 
158
Notes to the Financial Statements  
28. Principal subsidiaries 
Company Note Country of incorporation Nature of business 
EMEIA    
Burberry Limited   UK Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor 
Burberry Italy Retail Limited   UK Luxury goods retailer 
The Scotch House Limited
1
  UK Luxury goods brand and licensor 
Burberry France SASU  France Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Suisse) SA
1
  Switzerland Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Spain) Retail SL  Spain Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Italy SRL
1
  Italy Luxury goods wholesaler 
Burberry (Deutschland) GmbH  Germany Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Austria) GmbH  Austria Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Antwerp N.V.  Belgium Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Czech Rep s.r.o.   Czech Republic Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Hungary kft.  Hungary Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Ireland Limited   Ireland Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Netherlands BV  Netherlands Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Middle East LLC (49%)  United Arab Emirates Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry India Private Limited (51%)  India Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry Saudi Company Limited (60%)  Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Luxury goods retailer 
    
Americas    
Burberry Limited  USA Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Wholesale) Limited  USA Luxury goods wholesaler 
Burberry Canada Inc  Canada Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Brasil Participacoes Ltd   Brazil Luxury goods retailer 
Horseferry Mexico SA de CV  Mexico Luxury goods retailer 
    
Asia Pacific    
Burberry (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd  People’s Republic of China Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Asia Limited  Hong Kong Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Singapore) Distribution Company Pte Ltd  Singapore Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd  Australia Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry Korea Limited  Republic of Korea Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 
Burberry (Taiwan) Co Ltd  Taiwan Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd  Malaysia Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry Japan K.K.  Japan Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor 
Burberry International K.K. (71%) 29 Japan Luxury goods retailer 
Burberry (Thailand) Limited  Thailand Luxury goods retailer 
1 Held directly by Burberry Group plc. 
In accordance with Section 410(2)(a) of the Companies Act 2006, the above information is provided solely in relation 
to principal subsidiaries. 
As at 31 March 2014, all principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned, except where indicated differently above, 
and operate in the country in which they are incorporated with the exception of Burberry Italy Retail Limited, which operates 
principally in Italy. All shares held in subsidiary undertakings are ordinary shares, with the exception of Burberry Limited. 
The Group holds 100% of Burberry Limited’s ordinary and preference shares. All the subsidiary undertakings have been 
consolidated as at 31 March 2014. The Group has a 59% share in profits of Burberry Middle East LLC and has the power  
to appoint both the Chairperson and the majority of directors on the Board, thus establishing control. Non-operating 
intermediate holding and financing companies are excluded from the list above. Sparkle Roll Holding Limited, a non-Group 
company, holds a 15% economic interest in Burberry (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 
Details of all Burberry subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of Burberry Group plc to be filed at  
Companies House. 
 
29. Non-controlling interest in Burberry International K.K. 
On 29 March 2013, Burberry International Holdings Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Burberry Group plc, signed 
an amendment to the shareholder agreement for Burberry International Kabushiki Kaisha, a company in which Burberry 
International Holdings Limited held a controlling 51% interest at 31 March 2013. The amendment entitled Burberry International 
Holdings Limited to the option to acquire the remaining equity in Burberry International K.K. from the minority interest partners, 
Mitsui and Co., Ltd and Sanyo Shokai Limited, at a nominal fixed price on or after 1 April 2013 and 1 April 2014 respectively. 
As a result of acquiring these call options, it was deemed that the risks and rewards of ownership of the non-controlling interest 
in Burberry International K.K. transferred to Burberry International Holdings Limited. Consequently, the non-controlling interest 
was derecognised at 31 March 2013, resulting in a transfer of £4.2m from non-controlling interest to equity attributable to 
owners of the Company.  
On 30 April 2013, the Group exercised its option over the 20% equity stake previously held by Mitsui and Co., Ltd, increasing 
its equity holding to 71%.  
30. Contingent Liabilities 
The Group is subject to claims against it and tax audits covering, amongst others, valued added taxes, sales taxes, customs 
duties, corporate taxes and payroll taxes. These arise in the normal course of business and in a number of jurisdictions.  
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify. Where appropriate, the estimated cost of known obligations have been 
provided in these financial statements in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. While changes to the amounts  
that may be payable could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised the 
Group does not expect the outcome of these contingent liabilities to have a material effect on the Group’s financial condition. 
 
159
Notes to the Financial Statements  
  Continuing operations 
Year to 31 March  
Revenue by channel 
2010
£m 
2010
1 
£m 
2011
£m 
2012
£m 
2013 
£m 
2014
£m 
Retail 748.8 710.1 962.3 1,270.3 1,416.6 1,622.6 
Wholesale 433.6 377.5 440.6 478.3 472.7 628.0 
Retail/Wholesale 1,182.4 1,087.6 1,402.9 1,748.6 1,889.3 2,250.6 
Licensing 97.5 97.5 98.4 108.6 109.4 79.2 
Total revenue 1,279.9 1,185.1 1,501.3 1,857.2 1,998.7 2,329.8 
       
Profit by channel £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Retail/Wholesale 137.7 137.7 219.5 286.9 335.6 393.5 
Licensing 82.2 82.2 81.6 90.0 92.5 66.8 
Adjusted operating profit
2
 219.9 219.9 301.1 376.9 428.1 460.3 
       
Retail/Wholesale analysis % % % % % % 
Gross margin 59.7 61.0 64.9 68.1 70.6 70.2 
Adjusted operating expenses as a percentage of sales
2
 48.1 48.3 49.3 51.7 52.8 52.7 
Adjusted operating margin
2
 11.6 12.7 15.6 16.4 17.8 17.5 
       
Licensing analysis % % % % % % 
Licensing operating margin 84.3 84.3 82.9 82.9 84.6 84.3 
       
Summary profit analysis £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Adjusted operating profit
2
 219.9 219.9 301.1 376.9 428.1 460.3 
Net finance (charge)/income
2
 (5.1) (5.1) (3.2) (0.7) (0.3) 0.7 
Adjusted profit before taxation
2 
214.8 214.8 297.9 376.2 427.8 461.0 
Adjusting items (48.8) (3.4) (2.2) (10.2) (77.1) (16.6)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 166.0 211.4 295.7 366.0 350.7 444.4 
Taxation (83.8) (58.8) (83.2) (100.6) (91.5) (112.1)
Discontinued operations – (70.4) (6.2) (0.3) – – 
Non-controlling interest (0.8) (0.8) 2.1 (1.8) (4.9) (9.8)
Attributable profit 81.4 81.4 208.4 263.3 254.3 322.5 
       
Retail/Wholesale revenue by product division £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Accessories
5
 419.6 416.6 563.3 689.4 729.1 816.1 
Womens 415.5 373.4 456.6 582.5 618.2 684.0 
Mens 288.5 249.4 325.9 410.5 464.2 520.8 
Childrens/Other 58.8 48.2 57.1 66.2 72.6 78.4 
Beauty – – – – 5.2 151.3 
Retail/Wholesale revenue by destination £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Asia Pacific 282.7 282.7 457.1 652.5 745.3 870.3 
EMEIA
3 
467.8 480.2 559.3 661.6 680.7 811.5 
Americas 324.8 324.7 386.5 434.5 463.3 568.8 
Spain 107.1 – – – – – 
       
Financial KPIs       
Total revenue growth
4
 +1% N/A +24% +23% +8% +17% 
Growth in accessories revenue
4, 5
 +10% N/A +32% +22% +8% +12% 
Growth in retail revenue
4
 +15% N/A +32% +31% +12% +15% 
Number of stores 440 312 417 444 469 497 
Number of stores in Emerging Markets 111 111 136 154 173 193 
Retail/Wholesale gross margin  59.7% 61.0% 64.9% 68.1% 70.6% 70.2% 
Adjusted retail/wholesale operating margin
2
 11.6% 12.7% 15.6% 16.4% 17.8% 17.5% 
Adjusted diluted EPS growth
2
 +16% +16% +39% +26% +14% +8% 
1 The results for the year to 31 March 2010 have been re-presented to show the results of the discontinued Spanish operations separately. 
2 Excludes the impact of adjusting items.  
3 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa. As a result of an internal reorganisation, the Europe and Rest of World divisions were integrated to form 
EMEIA, effective from 1 April 2013. The results for the years ended 31 March 2010 to 31 March 2013 have been re-presented to reflect this organisational change. 
4 Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change, i.e. at constant exchange rates. 
5 The Accessories revenue for the year ended 31 March 2013 has been restated to exclude Beauty retail sales. 
 
 
160
Five Year Summary  
  Continuing operations 
Year to 31 March  
Revenue by channel 
2010
£m 
2010
1 
£m 
2011
£m 
2012
£m 
2013 
£m 
2014
£m 
Retail 748.8 710.1 962.3 1,270.3 1,416.6 1,622.6 
Wholesale 433.6 377.5 440.6 478.3 472.7 628.0 
Retail/Wholesale 1,182.4 1,087.6 1,402.9 1,748.6 1,889.3 2,250.6 
Licensing 97.5 97.5 98.4 108.6 109.4 79.2 
Total revenue 1,279.9 1,185.1 1,501.3 1,857.2 1,998.7 2,329.8 
       
Profit by channel £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Retail/Wholesale 137.7 137.7 219.5 286.9 335.6 393.5 
Licensing 82.2 82.2 81.6 90.0 92.5 66.8 
Adjusted operating profit
2
 219.9 219.9 301.1 376.9 428.1 460.3 
       
Retail/Wholesale analysis % % % % % % 
Gross margin 59.7 61.0 64.9 68.1 70.6 70.2 
Adjusted operating expenses as a percentage of sales
2
 48.1 48.3 49.3 51.7 52.8 52.7 
Adjusted operating margin
2
 11.6 12.7 15.6 16.4 17.8 17.5 
       
Licensing analysis % % % % % % 
Licensing operating margin 84.3 84.3 82.9 82.9 84.6 84.3 
       
Summary profit analysis £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Adjusted operating profit
2
 219.9 219.9 301.1 376.9 428.1 460.3 
Net finance (charge)/income
2
 (5.1) (5.1) (3.2) (0.7) (0.3) 0.7 
Adjusted profit before taxation
2 
214.8 214.8 297.9 376.2 427.8 461.0 
Adjusting items (48.8) (3.4) (2.2) (10.2) (77.1) (16.6)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 166.0 211.4 295.7 366.0 350.7 444.4 
Taxation (83.8) (58.8) (83.2) (100.6) (91.5) (112.1)
Discontinued operations – (70.4) (6.2) (0.3) – – 
Non-controlling interest (0.8) (0.8) 2.1 (1.8) (4.9) (9.8)
Attributable profit 81.4 81.4 208.4 263.3 254.3 322.5 
       
Retail/Wholesale revenue by product division £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Accessories
5
 419.6 416.6 563.3 689.4 729.1 816.1 
Womens 415.5 373.4 456.6 582.5 618.2 684.0 
Mens 288.5 249.4 325.9 410.5 464.2 520.8 
Childrens/Other 58.8 48.2 57.1 66.2 72.6 78.4 
Beauty – – – – 5.2 151.3 
Retail/Wholesale revenue by destination £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Asia Pacific 282.7 282.7 457.1 652.5 745.3 870.3 
EMEIA
3 
467.8 480.2 559.3 661.6 680.7 811.5 
Americas 324.8 324.7 386.5 434.5 463.3 568.8 
Spain 107.1 – – – – – 
       
Financial KPIs       
Total revenue growth
4
 +1% N/A +24% +23% +8% +17% 
Growth in accessories revenue
4, 5
 +10% N/A +32% +22% +8% +12% 
Growth in retail revenue
4
 +15% N/A +32% +31% +12% +15% 
Number of stores 440 312 417 444 469 497 
Number of stores in Emerging Markets 111 111 136 154 173 193 
Retail/Wholesale gross margin  59.7% 61.0% 64.9% 68.1% 70.6% 70.2% 
Adjusted retail/wholesale operating margin
2
 11.6% 12.7% 15.6% 16.4% 17.8% 17.5% 
Adjusted diluted EPS growth
2
 +16% +16% +39% +26% +14% +8% 
1 The results for the year to 31 March 2010 have been re-presented to show the results of the discontinued Spanish operations separately. 
2 Excludes the impact of adjusting items.  
3 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa. As a result of an internal reorganisation, the Europe and Rest of World divisions were integrated to form 
EMEIA, effective from 1 April 2013. The results for the years ended 31 March 2010 to 31 March 2013 have been re-presented to reflect this organisational change. 
4 Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change, i.e. at constant exchange rates. 
5 The Accessories revenue for the year ended 31 March 2013 has been restated to exclude Beauty retail sales. 
 
 
 
Year to 31 March 
Earnings and dividends 
2010
pence
per share 
2011
pence
per share 
2012 
pence 
per share 
2013 
pence 
per share 
2014
pence
per share 
Adjusted earnings per share – diluted
1
 35.1 48.9 61.6 70.0 75.4 
Earnings per share – diluted 18.4 46.9 59.3 57.0 72.1 
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares (millions) 441.9 444.0 444.3 446.5 447.3 
Dividend per share (on a paid basis) 12.2 15.5 22.0 26.0 29.8 
 
Year to 31 March 
Net Cash Flow 
2010
£m 
2011
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2014
£m 
Adjusted operating profit
1
 219.9 301.1 376.9 428.1 460.3 
Discontinued operations – (2.1) 2.5 – – 
Restructuring spend (26.7) (20.3) (8.6) (1.0) (0.7)
Depreciation and amortisation 52.3 62.6 87.6 111.2 123.7 
Employee share scheme costs 18.1 28.3 31.8 24.9 25.4 
Proceeds on equity swap contracts – – – – 15.7 
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 81.4 (58.0) (61.8) (39.2) (68.2)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 50.3 (8.1) (17.4) (32.0) (73.8)
Increase in payables 36.0 68.0 70.1 17.6 42.3 
Other non-cash items 0.2 (5.1) 1.4 13.4 10.8 
Cash flow from operations  431.5 366.4 482.5 523.0 535.5 
      
Capital expenditure (69.9) (108.4) (153.1) (175.9) (154.0)
Payment to terminate licence relationship – – – (144.1) – 
Proceeds from sale of assets held for sale – – – 0.1 – 
Capital contributions from JV partners 7.4 7.0 4.9 0.4 0.7 
Acquisitions (2.0) (51.9) (23.5) (1.0) (2.6)
Net interest (5.0) (3.2) (0.6) 0.9 0.8 
Tax paid (51.3) (98.1) (108.2) (99.0) (111.1)
Free cash flow 310.7 111.8 202.0 104.4 269.3 
      
Dividends (52.5) (68.7) (99.2) (113.5) (130.7)
ESOP trust purchases/other (3.5) (5.6) (60.0) (45.4) (18.8)
Exchange difference (0.3) (1.6) (2.4) 12.8 (13.9)
Total movement in net cash 254.4 35.9 40.4 (41.7) 105.9 
      
Net cash 262.0 297.9 338.3 296.6 402.5 
 
As at 31 March 
Balance Sheet 
2010
£m 
2011
£m 
2012 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2014
£m 
Intangible assets 64.6 114.7 133.1 210.2 195.4 
Property, plant and equipment 256.1 281.8 328.8 409.1 398.4 
Inventories 166.9 247.9 311.1 351.0 419.8 
Trade and other receivables 139.4 147.7 167.5 199.5 273.7 
Trade and other payables (226.7) (367.8) (429.3) (447.8) (507.2)
Taxation (including deferred taxation) (13.5) 16.9 39.1 45.3 47.4 
Net cash 262.0 297.9 338.3 296.6 402.5 
Other net assets (45.3) (5.4) 2.8 (11.1) (22.0)
Net assets 603.5 733.7 891.4 1,052.8 1,208.0 
1 Excludes the impact of adjusting items. 
 
161
Five Year Summary  
Report on the parent Company financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: 
·
give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2014; 
·
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
·
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report. 
What we have audited 
The parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Burberry Group plc, comprise the Company Balance Sheet 
as at 31 March 2014; and the notes to the parent Company financial statements, which include a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). In applying the financial reporting 
framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates. In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events. 
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report,  
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are  
identified as audited. 
What an audit of financial statements involves  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK & Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
·
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; 
·
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and  
·
the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
·
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the parent Company 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements; and 
·
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006. 
162
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc  
Report on the parent Company financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: 
·
give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2014; 
·
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
·
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report. 
What we have audited 
The parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Burberry Group plc, comprise the Company Balance Sheet 
as at 31 March 2014; and the notes to the parent Company financial statements, which include a summary of significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). In applying the financial reporting 
framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates. In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events. 
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report,  
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are  
identified as audited. 
What an audit of financial statements involves  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK & Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
·
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; 
·
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and  
·
the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
·
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the parent Company 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial statements; and 
·
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006. 
 
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
·
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
·
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
·
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law have not been made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Other information in the Annual Report 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
·
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited parent Company financial statements; or 
·
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent Company acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or 
·
is otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 110, the directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent Company’s members as a body  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into 
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2014.  
 
 
Andrew Kemp 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London, 20 May 2014 
 
163
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Burberry Group plc  
 
Note 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Fixed assets    
Investments C 2,219.3 2,203.7 
  2,219.3 2,203.7 
Current assets    
Debtors receivable within one year D 0.4 0.4 
Debtors receivable after one year D 395.5 424.0 
Derivative assets maturing within one year  – 11.8 
Derivative assets maturing after one year  0.5 0.2 
Cash at bank and in hand  1.2 0.3 
  397.6 436.7 
    
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year E (198.5) (377.9) 
Derivative liabilities maturing within one year  (0.4) – 
Net current assets  198.7 58.8 
Total assets less current liabilities  2,418.0 2,262.5 
    
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year E (1,424.6) (1,435.9) 
Derivative liabilities maturing after one year  (0.9) (0.7) 
Provisions for liabilities  (1.4) (1.4) 
Net assets  991.1 824.5 
    
Capital and reserves    
Called up share capital F 0.2 0.2 
Share premium account F 204.8 203.6 
Capital reserve F 0.9 0.9 
Hedging reserve F 4.1 4.1 
Profit and loss account F 781.1 615.7 
Total shareholders’ funds F 991.1 824.5 
The financial statements on pages 164 to 168 were approved by the Board on 20 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
Sir John Peace  Carol Fairweather 
Chairman   Chief Financial Officer 
164
Company Balance Sheet  
 
Note 
As at 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at
31 March
2013
£m 
Fixed assets    
Investments C 2,219.3 2,203.7 
  2,219.3 2,203.7 
Current assets    
Debtors receivable within one year D 0.4 0.4 
Debtors receivable after one year D 395.5 424.0 
Derivative assets maturing within one year  – 11.8 
Derivative assets maturing after one year  0.5 0.2 
Cash at bank and in hand  1.2 0.3 
  397.6 436.7 
    
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year E (198.5) (377.9) 
Derivative liabilities maturing within one year  (0.4) – 
Net current assets  198.7 58.8 
Total assets less current liabilities  2,418.0 2,262.5 
    
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year E (1,424.6) (1,435.9) 
Derivative liabilities maturing after one year  (0.9) (0.7) 
Provisions for liabilities  (1.4) (1.4) 
Net assets  991.1 824.5 
    
Capital and reserves    
Called up share capital F 0.2 0.2 
Share premium account F 204.8 203.6 
Capital reserve F 0.9 0.9 
Hedging reserve F 4.1 4.1 
Profit and loss account F 781.1 615.7 
Total shareholders’ funds F 991.1 824.5 
The financial statements on pages 164 to 168 were approved by the Board on 20 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
Sir John Peace  Carol Fairweather 
Chairman   Chief Financial Officer 
 
A. Basis of preparation 
Burberry Group plc (the Company) is the parent Company of the Burberry Group. Burberry Group plc is listed on the London 
Stock Exchange and its principal business is investment. The Company is the sponsoring entity of The Burberry Group plc 
ESOP Trust and The Burberry Group plc SIP Trust (collectively known as the ESOP trusts). These financial statements have 
been prepared by consolidating the ESOP trusts with the financial statements of the Company. The purpose of the ESOP trusts 
is to purchase shares of the Company in order to satisfy Group share based payment arrangements.  
Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries (the Group) is a global luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer. The Group 
also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the ‘Burberry’ trade marks. All of the companies which 
comprise the Group are controlled by the Company directly or indirectly. 
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, with the 
exception of those financial instruments which are included in the financial statements at fair value, and in accordance 
with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom and the Companies Act 2006.  
B. Accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.  
Share schemes 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes, under which services are received from 
employees (including executive directors) as consideration for equity instruments of the Company. The cost of the share based 
incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant. Appropriate 
option pricing models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made. 
The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance 
conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant. Vesting conditions which relate to non-market 
conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest. The estimate of the number 
of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.  
In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date. The grant date fair value is estimated 
for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date. 
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group 
is treated as a capital contribution. In the Company’s accounts, the cost of the share based incentives is recognised over the 
vesting period of the awards as an increase in investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding increase in equity. 
Where amounts are received from subsidiary undertakings in relation to equity instruments granted to the employees of the 
subsidiary undertaking, the amount is derecognised from Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings, to the extent that it was 
initially treated as a capital contribution, with any remaining amounts recognised as an increase in equity.  
When options and awards are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held 
in the ESOP trusts, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme. The proceeds received from the exercises, 
net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.  
Dividend distribution 
Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plc’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividend 
becomes a committed obligation. Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders. Interim 
dividends are recognised when paid. 
Investments in Group companies 
Investments in Group companies are stated at cost, less any provisions to reflect impairment in value. 
Impairment of assets 
Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be 
recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.  
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s net realisable value and value-in-use. For the purpose of assessing impairment, 
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (income-generating units).  
165
Notes to the Company Financial Statements  
B. Accounting policies (continued) 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have 
occurred at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are 
expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis. 
Derivative financial instruments 
Financial instruments are reported and measured in accordance with FRS 25 and FRS 26 respectively. The Company used 
the exemption not to present FRS 29 disclosures in the notes to the entity financial statements as full equivalent disclosures 
are presented within the consolidated financial statements.  
Equity swap contracts are marked to market with gains and losses arising on these contracts recognised in the profit and 
loss account. 
Foreign currency transactions 
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated 
into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised 
in the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.  
Related party transactions 
FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ requires the disclosure of the details of material transactions and balances between the 
reporting entity and related parties. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under the terms of FRS 8 not to 
disclose details of transactions with entities that are wholly owned subsidiaries. 
C. Investments in Group companies 
 
Cost £m 
As at 1 April 2013 2,203.7 
Additions 15.6 
As at 31 March 2014 2,219.3 
The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. The principal 
subsidiaries of the Burberry Group are listed in note 28 of the Group financial statements.  
D. Debtors 
 
As at  
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at 
31 March
2013
£m 
Prepayments 0.4 0.4 
Debtors receivable within one year 0.4 0.4 
   
Amounts owed by Group companies 395.0 423.1 
Prepayments 0.5 0.9 
Debtors receivable after one year 395.5 424.0 
Total debtors 395.9 424.4 
Included in amounts receivable from Group companies are loans of £344.0m (2013: £79.4m) which are interest bearing. 
The interest rate earned is based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents plus 0.9% to 1.77%. These loans are unsecured and 
repayable between 1 March 2016 and 17 June 2019. The remaining receivable of £51.0m is unsecured, interest free and 
repayable on demand. 
166
Notes to the Company Financial Statements  
E. Creditors  
 
As at  
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at 
31 March
2013
£m 
Amounts owed to Group companies 198.0 377.5 
Accruals 0.5 0.4 
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year 198.5 377.9 
   
Amounts owed to Group companies 1,424.6 1,435.9 
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year 1,424.6 1,435.9 
Total creditors 1,623.1 1,813.8 
Amounts owed to Group companies falling due after more than one year are interest bearing. The interest rate earned is based 
on LIBOR plus 0.9%. These loans are unsecured and repayable on 17 June 2019. In the prior year these loans were unsecured, 
interest free and repayable on 1 March 2016.  
All amounts owed to Group companies falling due within one year are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand. 
F. Capital and reserves 
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number £m 
Ordinary shares of 0.05p (2013: 0.05p) each   
As at 1 April 2013 442,160,331 0.2 
Allotted on exercise of options during the year 1,481,959 – 
As at 31 March 2014 443,642,290 0.2 
As at 31 March 2014, there were no 0.05p ordinary shares held as treasury shares (2013: 30,027). 
Reconciliation of movement in Company shareholders’ funds 
 
Called up 
share 
capital
£m 
Share
premium 
account
£m 
Capital 
reserve
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Profit and 
loss account 
£m 
Total 
shareholders’ 
funds
£m 
As at 1 April 2012 0.2 202.6 0.9 4.1 427.2 635.0 
Retained profit for the year before dividends paid – – – – 323.5 323.5 
Dividends paid – – – – (113.5) (113.5) 
Total recognised profit for the year – – – – 210.0 210.0 
Employee share option scheme       
 Value of share options granted – – – – 24.9 24.9 
 Exercise of share options – 1.0 – – – 1.0 
Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts – – – – (46.4) (46.4) 
As at 31 March 2013 0.2 203.6 0.9 4.1 615.7 824.5 
Retained profit for the year before dividends paid – – – – 293.7 293.7 
Dividends paid – – – – (130.7) (130.7) 
Total recognised profit for the year – – – – 163.0 163.0 
Employee share option scheme       
 Value of share options granted – – – – 25.4 25.4 
 Exercise of share options – 1.2 – – – 1.2 
Sale of own shares by ESOP trusts – – – – 1.7 1.7 
Purchase of own shares by ESOP trusts – – – – (24.7) (24.7) 
As at 31 March 2014 0.2 204.8 0.9 4.1 781.1 991.1 
Profit for the year on ordinary activities, but before dividends payable, was £293.7m (2013: £323.5m). As permitted by 
Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account. 
The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum 
of 10% of its issued share capital. During the year to 31 March 2014, no ordinary shares were repurchased by the Company 
under this authority (2013: nil).  
 
 
B. Accounting policies (continued) 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date 
where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have 
occurred at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are 
expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis. 
Derivative financial instruments 
Financial instruments are reported and measured in accordance with FRS 25 and FRS 26 respectively. The Company used 
the exemption not to present FRS 29 disclosures in the notes to the entity financial statements as full equivalent disclosures 
are presented within the consolidated financial statements.  
Equity swap contracts are marked to market with gains and losses arising on these contracts recognised in the profit and 
loss account. 
Foreign currency transactions 
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated 
into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised 
in the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.  
Related party transactions 
FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ requires the disclosure of the details of material transactions and balances between the 
reporting entity and related parties. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under the terms of FRS 8 not to 
disclose details of transactions with entities that are wholly owned subsidiaries. 
C. Investments in Group companies 
 
Cost £m 
As at 1 April 2013 2,203.7 
Additions 15.6 
As at 31 March 2014 2,219.3 
The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. The principal 
subsidiaries of the Burberry Group are listed in note 28 of the Group financial statements.  
D. Debtors 
 
As at  
31 March 
2014 
£m 
As at 
31 March
2013
£m 
Prepayments 0.4 0.4 
Debtors receivable within one year 0.4 0.4 
   
Amounts owed by Group companies 395.0 423.1 
Prepayments 0.5 0.9 
Debtors receivable after one year 395.5 424.0 
Total debtors 395.9 424.4 
Included in amounts receivable from Group companies are loans of £344.0m (2013: £79.4m) which are interest bearing. 
The interest rate earned is based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents plus 0.9% to 1.77%. These loans are unsecured and 
repayable between 1 March 2016 and 17 June 2019. The remaining receivable of £51.0m is unsecured, interest free and 
repayable on demand. 
167
Notes to the Company Financial Statements  
F. Capital and reserves (continued) 
The cost of own shares held by the Group has been offset against the profit and loss account, as the amounts paid reduce 
the profits available for distribution by the Company. As at 31 March 2014 the amounts offset against this reserve are £69.7m 
(2013: £88.1m). As at 31 March 2014, the ESOP trusts held 5.2m shares (2013: 6.9m) in the Company, with a market value 
of £72.5m (2013: £91.7m). In the year to 31 March 2014 the ESOP trusts have waived their entitlement to dividends of £1.3m 
(2013: £1.0m). 
The capital reserve consists of the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares. 
G. Dividends 
 
Year to 
31 March 
2014 
£m 
Year to
31 March
2013
£m 
Prior year final dividend paid 21.00p per share (2013: 18.00p) 92.1 78.6 
Interim dividend paid 8.80p per share (2013: 8.00p) 38.6 34.9 
Total  130.7 113.5 
A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2014 of 23.20p (2013: 21.00p) per share, amounting to £101.8m  
(2013: £91.5m), has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the 
 balance sheet date. The final dividend has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on 31 July 2014  
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 July 2014. 
H. Financial guarantees 
Burberry Group plc, together with Burberry Limited, Burberry Treasury Limited, Burberry Asia Limited, Burberry (Wholesale) 
Limited (US) and Burberry Limited (US) make up the Guarantor Group for a £300m multi-currency revolving facility agreement 
which commenced 28 March 2011 and matures 30 June 2016. Interest is charged on this facility at LIBOR plus 0.90% on 
drawings less than £100m; at LIBOR plus 1.05% on drawings between £100m and £200m; and at LIBOR plus 1.20% on 
drawings over £200m. 
The fair value of the financial guarantee as at 31 March 2014 is £nil (2013: £nil). 
A potential liability may arise in the future if one of the Group members defaults on the loan facility. Each guarantor, 
including Burberry Group plc, would be liable to cover the amounts outstanding, including principal and interest elements. 
I. Audit fees 
The Company has incurred audit fees of £0.1m for the current year which are borne by Burberry Limited (2013: £0.1m). 
168
Notes to the Company Financial Statements General shareholder enquiries
Enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as the transfer of 
shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates 
or dividend cheques, should be referred to the Company’s 
Registrar, Equiniti, using the details below:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Tel: 0871 384 2839. Calls cost 8p per minute plus 
network extras. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, 
Monday to Friday.
Please dial +44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the 
UK or see help.shareview.co.uk for additional information.
American Depositary Receipts
Burberry has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt (ADR) programme to enable US investors to 
purchase ADRs in US Dollars. Each ADR represents 
two Burberry ordinary shares.
For queries relating to ADRs in Burberry, please use 
the following contact details:
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas
c/o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company
Peck Slip Station
PO Box 2050
New York, NY 10272-2050
Tel: toll free within the US: +1 866 249 2593
Tel: International: +1 (718) 921 8137
Email enquiries: DB@amstock.com
Annual General Meeting
Burberry’s Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday, 
11 July 2014 at 11.00am at the offices of Slaughter and May:
One Bunhill Row
London
EC1Y 8YY
The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business 
to be conducted at the meeting, is available on the 
Company’s website at burberryplc.com.
The voting results for the 2014 Annual General Meeting 
will be accessible on the Company’s website at 
burberryplc.com shortly after the meeting.
Dividends
An interim dividend for the financial year ended 31 March 
2014 of 8.80p per ordinary share was paid on 24 January 
2014. A final dividend of 23.20p per share has been 
proposed and, subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting on 11 July 2014, will be paid according to the 
following timetable:
Final dividend record date: 4 July 2014
Deadline for return of DRIP mandate forms:  10 July 2014
Final dividend payment date:  31 July 2014
The ADR local payment date will be approximately five 
business days after the proposed dividend payment date 
for ordinary shareholders.
Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK 
bank account, with the tax voucher being sent to the 
shareholder’s address. This is the easiest way for 
shareholders to receive dividend payments and avoids 
the risk of lost or out of date cheques. A dividend mandate 
form is available from Equiniti or at shareview.co.uk.
Dividends payable in foreign currencies
Equiniti is able to pay dividends to shareholder bank 
accounts in over 30 currencies worldwide through the 
Overseas Payment Service. An administrative fee will be 
deducted from each dividend payment. Further details can 
be obtained from Equiniti or online at shareview.co.uk.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) enables 
shareholders to use their dividends to buy further Burberry 
shares. Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from 
Equiniti. If shareholders would like their final 2014 and future 
dividends to qualify for the DRIP, completed application 
forms must be returned to Equiniti by 10 July 2014.
Duplicate accounts
Shareholders who have more than one account due 
to inconsistency in account details may avoid duplicate 
mailings by contacting Equiniti and requesting the 
amalgamation of their share accounts.
Electronic communication
Shareholders may at any time choose to receive all 
shareholder documentation in electronic form via the 
internet, rather than in paper format. Shareholders who 
decide to register for this option will receive an email each 
time a shareholder document is published on the internet. 
Shareholders who wish to receive documentation in 
electronic form should register online at shareview.co.uk.
169
Shareholder Information
Shareholder 
Information Equiniti offers a range of shareholder information and 
services online at shareview.co.uk. A textphone facility 
for those with hearing difficulties is available by calling 
0871 384 2255. Calls cost 8p per minute plus network 
extras. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to 
Friday. Please call +44 121 415 7028 if calling from 
outside the UK.
Financial calendar
First quarter trading update  10 July 2014
Annual General Meeting  11 July 2014
First half trading update  October 2014
Interim results announcement  November 2014
Third quarter trading update  January 2015
Second half trading update  April 2015
Preliminary results announcement  May 2015
Registered office
Burberry Group plc
Horseferry House
Horseferry Road
London
SW1P 2AW
Registered in England and Wales
Registered number 03458224
burberryplc.com
Share dealing
Burberry Group plc shares can be traded through most 
banks, building societies or stock brokers. Equiniti offers 
a telephone and internet dealing service. Terms and 
conditions and details of the commission charges are 
available on request.
For telephone dealing please telephone 08456 037 037 
between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for 
internet dealing visit shareview.co.uk/dealing. Shareholders 
will need their reference number which can be found on 
their share certificate.
ShareGift
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value 
of which makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish 
to consider donating their shares to charity through 
ShareGift, a donation scheme operated by The Orr 
Mackintosh Foundation. A ShareGift donation form can 
be obtained from Equiniti. Further information is available 
at sharegift.org or by telephone on 020 7930 3737.
Share price information
The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available 
on the Company’s website at burberryplc.com.
Unauthorised brokers (boiler room scams)
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited 
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free 
company reports. These are typically from overseas-based 
‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders offering to sell them 
what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in 
USA or UK investments. These operations are commonly 
known as boiler rooms.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, get the 
correct name of the person and organisation and check 
that they are properly authorised by the FCA before 
getting involved by visiting www.fca.org.uk/register.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be 
eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme if things go wrong. 
If you think you have been approached by an unauthorised 
firm you should contact the FCA consumer helpline on  
0800 111 6768.
More detailed information can be found on the FCA website 
at www.fca.org.uk/scams
Website
This Annual Report and other information about Burberry, 
including share price information and details of results 
announcements, are available at burberryplc.com.
170
Shareholder Information Disclaimer
The purpose of this document is to provide information to the members of Burberry Group plc. This document contains certain statements that are 
forward-looking statements. They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs 
or current expectations and those of our officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial 
condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events 
and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge 
and information available at the date of preparation of this document and unless otherwise required by applicable law the Company undertakes no 
obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast. The Company and 
its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this document save as would arise under English law. This document does not constitute an 
invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Burberry Group plc shares, in the UK, or in the USA, or under the USA 
Securities Act 1933 or any other jurisdiction.
171 The paper in this report is derived from FSC
®
 sustainable sources.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using their  and  technology. Pureprint is a Carbon 
Neutral Company. Both the manufacturing mills and printer are registered to the Environmental 
Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) chain-of-custody certified.
172 
