 burren energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
burren energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
burren e nergy plc
Kierran c ross
2nd Floor
11 s trand
l ondon
Wc2 n 5H r
t . +44 (0)20 7484 1900
F. +44 (0)20 7484 1910
www.burren.co.uk  annual report and accounts 2006
Drilling rig at night. 
Nebit Dag, Turkmenistan.
Photograph by Stuart Holmes,
www.sharpedgeimages.co.uk
Burren Energy is an independent oil and gas exploration 
and production group with assets in four geographic regions: 
the Caspian, West Africa, the Middle East/North Africa 
and India. 
Our objectives are to grow our production and reserve base 
by further development of our existing fields, exploring our 
existing concessions and acquiring new assets with proven 
reserves and production.
Burren’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange 
(symbol: BUR.L) and are a constituent of the F TSE 250 Index.
Officers and professional advisers
Board of d ir Ectors
Executive
Atul Gupta
Finian O’Sullivan
Andrew Rose
Non-executive
Keith Henry, Chairman
Brian Lavers
Michael Calvey
Alan Cole 
Pierre Lasry
Andrei Pannikov
co MPaNY s Ecr Etar Y
Hywel John
rE gist Er Ed o ffic E
Kierran Cross
2nd Floor
11 Strand
London WC2N 5HR
Registered number 3492720
BaNk Ers
t he r oyal Bank of s cotland
54 Lime Street
London EC3 3TR
Natixis
45, Rue Sainte-Dominique
75007 Paris
France
s olicitors
t ravers s mith
10 Snow Hill
London EC1A 2AL
f iNaNcial advisErs  
aNd s tock Brok Ers
UBs investment Bank
1 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
k Bc Peel Hunt l td
111 Old Broad Street
London EC2N 1PN
aUditors a Nd tax advis Ers
d eloitte & t ouche ll P
Hill House
1 Little New Street
London EC4A 3TR
f iNaNcial PUBlic r Elatio Ns
Pelham Public r elations l td
No 1 Cornhill
London
EC3V 3ND
PEtrol EUM co Ns Ulta Nts
r yder s cott c ompany, l .P.
1100 Louisiana, Suite 3800
Houston
Texas 77002-5218 
USA
rE gistrars
c omputershare investor  
s ervices plc
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH
Note
Certain sections of this Annual Report, in particular the Business Review, may contain forward-looking 
statements concerning the financial condition and results of operations of Burren. Forward-looking 
statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations 
and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual 
results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. 
No assurances can be given as to future results, levels of activity and achievements and actual results, 
levels of activity and achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied by any forward-
looking statements contained in this report. Burren does not undertake any obligation to publicly update 
or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information.
Era Silk is unique in its class in Britain. It is the only coated paper & board 
range actually made from 50% recycled British waste. The waste is collected 
locally, mostly within a radius of 100 miles of the mill in Kent. Using 100% 
genuine printed waste in the recycling process means helping reduce the 
pressure on UK landfill sites. By collecting local waste paper it helps minimise 
the environmental impact. Road transport is kept to a minimum, and close 
monitoring of all supplies of raw material ensure the highest standards. 
Revive Uncoated uses 100% post-consumer recycled material and the 
recycled papers used in this grade are mainly Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF). Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
01
0 2  2006 highlights
0 3 Chairman’s statement
0 4 Burren at a glance
0 6 Chief Executive’s statement
0 8 Business review
1 4 Financial review
1 6 Health, safety, environment and community
2 1 Reserves
2 2 Board of Directors
2 4 Directors’ report
2 6 Corporate governance
2 9 Directors’ remuneration report
3 4 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
3 5 Independent auditors’ report
3 6 Consolidated income statement
3 6 Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense
3 7 Consolidated balance sheet
3 8 Consolidated cash flow statement
3 9 Notes to the Group financial statements
5 7 Company income statement
5 8 Company balance sheet
5 8 Company cash flow statement
5 9 Notes to the Company financial statements
6 3 Five year summary
6 4 Glossary 
I B C Officers and professional advisers
Click on the page number or heading 
below to go direct to selected page Click to return to contents
 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
02
2006 highlights
FINANCIAL
Net profit up 13% to US$249 million (2005: US$221 million)
Earnings per share increased 11% to US¢177 (2005: US¢159)
Operating cash flow after tax up 17% to US$324 million 
(2005: US$278 million)
Capital expenditure increased by 48% to US$211 million of which 
US$68 million was exploration
Cash balances increased by US$77 million to US$202 million. 
No debt outstanding
Full year dividend increased by 17% from 12.0p to 14.0p
OPERATIONAL
Average production of 34,240 bopd, up by 9% on 2005
15 million bbls of reserves added in Turkmenistan, more than replacing 2006 
Group production
Water-injection initiated in Turkmenistan and Congo
Independent verification of Turkmen gas gave contingent probable reserves 
of 395 bcf
Discovery of shallow Loufika field in Congo
Licence award in Yemen (Block 17) increasing Middle East/North Africa  
portfolio to six
Note:  production and reserves figures are all on a working interest basis. Reserves are P+P.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
n Turkmenistan n Congo Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
03
Chairman’s statement
During 2006 the oil & gas industry enjoyed 
another year of increased prices, and Burren’s 
average realised price rose by 24% to US$59.2/bbl. 
This rise impacted Burren’s share of gross 
production. Although our working interest 
production rose, as a result of having recovered 
our historic expenditure on the Group’s two main 
producing fields our entitlement production fell, 
and consequently revenues increased by a 
more modest 7% to US$416 million. However 
our strict cost control enabled us to increase net 
profits by 13% to US$249 million. Our operating 
cash flow was very strong, up by 17% to 
US$324 million, improving our year-end cash 
position to US$202 million, with no debt. 
At year-end the Group had built up a 
significant underlift position of over 490,000 
barrels, the value of which has not been 
reflected in 2006 profits. Were this underlift to 
have been converted into sales at the end of 
2006 it would have added US$28.4 million to 
revenues and US$21.2 million to gross profit.
The long-term future of Burren is dependent 
on our ability to maximise the recovery and 
production from our existing reserves and to 
continue to find and develop new oil & gas 
fields. To that end we increased our capital 
expenditure during the year to US$211 million, 
with an extensive exploration programme,  
and expanded the provision of water-injection 
facilities, both in Turkmenistan and Congo. In 
Turkmenistan, where we are the operator, we 
added 15 million bbls of proven and probable 
reserves of oil, more than replacing Burren’s 
total production during the year.
In March 2007 Burren entered into an agreement 
with Eni to purchase an additional 5.5% interest 
in the M’Boundi field and 2% interest in the 
Kouilou exploration licence in Congo, subject to 
the completion of the purchase of these assets 
by Eni from Maurel & Prom. This is a sign of the 
confidence that Burren has in the long-term 
value of these assets.
Burren was listed on the London Stock 
Exchange at the end of 2003 and the Group’s 
achievements over the past three years have 
been considerable. The management team at 
Burren has two key objectives: to develop our 
existing reserves safely and cost effectively 
and to look for attractive growth opportunities. 
In 2003 our average production was 10,200 
bopd as compared with over 34,000 bopd in 
2006, and our revenue has increased fivefold 
over that three year period. Since being listed 
three years ago, Burren has developed into a 
significant and well established independent 
oil & gas company, with proven capabilities 
and track record. We are determined to build 
on that track record and create sustainable 
shareholder value. 
Finian O’Sullivan has been instrumental in 
establishing Burren and in leading the Group 
through its embryonic years. In September, 
the Board appointed Finian as President to 
take full advantage of his undoubted business 
development skills by allowing him to focus  
on pursuing new opportunities for the Group. 
Atul Gupta, who is highly experienced in the 
industry and was previously Chief Operating 
Officer, was appointed Chief Executive. 
I am very pleased to report that the team at 
Burren has continued to build on the success of 
earlier years and has delivered excellent results 
during 2006, increasing production, profits and 
reserves. The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 10.0p per share, giving a total 
dividend for 2006 of 14.0p per share, an 
increase of 17% compared with 2005.
Keith Henry
Chairman
During the year we also recruited a number of 
senior managers and staff to strengthen the 
team so as to better manage our increasing 
exploration portfolio in Egypt, Yemen, Oman 
and India. 
I joined Burren as a Non-Executive Director in 
March 2005 and I took over from Brian Lavers 
as Chairman at the AGM in 2006. During my 
period with the Company I have been very 
impressed by the professionalism, enthusiasm 
and dedication of the executives and staff.  
On behalf of the Board and our shareholders  
I would like to thank all our employees for  
their efforts and for making 2006 another 
successful year.
Burren has a history and culture of being 
innovative, both technically in the field and in 
developing new ventures. It is the skills of our 
employees, and the Burren culture, which will 
enable us to face future challenges and to 
continue our success in 2007.
Keith Henry
Chairman Click to return to contents
 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
04
Burren at a glance
2006 Highlights
Gross production up 4% to 
19,940 bopd 
Discovery of Balkan and Uzboy 
fields (15 mmbls P+P)
Successful initiation of pilot 
water injection 
2007 Planned Activity
Continue appraisal and 
development drilling
Expand water injection capacity 
to 30,000 bwpd
Progress gas 
commercialisation negotiations
•
•
•
•
•
•
The Nebit Dag PSA area is 
located onshore in western 
Turkmenistan and contains three 
producing oil fields operated by 
Burren: the original Burun field 
and two recently discovered 
fields, Balkan (still undergoing 
appraisal) and the small Uzboy 
field. The PSA term runs until 
2022, and may be extended  
for a further 10 years by mutual 
agreement. Burren has been the 
operator of the PSA since 2000.
 
Burun crude is a light high  
quality low sulphur crude with  
an API gravity of 33°. All of 
Burren’s entitlement production  
is delivered from the field to 
Turkmenneft under swap 
arrangements whereby we 
receive equivalent volumes  
at designated Caspian ports  
in Turkmenistan. These volumes 
are sold on an FOB basis.
2006 Highlights
Award of Block 17 in Yemen
Seismic acquired on East 
Kanayis and Block 50
Three non-commercial 
exploration wells drilled on  
East Kanayis 
2007 Planned Activity
Drill three exploration wells on 
East Kanayis
Acquire 3D seismic on North 
Hurghada Marine
Acquire 3D/2D seismic on 
Blocks 6 and 17 (Yemen)
•
•
•
•
•
•
Egypt
Burren has interests in three 
blocks, East Kanayis (onshore 
western desert), North Hurghada 
Marine (shallow water Gulf of 
Suez) and North Lagia (onshore 
northern Gulf of Suez basin). 
Burren’s working interest is 100% 
in all blocks except North Lagia 
(90%). Each block is at 
exploration stage.
 
Yemen
Burren has a 92% working 
interest in the onshore Block 6 
and a 87.5% working interest in 
Block 17 which is partly onshore, 
partly shallow offshore. Block 17 
was awarded in December 2006. 
Burren is the operator in each 
case, and both blocks are at 
exploration stage.
 Turkmenistan
 Middle East/North Africa
Oman
Burren has a 40% non-operated 
interest in offshore Block 50 
operated by Hunt Oil. Water 
depths are around 100 m. 
    Working  2006 Production
Country Block/Licence Acreage km² Operator Interest % Field (Working Interest) Activity
Turkmenistan Nebit Dag 200 Burren  100% Burun 16,300 bopd D, P
     Uzboy 212 bopd¹ D, P
     Balkan n/a A
1
 average since production commenced
    Working  2006 Production
Country Block/Licence Acreage km² Operator Interest % Field (Working Interest) Activity
Egypt East Kanayis 4,300  Burren  100% n/a n/a E
 North Hurghada Marine 240  Burren  100% n/a n/a E
 North Lagia 1,460  Burren  90% n/a n/a E
Oman Block 50 16,690  Hunt Oil  40% n/a n/a E
Yemen Block 6 3,910  Burren  92% n/a n/a E
 Block 17 19,385 Burren  87.5% n/a n/a E
Activity Key 
P Production
D Development
A Appraisal
E Exploration Click to return to contents
 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
05
2006 Highlights
Working interest production up 
12% to 17,940 bopd
Discovery of shallow  
Loufika field
2D seismic acquired on 
Noumbi licence
Preparations made for pilot 
water injection 
2007 Planned Activity
Continue development drilling 
on M’Boundi
Appraise Loufika discovery
Drill 10 exploration wells on 
deep and shallow prospects
Increase water injection 
capacity to 60,000 bwpd
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
The Kouilou and Noumbi licences 
together cover an onshore area of 
over 4,000 km
2
, stretching along 
the entire Atlantic coast of Congo. 
The Kouilou licence area contains 
two producing fields: M’Boundi 
and the much smaller Kouakouala 
field. The operator in each case  
is Maurel & Prom, the French 
independent E&P group. 
The fields are connected by 
pipelines to an export terminal 
operated by Total and Eni at 
Djeno on the Atlantic coast,  
a distance from M’Boundi of 
about 40 km, where the crude  
is incorporated in the N’Kossa 
export blend, a very light low-
sulphur crude with an API gravity 
of around 38°. 
2006 Highlights
Sucessful well test on PY-1 
triggered full field development
Two non-commercial 
exploration wells drilled on  
CY-OSN-97/1
2007 Planned Activity
Further exploration drilling
Initiate full field development 
plan on PY-1
•
•
•
•
Burren owns a 27% stake in 
Hindustan Oil Exploration 
Company (‘HOEC’), an 
independent Indian oil & gas 
company listed on the Bombay 
and National Stock Exchanges. 
Burren’s CEO, Atul Gupta, is Joint 
Managing Director of HOEC.
HOEC’s main current focus of 
activity is in the Cauvery basin, 
offshore south east India, where  
it holds a 100% equity in the 
undeveloped PY-1 gas field, 80% 
in an adjacent exploration block 
(CY-OSN-97/1) and 21% in the 
producing PY-3 oil field. 
 Congo
 India
    Working  2006 Production
Country Block/Licence Acreage km² Operator Interest % Field (Working Interest) Activity
Congo Kouilou 1289 Maurel & Prom 35% M’Boundi (31.5%) 17,700 bopd D,P,E
     Loufika n/a A
 Kouakouala 63 Maurel & Prom 33.3% Kouakouala 240 bopd P
 La Noumbi 2,830  Maurel & Prom 37%   E
    Working  2005/6 Production
Region Block/Licence Acreage km² Operator Interest % Field (Working Interest)
2
 Activity
Cauvery PY-1 75 HOEC 100% PY-1 (gas)  n/a D
 PY-3 81 Hardy 21% PY-3 1,190 bopd P
 CY-OSN-97/1  3,705  HOEC 80%   E
Cambay Asjol 15  HOEC 50% Asjol 23 bopd D
 North Balol  27 HOEC 25% North Balol (gas) 28 mcfd D
 CB-ON-7 123 HOEC 50%³ Palej 450 bopd¹ D, E
 CB-OS-1 123  ONGC 57%³ Cambay  A
Assam AAP-ON-94/1 657 HOEC 40%³   E
1
 average since production commenced 
2
 31 March year-end 
3
 ONGC have 30% back-in right  Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
06
Chief Executive’s statement
The average discount at which our crude was 
sold relative to Brent improved to US$5.20/bbl 
compared to US$7.20/bbl in the previous year. 
The Group successfully replaced reserves by 
adding 15 million barrels in Turkmenistan at  
a finding cost of US$2.70/bbl (Turkmenistan 
exploration costs only), against depletion by 
production of 13 million barrels. 
The above production and reserves growth 
came directly as a result of an aggressive 
drilling programme which saw the Group 
participate in a record 51 development  
and exploration wells. Thirty of these were 
development wells of which 26 were put on 
production. A total of 21 exploration wells 
were drilled which resulted in two discoveries, 
the Balkan field in Turkmenistan and the 
Loufika field in Congo. 
These discoveries are close to existing fields 
and infrastructure owned by Burren and both 
are already in production. Further appraisal 
drilling is being conducted on both these 
fields to determine their potential size. 
Significant progress was also made on water-
injection projects on our two core producing 
fields, which have the potential to materially 
increase reserves through higher recovery 
factors. In Turkmenistan, a pilot water-injection 
project in both shallow and deep reservoirs 
was successful. The shallow reservoirs, in 
particular, exhibited excellent injectivity and 
gave early positive responses from observation 
wells. For the deeper layers, injectivity is 
variable but a positive response has already 
been seen and we have enough confidence 
to move ahead with plans to expand the 
injection programme from the current capacity 
of 10,000 bwpd to 30,000 bwpd. In Congo, 
after minor delays in procuring equipment, 
injection started at the beginning of 2007  
and is planned to increase to 60,000 bwpd 
during the year.
Our agreement with Eni in March 2007 to 
purchase a further 5.5% interest in the M’Boundi 
field, along with an additional 2% of Kouilou, 
reflects our belief that the M’Boundi field in 
particular has significant future upside potential 
with Eni as operator. We expect this deal to be 
completed at the same time as Eni’s purchase 
from Maurel & Prom.
Gas commercialisation discussions progressed 
in Turkmenistan with an independent verification 
of our contingent gas reserves (395 bcf),  
a defined plateau production rate and the 
selection of the preferred route to link to 
export infrastructure. Following the death  
of President Niyazov in December 2006  
and the subsequent election of President 
Berdymukhamedov, the oil and gas authorities 
in Turkmenistan have re-affirmed their 
commitment to continuing these discussions. 
We successfully bid for an additional exploration 
licence in Yemen bringing us to a total of six 
licences in our Middle East/North Africa portfolio, 
in five of which we are Operator and hold 
interests close to 100%. Whilst initial exploration 
drilling of three shallow wells on the East Kanayis 
licence in Egypt failed to find commercial 
hydrocarbons, this represents only a small part 
of the planned exploration programme. 
Finally, in India, Hindustan Oil Exploration 
Company (HOEC) successfully drilled and 
tested a horizontal development well in 
basement reservoir (a first in India) on its 
undeveloped PY-1 gas field offshore south-east 
India. Since a long-term gas sales contract  
is close to signature, the development of  
the field, subject as always to acceptable 
development costs, can now begin in earnest. 
Participation in a US $33 million rights issue  
by HOEC in Q4 resulted in Burren increasing 
its shareholding from 26% to 27%.
STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES
Burren’s strategy is to create shareholder value 
by investing in oil & gas projects in four key 
hydrocarbon regions of the world: the Caspian, 
West Africa, the Middle East/North Africa and 
India. We aim to conduct our businesses in a 
socially responsible manner and seek to attain 
the highest international standards for health, 
safety and the environment.
Our objectives are to grow our production  
and reserve base by: (i) further development  
of our existing fields; (ii) exploring our existing 
concessions; and (iii) acquiring new assets 
with proven reserves and production. To that 
end, our growth strategy is not confined to 
exploration: we are also prepared, as we have 
successfully shown in the last five years, to 
take on and manage reservoir development 
risk, political risk and market risk. 
During 2006 we made sound progress in all 
aspects of our business. Group working interest 
production increased for the sixth consecutive 
year averaging 34,240 bopd, 9% above the 
previous year, whilst the average unit cost of 
production was unchanged at US$2.50 per 
working interest barrel, one of the lowest in  
the sector.
Atul Gupta
Chief Executive Officer Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
07
We believe the areas of the world in which  
we work offer such opportunities and we will 
seek to manage the associated risks through 
the application of technical and commercial 
expertise, maintaining close relationships with 
governments and partners who can provide 
local knowledge and support.
We are proud of our record of maintaining cost 
efficiency and we believe, even in the current 
environment of high commodity prices, that 
cost control is a key part of performance.  
To that end we will continue to analyse every 
aspect of our cost structure and look for 
means of reducing costs efficiently. 
Our immediate objectives for the coming year, 
as described more fully in the Business Review, 
are to continue the development of our 
producing fields in Turkmenistan and Congo 
via increased development drilling and water 
injection, whilst maintaining the pace of 
exploration. We intend to focus efforts  
on progressing gas commercialisation in 
Turkmenistan and in identifying new investment 
opportunities to make best use of our strong 
balance sheet.
We continue to place great emphasis on 
attracting and retaining the best quality staff 
and to that end are delighted to have recruited 
Simon Gill as Operations Director and Ian 
Bingham as Chief Geophysicist. 
OUTLOOK
Based on sound fundamentals of hydrocarbon 
reservoir exploration, performance and 
development, our outlook for 2007 and 
beyond remains positive.
During 2007 we expect to maintain working 
interest production at about 35,000 bopd. 
Assuming that the Eni transaction completes 
successfully this could add a further 2,000 bopd. 
This year we plan to drill approximately the 
same number of exploration wells as in 2006 
(including six wells by HOEC), with a particular 
focus on Congo, before switching to the 
Middle East/North Africa in 2008.
In relation to HOEC, Burren continues to provide 
shareholder and management support as 
HOEC seeks to develop its PY-1 gas field and 
explore its other acreage. 
Since its origins in the early nineties, Burren’s 
aim has been to create shareholder value by 
organic means. Our strategy has been to  
seek out opportunities before they became 
widely known, to keep a close eye on costs, 
and to grow reserves, production and cash 
flow reinvesting the surplus in new theatres 
of operation.
The success of this strategy has been 
demonstrated by the growth in Group 
production, which has increased from just 
over 2,000 bopd in 2000, when we took  
over operatorship of the Nebit Dag licence,  
to over 34,000 in 2006.
I expect this growth to continue, driven by 
water-injection programmes on our existing 
fields and by the addition of Turkmen gas 
production once the commercial parameters 
are finally agreed. Having had modest 
exploration success in Turkmenistan, the 
exploration focus shifts to Congo for 2007  
and then on to the Middle East/North Africa  
in 2008.
The management team is highly motivated to 
further develop the business and work has 
been going on during the last year on several 
important new business initiatives, some of 
which may come to fruition in 2007.
With net cash at year end of over US$200 
million, all generated through operating cash 
flow, and no debt, Burren has proven its ability  
to build a profitable business. Our focus on 
fundamentals of the upstream business, with 
a disciplined approach to cost control, stands 
us in good stead to achieve our programme of 
organic growth complemented by new projects.
Finally, as of September 2006, I was honoured 
to have been appointed as Chief Executive 
and will strive to the best of my ability to create 
value for the Group and all its stakeholders. 
Atul Gupta
Chief Executive Officer
Having seen Burren through its first three 
years post flotation, I am proud of what we 
have achieved. In Atul Gupta, the Group  
has a highly capable Chief Executive in  
whose hands I am confident to leave the  
day-to-day running of the business, allowing 
me to focus fully on new business opportunities 
which will deliver the next cycle of growth.
Finian O’Sullivan
President Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
08
Gas prices in the Caspian region have 
historically been much lower than in Western 
Europe as a consequence of lack of direct 
supply routes to western markets. However 
the gap has been steadily closing in recent 
years, and in October 2006 Turkmenistan 
agreed a new export contract with Russia 
whereby the price was increased from US$65/
mcm to US$100/mcm. We believe that the 
trend in gas prices in the Caspian region will 
continue upwards although the timing of any 
increases is difficult to predict.
Business review
Burren’s business is the exploration, development 
and production of oil & gas. Our commercial 
production at present is entirely oil: although we 
have significant gas resources these do not as yet 
have tangible commercial value. Our focus is on 
four key hydrocarbon regions of the world: the 
Caspian, West Africa, the Middle East/North Africa 
and India. We are comfortable operating in 
‘developing’ markets, where there may be greater 
political and commercial risk than in more developed 
markets but where the opportunities and rewards 
may be commensurately greater. 
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
Burren has interests in a total of 11 licence 
blocks, in Turkmenistan, Congo, Egypt, 
Yemen and Oman. Our investment in India is 
via a 27% holding in Hindustan Oil Exploration 
Company (HOEC), a company listed on the 
Bombay Stock Exchange, which has interests 
in eight blocks. We are the operator of our 
blocks in Turkmenistan, Egypt and Yemen  
and HOEC is the operator of most of their 
blocks in India. In Congo, however, the 
operator is Maurel & Prom. The majority of 
Burren’s activity is onshore: only two of our 
blocks are offshore, and these are in shallow 
water. Operating and drilling costs are therefore 
much lower than if we were operating in a 
deep water environment. 
Burren’s production comes almost equally 
from our two principal assets, the Burun and 
Balkan fields comprising the Nebit Dag PSA 
in Turkmenistan and the M’Boundi field in 
Congo (Brazzaville). Each of these is a 
significant cash engine, generating free cash 
flow after development expenditure which 
may be reinvested in exploration or in the 
acquisition of other assets. Our oil production 
is sold under contract to BP (Nebit Dag) or 
Total (M’Boundi) at the Caspian and Atlantic 
coasts respectively. 
All our licences are in the form of long-term 
Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs), whereby 
the oil produced is apportioned between 
contractor and state according to a formula 
which allows for the priority recovery of the 
contractor’s expenditure. The effect of PSAs  
is that when oil prices fall the contractor’s 
share of the oil increases and when oil prices 
rise it reduces: this cushions our exposure to 
oil price movements.
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
Oil & gas markets
The oil price continued to strengthen in 2006 
with dated Brent averaging US$65.1/bbl 
compared with US$54.5/bbl the previous 
year. Ignoring seasonal variations, we expect 
oil prices to remain above US$50/bbl over the 
next few years.
Hywell John
Legal & Commercial Director,  
Company Secretary Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
09
Price inflation
Over the past 12 months competition for assets 
and for resources, both human and physical, 
has continued to grow, fuelled by the continued 
strength of the oil price, The growing international 
ambitions of the national oil companies (‘NOCs’) 
and the ongoing search by the majors for 
replacement reserves, coupled with the healthy 
balance sheets of most oil & gas companies, 
have resulted in asset price inflation in the 
regions in which Burren operates. We do not 
see these pressures abating soon to any 
significant extent.
The demands on finite oil service resources 
have caused rig day rates and the costs  
of attendant drilling services to rise. Burren  
is insulated against some of these market 
pressures in that we now own seven drilling 
and workover rigs in Turkmenistan and Maurel 
& Prom similarly own all five rigs deployed  
in Congo, although we have experienced 
inflation in other oil field service costs.
Equally there is pressure on human resources 
which gives rise to salary inflation and certain 
sectors of the industry have experienced 
higher staff turnover.
Political risk 
Political risk continues to be an area of 
concern for oil & gas companies generally,  
as governments around the world look  
for ways to maximise their share of 
hydrocarbon resources in the current  
high oil price environment.
There have been no recent events or actions 
in any of the countries in which Burren operates 
that cause us to have any undue concerns on 
this subject at present. Following the sudden 
death of President Niyazov of Turkmenistan at 
the end of 2006, President Berdymukhamedov 
was elected in February 2007. The Minister  
for Oil & Gas is the same as in the previous 
administration, and Burren has not experienced 
any disruption in day-to-day operational activities.
STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES
Strategy
Burren’s strategy is to create shareholder value 
by investing in oil & gas projects in the four 
key hydrocarbon regions of the world: the 
Caspian, West Africa, the Middle East/North 
Africa and India, primarily in onshore locations. 
We consider our key strengths in pursuing  
this strategy to be:
Our experience in operating in these 
markets, developed from our six years of 
operating the Nebit Dag licence area in 
Turkmenistan, involving the management 
of political, commercial, technical and 
logistical issues 
Our track record of low cost operation: 
Our operating cost per barrel in 
Turkmenistan in recent years has been 
below US$2.0/bbl 
Our philosophy of working with local 
partners with aligned equity interests, who 
can assist in the building and maintenance 
of crucial local relationships
The elements of our strategy are as follows:
To grow our production and reserve base 
by further development of our existing 
fields in order to increase the potential 
recovery rates 
To seek new investment opportunities 
within our focus regions which include 
proven reserves and production, thus 
reducing geological risk, and which have 
development and appraisal potential 
To constrain our exposure to exploration 
risk within prudent limits 
To monetise assets where their value to a 
prospective purchaser materially exceeds 
our internal risked valuation
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Objectives
Our objectives in 2007 are to:
Drill approximately 70 wells in total of which 
approximately 50 will be development  
wells, both producers and injectors, and  
20 exploration wells. This includes up to 
eight planned wells by HOEC in India 
Continue with the expansion of the water-
injection programmes in Turkmenistan 
and Congo 
Progress discussions with the Government 
of Turkmenistan towards commercialising 
our Turkmen gas resources
Fully appraise the new discoveries, the 
Balkan field (formerly Nebit Dag Deep) in 
Turkmenistan and the shallow Loufika field 
in Congo 
Complete seismic acquisition and/or 
interpretation on four of our six blocks in 
the Middle East/North Africa in preparation 
for a programme of exploration drilling, 
starting in 2007 and continuing into 2008 
Continue to seek new opportunities for 
investment in order to make the best use  
of our cash resources and unleveraged 
balance sheet
•
•
•
•
•
•
Rebecca Sanderson
Finance Team Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
10
Business review continued
Key Performance Indicators
In order to monitor the Group’s performance 
in delivering its strategic objectives the  
Board has established seven financial Key 
Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) and nine  
non-financial KPIs.
a) Financial KPIs
The results for the Group’s seven financial 
KPIs for the last three years are shown in the 
table on page 10.
The rapid growth in production witnessed  
in 2004 and 2005 slowed down in 2006 as 
rigs formerly used in development drilling in 
Turkmenistan were diverted to exploration, 
and because of natural decline rates in 
existing producing wells. 
The discount to Brent rose in 2005 due to 
increased transportation costs in the Caspian 
region. This was offset in 2006 by significantly 
improved terms for Burren’s Congo crude 
following a change to the blending arrangements 
at the export terminal.
Production costs per barrel remained flat 
over the three years owing to tight cost control 
despite a general inflation in the cost of oilfield 
services and human resources.
Cash flow after development expenditure  
has risen strongly, despite an increase in 
expenditure on developing our existing 
reserves, as a result of increased production 
and rising oil prices.
The slowdown in growth in earnings per share 
in 2006 compared with previous years is due 
to a number of factors, but includes the fall in 
entitlement production in 2006, arising from 
the achievement of full recovery of historic 
costs on both of Burren’s producing fields  
and the consequent rise in the state’s share  
of production.
The reserves replacement ratio and reserves 
growth per share, being calculated on a 
three-year basis, are only shown for 2006 
since Burren only became a publicly listed 
company in December 2003
The definitions of the above ratios may be 
found in the Glossary.
b) Non-financial KPIs
The nine non-financial KPIs, of which  
three relate to Health & Safety and six to 
Environmental matters, are as follows:
Health & Safety 
Fatal Accident Rate, Lost Time Incident 
Frequency, and Lost Time Incident Severity.
Environment
Measures relating to crude oil consumption, 
natural gas consumption, water usage, 
greenhouse gas production, acid rain and smog 
precursor production and waste emissions.
Further detail on the definitions, results of,  
and targets for, these non-financial KPIs is 
contained in the Heath, Safety, Environment 
and Community section of this report.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
In 2006 the Group drilled a record number  
of wells: 51 compared with 45 in 2005. 
Exploration represented a greater proportion  
of drilling activity than ever before: 21 wells 
compared with 7 in 2005 (all well numbers 
exclude HOEC). The exploration resulted in 
three discoveries: the Balkan (formerly Nebit 
Dag Deep) and Uzboy fields in Turkmenistan 
and the Loufika field in Congo. The Turkmen 
discoveries added a total of 15.1 million barrels 
of P+P reserves, and are close to existing 
Burren-owned infrastructure. The size of the 
Loufika discovery is still being appraised. 
2006 also saw the initiation of water injection 
programmes in both Turkmenistan and 
Congo, with the aim of sustaining reservoir 
productivity and improving field recovery 
factors. By year end the Burun field programme 
was showing promising early results; injection 
only began on the M’Boundi field in late 
January 2007 and it is still too early to make 
any assessment.
Group working interest production averaged 
34,240 bopd for the year, an increase of 9% 
on 2005, contributed as to 16,300 bopd by 
Turkmenistan and 17,940 bopd by Congo. 
Entitlement production was 19,170 bopd, 
down from the previous year’s 22,440 bopd 
as the state share of production increased 
owing to the rise in oil prices and the 
achievement of full recovery of costs on  
both the Burun and the M’Boundi fields.
Turkmenistan
Exploration
Two exploration drilling programmes were 
conducted in 2006: a deep programme 
targeting the potential extension of the deeper 
Burun field reservoirs immediately to the east 
of that field and a shallow programme on a 
series of prospects in the eastern half of the 
Nebit Dag PSA area. A total of 15 wells were 
drilled of which four found hydrocarbons, 
resulting in the discovery of the deep Balkan 
Financial KPIs 
Key Performance Indicator     Units 2006 2005 2004
Production growth     % 9 72 79
Discount to Brent     US$/bbl 5.2 7.2 5.4
Production cost per barrel     US$/bbl 2.5 2.5 2.5
Cash flow after development expenditure    US$m 187.0 157.9 25.2
Earnings per share growth     % 11 218 81
Internal reserves replacement ratio (3 years)    % 234
Reserves growth per share (3 years)    % 16
Simon Moy
Reservoir Engineering Manager Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
11
field and the much smaller shallow Uzboy field.
A new Balkan development area, covering  
an area of 47 km², has been approven by  
the Turkmen authorities. The Uzboy field  
is producing 115 bopd from one well.
The Balkan discovery and appraisal drilling 
within the Burun field itself (north and south 
flank) resulted in a total addition to proven  
and probable working interest reserves of  
15.1 million bbls as at 2006 year-end.
The total cost of the 15 exploration wells, of 
which seven were shallow wells drilled using a 
workover rig, was US$43.1 million. Under the 
terms of the PSA this cost is fully recoverable 
against future production from the new 
development areas. This represents a finding 
cost (P+P basis) of US$2.7/bbl.
As per the terms of the PSA, all exploration 
areas were relinquished as of 1 February 
2007 leaving four development areas  
covering 200 km².
 
Production
In 2006 gross production averaged 19,940 
bopd compared with 19,200 bopd in 2005. 
Working interest production, after deduction 
of the state’s ‘Initial Oil’ entitlement, was 
16,300 bopd, and entitlement production  
was 9,780 bopd (2005: 12,430 bopd).
Owing to the focus last year being on 
exploration in advance of the licence expiry 
date, only seven development wells were 
drilled compared with 14 the previous year. 
Capital expenditure was focused on water 
injection and facility upgrades, the latter 
aimed at increasing throughput capacity by 
2009 to the 30,000 bopd level required to 
handle future production increases and to 
bring fully in-house the processing activities 
currently undertaken by Turkmenneft. 
2006 saw the start of the water injection 
programme on the Burun field: some 8,500 
bwpd is now being injected via a total of nine 
injector wells. Initial results are encouraging: 
material increases in production rates have 
been observed in two shallow producer  
wells and one deep producer as a result  
of this injection.
The first of the two new deep rigs purchased 
from China began operations in January 2007. 
The second rig is expected to be in operation 
towards the middle of the year, and we intend 
to release the two existing contracted rigs as 
soon as practicable. The two new rigs will bring 
to a total of seven the number of workover and 
drilling rigs owned and manned by Burren in 
Turkmenistan, and will allow us to complete the 
development of the three fields without being 
dependent on third party rig operators. 
Forward plans
In 2007 we plan to drill around 20 development 
and appraisal wells on the Burun and Balkan 
fields. We intend to recomplete 12 existing 
wells as injectors and to start expanding the 
water injection capacity to 30,000 bwpd.  
Gross production reached a record 22,250 bopd 
in February 2006.
Congo
Exploration
In 2006 three exploration wells were drilled, 
one within the Kouakouala permit (Boubissi-1) 
and two on the Loufika prospect to the south-
east of the M’Boundi field, the first of which 
resulted in a discovery in the shallow horizons 
at a depth of some 500 m. 
Since year end two step-out appraisal wells 
have been drilled on Loufika, the first of which 
confirmed the oil reservoir and the oil-water 
contact but was of low permeability and so 
non-commercial. The second appraisal well 
was drilled outside the structure and did not 
encounter hydrocarbons. The remaining four 
wells in the six well appraisal programme  
will be drilled over the next few months. In 
addition an unsuccessful exploration well  
was drilled in Q1 2007 on the Tioni prospect 
and has been plugged and abandoned. On 
the Noumbi licence some 560 km of  
the planned 812 km 2D seismic has been 
acquired and is being processed. 
Production
Gross production on M’Boundi for the full year 
was 56,100 bopd, compared with 44,000 
bopd in 2005. A total of 23 wells were drilled, 
broadly the same as the previous year,  
of which 19 were put on production, the 
remainder being around the perimeter of the 
field and therefore sub-commercial. Between 
four and five rigs were in operation throughout 
the year. Our 2006 working interest production 
in Congo, including our share of the Kouakouala 
field, was 17,940 bopd, up 12% over 2005. 
Burren’s share of M’Boundi production 
reduced from 35% to 31.5% with effect from  
1 January 2006 (as a result of the farm-in  
by SNPC). We increased our holding in the 
Kouakouala field by 8.3% to 33.3% by 
exercising our pre-emption rights upon  
sale by Heritage Oil Corporation in order to 
preserve our position in relation to the export 
pipeline to the Djeno terminal, which is owned 
by the Kouakouala partners. 
After a short delay owing to the late delivery of 
certain items of equipment, the water injection 
programme commenced in January 2007 with 
injection into two wells. 
Forward plans
Four further shallow appraisal wells on Loufika 
are planned to be drilled during the first half  
of the year, following which it is intended  
to drill an exploration well on two further 
Loufika-type prospects to the north-west 
along the basin margin.
In the deep programme, four further Vandji 
exploration prospects are planned to be 
drilled during 2007: three on the Kouilou 
licence (Nanga, Zingila and Tchivouba), and 
one on the La Noumbi licence (Dongou). 
Further 2D seismic will be acquired on 
Noumbi in the second half of the year. 
Ian Bingham
Chief Geophysicist Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
12
Business review continued
It is intended to drill and/or convert 18 wells  
to injector wells in 2007, and to increase the 
injection capacity of the facilities from 20,000 
bwpd to 60,000 bwpd during the year and 
again to 120,000 bwpd in 2008. As a result  
of the drilling of injector wells, there will be 
fewer development wells drilled on M’Boundi 
this year: 11 net new producers are planned 
compared to 23 in 2006. 
Gross production on M’Boundi in February 
2007 was 55,400 bopd.
Middle East
Egypt 
All three wells drilled on the East Kanayis 
licence to target the Cretaceous potential 
were found to be dry. 550 km² of 3D seismic 
data was acquired during the year to evaluate 
deeper Jurassic targets and several prospects 
have been delineated at Cretaceous levels 
along trend from existing fields and at the 
Jurassic level. 
On the North Hurghada Marine a high resolution 
aeromagnetic survey was carried out to give an 
overview of the basin. Reprocessing of existing 
seismic is under way and a contract has been 
awarded to acquire 200 km² of new 3D seismic 
commencing in Q2. 
Yemen
The PSA for Block 6 became effective during 
the year after parliamentary ratification, and  
a tender for the acquisition of 500 km of 2D 
seismic is in progress. We hope to commence 
acquisition around mid-year. Exploration 
drilling is not expected to be until early 2008. 
In December Burren was awarded a licence 
for Block 17, an onshore/offshore block with 
an area of 19,400 km², and negotiations for  
a PSA will commence shortly. 
Oman
In August Burren received government approval 
to its farm-in into 40% of Block 50, an offshore 
block of some 16,700 km² in water depths of up 
to 100 metres operated by Hunt Oil. 2,775 km  
of 2D seismic was acquired, the processing of 
which is nearly complete. A decision on drilling 
will be made in later in the year.
Forward plans
We plan to drill three wells on the East Kanayis 
block in Egypt, to test both Cretaceous and 
Jurassic prospects, whilst on the remaining 
acreage efforts in 2007 will be primarily 
focussed on seismic and mapping of 
prospects, in preparation for drilling in 2008.
India (HOEC: Burren 27%)
A horizontal well on the PY-1 gas field in the 
offshore Cauvery basin tested successfully 
confirming reservoir productivity sufficient  
to meet contractual requirements. The 
associated gas sales agreement has been 
initiated with execution expected in the near 
future. The project will now, subject to acceptable 
development costs, proceed to full field 
development which will involve the construction 
of a production platform, a subsea pipeline, an 
onshore terminal and the drilling of two further 
development wells. 
Two exploration wells drilled by HOEC on the 
nearby Block CY-OSN-97/1 were dry. 
HOEC raised US$33 million via a rights issue 
in October, in which Burren was allotted slightly 
more than its pro-rata amount, thus taking the 
Group’s stake to 27%. A further equity raising to 
finance the PY-1 development is being planned.
SHIPPING
The shipping business made a small profit in 
2006. Revenues were lower than anticipated 
owing to the delay of a month in the opening 
of the summer navigation season in the 
southern Russian river system owing to 
extreme low temperatures, and operating 
costs were higher than anticipated. This 
business was partially divested early in the 
year and it is Burren’s ultimate intention to 
dispose of the remainder.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the Group, and the actions taken to mitigate 
these risks, are as follows:
Oil price risk
Burren is fully exposed to volatility in the oil  
price since we do not have any oil price hedge 
contracts outstanding. The impact of a falling  
oil price is however partly mitigated via the 
production sharing formula in our PSAs, whereby 
our share of the gross production increases in  
a falling oil price environment due to the cost 
recovery mechanism. Our internal model 
indicates that if the average Brent oil price had 
been 10% lower in 2006 our net production 
would have been 3% higher. We believe that our 
shareholders as a body prefer to retain exposure 
to the oil price, so our policy is not to hedge 
against a fall in oil prices unless this is dictated 
by financing or budgetary constraints or related 
to an acquisition.
Cost inflation
The current inflationary environment for oil-field 
goods and services, and for skilled human 
resources, has already been described above 
(see ‘Business Environment’). Under the terms 
of our PSAs operating and capital costs are 
recoverable via a priority allocation of ‘cost 
recovery oil’, and so the effect of cost increases 
is cushioned (subject always to approval of 
such increases by the state for budgetary 
purposes). Burren’s ownership of all its drilling 
and workover rigs in Turkmenistan mitigates to 
some extent these cost pressures. The retention 
of key staff at an acceptable cost is addressed 
via Burren’s executive remuneration scheme, 
which has been substantially revised with 
effect from 2007 in order to give key staff a 
longer term stake in the Group’s performance.
Zahraa Dewidar
HR & Administration Manager, Cairo Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
13
Political risk
Political risk may take many forms: examples 
include nationalisation, tax changes, alteration 
to the terms of licences or contracts, or 
internal civil unrest. Political risk is inherent in 
the oil & gas business, not only in developing 
countries, but in more developed countries 
too (tax risk). Whilst insuring against political 
risk is sometimes required by bank lenders, 
the market for such insurance for the countries 
in which Burren operates is relatively limited, 
and to insure the full value of our assets, even 
if possible, would be prohibitively expensive. 
Our view is that the political risk is balanced  
in each case by the rewards available from 
investment, and that our shareholders accept 
this risk/reward profile. 
Geological risk
Exploration is inherently a risky business, with 
statistically only a relatively small proportion  
of exploration wells resulting in a commercial 
discovery. It is not possible to insure against 
the risk of failure. Burren’s policy is to contain 
this exposure within prudent limits.
HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT
Oil & gas operations carry a potentially high 
level of attendant risk, and the impact of an 
accident can be significant in terms of human, 
environmental and financial cost. Burren has 
implemented a comprehensive set of HSE 
policies and procedures, coupled with an 
ongoing review system: for a full description 
see the section on Heath, Safety, Environment 
and Community. The Group has standard oil 
field insurance policies, including control-of-
well cover, in place covering all its operated 
and non-operated assets.
RESOURCES
The principal resources available to Burren in 
pursuing our stated strategy are our portfolio 
of licence interests, the relationships that we 
have built up over the years in our countries  
of operation, and our people.
Our licence portfolio now numbers 11 blocks 
in five countries (excluding the investment in 
HOEC), of which many contain significant 
exploration acreage.
Our strategy of working closely with local 
partners has led to a number of close 
relationships in our target countries, not  
only with local partners but also within 
government, most of which have been  
built up over many years.
The skills and experience of our staff play  
a vital part in the ongoing success of the 
Group. Burren has offices in Ashgabat,  
Cairo, Sana’a and Moscow, together with an 
operations centre at the Nebit Dag camp in 
Turkmenistan. These are supported by the 
London head office which numbers some  
25 people. Burren has no office in Congo 
since it is not the operator. The head office 
team was strengthened during 2006 by the 
appointment of Simon Gill as Operations 
Director and Ian Bingham as Chief Geophysicist. 
Simon Gill fills the role that Atul Gupta had 
been discharging prior to his becoming  
Chief Executive Officer last September,  
and Ian Bingham’s is a newly created role.
We consider the motivation and remuneration 
of our staff is of vital importance in order that 
we continue to attract and maintain the highest 
quality people. Further information about our 
remuneration policy may be found in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Brian Thurley
Technical Director Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
14
Financial review
Selected operational and financial data
      2006 2005 +/- % 
Production (working interest)    * bopd 34,240 31,380 9%
Production (entitlement)     bopd 19,170 22,440 (15%)
Entitlement factor      % 56% 72% n/a
Sales volume     mmbbls 6.8 7.8 (14%)
Operating profit     US$m 274.2 256.7 7%
Profit after tax     US$m 248.9 220.9 13%
Earnings per share (basic)     US$m 177.3  159.0 11%
Net cash flow from operations     US$m 324.0 277.8 17%
Cash flow after development expenditure   * US$m 187.0 157.9 18%
Year end cash balance     US$m 202.2 124.8 62%
Average realised price/bbl     US$/bbl 59.2 47.8 24%
Average sales discount to Brent    * US$/bbl (5.2) (7.2) n/a
Production cost/bbl (working interest)   * US$/bbl (2.5) (2.5) 0%
Depreciation/bbl (entitlement)     US$/bbl  (10.0)  (8.1) 25%
(brackets) signify adverse changes
* Key Performance Indicator (KPI): see Glossary for definitions
entitlement share of this production fell to  
56% compared with 72% in 2005, as the 
state’s share of production increased in  
both Turkmenistan and Congo following the 
achievement of full recovery of historic costs 
on the Burun and M’Boundi fields. The sale  
of a 3.5% participating interest in the M’Boundi 
field to SNPC, the Congolese state oil company, 
became effective as of the beginning of  
2006: but for this Burren’s working interest 
production would have been 36,100 bopd,  
a like-for-like increase of 15%. 
The average sales price discount to Brent 
improved to US$5.2/bbl (2005: US$7.2/bbl) 
primarily as a result of a change in blending 
arrangements for our Congo crude at the 
beginning of the year which significantly 
improved the pricing structure. The average 
discount for Congo crude last year was 
US$1.6/bbl (2005: US$6.9/bbl) compared  
with US$8.5/bbl (2005: US$7.5/bbl) for  
our Turkmen crude. The export discount 
currently applicable to our Turkmen crude  
is US$8.0/ bbl.
Operating profit
Cost of sales fell from US$118.4 million to 
US$111.4 million owing to the non-recurrence 
of US$13.8 million of oil price hedging losses 
expensed in 2005, which resulted in a gross 
profit for the year of US$ 304.6 million  
(2005: US$271.9 million). Excluding the  
prior year hedging losses, the underlying 
increase in gross profit was 7%. 
Within cost of sales, depreciation comprised 
US$69.8 million, modestly up on 2005 
(US$66.1 million), as the higher unit charge of 
US$10.0/bbl (2005: US$8.1/bbl) was offset by 
its application to lower entitlement production. 
The increased unit depreciation charge arises 
from an increase in estimated future costs to 
produce our reserves. The remaining costs of 
sales, comprising production costs and 
potential of shipping operations, amounted to 
US$41.6 million (2005: US$38.6million), an 
increase of 8%. Excluding costs attributable to 
the shipping business, Burren’s production 
cost per working interest barrel, adjusted for 
movements in underlift and overlift, was 
unchanged from the previous year at  
US$2.5/bbl.
Administrative expenses, including charges 
relating to employee incentive schemes, 
decreased 10% to US$13.9 million (2005: 
US$15.4 million). Incentive scheme charges, 
at US$5.3 million, were US$2.1 million less 
than in 2005 primarily because of lower accruals 
for NIC liabilities on deferred share awards, 
which are linked to Burren’s share price 
performance over the year. Other administrative 
expenses rose by US$0.6 million. 
Other operating expenses of US$19.3 million 
(2005: US$1.4 million) comprised the write- 
off of certain pre-licence expenses related  
to potential new ventures in the FSU (US$8.8 
million), unsuccessful exploration in Egypt 
(US$6.0 million) and a provision of US$4.5 
million for the settlement of a dispute concerning 
certain insurance arrangements in Turkmenistan, 
which Burren is appealing. The contribution 
from our associate HOEC increased from 
US$1.6 million to US$3.4 million, and a loss  
of US$0.6 million was incurred on the part 
disposal of our shipping business. 
As a result of the above operating profit 
increased by 7% to US$274.2 million (2005: 
US$256.7 million).
Net profit and earnings per share
Interest income, net of finance charges, was 
US$8.3 million as a result of increased average 
cash deposits and rising interest rates. In 
2005 there were net finance costs of US$2.1 
million which included the arrangement fees 
on a new medium term loan facility.
The taxation charge was unchanged at 
US$33.6 million, all but US$0.7 million of 
which relates to Turkmenistan. In Congo no 
tax charge was incurred since under the 
TRADING PERFORMANCE
Revenue
Revenue grew by 7% to US$416.0 million due 
entirely to higher realised prices: the average 
sales price rose by 24% to US$59.2/bbl 
(2005: US$47.8/bbl). Sales volumes were  
14% lower than in 2005 at 6.8 million barrels 
(equivalent to an average 18,540 bopd) 
reflecting the 15% decline in entitlement 
production to 19,170 bopd (2005: 22,440 bopd). 
The underlift position at year-end increased  
to 494,000 barrels (2005: 321,000 barrels) 
owing to sales volumes being lower than 
entitlement production. Were this underlift to 
have been converted into sales at the end of 
2006 it would have added US$28.4 million to 
revenues and US$21.2 million to gross profit.
Working interest production increased in  
2006 by 9% to 34,240 bopd but Burren’s 
Andrew Rose
Chief Financial Officer Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
15
terms of PSAs the state’s share of oil satisfies 
all tax liabilities. US$11.3 million of the tax 
charge was deferred tax.
Profit after tax increased by 13% to US$248.9 
million (2005: US$220.9 million). The increase 
in earnings per share was slightly less at 11% 
to US¢177.2 (2005: US¢159.0), as a result of 
the increase in share capital arising from issue 
of shares under share scheme awards.
Dividend 
A final dividend of 10.0p per share has been 
proposed, making a total in respect of the 
2006 financial year of 14.0p, a 17% increase 
on the 12.0p dividend in respect of 2005 and 
representing a payout ratio of 15.4% of net 
profits based on the average US$/£ exchange 
rate for the year. This final dividend will be 
recorded for accounting purposes in 2007.
Burren’s policy is to raise dividends at least in 
line with profits so as to pass on the benefits 
of higher oil prices to shareholders.
Cash flow and capital expenditure
Net cash from operations, after payment of 
US$26.2 million of tax and a working capital 
increase of US$2.3 million, was US$324.0 
million, an increase of 17% over 2005 
(US$277.8 million).
 
Investment expenditure totalled US$218.8 
million (2005: US$176.5 million). Of this total 
capital expenditure on E&P assets accounted 
for US$210.6 million (2005: US$142.0 million) 
cash pledged as collateral to guarantee 
minimum work obligations under new licences 
in Middle East/North Africa accounted for 
US$3.1 million, and the balance represented 
the cost of participating in HOEC’s US$33 
million rights issue (US$9.9 million) net of 
dividends received from HOEC and the proceeds 
of the part disposal of our shipping business 
(together US$4.8 million). 
The US$210.6 million investment in E&P assets 
comprised US$68.0 million of exploration 
expenditure (2005: US$18.6 million), US$5.6 
million of licence acquisition costs, and US$16.9 
million stage payments for the purchase of 
two drilling rigs for use in Turkmenistan, with 
the balance being development expenditure. 
Of the total, approximately US$105 million 
related to Turkmenistan and approximately 
US$90 million to Congo, with the balance 
being primarily in the Middle East/North 
Africa. Of the US$68 million exploration 
expenditure, US$27.0 million was accounted 
for as additions to intangible fixed assets 
pending determination of commerciality and 
the balance, being expenditure in fields already 
at the development/production phase, was 
accounted for as additions to property plant 
and equipment. These figures exclude the 
US$6.0 million cost of unsuccessful wells  
in Egypt, which was charged to the income 
statement during the year.
Interest received, net of interest and finance 
charges paid, was US$6.8 million. US$35.7 
million was paid in dividends. Share capital 
movements were insignificant.
The above elements resulted in a net increase in 
cash balances during 2006 of US$76.8 million.
FINANCIAL POSITION
Liquidity
At year-end 2006 Burren had cash balances 
of US$202.2 million and no outstanding debt. 
Cash surplus to immediate requirements is 
placed on deposit with banks with credit ratings 
of no less than A or in money market funds of 
equivalent rating. The Group’s policy is not to 
place deposits for periods of longer than six 
months and the average maturity of cash 
investments at year end was below three months.
 
In 2005 Burren put in place a US$150 million 
standby loan facility secured on our two principal 
assets in Turkmenistan and Congo, which is 
currently undrawn. The available amount of 
this facility is currently US$70 million and it 
matures in 2009. Burren’s theoretical borrowing 
capacity has been determined by bankers to 
be considerably greater than the amount of 
this facility, and we therefore consider that  
we have ample liquidity to meet our presently 
envisaged commitments.
Capital structure
Burren is currently financed entirely from 
shareholders’ equity and retained earnings, 
with no debt. If we were to incur debt to 
finance asset acquisitions or other investments 
the Group’s policy is to ensure that our capacity 
to service that debt, having regard to any oil 
price or interest rate hedges taken out, could 
withstand a range of adverse scenarios 
relating to oil prices, production shortfalls  
and cost increases. 
RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL
A comprehensive review of risk and internal 
controls was carried out in 2006 on behalf  
of the Audit Committee, whose terms of 
reference include responsibility for the 
oversight of the Group’s internal control and 
risk management systems and procedures. 
Potential risks were assessed and ranked as 
to potential impact on financial statements, 
impact on business value, probability of 
occurrence, shareholder tolerance level and 
cost of mitigation. Policies and measures in 
place were reviewed and any necessary 
actions recommended to the Board. Review  
of risk and internal control matters is included 
as an agenda item at every Board meeting 
and any control failures or weaknesses are 
reported. No significant control failings were 
reported during the year.
Further details on Burren’s internal control 
processes may be found in the Directors’ 
statements concerning Corporate governance 
on pages 26 to 28.
Burren maintains accident and liability 
insurance for its upstream operations in line 
with prudent international oilfield practice.  
It also maintains hull and machinery, and 
protection and indemnity, insurance policies 
in respect of its shipping fleet, in accordance 
with international shipping practice. Burren 
has a policy not to insure against political risk 
and, therefore, provides shareholders with full 
exposure to the risks and rewards of investing 
in frontier markets.
Burren’s oil price hedging policy is only to 
hedge where necessary to ensure the sufficiency 
of future cash flows to finance anticipated 
future expenditure and debt service. No  
such hedges are currently in place. As our 
business is transacted primarily in US dollars 
and largely debt free, the potential impact  
of currency and interest rate fluctuations on 
our profits and cash flows is negligible and  
it is not considered necessary to hedge  
such exposures.
The Group maintains a detailed medium-term 
financial model which allows us to model a 
variety of future outcomes according to different 
possible economic and business scenarios, 
and plan our expenditure commitments within 
prudent limits.
Andrew Rose
Chief Financial Officer Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
16
This section of the Annual Report indicates 
how the Board has taken account of the 
significance of environmental, social and 
governance issues as part of its regular 
assessment of the range of business risks 
facing the Company. 
Following the 2005 corporate review of our 
health, safety, environment and community 
(HSEC) strategy, 2006 has seen a focus  
on implementing the updated approach 
across our operating units and on improving 
the reporting of HSEC data by Burren and  
its partners.
POLICY
A phased implementation of our 10-point 
HSEC principles has seen the development  
of a revised HSEC Management System 
(HSEC-MS) in both our main operated sites 
(Turkmenistan and Egypt) and continued 
efforts to ensure that our principal non-
operated activities (Congo and India)  
have an appropriate HSEC-MS in place. 
These policies and principles will also be 
implemented in our remaining areas of 
operation (Yemen and Oman) as their 
exploration activities develop during 2007.
With over six years of operating experience in 
Turkmenistan, and four years of independent 
audits of our HSEC progress in the field, it is 
planned to seek certification of the Turkmen 
HSEC-MS to the level of ISO14001 (covering 
environmental aspects) and OHSAS18001 
(covering health and safety aspects) by the 
end of 2007. These international standards 
are recognised, independent certificates for 
ensuring that companies have demonstrated 
sound HSEC policies and performance at 
their operating locations.
In April 2006 we implemented a group- 
wide whistleblower policy which allows our 
employees, consultants and contractors to 
draw attention, without fear of reprisals, to  
any suspected malpractice or unlawful 
conduct in the workplace. Each operating  
unit now has a whistleblowing procedure  
in place, with regular reporting to the Board, 
and to date there have been no reports of 
misconduct under the policy.
For 2007 we shall also be trialling the inclusion 
of HSEC targets into the bonus payment policy 
applicable to staff working at our field operations 
in Turkmenistan. If this proves successful,  
the policy will be implemented at our other 
operated sites.
PRACTICE
In addition to the above, we continue to  
report our annual safety statistics, environmental 
key performance indicators (KPIs), as required 
under new UK Companies Act/Business 
Review regulations, and on our ongoing 
community, social and audit activities.
Health & safety
Our three key performance indicators  
for accident statistics remain:
Fatal Accident Rate, calculated as the 
number of workplace fatal accidents  
in a year divided by the number of  
100 million manhours worked; 
Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF), 
calculated as the number of Lost Time 
Incidents (LTIs) in a year divided by the 
number of million manhours worked; and
Lost Time Incident Severity Rating (LTI SR), 
calculated as the number of days lost 
through LTIs divided by the number of LTIs.
Overall, we are delighted to report that these 
results (covering both staff and contractors) 
show no work-related fatalities and a 
considerable reduction in LTIs over 2005  
(see table below). The significant apparent 
increase in the number of days lost through 
LTIs is largely attributable to the failure of  
the Operator to capture appropriate data  
for Congo in 2005.
Both our operations in Egypt and those of 
HOEC in India had their first LTIs during  
2006, but the small data size prevents any 
effective conclusions being drawn as to 
accident trends.
For Yemen, our operations are at an early, 
exploration stage but an accident reporting 
system has been established from the 
beginning of 2007. 
Our Shipping business operates under the 
International Maritime Organisation (IMO) 
code that sets out internationally accepted 
procedures related to HSE and other matters. 
In this regard, we are pleased to report that 
during 2006 all our vessels held a current 
International Safety Management (ISM) 
certificate and there were no fatalities, 
reportable incidents or accidents.
•
•
•
Accident Statistics
 Turkmenistan Congo Egypt India Total
  2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005** 2006 2005 2006 2005
Manhours worked  
 (millions)  3.14 2.80 5.58 4.41 0.55 0.00 0.82 0.43 10.09 7.64
Fatalities   0  0 0* 1 0 0 0 0 0 1
Lost time incidents 
 (LTIs)  16 15 14 67 1 0 2 0 33 82
Days lost through 
 LTIs  587 550 148 *** 30 0 69 0 834 550
Fatal accident rate  0.0 0.0 0.0 22.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Industry standard****   5.4   5.1  3.1   0.9
    
LTI frequency  5.1 5.3 2.5 15.2 1.8 n/a 2.4 0.0
Industry standard****   0.7   0.65   0.9  0.35
    
LTI severity rating  36.7 36.7 10.6 *** 30.0 n/a 34.5 0.0
Industry standard****   33.0   12.4   17.5   14.3
* There were also three non-work-related sub-contractor fatalities in 2006 (as a result of malaria).
** Data only recorded from January, 2006.      
*** Not recorded accurately by Maurel & Prom (M&P) during 2005.    
**** Source: Regional averages from Safety Performance Indicators (2005) report published by the
 International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (May 2006).
Health, safety, environment  
and community
Adrian Skelt
HSEC Co-ordinator Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
17
1 Burren employees enjoying a break in the Burun field
2 Yemeni children
3 Vyshka playground in Turkmenistan 
4 Seismic crew in Egypt
5 Firefighting equipment at Kouakouala field, Congo
2
3
4
5
1 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
18
Health, safety, environment  
and community continued
Based on the above industry benchmarks, 
and taking account of the state of 
development of the various HSEC-MS across 
our sites, we have set targets for 2007 for 
Turkmenistan, Egypt and Yemen as follows:
 Fatal   LTI
 Accident LTI  Severity
 Rate Frequency Rating
Turkmenistan 0.0 < 3.7 < 20.3
Egypt 0.0 < 3.3 < 24.0
Yemen 0.0 < 2.0 < 30.0
ENVIRONMENT
Key Performance Indicators
Following last year’s reporting of a preliminary 
set of quantitative environmental data for 2005, 
we have worked to improve both the number 
and coverage of applicable Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) for 2006. In this regard, we 
have appointed Trucost plc, a leading UK 
environmental consultancy that worked with 
the UK Department for Environment, Food 
and Rural Affairs (Defra) on the development 
of appropriate industry KPIs, to conduct an 
assessment of our reporting under the current 
UK environmental guidelines. Their independent 
assurance statement follows the environmental 
data report opposite. 
Following an interim review by Trucost last 
August, we have expanded our reporting this 
year to cover all our assets (not just operated 
ones) and to include estimates of other 
greenhouse gases (in addition to the principal 
one of CO
2
), acid rain and smog precursors 
(principally NOx and CO) and industrial waste 
volumes. This year we are thus reporting  
on six KPIs and we have also normalised 
absolute data using annual turnover figures, 
thus allowing for growth in the business over 
time. As recommended in the Defra Reporting 
Guidelines for UK Business (January, 2006), 
these KPIs were compiled from submissions 
from operating units plus an allowance for  
HQ activities, with activity data, in the form  
of electricity, gas, fuel and transport usage, 
being used as a proxy to determine the 
emissions levels for the greenhouse gas KPI. 
As our report for 2005 only covered our operated 
assets, the data has had to be restated to  
give a corporate estimate for comparison  
with the 2006 figures. For the first time, we 
have also set corporate targets for annual 
improvements in our key environmental 
variables, namely resource use (oil, gas  
and water), flared gas, CO
2
 emissions and  
waste volumes.
2006 Environmental Data
a
     Quantity 
    Absolute   Normalised
b
 
    2005 2005 2006  2005 2006  2007
KPI Measure Units Reported
c
  Restated
d
  Restated
d
  Target
e
RESOURCE USE
Direct impact (operational)
1. Crude oil Gross production ’000 m
3 
1,024 1,931 2,298 4.9 5.5 +3.5%
 Internal use ’000 m
3 
0 0 0 0 0
 Net production ’000 m
3 
1,024 1,931 2,298 4.9 5.5
 Oil spills m
3 
93 175 111 0.5 0.3
2. Natural gas Gross production ’000 m
3 
559,856 1,056,332 1,152,478 2,706 2,770 +20%
 Internal use ’000 m
3 
3,285 6,198 19,610 16 47
 Net production ’000 m
3 
556,571 1,050,134 1,132,868 2,690 2,723
3. Water abstraction
 Produced with oil ’000 m
3
  921  1,738  1,233  4.5  3.0  +5%
Indirect impact (supply chain)
Water use Consumption ’000 m
3
  45  85   75  0.2  0.2  +5%
EMISSIONS TO AIR
Direct impact (operational)
4. Greenhouse gases (GHG)
Gas flared  ’000 m
3 
137,774 259,951 871,564   –20%
 – CO
2
 equivalent tonnes  n/r  481,559  1,614,572 1,233 3,881  
Fuel consumption Process & field  
 – diesel tonnes 2,214 4,177 6,486 
 – CO
2
 equivalent  tonnes 7,005 13,217 20,522
 – gas oil tonnes 0 0 105
 – CO
2
 equivalent  tonnes 0 0 330 
  Business/freight
 vehicles
 – diesel tonnes 1,914 3,611 2,614
 – CO
2
 equivalent tonnes 6,056 11,426 8,271
 – petrol tonnes 571 1,077 470
 – CO
2
 equivalent tonnes 1,790 3,378 1,473 
Gas consumption Purchased kwh 120,562 227,475 116,687
 – CO
2
 equivalent tonnes 23 43  22 
Total CO
2
  tonnes  14,874  509,623  1,645,190  1,305  3,955  
Total CH
4
  tonnes  n/r  19  43  0  0 
Total N
2
O  tonnes  n/r  9  31  0  0 
Total direct CO
2
 equivalent  tonnes  14,874  512,842  1,655,550  1,314 3,980  –5%
Indirect impact (supply chain)
Electricity consumption 
 Purchased kwh 6,307,487 11,900,919 7,261,053
 – CO
2
 equivalent tonnes 2,712 5,117 3,122 13.1 7.5 
Employee travel Air travel person
 (estimated short &  kms 5,412,000 10,211,320 7 ,484,580
 long haul journeys)
 – CO
2
 equivalent tonnes 639 1,205 868 3.1 2.1 
Total indirect CO
2
 equivalent  tonnes  3,351  6,322  3,990  16.2  9.6  –5%
5. Acid rain & smog precursors
Sulphur dioxide Gas flaring tonnes n/r 2 8 0 0
 Direct energy use tonnes n/r 0 0 0 0 
 Vehicle fuel use tonnes n/r 0 0 0 0
Nitrogen oxides Gas flaring tonnes n/r 780 2,615 2 6.2
 Direct energy use tonnes n/r 58 91 0.1 0.2
 Vehicle fuel use tonnes n/r 52 37 0.1 0.1
Carbon monoxide Gas flaring tonnes n/r 349 1,171 0.9 2.8
 Direct energy use tonnes n/r 11 18 0 0
 Vehicle fuel use tonnes n/r 13 8 0 0
EMISSIONS TO LAND
6. Waste
Landfill Industrial & office tonnes  n/r  n/r  944  n/r  2.2  –5%
Incinerated Industrial & office tonnes  n/r  n/r  0  n/r  0 
Recycled Industrial & office tonnes  n/r  n/r  5  n/r  0  +25% Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
19
a  Details of data sources and calculation method 
available on our website. GHG and acid rain/
smog emissions equivalents calculated using 
conversion factors from Defra Reporting 
Guidelines for UK Business (2006).
b  Normalised per $mm of group turnover (2005: 
$390.3mm, 2006: $416.0mm).
c  As reported in 2005 Annual Report, with crude 
oil volumes converted from reported tonnes to 
’000 m
3
 and CO
2
 equivalents converted from 
reported, ’000 kg to tonnes.
d  Corporate totals restated by scaling-up for 
reported countries proportion of group 2005 
turnover.
e  Derived from a corporate overview of operating 
site expectations for 2007.
n/r Not reported.
As a result of the more comprehensive 
2006 dataset, comparisons with the 2005  
corporate estimates are difficult, although  
any conclusions that can be drawn will remain 
dominated by our two producing locations  
in Turkmenistan and Congo. Here several  
key environmental aspects emerge from  
the above data:
a)  Gas flaring – in Turkmenistan flared gas 
increased during 2006 from 25% of 
production to over 50%, as a result of a 
15% increase in gas production, reduced 
domestic gas demand and an increased 
gas/oil ratio in many producing wells.  
Local gas demand has already increased 
in 2007 and we continue to work with the 
Turkmen authorities to instigate a regional 
gas export scheme. In Congo, there is 
currently little alternative local use for gas 
and currently over 95% of gas production 
is flared. The Operator (M&P) is continuing 
discussions with the Congolese authorities 
and actively reviewing various gas utilisation 
options, including field re-injection, local 
power generation and gas supply to the 
Djeno export terminal or potential potash 
projects, with the aim of achieving a  
drastic reduction in the current level of  
over 4 million m
3
/day by mid 2008.
b) Greenhouse gases – for our other main 
GHG emission, estimated CO
2
 volumes 
from energy and transport use, there has 
been a notable increase in diesel usage 
over 2006, largely resulting from increased 
drilling efforts in Turkmenistan, Congo and 
Egypt. Other areas, including electricity 
and gas consumption and employee 
business travel, show little or no increase 
over 2005.
c) Oil spills – as in 2005 these relate solely 
to our onshore operations in Turkmenistan 
and are again minimal, given the oil 
production level, which increased 20% 
during the year.
d) Waste – data on office and industrial waste 
has been collected for the first time in 
2006 and this shows a heavy reliance 
on our own or local authority landfill 
sites in our producing areas, with limited 
opportunities for recycling, other than in 
the London and Cairo offices. It is hoped 
to significantly redress this balance in 2007.
Trucost assurance statement
In Trucost’s opinion, Burren Energy plc 
has identified and assessed all its material 
2006 environmental impacts and has reported 
on these fully in accordance with current 
UK Government Guidelines for 
environmental reporting.
Simon Thomas
Chief Executive
Trucost plc
100 Pall Mall
London SW1Y 5HP
www.trucost.com
1 March 2007
 
Climate change
We recognise that a sizeable body of scientific 
research now confirms that GHG levels are 
one of main determinants of global warming/
climate change, although we also note that 
the oil sector (covering exploration and 
production, distribution and refining) currently 
only accounts for c.11% of annual global GHG 
emissions (source: International Clean Energy 
Consortium, September 2006).
The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a 
global initiative ‘aimed at informing investors 
of the risks and opportunities presented by 
climate change and to inform Company 
management of the views of their shareholders 
regarding climate change’. In 2006 this project 
was extended by the CDP investor signatories 
from the FT500 group of international companies 
to companies within the FTSE350. Burren 
participated in the project and was one of  
only 27% of FTSE350 companies that 
answered their questionnaire and provided 
quantified emissions data.
COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY
Projects
We continue to actively engage with the local 
communities where we operate via focused 
community relations projects.
In Turkmenistan, we funded a children’s 
playground in Vyshka town near our field 
operations and assisted in the improvement 
of water pumping facilities for the city of 
Balkanabat. In Ashgabat, we have continued 
our annual sponsorship of the national Saz 
Orchestra, a youth football team and the 
Ashgabat Children’s Invalid Sports Club.  
We also continue to sponsor five Turkmen 
students on scholarships at Reading 
University in the UK. Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
20
Health, safety, environment  
and community continued
In Congo, we continue to support the community 
engagement efforts of the Operator, M&P. In 
2006, they continued to drill and equip water 
wells for villages in the M’Boundi area and 
allowed local residents to utilise the field facilities 
in the event of medical emergencies. In addition, 
Burren is directly supporting a Street Kids 
project, based in Pointe Noire, designed to 
get vulnerable and socially excluded children 
off the streets, and an upgrade of the blood 
transfusion centre in Pointe Noire, as part of 
the Congolese government’s anti-HIV campaign.
In Egypt, we are a corporate sponsor of a 
traffic sign pilot project in the Maadi area of 
Cairo, which is part of a government campaign 
to improve road safety awareness, and are 
funding the building and equipping of a new 
school for under-privileged girls in Fayoum, 
under the Egyptian First Lady’s Girls 
Education Initiative.
Corporately, we supported various UK charities 
and also sponsored the visit of a Russian 
prima ballerina to London’s Sadlers Wells  
in October 2006.
Total community projects/charitable  
donations for 2006 amounted to c.US$400,000 
and the 2007 budget will increase this level  
of expenditure to c.US$500,000.
Business ethics
Burren conducts its business activities with 
integrity, honesty and fairness and thus the 
paying or receipt of bribes in any form is 
unacceptable. We also endorse the UK 
Government-sponsored Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (‘EITI’). The latter 
promotes transparency over payments for, 
and revenues from, petroleum extraction in 
countries which rely heavily on such mineral 
resource development and, with Congo 
joining the EITI in 2005, Burren became a 
formal corporate member last April. 
As in 2005, throughout our countries of 
operation, to the best of our knowledge, no 
payments have been made to individuals, 
organisations or political parties whose 
prime function is to fund political causes 
or initiatives.
Employment practices
Burren remains an equal opportunity 
employer, with recruitment, remuneration  
and career progression not influenced by 
race, sex, marital status or any disability.  
We promote and support workforce diversity, 
as evidenced by our extensive recruitment of 
local staff in Turkmenistan and, increasingly, 
in Egypt. Our stated aim remains to actively 
promote competent local personnel into 
managerial positions.
In order to promote career development and 
enhance competencies and job skills, we offer 
our staff access to relevant external training 
schemes and courses and encourage 
membership of appropriate professional 
bodies. As the Company grows, we shall 
continue to encourage team performance 
whilst recognising individual contributions.
Security and human rights
Burren remains committed to safeguard the 
integrity of the Company’s reputation, personnel 
and assets through appropriate security 
arrangements. On the latter, we employ 
guards at our field facilities in Turkmenistan 
and Egypt and are developing relationships 
with local tribes and/or army units ahead of 
our upcoming operations in Yemen. In cases 
of security or medical emergencies, the 
Company also has an international evacuation 
process in place.
Overall, we continue to support the 2001 US 
Department of State’s ‘Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights’ in the extractive 
sector, which principally involve appropriate 
risk assessments of the security of personnel, 
local communities and assets and the active 
monitoring and adapting of operations to meet 
changing political and social conditions in our 
countries of interest.
External audits
Independent, external field audits remain one 
of the key tools used to measure the HSEC 
performance of our operations.
The annual detailed HSEC audit of our field 
operations in Turkmenistan was conducted 
in March, 2006 by Environmental Resources 
Management (ERM), an internationally-
recognised environmental consultancy. 
This audit ‘observed a significant number of 
positive initiatives giving a clear commitment 
to improvement of HSE performance… In 
addition work continues to be carried out  
to further reduce the risk of day-to-day 
environmental concerns associated with field 
operations. The implementation of a Green 
Team, for instance, is considered to be a very 
positive sign that increasing focus is being 
given to environmental issues’. A number of 
recommendations were also made by ERM for 
further improvement in a variety of areas and 
progress against these will be assessed by 
this year’s audit in March. For the first time, 
this year’s audit will also look at the field’s 
energy efficiency, in terms of power generation, 
load factors etc, and review the steps required 
to seek ISO14001 certification.
Following last year’s first HSE audit of the 
Operator’s field operations in Congo, conducted 
by ERM on behalf of the partners, Maurel & 
Prom have significantly upgraded both their 
local HSE-MS and their HSEC reporting 
mechanisms. This has enabled HSE facilities 
and procedures to expand to meet the needs 
of the current M’Boundi field facilities upgrade 
and a partner visit is planned this quarter to 
review further the reported progress made by 
the Operator. Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
21
Reserves
WORKING INTEREST RESERVES
Group proven and probable working interest 
reserves as at 31 December 2006 were  
216.8 million barrels, an increase of 1.2%  
over the 214.2 million barrels at 31 December 
2005. Discoveries and revisions in Turkmenistan 
totalling 15.1 million barrels more than  
offset Group production during the year  
of 12.5 million barrels. 
 Turkmenistan Congo Group
 Proven Probable Total Proven Probable Total Proven Probable Total
December 31 2005 29.2 32.1 61.3 14.0 28.9 42.9 43.2 61.0 104.2
Acquisitions/disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Discovery 2.3 2.2 4.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.3 2.2 4.5
Revisions 0.6 1.2 1.8 1.1 0.3 1.4 1.7 1.5 3.2
Production 2006 –3.6  –3.6 –3.3  –3.3 –6.9  –6.9
December 31 2006 28.5 35.5 64.0 11.8 29.2 41.0 40.3 64.7 105.0
The reserve breakdown, and the changes 
during the year, are shown in the table below. 
Working interest reserves represent the 
proportion of future production, before 
deducting government share of that 
production, attributable to the Group’s  
joint venture participating interest.
ENTITLEMENT RESERVES
Group proven and probable entitlement 
reserves at 31 December 2006 were 105.0 
million barrels compared with 104.2 million 
barrels at 31 December 2005. Entitlement 
reserves at 31 December 2006 were computed 
using an assumed long-term Brent oil price  
of US$45/bbl, an increase of US$5/bbl 
compared with the long-term price of US$40/
bbl used at 31 December 2005. The effect  
of this change in the assumed oil price has 
been to reduce the increase in Group 
entitlement reserves. 
The reserve breakdown, and the changes 
during the year, are shown in the table below.  
Entitlement reserves represent the Group’s 
share of future production net of government 
share in that production under the terms of the 
relevant PSAs. Government share is impacted 
inter alia by assumptions as to future oil 
prices. Burren’s PSAs all provide for the 
Operator’s costs to be substantially recovered 
via a priority allocation of oil production (‘Cost 
Oil’). As oil prices increase, so the amount of 
Cost Oil required to recover past costs reduces, 
thereby reducing the Operator’s share of 
production and so entitlement reserves, 
although the potential future monetary value 
of those reserves is increased. Entitlement 
reserves are the basis on which the Group’s 
depreciation charge is calculated.
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (HOEC)
The above tables do not include any reserves 
attributable to the Group’s 27% holding in 
HOEC, acquired in February 2005. As at  
31 March 2006, according to HOEC 
management estimates, HOEC’s proven and 
probable reserves were 40.0 million boe on  
a working interest basis. The share of these 
reserves attributable to the Group’s equity 
interest was 10.7 million boe.
CONTINGENT RESERVES
During 2006 Ryder Scott Company carried 
out an estimation of the gross gas reserves 
attributable to the Burun Field in Turkmenistan, 
deriving a figure of 536 bcf of gas and  
22 million barrels of condensate as at  
31 December 2005. The amount of those 
reserves attributable to Burren’s working 
interest, after deduction of the Initial Gas 
under the terms of the PSA and assuming that 
production commences in 2008, is 395 bcf. 
Since no sales contract yet exists for this gas, 
these reserves are not yet considered to be 
commercial and have been classified as 
contingent probable reserves.
 Turkmenistan Congo Group
 Proven Probable Total Proven Probable Total Proven Probable Total
31 December 2005 55.1 66.1 121.2 29.6 63.4 93.0 84.7 129.5 214.2
Acquisitions/disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Discoveries 3.5 5.0 8.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.5 5.0 8.5
Revisions 2.4 4.2 6.6 1.3 –1.3 0.0 3.7 2.9 6.6
Production 2006 –6.0  –6.0 –6.5  –6.5 –12.5  –12.5
31 December 2006 55.0 75.3 130.3 24.4 62.1 86.5 79.4 137.4 216.8 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
22
Board of Directors
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
23
1 KEITH HENRY
Non-Executive Chairman
Keith Henry, age 62, is the Senior Non-
Executive Director of Emerald Energy plc, a 
Non-Executive Director of South East Water 
Ltd, Simon Carves Ltd and High-Point Rendel 
Ltd. A Chartered Civil Engineer with degrees 
from London University and the University of 
Birmingham, he has over 33 years’ experience 
in the energy and construction industries, 
during which time he was Chief Executive  
of National Power Plc, Kvaerner Engineering 
and Construction Ltd, and Brown & Root Ltd. 
Until recently he was Deputy Chairman of 
Petroleum Geo-Services ASA and Chairman 
of Petrojarl ASA. He has also served as a 
Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Oil Plc. 
His appointment as an Independent Director 
took effect as at 31 March 2005, and he became 
Chairman of the Board on the 28 May 2006.
2 FINIAN O’SULLIVAN
President
Finian O’Sullivan, age 52, holds a degree in 
geology and geophysics from University 
College Galway and was responsible for 
creating Burren in 1994. He was Chief Executive 
of the Group until September 2006. Before 
this Finian pursued an international career 
spanning 17 years in geophysics and seismic 
acquisition with Chevron, Geophysical 
Systems and Olympic Oil & Gas.
3 ATUL GUPTA
Chief Executive Officer
Atul Gupta, age 47, holds degrees in Chemical 
Engineering from Cambridge University and 
Petroleum Engineering from Heriot-Watt 
University and has worked for 22 years in 
international oil & gas production operations 
with Charterhouse Petroleum, Petrofina and 
Monument. Atul joined Burren in January  
1999 and was Chief Operating Officer until 
September 2006 when he became Chief 
Executive Officer.
4 ANDREW ROSE
Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Rose, age 50, holds a degree in 
Engineering from Cambridge University, but 
has spent the greater part of his career in 
investment banking, working in advisory, 
capital markets and structured finance roles. 
He joined Burren in 2001, having previously 
been head of equity corporate finance for 
Central & Eastern Europe and the Middle 
East-North Africa region at Socièté Générale.
5 ALAN COLE
Senior Independent Director
Alan Cole, age 63, was a Board member of 
Christian Salvesen plc and, for eight years, 
Chief Executive of TDG plc. He was non-
executive Chairman of both The Oliver  
Group plc and Alldays plc, and is currently 
Chairman of JPMorgan Fleming Income and 
Growth Investment Trust plc. His current  
non-executive positions include London 
International Exhibition Centre Holdings and 
Hedaxex Limited. He was appointed as an 
independent Non-Executive Director in 
October 2003.
6 BRIAN LAVERS
Independent Non-Executive Director
Brian Lavers, age 71, led a distinguished 
career with Royal Dutch Shell spanning 32 
years. His appointments included Technical 
Director of Petroleum Development (Oman), 
Technical Director of Shell (UK) and Chairman 
and Managing Director of Shell Nigeria. Brian 
then became Chairman and Chief Executive 
of Phibro Production Inc.and joined Burren  
as Chairman in January 1999, a post he held 
until May 2006.
7 MIKE CALVEY
Non-Executive Director
Mike Calvey, age 39, is Co-Managing Partner 
of Baring Vostok Capital Partners, the manager 
of several major funds associated with 
investment in Russia and the former Soviet 
Union. He has been closely involved with 
Burren since its formation in 1994.
8 PIERRE LASRY
Non-Executive Director
Pierre Lasry, age 47, is a Managing Director  
of Tacoma, which participates in oil trading, 
distribution, and production, primarily in West 
Africa. He has 18 years’ experience in the oil 
& gas industry and has been with Tacoma 
since 1993. Prior to that he worked for Addax 
and Cargill.
9 ANDREI PANNIKOV
Non-Executive Director
Andrei Pannikov, age 57, is the founder  
of Sunfloat and is principally involved in 
transportation and trading activities in  
Russia and the former Soviet Union. Prior  
to founding Sunfloat he worked with the 
Russian government and was subsequently  
co-founder of Lukoil and Urals Trading. Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
24
Click to return to contents
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and Auditors’ Report, for the year 
ended 31 December 2006.
Prin CiPal aCtiviti Es
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings (‘the Group’) is oil & gas exploration and production. Information on the 
Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings is contained in note 40 to the financial statements.
r esults and Dividends
The Group profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to US$248,873,000 (2005: US$220,929,000).
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.0p (US¢19.3) per ordinary share to be paid on 6 July 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the 
register on 8 June 2007 which, together with the interim dividend of 4.0p (US¢7.7) paid on 27 October 2006 make a total of 14.0p (US¢27.0)  
for the year (2005: 12.0p (US¢21.9)). Following the adoption of IFRS, dividends declared after the balance sheet date have to be recorded in  
the financial statements of the following year. Accordingly, the dividends recorded in the 2006 financial statements amount to 13.5p per share 
(2005: 5.5p). 
Busin Ess rE vi Ew an D Futur E DEv Elo PmEnts
The Company is required by the Companies Act to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 
31 December 2006 and of the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group (‘Enhanced Business Review’). The information that fulfils the requirements of the Enhanced Business Review can be found within the 
Business Review on pages 8 to 13 and the Financial Review on pages 14 and 15. The Business Review also includes details of expected future 
developments in the business of the Group, and details of the key performance indicators. 
A full review of the Group’s activities during the year, recent events and future developments is contained in the Chairman’s statement on page 3, 
the Chief Executive’s Statement on pages 6 and 7, the President’s Statement on page 7, the Business Review on pages 8 to 13 and the Financial 
Review on pages 14 and 15. Information about the Group’s financial risk management policies and objectives in relation to the use of financial 
instruments, is contained in the Financial Review. 
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in note 32 to the financial statements. 
Dir ECtors an D th Eir int Er Ests
The names of the present Directors and their biographical details are given on pages 22 and 23. The interests of Directors who held office at  
31 December 2006 in the share capital of the Company (all of which are beneficial unless otherwise stated), together with changes from  
1 January 2007 to 16 March 2007, were as follows:
 At 1 January 2006 or  
 subsequent date of appointment  
At 31 December 2006  At 16 March 2007 
    Ordinary  Ordinary  Ordinary 
   Number of  shares under Number of shares under Number of shares under 
   ordinary shares option
(1)
 ordinary shares option
(1)
 ordinary shares option
(1)
Michael Calvey   – – – – – –
Alan Cole   12,500 – 12,500 – 12,500 –
Atul Gupta   187,510 852,274 199,510 692,958 199,510 742,949
Keith Henry    – – 3,000 – 3000 –
Pierre Lasry    10,595,000
(4)
 – 10,595,000
(4)
 – 10,595,000
(4)
 –
Brian Lavers   100,000  – 100,000 – 100,000 –
Finian O’Sullivan 5,317,020
(2)
 881,469
(3)
 5,321,020
(2)
 954,766
(3)
 5,321,020
(2)
 1,004,757
(3) 
Andrei Pannikov    10,737,179
(5)
 – 10,737,179
(5) 
 – 10,737,179
(5)
 –
Andrew Rose   109,752 870,438 158,181 664,758 158,181 686,976
(1) The options included in this column are options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme, the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, under the Performance 
Share Plan (‘PSP’), under the Annual Bonus Plan and under a stand-alone option arrangement similar to the PSP, and the options of Balor Holdings Limited 
(‘Balor’) which are not related to any incentive scheme. Further details of these arrangements are provided in the Remuneration Report.
(2) The registered holder of 5,167,289 shares is Balor in which Finian O’Sullivan holds a controlling beneficial interest.
(3) The registered holder of 409,002 of these options is Balor in which Finian O’Sullivan holds a controlling beneficial interest.
(4) The registered holder of these shares is Tacoma E&P Limited, a subsidiary of Tacoma Petroleum Holding Limited (‘Tacoma’). Pierre Lasry is a beneficiary 
of one of the trusts that controls Tacoma.
(5) The registered holders of these shares are Sunfloat Shipping Limited, Latravia Limited and Zounini Limited of which Andrei Pannikov is the 
sole shareholder.
Dir ECtors ’ transa Ctions
Pierre Lasry is a beneficiary of one of the trusts that, through Tacoma Petroleum Holding Limited, controls Tacoma E&P Limited (‘TEPL’), 
Castlehawk Consultants Limited (‘Castlehawk’) and Taj Limited (‘Taj’). As such, he had an interest in the following material transaction 
with the Group:
A carry agreement entered into in May 2003 giving Castlehawk the right to an interest of 10% in any participating interest obtained by,  
or identified for, acquisition by the Group, in hydrocarbon exploration and development permits in Congo relating to areas outside the 
Kouakouala and Kouilou PSCs and Pointe Indienne Concession areas within a three-year period. The agreement presently extends to the 
area within the La Noumbi exploration licence. Castlehawk’s share of costs will be funded by Burren with Burren being entitled to make a 
recovery out of Castlehawk’s share of revenues. During 2006, 50% of these rights were assigned to Taj and 50% to an unrelated party.
•
Directors’ report Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
25
Click to return to contents
As noted on page 24 Andrei Pannikov is the sole shareholder  
of Sunfloat and as such had an interest in the following material 
transaction with the Group:
A loan agreement between Sunfloat and a subsidiary of the 
Company as described in note 33, which was repaid in full in 2005.
Fix ED ass Ets
All changes in fixed assets during the year are summarised in 
notes 15 and 16. 
major interests in shares
At 16 March 2007, the Company had been notified of the following 
parties who held interests in excess of 3% of the issued ordinary  
share capital of the Company.
 
Name of holder  Number Percentage held
Barclays Global Investors  15,781,135 11.19
Tacoma E&P Limited
(1)
  10,595,000 7.51
Sunfloat Shipping Limited
(2)
  6,542,307 4.64
Legal & General  5,285,041 3.75
Balor Holdings Limited
(3)
  5,167,289 3.69
JP Morgan Fleming  3,741,819 2.65
  
(1) Pierre Lasry is a beneficiary of one of the trusts that controls Tacoma.
(2) Andrei Pannikov is the sole shareholder.
(3) Finian O’Sullivan holds a controlling beneficial interest in Balor.
aCquisition o F Com Pany’s own shar Es
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the 
shareholders’ resolution of 24 May 2006, to purchase through the 
market up to 13,987,000 of its ordinary shares at a price ranging 
between £0.20 and the approximate market price at the date of 
purchase. This authority expires on 23 May 2007.
Cr EDitor Paym Ent Poli Cy an D Pra Cti CE
It is the Group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in 
accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the 
Group and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions 
have been complied with.
At 31 December 2006, the Group had an average of 79 days 
purchases outstanding in trade creditors (2005: 68).
•
Charita Bl E Donations
During the year, charitable donations made by the Company were 
US$312,000 (2005: US$63,000). No political donations were made 
during the year.
Cor Porat E Gov Ernan CE an D rE mun Eration
Statements by the Directors in relation to corporate governance are set 
out on pages 26 to 28. The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out 
on pages 29 to 33.
Goin G Con CErn Basis
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement,  
at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the accounts.
au Ditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this 
annual report confirms that:
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit  
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken  
as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware 
of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of S234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The auditors for the year ended 31 December 2006 were Deloitte & 
Touche LLP. Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness  
to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will 
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approven by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board 
on 16 March 2007 by:
 
Hywel John
Company s ecretary
16 March 2007
•
• Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
26
Click to return to contents
aPPli Cation o F Com Bin ED Co DE Prin CiPl Es
The Board is committed to applying the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance  
(‘the Code’) for which it is accountable to shareholders. The Company has applied the principles of section 1 of the Code, including both the 
main principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code except in respect of certain matters as reported below. Further 
explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
t h E Boar D o F Dir ECtors
As of 1 January 2006 the Board comprised three Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman, Brian Lavers. 
Alan Cole and Keith Henry were both considered to be independent in accordance with the Code. On 24 May 2006, Brian Lavers announced 
that he would be stepping down as Chairman but would continue to serve as a Non-Executive Director. The Board considers that following his 
resignation as Chairman, he is independent in accordance with the Code. He was replaced as Chairman by Keith Henry who, in accordance 
with the Code, is not considered to be independent following the date of his appointment.
Biographical details of the Directors are set out in the Board of Directors section on pages 22 and 23. 
The Board held six scheduled meetings during the year and a number of additional meetings. The attendance record of the Directors is  
shown below. 
Chairman an D Chi EF Ex ECutiv E
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. Keith Henry is responsible for leadership of the Board, 
setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness. He facilitates the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and the relations between the 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The Chief Executive, Atul Gupta, is responsible for formulating strategy and objectives and for their 
execution once agreed by the Board. 
in DEPEn DEn CE/n on- Ex ECutiv E Dir ECtors
The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his appointment, and both Alan Cole and Brian Lavers are considered to 
be independent according to the principles of the Code. The Non-Executive Directors bring varied commercial experience to Board and 
committee deliberations. They are appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’) after their appointment, after which their appointment may be extended for a second term, subject to mutual agreement  
and shareholder approval. 
Alan Cole was designated Senior Independent Director on 24 May 2006, succeeding Keith Henry upon his appointment as Chairman. 
t h E Boar D’s r ol E
The Board approves the Group’s strategy, key projects, major investment plans and annual budget. It regularly reviews operational and 
financial performance against key performance indicators set out in the Business Review on pages 8 to 13, risk management and investment 
controls, and health, safety, environment and community matters. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision 
including expenditure commitments over certain specified minima, investments, disposals, borrowings and hedging policy. The Board delegates 
certain functions to its three principal committees. The Audit Committee has responsibility for scrutinising the integrity of financial information 
and the effectiveness of the Group’s financial controls and the internal control and risk management systems. The Remuneration Committee  
sets the remuneration policy for Executive Directors. The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Board Directors and has 
responsibility for succession planning at Board level. 
att En Dan CE
During the year the Directors attended the following number of meetings of the Board and its Committees:
      Audit Remuneration Nomination 
     Board  Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings     8 3 4 1
Number of meetings attended:    
Alan Cole     7 3 4 1
Atul Gupta     8 n/a n/a n/a
Andrei Pannikov     6 n/a n/a n/a
Andrew Rose     8 3 n/a n/a
Brian Lavers     7 3 4 1
Finian O’Sullivan     8 n/a n/a n/a
Keith Henry     7 3 4 1
Michael Calvey     5 3 4 1
Pierre Lasry     7 n/a n/a n/a
During the year 2006 there were a total of six scheduled Board meetings held in the registered office in London. 
Corporate governance Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
27
Click to return to contents
in Formation an D DEv Elo PmEnt
The timeliness and quality of information provided to the Board was 
reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise. The Chairman is 
responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed on 
issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely 
access to relevant information.
Members of the Board may take independent professional advice  
at the Company’s expense in the furtherance of their duties. During  
the year the Company Secretary, Hywel John, has provided updates to 
the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst the Audit Committee 
regularly considers new accounting developments through presentations 
from management and the external auditors. The Board programme 
includes presentations from management at every meeting which 
increase the Non-Executive Directors’ understanding of the business 
and the sector.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures 
are followed and for governance matters. The appointment and 
removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved  
for the Board.
PEr Forman CE Evaluation
During the year, the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its 
performance and effectiveness, and its Committees. Directors were 
asked to complete an extensive questionnaire, to provide comments 
on Board and Committee procedures and effectiveness, and to assess 
their own contributions to discussions and decision making. The 
questionnaires were then reviewed by Brian Lavers, and key themes 
were discussed at a subsequent Board meeting. The evaluation 
process will be reviewed and developed over the current year. 
rE -El ECtion
The Memorandum and Articles of Association require that at least one 
third of the Board must go forward for reappointment at the AGM each 
year, together with all new Directors appointed since the previous 
AGM. Accordingly, no Director will serve a term in excess of three 
years without presenting themselves for re-election. The Directors who 
are due to go forward for reappointment in the forthcoming AGM are 
Andrew Rose, Keith Henry and Pierre Lasry. 
Boar D Committ EEs
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees as set out below.  
The terms of reference of these Committees may be found on the 
Group’s website www.burren.co.uk.
au Dit Committ EE
The Audit Committee is chaired by Alan Cole and further comprises 
Brian Lavers, Michael Calvey and Keith Henry. The Board has determined 
that Michael Calvey has recent and relevant financial experience. 
Representatives of senior management and the external auditors are 
usually invited to attend Committee meetings. The Company Secretary 
acts as secretary to the Committee. The external auditors have 
unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
The role of the Audit Committee is to scrutinise the integrity of the 
Group’s financial statements, review the Group’s risk management and 
internal controls procedures, monitor the independence and objectivity 
of the external auditors and to approve their engagement to supply 
non-audit services. 
During the year the Committee has met on three occasions, the 
agendas being organised around the Company’s reporting cycle.  
It reviewed the annual 2005 and interim 2006 financial statements  
together with the accompanying announcements, paying particular 
attention to the sufficiency and clarity of disclosure and any significant 
matters of judgement. The Committee has also reviewed the 
effectiveness of the Group’s financial controls and the internal control 
and risk management systems, as set out in more detail below.
During the year, the Committee considered in detail the results of  
the 2005 audit, reviewed the external auditors’ overall audit plan for 
2006 and approven their remuneration and terms of engagement. 
Subsequent to year-end the Committee has also assessed in detail 
the results of the 2006 audit. Having deemed the audit to be effective, 
and considered their independence in the context of their non-audit 
remuneration, the Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte 
& Touche LLP be re-appointed as auditors.
In addition, the Committee undertook its annual review of the necessity 
to establish an internal audit function but currently considers that, 
given the extent of central control of the operations of the Group and 
the direct involvement of senior management in control activities, there 
is no requirement for such a function.
The Committee has reviewed the Company’s whistleblowing 
procedures and confirmed that arrangements are in place to enable 
colleagues to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial 
reporting and other matters on a confidential basis. 
rE mun Eration Committ EE
The Remuneration Committee meets when necessary, and during 
2006 comprised of Keith Henry (Chairman), Alan Cole, Michael Calvey 
and Brian Lavers. It determines the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors. Non-Executive Directors’ fees are considered and  
agreed by the Board. Further details of the Company’s policies  
on remuneration are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
on pages 29 to 33.
n omination Committ EE
The Nomination Committee meets when necessary and during 2006 
comprised of Keith Henry (Chairman), Alan Cole, Michael Calvey and 
Brian Lavers. Finian O’Sullivan and Atul Gupta are not members of the 
Committee although they are usually invited to attend meetings.
When Keith Henry was appointed as Chairman in 2006, the 
Nomination Committee met and prepared a letter of appointment  
that included his expected duties as Chairman and the anticipated 
time commitment to the Company. The Board was made aware of  
his other significant commitments.
int Ernal Controls 
The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, 
which has been in place from the start of the financial year to the  
date of approval of this report. The Directors acknowledge their 
responsibility for the system of internal controls for the Group and  
for reviewing its effectiveness. Any system of internal control can  
only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material 
financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives is eliminated. Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
28
Click to return to contents
The Group’s risk and controls framework covers all material risks and 
controls including those of an operational, financial, and compliance 
nature. Internal control procedures consist, inter alia, of formal 
delegations of expenditure authority by the Board to executive 
management, and controls relating to key stages of transactions 
including supplier approval, contract signature, and payment release. 
Expenditure delegations are reviewed by the Board at least annually 
and approved together with the annual budget. These control 
processes are complemented by effective monitoring at each stage  
in the cycle of transactions and by a regular detailed reporting system.
The Audit Committee conducted its annual review of risk and controls 
prior to year-end and reported its findings to the Board. Each potential 
risk was assessed and ranked in terms of potential impact on financial 
statements, impact on business value, probability of occurrence, 
shareholder tolerance level and cost of mitigation. Policies and 
measures in place were reviewed and recommended actions identified. 
The Directors consider that the frequency of Board meetings and level 
of detail presented to the Board for its consideration in relation to the 
operations of the Group provide an appropriate process to identify, 
evaluate and manage significant risks relevant to its operations on a 
continuous basis, and this process is considered to be in accordance 
with the revised guidance on internal control published in October 
2005. (‘Turnbull Guidance’). In order to achieve a greater formalisation 
of the review process a policy was adopted early 2006 for risk and 
internal control matters to be included as a specific agenda item at 
every Board meeting, when any control failings or weaknesses are 
reported on by management.
The Directors, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of 
internal controls and risk management during the year, consider that the 
system of internal control operated appropriately throughout the financial 
year and up to the date that the financial statements were signed.
During the course of review of the system of internal control, the Board 
has not identified nor been advised of any failures or weaknesses 
which it has determined to be significant. Therefore a confirmation in 
respect of necessary action has not been considered appropriate.
Hindustan Oil Exploration Company (‘HOEC’), an associate in which 
the Group has a 27% interest has not been dealt with as part of the 
Group for the purposes of applying the Turnbull Guidance.
Communi Cation with shar Ehol DErs
Burren Energy is committed to maintaining good communications 
with investors, who, along with analysts, are invited to presentations 
following announcements of annual and interim results. The contents 
of these presentations are posted on the Company’s website,  
www.burren.co.uk, so as to be available to all investors. Three major 
shareholders have direct representation on the Board. Communication 
with other major shareholders was effected through meetings during 
the year. The Board is kept informed by the Chief Executive and the 
Chief Financial Officer as to the views of the Company’s shareholders.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board 
at the AGM which will be held on 23 May 2007, at which the Senior 
Independent Director and all Executive Directors will be available.  
A detailed explanation of each item of special business to be considered  
at the AGM is included with the notice of meeting which will be sent to 
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting. 
Com Plian CE with th E Co DE Provisions 
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2006, the Company has 
been in compliance with section 1 of the provisions of the Code, 
except for the following matters: 
 
a . Directors
A.2.1 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
Chief Executive has not been set out in writing and considered 
formally by the Board.
A.3.2 The Code requires at least half of the Board to be Independent 
Non-Executives at all times. Burren only had two Independent 
Non-Executive board members during 2006.
A.7.2 There was no formal confirmation to shareholders as to the 
effectiveness of performance and commitment to the role of 
Non-Executive Director exhibited by Michael Calvey and Brian 
Lavers in connection with the resolutions presented at the AGM 
in May 2006 to re-elect them as Directors.
B.  r emuneration 
B.2.1 The Nominations Committee did not include a majority of 
Independent Non-Executive Directors during 2006.
B.2.2 The Remuneration Committee did not include at least three 
Independent Non-Executive Directors in 2006.
 
C. accountability and audit
C.3.1 The Audit Committee did not include at least three Independent 
Non-Executive Directors in 2006, nor was it comprised solely  
of Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
C.3.2 Arrangements were not in place until April 2006 whereby an 
employee could, in confidence, raise concerns about possible 
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Corporate governance continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
29
Click to return to contents
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. The Regulations require  
the Auditors to report to the Company’s shareholders on the auditable 
part of the Directors’ remuneration report and to state whether in their 
opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared. The report 
has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and 
unaudited information. The report has been prepared by the 
Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board  
for submission to shareholders.
u nau Dit ED in Formation
introduction
During 2006 the Remuneration Committee undertook a detailed review 
of all aspects of the structure of remuneration, a process which included 
consultation with the Company’s major shareholders and representatives 
of significant investor groups. The key conclusions of this review  
were that:
(a) for 2007 and future years, the current 5% bonus pool arrangement 
would be replaced with an annual bonus plan where management 
are rewarded for achieving and outperforming targets set at the 
beginning of the year;
(b) annual grants will be made under the Company’s existing 
Performance Share Plan;
(c) the Company would continue its policy of not establishing  
or funding an employee pension scheme; and
(d) there should be some transitional arrangements, in relation  
to the allocation of the 2006 annual bonus pool.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these changes in the 
remuneration policy are appropriate given the development of the 
Company since its flotation in 2003 and relevant to its status as a  
FTSE 250 company. The Committee looks forward to shareholder 
approval for this remuneration report at the Annual General Meeting.
r emuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of Non-Executive 
Directors. The members of the Remuneration Committee are Keith 
Henry (Chairman), Brian Lavers, Alan Cole and Michael Calvey.  
During the year the Chief Executive Officer was asked to attend  
some of the meetings and was consulted in respect of the proposed 
changes to the remuneration policy, but was not involved in determining 
his own remuneration. The Remuneration Committee is responsible  
for making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of 
reference, regarding the framework policy for remuneration matters. 
These terms of reference are published on the Group’s website.  
All recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee were 
accepted by the Board.
None of the members of the Remuneration Committee has any personal 
financial interest (other than as shareholders), conflicts of interest arising 
from directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Remuneration Committee has previously appointed New Bridge 
Street Consultants LLP to provide it with independent remuneration 
advice. New Bridge Street Consultants does not provide any other 
services to the Group except advice on the implementation of the 
remuneration policy.
r emuneration policy
The Group’s policy is to maintain levels of remuneration sufficient to 
attract, motivate and retain senior executives of the highest calibre 
who can deliver growth in shareholder value. Executive remuneration 
currently consists of basic salary, a limited range of benefits and 
performance related incentive schemes.
Basic salary
The Remuneration Committee reviews basic salary regularly, taking 
into account any changes in responsibilities and competitive market 
practice. In this respect the Remuneration Committee has regard to 
the pay policies of mid-cap oil & gas companies as well as the broader 
range of FTSE 250 companies. Historically, salaries have deliberately 
been set at substantially below market levels because high rewards 
were available under the 5% bonus pool (described in more detail 
below). With the abolition of the bonus pool, the Remuneration Committee 
has awarded significant salary increases that took effect from  
1 January 2007. Notwithstanding this increase, the total combined 
basic salary and benefits of Executive Directors remains at below 
market levels.
Benefits
Benefits available to executive management comprise payment 
of premiums for private health insurance, personal life insurance, 
disability and death in service benefits.
Pension
The Company meets its statutory obligations by providing all personnel 
with access to stakeholder pension arrangements. The policy of the 
Company is not to make any contributions and to permit individuals  
to be responsible for their own pensions.
annual Bonus Plan
Under the previous annual profit sharing arrangement the Company 
paid 5% of the Group’s operating profits on ordinary activities (after 
deducting interest, financing charges, taxation and the amount of this 
bonus sum, but before deduction of any exceptional items) to its 
employees as an annual bonus. The level of the bonus pool was 
determined by reference to the annual audited results of the Group. 
The Remuneration Committee then determined individual bonus 
entitlements. Any amounts payable in excess of 100% of annual base 
salary (50% of base salary for senior staff and executive management) 
were deferred for a period of three years and made as a right to 
acquire Burren Energy shares. As a result of the Company’s success 
the size of this bonus pool has increased year-on-year and based on 
the 2006 statutory profits, it would have resulted in a total bonus pool 
of US$11.9 million.
However, the Remuneration Committee has concluded that certain 
amendments should be made to the 2006 bonus arrangements, as 
described in ‘Transitional Arrangements’ below.
The Remuneration Committee recognises its responsibility to incentivise 
and reward executives and staff for achievement and exceptional 
performance. For 2007 and later years, it will establish criteria, both 
internal and external against which the Company’s performance will  
be measured and potential bonuses awarded. The primary bonus 
metric for 2007 will be earnings per share compared to budgeted 
earnings per share. For Executive Directors, the maximum annual 
bonus potential will be 100% of salary. Consistent with the former 
annual profit sharing scheme, any bonus in excess of 50% of salary 
will be paid in shares and deferred for three years. 
Directors’ remuneration report 30
Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents
Performance s hare Plan
The Company adopted the Performance Share Plan at the time of  
its flotation in December 2003. To date only one set of awards, being 
options to acquire shares in the Company for US$nil consideration, 
have been granted, which was at the time of the flotation. The 
performance target was based on absolute growth in share price,  
with full vesting occurring for doubling the flotation share price.  
This was achieved and these awards vested in November 2006.
As part of the remuneration review, the Remuneration Committee 
concluded that from 2007 it should adopt an annual grant policy.  
The 2007 individual grants of options to Executive Directors will not 
exceed 100% of salary.
Awards will vest on the third anniversary of grant to the extent that the 
performance conditions (described below) have been satisfied and 
provided that the parties are still employed by the Group. Awards will 
remain capable of exercise for a period of six months from this vesting 
date. The performance targets for the 2007 awards will be relative total 
shareholder return (‘TSR’) and Proven and Probable Reserves Growth 
per share; each applying to half of the shares subject to an award.
Under the relative TSR target the Company’s TSR performance will  
be compared to the companies in a comparator group expected to 
comprise: Cairn Energy, Tullow Oil, Sibir Energy, Venture Production, 
Dana Petroleum, Premier Oil, SOCO International, JKX Oil & gas, 
Melrose Resources, Sterling Energy, Salamander Energy, Addax 
Petroleum, Lundin Petroleum, Maurel & Prom and Dragon Oil. The 
vesting schedule will be:
 
TSR Performance Percentage of total award that vests
Below median Nil
Median 15%
Between median and upper quartile 15 to 50% pro-rata
Upper quartile or above 50% maximum
The vesting of the other half of the performance shares will be  
subject to a target based on the growth of reserves per share. The 
exploration and the development of reserves is as important as 
production, and accordingly, this performance target provides a good 
balance to the profit based target used in the annual bonus plan.
The main features of this target are:
It will be based on proven and probable reserves, and not  
possible reserves.
Reserves will be calculated on a working interest basis and 
assessed annually.
The treatment of acquisitions and disposals will be reviewed  
by the Remuneration Committee on a case-by-case basis.
Shares will be calculated on a weighted average fully diluted  
basis in the same way as for diluted earnings per share.
The vesting schedule will be from 0 to 50% of the total shares 
subject to an award based on a growth range of –5% to +20%  
over the three years. For example: if the opening reserves were  
100 million barrels and over three years production was 30 million 
barrels, then new reserves over the three years must be at least  
25 million barrels for any of the awards to vest and at least 50 million 
barrels of new reserves would be required to achieve full vesting. 
This example assumes no change to the issued share capital 
during the period.
•
•
•
•
•
To the extent that the performance conditions are not satisfied  
after three years the relevant portion of the award will lapse.
The extent to which the targets are met will be assessed by the 
Remuneration Committee. The TSR target will be verified by a third 
party on behalf of the Remuneration Committee and the proven  
and probable reserve growth per share will be based on published 
information, with the Remuneration Committee having the power  
to refer this to a third party expert if there is any significant doubt.
Capital Enhancement Plan
This is a bespoke long-term incentive plan under which cash payments 
may be made to a selected group of senior executives following a  
sale of the Company or return of capital to shareholders following  
a sale of a material asset. It provides no entitlement to shares in the 
Company. The rationale for the Capital Enhancement Plan is that if a 
significant shareholder return can be delivered through such sales, 
management should be encouraged to proceed with the transaction 
even though it may not otherwise be in their personal longer term interests.
In the event of a triggering sale, participants will only be eligible to 
receive a payment if the annual average compound rate of return 
for shareholders from the date of flotation in December 2003 is at 
least 10%. The maximum payable under the plan will be equal to  
a percentage of the Company’s value as determined by the total  
sale consideration calculated as follows:
 Relevant percentage of sale  
Annual rate of return for shareholders consideration payable under the CEP
Less than 10% 0
10% or greater but less than 20% 0.5
20% or greater but less than 30% 1.0
30% or greater 1.5
Alternatively, if capital is returned to shareholders via the payment of a 
special dividend or share re-purchase, in whatever form, for example, 
following the sale of a material subsidiary or asset, an amount equal to 
1% of the total special dividend will become payable. The Board will 
be responsible for determining whether a return of capital constitutes 
a special dividend for these purposes.
t ransitional arrangements
The remuneration review was carried out during 2006 with the 
expectation of maintaining the current 5% bonus pool in place until  
the year-end. To provide a fair and smooth transition to the new policy, 
the Remuneration Committee is proposing to introduce a transitional 
arrangement. Within this arrangement a significant performance 
element is being applied to the 2006 potential bonus. The bonus pool, 
amounting to 5/105 of Burren’s 2006 profits after tax, will be reduced 
by £1 million in recognition of the 2007 salary increases. The remainder  
of the pool will be allocated as:
(i) cash bonus; 
(ii) a deferred share vesting in three years subject to no further 
performance conditions; and 
(iii) the balance being allocated to a one-off set of 2006  
Performance Share awards.
Directors’ remuneration report continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
31
Click to return to contents
The grant of the 2006 Performance Share awards requires shareholder 
approval at the 2007 AGM and full details appear in the Notice of 
AGM. In summary, the main terms of the proposed 2006 Performance 
Share awards will be:
Awards will be over Burren Energy shares for US$nil consideration.
Awards will normally vest on 1 January 2009 or such later date 
once the performance target has been measured. 
The performance period will be for two years from 1 January 2007 
to 31 December 2008.
Vesting of the awards will depend on the extent to which an internal 
Reserve Replacement Ratio target has been met. This broadly  
is the sum over the performance period of revisions to proven  
and probable reserves plus discoveries in respect of assets held  
at the beginning of the performance period, divided by the total 
production during the performance period arising from assets held 
at the beginning of the performance period. This information will be 
published in the annual reports for these years.
The internal Reserve Replacement Ratio will be calculated on a 
working interest basis with a voluntary verification process by 
external consultants if requested by the Remuneration Committee.
The vesting range will be on a sliding scale of 0 to 100% directly 
linked to a 0 to 100% internal Reserve Replacement Ratio result.
To the extent that awards vest, they will be enhanced by the value 
of any dividends paid between the date of grant and the date of 
vesting; such payment to be in shares.
As this performance related award is in effect replacing what otherwise 
would have been a direct award of deferred shares for 2006 based on 
the 5% bonus pool, the Remuneration Committee believes that it is 
acting in shareholders’ best interests by establishing some additional 
criteria during this transitional period. 
s hare incentive Plan
For all UK employees, including Executive Directors, the Company 
operates a tax favoured share incentive plan (SIP) under which shares 
are allocated to individuals annually up to the value of 10% of salary, 
subject to a cap of £3,000. Such shares are held in trust for individuals 
for a minimum of three years and if held for five years no income tax 
is payable.
Dilution
The rules of the annual profit sharing scheme under which awards of 
deferred bonuses are granted and the rules of the Performance Share 
Plan permit awards to be over new issue shares, shares purchased in 
the market or treasury stock. The number of new shares that may be 
issued by the Company in the 10 years following the date of flotation in 
December 2003 to satisfy awards granted after Admission under these 
share plans and any other future employee share scheme operated by 
the Company will be restricted to 10% of the issued share capital of 
the Company from time to time. The number of new shares that may  
be issued in the same period under the discretionary share plans  
(i.e. not the Share Incentive Plan and any other all-employee share 
scheme) operated by the Company in respect of awards granted after 
Admission will be restricted to 5% of the issued share capital of the 
Company from time to time. All shares issued in respect of the special 
2006 Performance Share awards will also count towards these limits.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
o ld incentive schemes
The incentive schemes existing prior to flotation have been 
discontinued and no further awards will be made under these 
schemes. The schemes and their key features are set out below:
Executive s hare o ption s cheme 1998
All options became exercisable following flotation and expire after 
seven years from the date of grant.
l ong t erm incentive Plan 1998
Under the terms of the Long Term Incentive Plan, Executive Directors 
and other senior managers received awards of ordinary shares in  
the form of nil priced options. Awards vest two years after the end  
of the initial performance year. Subsisting awards under the Long  
Term Incentive Plan have now vested according to the relevant 
performance conditions.
s ervice Contracts
The Company’s policy is for all Executive Directors and Executive 
Managers to have permanent contracts of service that can be 
terminated by either the Director or the Company upon 12 months’ 
notice. Under these contracts compensation on termination may be 
negotiated individually but will not exceed 12 months’ base salary plus 
a sum representing benefits and any bonuses that may be applicable, 
and a duty to mitigate applies. The Independent Non-Executive 
Directors and the Chairman have letters of appointment that can be 
terminated by either the Director or the Company upon one month’s 
notice. There is no legally binding commitment as to the terms of  
office though any appointment or reappointment would be subject 
to the Company’s Articles of Association that provide for retirement  
by rotation at least every three years. The letters of appointment 
applicable to the other Non-Executive Directors can be terminated  
with immediate effect, appointment or reappointment being subject  
to the Company’s Articles of Association.
Contracts Effective date Unexpired term Notice period
Executive service contracts
Atul Gupta 5.12.03 n/a 12 months
Finian O’Sullivan 5.12.03 n/a 12 months
Andrew Rose 5.12.03 n/a 12 months
Executive management  
service contracts
Hywel John 5.12.03 n/a 12 months
Brian Thurley 5.12.03 n/a 12 months
Independent Non-Executive  
letters of appointment
Alan Cole 2.10.06 n/a 1 month
Brian Lavers 24.5.06 n/a 1 month
Chairman
Keith Henry 24.5.06 n/a 1 month
Other Non-Executive  
letters of appointment
Michael Calvey 7.11.03 n/a None
Pierre Lasry 10.2.04 n/a None
Andrei Pannikov 7.11.03 n/a None
The remuneration of the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the 
Chairman takes the form solely of fees, the level of which has been set 
by the Board having taken advice from New Bridge Street Consultants.
No fees are payable to the other Non-Executive Directors. Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
32
 Dec 03
Feb 04
Apr 04
Jun 04
Aug 04
Oct 04
Dec 04
Feb 05
Apr 05
Jun 05
Aug 05
Oct 05
Dec 05
Feb 06
Apr 06
Jun 06
Aug 06
Oct 06
Dec 06
Percentage
 -20%
-15%
-10%
-5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
Dec 03
Feb 04
Apr 04
Jun 04
Aug 04
Oct 04
Dec 04
Feb 05
Apr 05
Jun 05
Aug 05
Oct 05
Dec 05
Feb 06
Apr 06
Jun 06
Aug 06
Oct 06
Dec 06
Percentage
FTSE 250
Burren
FTSE 250
Burren
 Click to return to contents
s hare price performance graph
The performance graph below sets out Burren’s annual total shareholder return since its flotation in December 2003 to 31 December 2006.  
This is compared to the FTSE 250 Index, which was selected as an appropriate comparator because it represents a broad equity market index 
of which the Company is a member.
au Dit ED in Formation
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2006 was as follows:
       2006 2005 
       $’000 $’000
Emoluments       4,490 5,958
Gains on exercise of options       8,745 17,409
Total       13,235 23,367
Directors’ emoluments 
    Bonus Deferred  2006 2005 
   Salary/fees cash
(1)
 shares
(1)
 Benefits Total Total 
   $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Executive Directors
Finian O’Sullivan   558 279 836 3 1,676 2,057
Atul Gupta   490 279 836 4 1,609 1,969
Andrew Rose   372 186 372 2 932 1,752
Sub total   1,420 744 2,044 9 4,217 5,778
Non-Executive Directors
Brian Lavers   80 – – – 80 91
Alan Cole   63 – – – 63 51
Keith Henry    130 – – – 130 38
Sub total   273 – – – 273 180
Total   1,693 744 2,044 9 4,490 5,958
(1) Represents amounts awarded on 16 January 2007 under the transitional arrangements of the Annual Bonus Plan referred to above.
Directors remuneration report continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
33
Click to return to contents
Directors’ share options
The interests of the Directors in the schemes described above are as follows:
 
   As at Granted/ As at   
   1 January awarded/ 31 December Exercise Date from which 
   2006 (exercised) 2006 Price exercisable Expiry date
Finian O’Sullivan
Executive Share Option Scheme   200,000 – 200,000 US$0.60 29 Mar 03 29 Mar 07
   100,000 – 100,000 US$1.20 11 Dec 03 29 Mar 08
   100,000 – 100,000 US$1.20 11 Dec 03 12 Apr 09
APSS 2003
(3)
   13,772 – 13,772 – 01 Jan 07 30 Jun 07
APSS 2004
(3)
   58,695 – 58,695 – 01 Jan 08 30 Jun 08
APSS 2005
(3)
   – 73, 297 73,297 – 01 Jan 09 30 Jun 09
Andrew Rose
Executive Share Option Scheme   250,000 – 250,000 US$1.20 11 Dec 03 24 May 08
   150,000 – 150,000 US$1.20 11 Dec 03 12 Apr 09
LTIP 2003   276,929 (276,929)
(1)
 – – 1 Jan 09 1 Jun 09
Performance Share Plan   115,384 – 115,384 – 12 Nov 06 12 May 07
APSS 2003
(3)
   22,394 – 22,394 – 1 Jan 07 30 Jun 07
APSS 2004
(3)
   55,731 – 55,731 – 1 Jan 08 30 Jun 08
APSS 2005
(3)
   – 71,249 71,249 – 1 Jan 09 30 Jun 09
Atul Gupta
Executive Share Option Scheme
(2)
   235,308 (235,308)
(2)
 – US$0.80 27 Jan 02 24 May 06
   200,000 – 200,000 US$0.60 29 Mar 03 29 Mar 07
   100,000 –  100,000 US$1.20 11 Dec 03 29 Mar 08
   100,000 – 100,000 US$1.20 11 Dec 03 12 Apr 09
Options awarded following flotation in December 2003 123,076 – 123,076 – 12 Nov 03 12 May 10
APSS 2003
(3)
   29,859 – 29,859 – 1 Jan 07 30 Jun 07
APSS 2004
(3)
   64,031 – 64,031 – 1 Jan 08 30 Jun 08
APSS 2005
(3)
   – 75,992 75,992 – 1 Jan 09  30 Jun 09
 
(1) The market price on the date of exercise (19 April 2006) was US$17.44 resulting in a gain on exercise of US$4,829,642.
(2) The market price on the date of exercise (19 April 2006) was US$17.44 resulting in a gain on exercise of US$3,915,525.
(3) Otherwise referred in this as the Annual Bonus Plan.
Throughout 2006, no options held by any of the Company’s Directors lapsed.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 was $17.34, and the range during the year was $13.01 to $19.61.
In addition to the above, Finian O’Sullivan holds a controlling interest in Balor Holdings Limited, which is the registered holder of 409,002 options 
with an exercise price of $1.20 and which are exercisable between now and December 2008. Otherwise, no options were granted, exercised or 
lapsed during the year or prior to the date of this report, in relation to those interests.
During the year the Company recorded a charge of $481,000, as described in note 31 in relation to management’s estimate of national insurance 
contributions that will be payable by the Company on exercise of certain of the above options. This charge results from the increase in the 
Company’s share price during the year.
approval
This report was approved by the Board on 16 March 2007.
Keith Henry
Chairman to the r emuneration Committee Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
34
Click to return to contents
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements. The Directors are required to prepare financial 
statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and have also chosen to prepare accounts 
for the Company in accordance with IFRS. Company law requires the 
Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements 
present fairly for each financial year the Group’s financial position, 
financial performance and cash flows. 
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, 
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and 
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out 
in the International Accounting Standards Boards’ ‘Framework for the 
Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements’. In virtually all 
circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with 
all applicable IFRS. 
Directors are also required to:
– properly select and apply accounting policies;
– present information, including accounting policies, in a  
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; and
– provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and financial performance.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and Group, for safeguarding the assets, for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and  
other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors’ report and 
Directors’ remuneration report which comply with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 1985. The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Company website. Legislation in  
the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination  
of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions. Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
35
Click to return to contents
We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements 
(the ‘financial statements’) of Burren Energy plc for the year ended  
31 December 2006 which comprise the Consolidated and parent 
company income statements, the Consolidated and parent company 
balance sheets, the Consolidated and parent company cash flow 
statements, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and 
expense and the related notes 1 to 47. These financial statements have 
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have 
also audited the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is 
described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, 
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
rE s PECtiv E r Es Ponsi Biliti Es o F Dir ECtors an D au Ditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report,  
the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union are set out in  
the Statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in accordance with 
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements  
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and  
the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have  
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  
1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of  
the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the 
information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the financial 
statements. The information given in the Directors’ report includes that 
specific information presented in the Financial review and the Business 
review that is cross-referred from the business review and future 
developments section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 
specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined 
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to 
consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all 
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as 
described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent 
with the audited financial statements. We consider the implications  
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements  
or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our 
responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside  
the Annual Report.
Basis o F au Dit o Pinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards  
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant  
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part  
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an 
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the 
Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information 
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused  
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also 
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in  
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited. 
oP inion
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the 
Group’s and the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2006 
and of the Group’s and the parent company’s profit for the year 
then ended;
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the 
financial statements.
sEParat E o Pinion in r Elation to iFrs s
As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, the Group  
in addition to complying with its legal obligations to comply with  
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the 
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Group’s affairs  
as at 31 December 2006 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered accountants and r egistered auditors 
London
United Kingdom
16 March 2007
•
•
•
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Burren Energy plc Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
36
Click to return to contents
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2006
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      Note U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
R e v e n u e      4 4 1 6 , 0 2 2 	 390,333
Losses on oil price derivative contracts     21 – (13,760)
Other cost of sales       ( 1 1 1 , 4 0 5 ) 	 (104,678)
Total cost of sales       ( 1 1 1 , 4 0 5 ) 	 (118,438)
G ros s 	 p ro fi t       3 0 4 , 6 1 7 	 271,895
Charge in respect of incentive schemes     31 ( 5 , 3 0 6 ) (7,431)
Other administrative expenses       ( 8 , 6 2 0 ) 	 (7,995)
Total administrative expenses       ( 1 3 , 9 2 6 ) 	 (15,426)
Loss on disposal of subsidiary      7 ( 5 6 3 ) 	 	 –
Other operating expenses      8 ( 1 9 , 3 0 0 ) 	 (1,411)
Share of results of associates      17 3 , 3 6 2 	 1,612
O p e r at i n g 	 p ro fi t       2 7 4 , 1 9 0 	 256,670
Investment revenue      9 9 , 7 2 2 	 1,998
Finance costs      10 ( 1 , 4 5 6 ) 	 (4,069)
P ro fi t 	 b e f o r e 	 t a x       2 8 2 , 4 5 6 	 254,599
Tax      11 ( 3 3 , 5 8 3 ) 	 (33,670)
P ro fi t 	 at t r ib u t a b l e 	 t o 	 e q u i t y 	 h o l d e r s 	 o f 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y    12 2 4 8 , 8 7 3 220,929
Dividends declared      13 ( 3 5 , 6 8 9 ) 	 (13,697)
R e t a i n e d 	 p ro fi t 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 y e a r       2 1 3 , 1 8 4 	 207,232
E a r n i n g s 	 p e r 	 s h a r e
Basic (US¢)      14 1 7 7 . 2 5 	 159.04
Diluted (US¢)      14 1 7 2 . 8 0 	 154.12
All operations were continuing throughout both periods presented.
Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expense
For the year ended 31 December 2006
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations     6 1 7  (377)
N e t 	 i n c o m e /( los s ) 	 r e c o g n i s e d 	 di r e c t l y 	 i n 	 e q u i t y 	     6 1 7  (377)
Profit for the year       2 4 8 , 8 7 3 	 220,929
T o t a l 	 r e c o g n i s e d 	 i n c o m e 	 a n d 	 e x p e n s e 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 y e a r 	    2 4 9 , 4 9 0 	 220,552 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
37
Click to return to contents
Consolidated balance sheet
31 December 2006
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      Note U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
N o n - cur r e n t 	 a s s e t s
Intangible assets      15 4 4 , 6 0 0 	 27,500
Property, plant and equipment      16 4 4 8 , 9 1 5 	 329,728
Interests in associates      17 4 0 , 2 4 8 	 27,294
       5 3 3 , 76 3 	 384,522
C ur r e n t 	 a s s e t s
Inventories      18 1 4 , 3 1 9 	 12,667
Trade and other receivables      19 6 8 , 5 0 4 	 64,133
Cash and cash equivalents      27 2 0 2 , 1 7 0 	 124,781
       2 8 4 , 9 9 3 	 201,581
T o t a l 	 a s s e t s       8 1 8 , 7 5 6 	 586,103
C ur r e n t 	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Trade and other payables      20 ( 6 8 , 0 5 1 ) 	 (57,793)
Tax liabilities       ( 2 2 , 2 1 5 ) 	 (26,216)
Obligations under finance leases      23 – 	 (789)
       ( 9 0 , 2 6 6 ) 	 (84,798)
N e t 	 cur r e n t 	 a s s e t s       1 9 4 , 7 2 7 	 116,783
N o n - cur r e n t 	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Deferred tax liabilities      11 ( 3 8 , 2 8 9 ) 	 (26,944)
Obligations under finance leases      23 – 	 (1,993)
       ( 3 8 , 2 8 9 ) 	 (28,937)
T o t a l 	 l i a b i l i t i e s       ( 1 2 8 , 5 5 5 ) 	 (113,735)
N e t 	 a s s e t s       6 9 0 , 2 0 1 	 472,368
E q u i t y
Share capital      25 4 6 , 7 4 5 	 46,448
Share premium account      26 9 1 , 7 7 2 	 90,752
Revaluation reserve      26 2 4 , 0 1 8 	 25,865
Merger reserve      26 ( 1 2 , 71 6 ) 	 (12,716)
Other reserve      26 3 , 0 9 6 	 3,096
Shares to be issued      26 5 , 4 5 8 	 2,745
Retained earnings      26 5 3 1 , 8 2 6 	 316,178
E q u i t y 	 at t r ib u t a b l e 	 t o 	 e q u i t y 	 h o l d e r s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	    6 9 0 , 1 9 9 472,368
M i n o r i t y 	 i n t e r e st       2 	 –
T o t a l 	 e q u i t y       6 9 0 , 2 0 1 	 472,368
The financial statements were approven by the Board and authorised for issue on 16 March 2007. 
Andrew Rose
Director       Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
38
Click to return to contents
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2 0 0 6 2005 
      Note U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
O p e r at i n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s
Cash flow generated by operations     27 3 5 0 , 2 1 1 279,445
Taxation paid       ( 2 6 , 2 3 9 ) (1,626)
N e t 	 c a s h 	 f ro m 	 o p e r at i n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s 	     3 2 3 , 9 7 2 277,819
I n v e st i n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s
Purchases of intangible fixed assets      ( 2 7 , 0 9 9 ) (18,638)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment      ( 1 8 3 , 4 6 9 ) (123,366)
Deposits in respect of exploration commitments      ( 3 , 1 0 0 ) (8,838)
Interest received       8 , 3 0 7 2,088
Cash received on disposal of subsidiary     7 4 , 4 6 1 –
Acquisition of interest in associates     17 ( 9 , 9 3 2 ) (26,022)
Dividends received from associates     17 3 4 0 340
N e t 	 c a s h 	 u s e d 	 i n 	 i n v e st i n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s      ( 2 1 0 , 4 9 2 ) (174,436)
F i n a n ci n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s
Interest paid       ( 1 7 9 ) (1,331)
Arrangement and facility fees       ( 1 , 1 9 5 ) (1,592)
Interest element of finance lease rentals      ( 8 2 ) (1,146)
Dividends paid       ( 3 5 , 6 8 9 ) (13,697)
Repayments of borrowings       – (1,500)
Capital element of finance lease rentals      ( 4 4 ) (420)
Issue of ordinary share capital       4 9 1 1,492
N e t 	 c a s h 	 u s e d 	 i n 	 fi n a n ci n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s      ( 3 6 , 6 9 8 ) (18,194)
N e t 	 i n c r e a s e 	 i n 	 c a s h 	 a n d 	 c a s h 	 e q u i v a l e n t s      76 , 7 8 2 85,189
C a s h 	 a n d 	 c a s h 	 e q u i v a l e n t s 	 at 	 b e g i n n i n g 	 o f 	 y e a r 	    1 2 4 , 7 8 1 39,962
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes      6 0 7 (370)
C a s h 	 a n d 	 c a s h 	 e q u i v a l e n t s 	 at 	 e n d 	 o f 	 y e a r      2 0 2 , 1 7 0 124,781
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2006  Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
39
Click to return to contents
1 GENERAL INFORMATION
Burren Energy plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the 
registered office is given on the inside back cover. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 and  
in the Business review and the Financial review on pages 8 to 15.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the  
Company and its subsidiaries (together the ‘Group’) operate. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective:
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures; and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures
IFRS 8     Operating Segments
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives
IFRIC 11 IFRS2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial 
statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when IFRS 7 comes into effect for periods 
commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a) Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). The financial statements 
have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted for use in the European Union (EU) and therefore comply with Article 4 of the  
EU IAS Regulation. The financial statements have been prepared on a historic cost basis except for the revaluation of certain properties and 
financial instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
(b) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial information of the Company and entities controlled by the Company made up  
to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a 
subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable 
net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill, any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets 
acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition. The results of subsidiaries acquired or 
disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date  
of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group records any fair value uplift on piecemeal acquisition of a subsidiary within the relevant fixed asset caption, with the related balance 
being transferred to a revaluation reserve. Where depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges are increased following such a fair value 
uplift, an amount equal to the increase is transferred annually from the revaluation reserve to retained earnings as a movement in equity.
(c) Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through 
participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial  
and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting. 
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net  
assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Notes to the Group financial statements Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
40
Click to return to contents
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
(d) Oil & gas assets: exploration and evaluation
The Group applies the full cost method of accounting for Exploration and Evaluation (‘E&E’) costs, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 
‘Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources’, which it adopted early, from the date of transition to IFRS. Under the full cost method of 
accounting, costs of exploring for and evaluating oil & gas properties are accumulated and capitalised by reference to appropriate cost pools. 
Such cost pools are based on geographic areas and are not larger than a segment. The Group currently has four cost pools: the Caspian, West 
Africa, the Middle East/North Africa and India.
E&E costs are initially capitalised within ‘Intangible assets’. Such E&E costs may include costs of licence acquisition, technical services and 
studies, seismic acquisition, exploration drilling and testing, but do not include costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore 
an area, which are expensed directly to the income statement as they are incurred. 
Tangible assets acquired for use in E&E activities are classified as property, plant and equipment. However, to the extent that such a tangible 
asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the 
intangible asset.
Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence/prospect are not depreciated and are carried forward until the existence (or otherwise) 
of commercial reserves has been determined. The Group’s definition of commercial reserves for such purpose is proven and probable reserves 
on an entitlement basis.
If commercial reserves have been discovered, the related E&E assets are assessed for impairment on a cost pool basis as set out below and 
any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. The carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets is then 
reclassified as development and production assets within property, plant and equipment.
Intangible E&E assets that relate to E&E activities that are determined not to have resulted in the discovery of commercial reserves remain 
capitalised as intangible E&E assets at cost less accumulated amortisation, subject to meeting a pool-wide impairment test as set out below. 
Such E&E assets are amortised on a unit of production basis over the life of the commercial reserves of the pool to which they relate.
E&E assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable amount. 
Such indicators include the point at which a determination is made as to whether or not commercial reserves exist. Where the E&E assets 
concerned fall within the scope of an established full cost pool, the E&E assets are tested for impairment together with all development and 
production assets associated with that cost pool, as a single cash generating unit. The aggregate carrying value is compared against the 
expected recoverable amount of the pool, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from 
production of commercial reserves. Where the E&E assets to be tested fall outside the scope of any established cost pool, there will generally  
be no commercial reserves and the E&E assets concerned will generally be written off in full. 
Any material impairment loss is recognised in the income statement and separately disclosed.
(e) Oil & gas assets: development and production
Development and production assets are accumulated on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves 
discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves transferred from 
intangible E&E assets as outlined above.
The net book values of producing assets are depreciated on a field-by-field basis using the unit of production method by reference to the ratio  
of production in the period to the related commercial reserves of the field, taking into account estimated future development expenditures 
necessary to bring those reserves into production.
An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that the 
carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount. The aggregate carrying value is compared against the 
expected recoverable amount of the cash generating unit, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be 
derived from production of commercial reserves. The cash generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is generally the field, except that 
a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash flows of each field are interdependent.
(f) Decommissioning
Where a material liability for the removal of production facilities and site restoration at the end of the productive life of a field exists, a provision  
for decommissioning is recognised. The amount recognised is the present value of estimated future expenditure determined in accordance  
with local conditions and requirements. A tangible fixed asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created and depreciated on a unit 
of production basis. Changes in estimates are recognised prospectively, with corresponding adjustments to the provision and the associated 
fixed asset.
Notes to the Group financial statements
continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
41
Click to return to contents
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
(g) Property, plant and equipment other than oil & gas assets
Property, plant and equipment other than oil & gas assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment. 
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets on a straight-line basis over their useful lives as follows:
 
Plant and equipment        4 years
Office furniture        4 years
Barges and tugs        20 years
(h) Oil & gas overlift and underlift
Underlifts of entitlement to crude oil production are recorded as a debtor and measured at the lower of production cost, including depreciation, 
and market value, whereas overlifts are recorded as a creditor and measured at market value.
(i) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and where applicable 
direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable 
value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
(j) Revenue recognition
Revenue represents amounts invoiced (exclusive of sales related taxes) for the Group’s share of oil sales or charter revenue in the year. Oil sales 
revenue is recognised when the oil has been lifted and title has passed. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the 
expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
(k) Shipping repairs and renewals
Ships are dry-docked periodically and the costs are expensed as incurred. Other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
(l) Foreign currencies
Transactions in currencies other than US dollars (‘foreign currencies’) are recorded in US dollars at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates 
of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into 
US dollars at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation 
are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes 
in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group may enter into forward contracts and options (see below for details  
of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments).
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s subsidiaries which do not use US dollars as their functional currency are translated  
into US dollars at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates 
for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the 
Group’s profit and loss reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is 
disposed of.
(m) Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance 
lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
42
Click to return to contents
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
(n) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas profits tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates 
and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet 
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised  
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets 
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in 
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax 
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred 
tax is also dealt with in equity.
(o) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised at fair value on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their carrying value, as it approximates fair value due to the short-term maturity of  
these instruments.
Bank borrowings and loan notes
Interest-bearing bank borrowings and loan notes are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including 
premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using  
the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period
in which they arise.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company and Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to fluctuations in the price of crude oil. From time to time, the Group uses forward crude oil sales 
contracts, swaps and options to hedge these exposures. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approven by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles and 
limits on the use of financial derivatives. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges 
of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Changes  
in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised within cost of sales in the income 
statement as they arise.
(p) Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair  
value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on  
the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into 
account when estimating fair value.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial model where there are conditions attached to the vesting and exercising of equity instruments.  
The expected life used in the model is adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Notes to the Group financial statements
continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
43
Click to return to contents
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management has made the following judgements that 
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements (apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt 
with below).
(a) Recoverability of exploration and evaluation costs
Under the full cost method of accounting for E&E costs, such costs are capitalised as intangible assets by reference to appropriate cost pools, 
and are assessed for impairment when circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable value. This assessment 
involves judgement as to: (i) the likely future commerciality of the asset and when such commerciality should be determined; (ii) future revenues 
and costs pertaining to any wider cost pool with which the asset in question is associated; and (iii) the discount rate to be applied to such 
revenues and costs for the purpose of deriving a recoverable value. Note 15 discloses the carrying amounts of the Group’s E&E assets.
(b) Disposal of M’Boundi
Based on the fair value attributed to the eight-year licence extension received in consideration for the sale of the 3.5% interest in the M’Boundi 
field, it was concluded that no gain or loss arose in respect of the disposal of the underlying interests. This assessment involves judgement as to 
future revenues and costs attributable to the licence extension and the discount rate to be applied to such revenues and costs for the purposes 
of deriving a fair value. The transaction is described in greater detail in note 34.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
(a) Decommissioning
The Group has potential decommissioning obligations in respect of its producing interests in Turkmenistan and the Republic of Congo. The 
extent to which a provision is required in respect of these potential obligations depends, inter alia, on the legal requirements at the time of 
decommissioning, the cost and timing of any necessary decommissioning works, and the discount rate to be applied to such costs. In addition, 
in certain jurisdictions the local authorities assume liability for such costs if they elect to continue production activities at the end of the licence or 
Production Sharing Agreement (PSA) period, which in turn depends on the level of commercial reserves remaining at the time of expiry. Based 
on these factors, the Directors do not believe that there is a material decommissioning liability at 31 December 2006 or 31 December 2005.
(b) Reserves
Development and production assets within Property, Plant and Equipment are depreciated on a unit of production basis at a rate calculated by 
reference to proven and probable entitlement reserves (‘commercial reserves’) and incorporating the estimated future cost of developing and 
extracting those reserves. Commercial reserves are determined using estimates of oil in place, recovery factors and future oil prices, the latter 
having an impact on the proportion of the gross reserves which are attributable to the host government under the terms of the PSA. Future 
development costs are estimated using assumptions as to number of wells required to produce the commercial reserves, the cost of such  
wells and associated production facilities, and other capital costs. The current long-term Brent oil price assumption used in the estimation of 
commercial reserves is US$45.00. The impact upon commercial reserves and the aggregate depletion charge for the year of a +/– US$5.00 
variation in the long-term Brent oil price assumption is shown in the table below. The carrying amount of development and production assets at 
31 December 2006 is shown in note 16.
       Commercial Depletion 
       reserves charge 
Long-term Brent price       million barrels US$’000
US$40       106.7 69,000
US$45       105.0 69,553
US$50       103.5 70,100
The level of estimated commercial reserves is also a key determinant in assessing whether the carrying value of any of the Group’s development 
and production assets has been impaired.
4 REVENUE
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Sales of crude oil       4 0 0 , 8 4 6 	 374,235
Charter income       1 5 , 1 76 	 16,098
Trading revenue       4 1 6 , 0 2 2 	 390,333
Investment revenue       9 , 7 2 2 	 1,998
T o t a l 	 r e v e n u e       4 2 5 , 7 4 4 	 392,331 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
44
Click to return to contents
5 BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS
Geographical segments
The Group’s primary operations are located in the Caspian and West Africa. The Caspian comprises Turkmenistan and Russia. The West Africa 
region comprises the Republic of Congo. These regions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information. The Group 
also has activities in India, Egypt, Yemen and Oman which are not separately reportable due to their size.
Segment information about these businesses is presented below.
There were no inter-segment sales. Unallocated administrative expenses relate to corporate costs that are not directly attributable to any  
specific segment.
Unallocated assets related to activities associated with India, Egypt, Yemen and Oman, together with the general management, financing and 
administration of the operations of the Group.
I n c o m e 	 s t a t e m e n t	2 0 0 6
	 	 	 	 	 	 C a s p i a n 	 W e s t 	 A f r i c a 	 C o n s o l i d a t e d 	 	
	 	 	 	 	 	 2 0 0 6 	 2 0 0 6 	 2 0 0 6 	
	 	 	 	 	 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0
R e v e n u e 	 ( e x t e r n a l )      	 2 1 6 , 5 5 8 	 1 9 9 , 4 6 4 	 4 1 6 , 0 2 2
Segment result       1 5 1 , 3 7 4 	 1 3 7 , 8 2 2 	 2 8 9 , 1 9 6
Share of results of associates        3 , 3 6 2
Unallocated other operating expenses       ( 7 , 9 8 6 )
Unallocated administrative expenses       ( 1 0 , 3 8 2 )
Operating profit        2 7 4 , 1 9 0
Investment revenue        9 , 7 2 2
Finance costs        ( 1 , 4 5 6 )
Profit before tax        2 8 2 , 4 5 6
Tax        ( 3 3 , 5 8 3 )
Profit after tax        2 4 8 , 8 7 3
B a l a n c e	s h e e t 	2 0 0 6
	 	 	 	 	 C a s p i a n 	 W e s t 	 A f r i c a 	 U n a l l o c a t e d 	 C o n s o l i d a t e d 	
	 	 	 	 	 2 0 0 6 	 2 0 0 6 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 2 0 0 6 	
	 	 	 	 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0
A s s e t s     
Segment assets     2 9 7 , 1 4 1 	 2 3 7 , 6 0 6 	 2 4 3 , 76 1 	 7 7 8 , 5 0 8
Interests in associates     – 	 – 	 4 0 , 2 4 8 	 4 0 , 2 4 8
Total assets     2 9 7 , 1 4 1 	 2 3 7 , 6 0 6 	 2 8 4 , 0 0 9 	 8 1 8 , 7 5 6
L i a b i l i t i e s
Segment liabilities     ( 3 8 , 5 6 1 ) 	 ( 1 5 , 9 6 8 ) 	 ( 1 3 , 5 2 2 ) 	 ( 6 8 , 0 5 1 )
Taxation provision     – 	 – 	 ( 6 0 , 5 0 4 ) 	 ( 6 0 , 5 0 4 )
Total liabilities     ( 3 8 , 5 6 1 ) 	 ( 1 5 , 9 6 8 ) 	 ( 7 4 , 0 2 6 ) 	 ( 1 2 8 , 5 5 5 )
O t h e r 	i n f o r m a t i o n 	 2 0 0 6
	 	 	 	 	 C a s p i a n 	 W e s t 	 A f r i c a 	 U n a l l o c a t e d 	 C o n s o l i d a t e d 	
	 	 	 	 	 2 0 0 6 	 2 0 0 6 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 2 0 0 6 	
	 	 	 	 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0
Capital additions     1 0 7 , 0 3 7 	 1 1 0 , 8 4 2 	 1 8 , 2 8 0 	 2 3 6 , 1 5 9
Depreciation     	 ( 2 5 , 7 4 4 ) 	 	 ( 4 3 , 9 5 7 ) 	 	 ( 1 3 0 ) 	 	 ( 6 9 , 8 3 1 )
Staff costs      	 ( 1 0 , 1 0 9 ) 	 	 ( 3 8 7 ) 	 	 ( 9 , 9 0 9 ) 	 	 ( 2 0 , 4 0 5 )
Notes to the Group financial statements
continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
45
Click to return to contents
5 BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS continued
I n c o m e	s t a t e m e n t 	2 0 0 5
      Caspian West Africa Consolidated  
      2005 2005 2005 
      US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
R e v e n u e 	 ( e x t e r n a l )      223,627 166,706 390,333
Segment result      165,324 104,109 269,433
Share of results of associates        1,612
Unallocated administrative expenses       (14,375)
Operating profit        256,670
Investment revenue        1,998
Finance costs        (4,069)
Profit before tax        254,599
Tax        (33,670)
Profit after tax        220,929
B a l a n c e	s h e e t	2 0 0 5
     Caspian West Africa Unallocated Consolidated 
     2005 2005 2005  2005 
     US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
A s s e t s
Segment assets     220,038 188,223 150,548 558,809
Interests in associates     – – 27,294 27,294
Total assets     220,038 188,223 177,842 586,103
L i a b i l i t i e s
Segment liabilities     (39,559) (13,109) (7,907) (60,575)
Taxation provision     – – (53,160)  (53,160)
Total liabilities     (39,559) (13,109) (61,067) (113,735)
O t h e r 	i n f o r m a t i o n	2 0 0 5
     Caspian West Africa Unallocated Consolidated 
     2005 2005 2005  2005 
     US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
Capital additions     81,074 72,358 10,866 164,298
Depreciation     (26,440) (39,574) (68) (66,082)
Staff costs      (10,360)  (366)  (11,397)  (22,123)
Business segments
The Group’s operations relate to upstream oil & gas, and shipping. The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s sales, segment assets 
and capital additions by business segment:
   Carrying amounts of 
 Revenue  
segment assets  Capital additions
   2 0 0 6 2005 2 0 0 6 2005 2 0 0 6 2005 
   U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Upstream   4 0 0 , 8 4 6 374,235 6 1 1 , 2 1 2 422,142 2 3 5 , 8 4 0 159,020
Shipping   1 5 , 1 76 16,098 7 , 1 2 8 12,225 3 4 358
Unallocated   – – 2 0 0 , 4 1 6 151,736 2 8 5 4,920
Total   4 1 6 , 0 2 2 390,333 8 1 8 , 7 5 6 586,103 2 3 6 , 1 5 9 164,298 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
46
Click to return to contents
6 STAFF COSTS
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       N u m b e r Number
Management       6 	 6
Upstream       9 3 6 	 896
Shipping       2 9 9 	 300
Central services       8 	 6
Total       1 , 2 4 9 	 1,208
      	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries       1 3 , 4 9 8 	 13,094
Incentive schemes       5 , 3 0 6 	 7,431
Social security costs       1 , 5 9 6 	 1,591
Life insurance       5 	 7
Total staff costs       2 0 , 4 0 5 	 22,123
Of the above amounts, US$5,067,406 (2005: US$4,330,575) has been capitalised as directly related to activities that are capital in nature.
7 LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY
The Group concluded the sale of its Russian ship management company (‘Prime Shipping’) on 28 February 2006. The sale included three  
barge and tug combinations that Burren operated under finance lease purchase arrangements. The purchaser assumed all continuing lease 
obligations relevant to the vessels. The purchaser paid a cash consideration of $4,461,000, which was calculated to be equal to the book value 
of the tugs and barges and office assets in accordance with Russian accounting policies. The carrying value of the assets reported in Group 
accounts under IFRSs was higher at $5,024,000, resulting in a reported loss on the transaction of $563,000. The disposal of Prime Shipping 
does not represent a discontinued operation as the Group is continuing to operate in the shipping business.
The net assets at the date of disposal were as follows:
        28 February 
        2006 
        US$’000
Property, plant and equipment        6,695
Inventory        2,947
Trade and other receivables        525
Cash and cash equivalents        211
Trade and other payables        (5,354)
        5,024
Loss on disposal        (563)
Total consideration settled by cash 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4,461
8 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       $ ’ 0 0 0 $’000
Write-off pre-licence expenditure       8 , 76 5 	 1,411
Impairment of exploration expenditure     	 6 , 0 1 8 –
Supplementary insurance charge       4 , 5 1 7 	 –
Total other operating expenses       1 9 , 3 0 0 	 1,411
Write-off of pre-licence expenditure relates predominantly to the Former Soviet Union, the impairment of exploration expenditure relates to Egypt 
and the supplementary insurance charge arose in respect of a dispute in Turkmenistan.
9 INVESTMENT REVENUE
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       $ ’ 0 0 0 $’000
Interest on bank deposits       9 , 7 2 2 	 1,998
Notes to the Group financial statements
continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
47
Click to return to contents
10 FINANCE COSTS
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       $ ’ 0 0 0 $’000
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans      1 7 9 1,331
Arrangement and commitment fees      1 , 1 9 5 1,592
Interest on obligations under finance leases      8 2 1,146
Total finance costs       1 , 4 5 6 4,069
11 TAX
The tax charge is made up as follows:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       $ ’ 0 0 0 $’000
C ur r e n t 	 t a x
UK corporation tax       7 4 7 	 (235)
Foreign tax       2 1 , 4 9 1 	 26,229
       2 2 , 2 3 8 	 25,994
D e f e r r e d 	 t a x       1 1 , 3 4 5 	 7,676
Tax charge for the year       3 3 , 5 8 3 	 33,670
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       $ ’ 0 0 0 $’000
Profit before tax       2 8 2 , 4 5 6 254,599
Profit before tax in each jurisdiction multiplied by the relevant weighted average statutory  
 tax rate of 17.3% (2005: 15.8%)       4 8 , 9 3 5 40,184
Effects of: 
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible       3 , 9 7 9 537
Tax effect of losses not utilised in the period      5 0 8 835 
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised     – (2,195)
Tax effect of income not assessable in the period      ( 2 , 9 1 7 ) –
Adjustment in respect of employee share schemes     ( 4 , 4 3 0 ) (5,456)
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation      ( 6 ) –
Tax effect of utilisation of double tax relief     	 ( 1 3 , 0 7 5 ) –
Adjustments in respect of prior years      5 8 9 (235)
Tax charge for the year       3 3 , 5 8 3 33,670 
The Group’s operations are conducted primarily outside the United Kingdom. Accordingly, the applicable tax rate used above is the average 
statutory rate of tax, weighted in proportion to accounting profits, applicable across the Group. The Group’s tax liability in the Republic of Congo 
is settled out of its share of oil under the terms of PSA and, as such, is not reflected in the tax charge for the year. Oil allocated to the Congolese 
Government under the terms of the Production Sharing Agreements relevant to the M’Boundi and Kouakouala fields includes and satisfies in full 
any liability of the Group to profits tax in Congo calculated at the statutory rate of 35% specified by the Hydrocarbons Code.
The deferred tax provision at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 is made up solely from accelerated tax depreciation and the 
movement in both years has been charged to the income statement.
A deferred tax asset of US$37,787,000 at 31 December 2006 in the UK (2005: US$20,947,000), principally relating to carried forward tax  
losses, deferred share scheme deductions and foreign tax credits, has not been recognised on the grounds that there is insufficient evidence  
of suitable UK taxable profits in the foreseeable future to enable the asset to be recovered. UK tax losses do not have an expiration date.
Deferred tax assets of US$1,101,000 at 31 December 2006 in Cyprus (2005: US$654,000) and US$1,834,000 at 31 December 2006 (2005: 
US$1,356,000) in Russia relating to tax losses, have not been recognised on the grounds that there is insufficient evidence of suitable taxable 
profits in the foreseeable future to enable the assets to be recovered. Cypriot tax losses do not have an expiration date; however, Russian 
tax losses expire after three years.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which 
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was US$519,555,000 (2005: US$308,145,000). No liability has been recognised in respect of 
these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of temporary differences and it is probable that such 
differences will not reverse or otherwise result in tax falling due in the foreseeable future. Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
48
Click to return to contents
12 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       $ ’ 0 0 0 $’000
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses      ( 2 1 2 ) 455
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment      6 9 , 8 0 2 65,731
Depreciation of tangible assets held under finance leases     2 9 351
Staff costs (see note 6)       1 5 , 3 3 8 15,754
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services (see below)     3 8 5 360
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       $ ’ 0 0 0 $’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts  	 3 3 5 335
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services to the Group
  Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation     5 0 25
 Total audit fees       3 8 5 360
   Other services pursuant to legislation      8 1 100
 Tax services       4 0 1 330
 Other services       1 0 –
 Total non-audit fees       4 9 2 430
The audit fees for 2005 include US$60,000 in respect of the IFRS transition audit. Other services pursuant to legislation represents the fee in 
respect of the review of the 30 June results of US$81,000 (2005: US$55,000) plus US$nil (2005: US$45,000) in respect of the acquisition of 
HOEC (see note 17).
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on page 27 and includes an explanation of 
how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
13 DIVIDENDS
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       $ ’ 0 0 0 $’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 9.5p (2004: 3.0p) per share   2 4 , 9 5 5 7,550
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 4.0p (2005: 2.5p) per share   1 0 , 7 3 4 6,147
       3 5 , 6 8 9 13,697
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 10.0p (2005: 9.5p) per share   2 7 , 5 6 2 24,995 
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these  
financial statements.
14 EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Earnings
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       $ ’ 0 0 0 $’000
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being profit attributable to equity holders of the parent  2 4 8 , 8 7 3 220,929
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       N u m b e r Number
N um b e r 	 o f 	 s h a r e s
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share   1 4 0 , 4 0 8 , 1 0 8 138,915,811
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
 Executive Share Option Scheme      	 2 , 2 2 0 , 2 6 2 2,780,343
 Annual Profit Share Scheme       8 3 5 , 7 5 9 245,647
 Long Term Incentive Plan       8 1 , 7 4 5 989,637
 Performance Share Plan       4 7 8 , 76 1 415,804
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share   1 4 4 , 0 2 4 , 6 3 5 143,347,242
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue  
on the assumption of conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Notes to the Group financial statements
continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
49
Click to return to contents
15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
        Exploration and  
        evaluation assets 
        US$’000
Cost and carrying amount
At 1 January 2005        8,381
Additions        19,119
At 1 January 2006        27,500
Additions        33,850
Transfer to property, plant and equipment       (10,732)
Impairment of exploration expenditure       (6,018)
A t 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4 4 , 6 0 0
16 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
    Development Development 
    and production and production Barges and 
    assets assets tugs
(a)
 
    Caspian West Africa Caspian Other Total 
    US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
C ost
At 1 January 2005    142,487 160,847 7,011 1,489 311,834
Additions    75,634 64,268 – 5,277 145,179
Exchange differences    – – – (6) (6)
At 1 January 2006    218,121 225,115 7,011 6,760 457,007
Additions    88,267 96,869 – 17,173 202,309
Transfer from intangible assets    9,757 975 – – 10,732
Disposal    – (17,340) (7,011) (395) (24,746)
Exchange differences    – – – 11 11
A t 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 	 	 3 1 6 , 1 4 5 	 3 0 5 , 6 1 9 	 – 	 2 3 , 5 4 9 	 6 4 5 , 3 1 3
A c cum u l at e d 	 d e p r e ci at i o n
At 1 January 2005    37,651 22,516 163 867 61,197
Charge for the year    25,958 39,574 351 199 66,082
At 1 January 2006    63,609 62,090 514 1,066 127,279
Disposal    – – (514) (198) (712)
Charge for the year    25,596 43,957 – 278 69,831
A t 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 	 	 8 9 , 2 0 5 	 1 0 6 , 0 4 7 	 – 	 1 , 1 4 6 	 1 9 6 , 3 9 8
C a r r y i n g 	 a mo u n t
A t 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 	 	 2 2 6 , 9 4 0 	 1 9 9 , 5 7 2 	 – 	 2 2 , 4 0 3 	 4 4 8 , 9 1 5
At 31 December 2005     154,512 163,025 6,497 5,694 329,728
(a) Held under finance leases
Disposals in the current year represent the sale of Prime Shipping (see note 7) and the sale of an interest in the M’Boundi field in the Republic  
of Congo (see note 3).
During 2003, certain of the Group’s property, plant and equipment were revalued due to the piecemeal acquisition of a subsidiary relating to the 
Group’s West African operations. On an historical cost basis, the carrying value of the Group’s development and production assets – West Africa 
would have been US$175,934,000 (2005: US$137,541,000).
The Group has pledged all its development and production assets in Turkmenistan and Congo, which account for substantially all of the 
development and production assets in the above table, as security for a medium-term loan facility granted to the Group.
17 INTEREST IN ASSOCIATE
This represents the Group’s investment in Hindustan Oil Exploration Company Limited (‘HOEC’), a publicly quoted Indian oil & gas exploration 
and production company. The movement in the Group’s investment in HOEC is as follows:
        US$’000
At acquisition        26,010
Additional purchase of shares        12
Share of profit to 31 December 2005       1,612
Dividends received        (340)
At 1 January 2006        27,294
Additional purchase of shares        9,932
Share of profit to 31 December 2006       3,362
Dividends received        (340)
A t 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4 0 , 2 4 8
Following the HOEC rights issue in September 2006, Burren applied for its full rights entitlement and was awarded 5,984,830 shares for a 
consideration of US$9,932,000, this increased the Group’s investment to 27.16%. Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
50
Click to return to contents
17 INTEREST IN ASSOCIATE continued
Aggregated amounts relating to HOEC are as follows:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Total assets       1 7 7 , 8 9 4 	 83,315
Total liabilities       ( 7 3 , 7 2 9 ) 	 (26,079)
Revenue       2 9 , 1 6 7 	 17,641
Profit       1 2 , 3 7 9 	 6,200
The fair value of the Group’s interest in HOEC at 31 December 2006 was US$44,126,000 (2005: US$55,408,000).
In the prior year Hardy Oil & gas Limited (‘Hardy’) instigated a legal action against the Group asserting that the acquisition of its interest in HOEC 
infringed upon certain of Hardy’s rights in relation to HOEC.  During 2006 this action was determined in favour of the Group.
18 INVENTORIES
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Materials       1 4 , 1 5 4 	 12,340
Crude oil       1 6 5 	 327
Total inventories       1 4 , 3 1 9 	 12,667
19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Trade debtors       3 1 , 8 5 3 	 35,603
Other debtors       5 , 0 1 3 	 3,763
Underlift       7 , 1 8 4 	 2,903
Prepayments       2 4 , 4 5 4 	 21,864
Total trade and other receivables       6 8 , 5 0 4 	 64,133
Pre-payments at 31 December 2006 include cash collateral of US$18,937,466 (2005: US$15,837,632) deposited with a financial institution in 
connection with exploration commitments. 
The average credit period given on sales of crude oil is 30 days from bill of lading. No interest is charged on the receivables. An allowance  
has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of crude of US$103,000 (2005: US$103,000). This allowance has been 
determined by reference to past default experience.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade debtors and other debtors approximates their fair value.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade debtors and other debtors.
Trade debtors are presented in the balance sheet net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there  
is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is considered by management to be limited because the counterparties are financial institutions 
with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group has a significant concentration of credit risk within its trade debtors since its Turkmenistan production and its Republic of Congo 
production are each sold to a single purchaser. However, in each case, the purchaser is part of a major international oil group and, therefore,  
the credit risk is considered by management to be acceptable.
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Trade creditors and accruals       6 8 , 0 5 1 	 57,793
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken 
for trade purchases is 79 days (2005: 68 days).
During 2005, the third and final threshold was reached in relation to certain deferred purchase payments resulting from the Group’s purchase of 
its oil & gas interests in Turkmenistan during 2000. Accordingly, an amount of US$23,333,333 in respect of the resulting deferred payment has 
been included in trade creditors and accruals for both periods shown above, and capitalised within property, plant and equipment. This amount 
was paid in February 2007.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
Notes to the Group financial statements
continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
51
Click to return to contents
21 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Financial Review contains a summary of the objectives and policies for holding or issuing oil price derivative instruments and similar 
contracts and the strategies for achieving those objectives that have been followed during the period.
At 31 December 2006, there were no open derivative positions. 
In the prior year derivative contracts were not designated as accounting hedges and accordingly the movement in fair values, amounting to a 
gain of US$10,528,000, was taken to the income statement. Together with realised losses of US$24,288,000 this resulted in a total loss on oil 
price derivatives contracts of US$13,760,000.
22 LONG TERM BORROWINGS
The Group has a facility agreement with a syndicate of banks for a US dollar revolving borrowing base loan facility of up to US$150,000,000 
which matures in 2009. The amount of the facility currently available is US$70,000,000. Amounts drawn bear interest at LIBOR plus an 
applicable margin and the facility is secured via a charge over the Group’s shares in: (i) Burren Resources Petroleum Limited, which holds the 
Group’s interests in Turkmenistan; and (ii) Burren Energy Congo Limited, which holds the Group’s interests in Congo. No amounts were drawn 
under this loan facility at the year-end or during the year.
23 OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES
    Present value of minimum 
   
Minimum lease payments lease payments
     2 0 0 6 2005 2 0 0 6 2005 
     U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year     – 1,595 – 789
In the second to fifth years inclusive    – 2,689 – 1,993
     – 4,284 – 2,782
Less: future finance charges     – (1,502) – –
Present value of lease obligations     – 2,782 – –
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities)  – – – 789
Amount due for settlement after 12 months    – – – 1,993
The finance leases related to tugs and barges in the shipping segment, which were sold on 28 February 2006 (see note 7). 
24 OBLIGATIONS UNDER OPERATING LEASES
At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 
which fall due as follows:
   2 0 0 6  2005
     L a n d 	 a n d 	 P l a n t 	 a n d Land and Plant and 
     b u i l d i n g s 	 m a c h i n e r y buildings machinery 
     U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000 US$’000
Within one year     5 6 6 	 1 , 6 8 7 552 1,687
In the second to fifth years inclusive    1 , 6 9 6 	 – 1,656 –
In over five years     – 	 – 552 –
Total future minimum lease payments    2 , 2 6 2 	 1 , 6 8 7 2,760 1,687
 
   2 0 0 6  2005
     L a n d 	 a n d 	 P l a n t 	 a n d Land and Plant and 
     b u i l d i n g s 	 m a c h i n e r y buildings machinery 
     U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000 US$’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income statement  5 6 6 	 1 , 6 8 7 552 1,687
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties and for the bareboat charter of its ships. 
Building leases are negotiated for an average term of ten years and rentals are fixed for an average of 5 years. The ship bareboat charters  
are renewable annually at the option of the Group at a pre-determined flat fixed rate up to 31 December 2015. Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
52
Click to return to contents
25 SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has one class of ordinary shares of 20p each, which carry no right to fixed income. During the year the Company issued 827,429 
shares in respect of share incentive schemes. An amount of US$1,019,389 was recognised in the share premium account as a consequence of 
these issues.
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Authorised:
300,000,000 ordinary shares of 20p each      1 1 4 , 9 5 3 114,953
Issued and fully paid:      
2006: 140,701,991 (2005: 139,874,562) ordinary shares of 20p each    4 6 , 7 4 5 46,448
26 SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
  Share 
 Share premium Revaluation Other Merger Shares to Profit and 
 capital account reserve reserve reserve be issued loss account Total 
 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
At 1 January 2005 45,419 87,409 27,295 3,096 (12,716) 4,364 107,893 262,760
Retained profit for  
 the year – – – – – – 207,232 207,232
Shares issued in  
 the year 1,029 3,343 – – – (2,880) – 1,492
Transfer of additional  
 depreciation on  
 revalued assets – – (1,430) – – – 1,430 –
Share based payments – – – – – 1,261 – 1,261
Exchange adjustments – – – – – – (377) (377)
A t 	 1 	 J a n u a r y 	 2 0 0 6 46,448 90,752 25,865 3,096 (12,716) 2,745 316,178 472,368 
Retained profit for  
 the year – – – – – – 213,184 213,184
Shares issued in  
 the year 297 1,020 – – – (826) – 491
Transfer of additional  
 depreciation on  
 revalued assets – – (1,847) – – – 1,847 –
Share based payments – – – – – 3,539 – 3,539
Exchange adjustments – – – – – – 617 617
A t 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 4 6 , 7 4 5 	 	 9 1 , 7 7 2 	 	 2 4 , 0 1 8 	 	 3 , 0 9 6 	 	 ( 1 2 , 71 6 ) 	 5 , 4 5 8 	 5 3 1 , 8 2 6 	 6 9 0 , 1 9 9
The Merger Reserve and Other Reserve are non-distributable reserves and arose following a Group reconstruction in March 1998. The ‘Shares 
to be issued’ Reserve is non-distributable and relates to the share element of various incentive scheme arrangements. The Revaluation Reserve 
is non-distributable and arose in 2003 following the purchase of the residual 49% of Burren Energy Congo Limited. 
27 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      	 U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Operating profit       2 7 4 , 1 9 0 256,670
Adjustments for:
Gain on derivatives       – (10,528)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment      6 9 , 8 3 1 66,082
Impairment of exploration expenditure      6 , 0 1 8 –
Non-cash charge for incentive schemes      5 , 3 0 6 7,431
Loss on disposal of subsidiary        	 5 6 3 –
Share of associates profit       ( 3 , 3 6 2 ) (1,612)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital     3 5 2 , 5 4 6 318,043
Increase in inventories       ( 1 , 6 5 2 ) (8,463)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables      1 4 3 (17,712)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables      	 ( 8 2 6 ) (12,423)
Cash flow generated by operations      3 5 0 , 2 1 1 279,445
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other 
short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Notes to the Group financial statements
continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
53
Click to return to contents
28 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Amounts contracted in relation to ongoing projects but not provided for in the financial statements at 31 December 2006 total US$36,948,000 
(2005: US$36,509,000).
29 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Congo bonus payments
Additional cash consideration will become payable in connection with the 2003 acquisition of Burren Energy Congo Limited (‘BECL’) under the 
following conditions:
US$1,000,000 within 20 business days after the date on which the first new development permit within the Kouilou PSC area is issued to 
BECL and its partners in the Republic of Congo.
US$1,000,000 within 20 business days after the date on which hydrocarbon production from such development permit area first averages 
5,000 barrels per day gross during any one month.
Fifty per cent of this consideration would be payable to Taj Limited (a related party, see note 33).
HOEC contingency
The Group’s share of various contingent liabilities of HOEC (see note 17) as at 31 December 2006 was US$6,112,000 (2005: US$3,600,000).
30 CONTINGENT RIGHT TO ALLOTMENT OF SHARES
       3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 31 December 
     
Exercise period
  Exercise  2 0 0 6 2005
    From To price N u m b e r Number
Executive share options    27 Jan 02 27 Jan 06 US$0.80 – 235,309
    15 Jun 02 15 Jun 06 US$0.90 – 20,000
    29 Mar 03 29 Mar 07 US$0.60 5 3 5 , 0 0 0 535,000
    22 Mar 04 22 Mar 08 US$1.20 2 7 5 , 0 0 0 425,000
    24 May 04 24 May 08 US$1.20 2 5 0 , 0 0 0 250,000
    12 Apr 05 12 Apr 09 US$1.20 5 3 7 , 5 0 0 625,000
       1 , 5 9 7 , 5 0 0  2,090,309
Performance Share Plan    12 Nov 06 12 May 07 n/a 4 2 4 , 2 3 0 481,922
Other share options    16 Oct 99 07 Dec 08 US$1.20 1 3 6 , 3 3 4 136,334
    16 Oct 00 07 Dec 08 US$1.20 2 7 2 , 6 6 8 272,668
    12 Nov 03 12 May 10 n/a 1 2 3 , 0 76 124,886
       5 3 2 , 0 7 8 533,888
Long Term Incentive Plan    13 Mar 05 30 Mar 06 n/a – 276,929
APS scheme    01 Jan 07 30 Jun 07 n/a 1 2 6 , 5 3 7 126,537
    01 Jan 08 30 Jun 08 n/a 2 6 5 , 1 8 5 265,185
    01 Jan 09 30 Jun 09 n/a 4 4 5 , 2 5 7 –
       8 3 6 , 9 7 9 391,722
Total contingent right to allotment of shares      3 , 3 9 0 , 7 8 7 3,774,770
Further details of these arrangements are provided in note 31.
•
• Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
54
Click to return to contents
31 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS AND OTHER INCENTIVE SCHEME ARRANGEMENTS
A summary of the Group’s employee incentive schemes and how they are accounted for under IFRS 2, is set out below. 
Performance Share Plan (the ‘PSP’)
One set of awards comprising an option to acquire shares in the Company for nil payment was made on 12 November 2003 in respect of an 
aggregate of 481,922 ordinary shares. Vesting of these awards was dependent on a number of share price performance targets being met in
the three-year period following the Company’s flotation in December 2003. All such performance conditions were met and the shares vested 
on 12 November 2006.
Burren Energy Annual Profit Sharing Scheme (the ‘APSS’)
Under the APSS, 5% of the Group’s operating profit on ordinary activities after deduction of interest, financing charges, taxation and the amount 
of the bonus pool itself, is allocated as annual bonus pool for the benefit of its employees. Any individual bonus amount up to 50% of annual 
base salary with respect to Executive Directors and Senior Managers and 100% of base annual salary for all other staff, may be paid in cash  
and any bonus payment in excess of these limits is made in the form of a right to acquire shares in the Company, the exercise of which is 
deferred for a period of three years (a ‘Deferred APSS Award’). No payment is required from the option holder upon exercise. The number of 
shares in the Company subject to a Deferred APSS award will normally be calculated using the Company’s average share price over the last  
30 days of the financial year to which the Deferred APSS Award relates. The Deferred APSS Award will normally be able to be exercised in the 
six months commencing from the third anniversary of the end of the financial year to which the award relates.
The share based elements of the above schemes are substantially similar, involving the award of equity settled share options at a nil exercise 
price, and accordingly the information for the schemes has been aggregated.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year in respect of these two schemes are as follows:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      	 N u m b e r 	 o f Number of 
       s h a r e 	 o p t i o n s share options
Outstanding at beginning of period      8 7 3 , 6 4 4 608,459
Granted during the period       4 4 5 , 2 5 7 265,185
Exercised during the period       ( 5 7 , 6 9 2 ) –
Outstanding at the end of the period      1 , 2 6 1 , 2 0 9 873,644
Exercisable at the end of the period      4 2 4 , 2 3 0 	 –
57,692 share options were exercised during the year in respect of the above schemes. Options outstanding at the end of the year have a 
weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.37 years (2005: 1.71 years). As all of the share options have a nil exercise price the fair value  
at the date of grant was assumed to be equal to the share price on that day.
For share options granted in the year, the weighted average fair value of the options at measurement date was US$15.69 per share (2005: 
US$8.88 per share) based on the Group’s share price on the date of grant. During 2006, a charge of US$3,538,207 (2005: US$1,261,000)  
was recorded in respect of equity settled share payments accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
Under IFRS 2, charges in relation to equity settled share based payments are credited to a ‘Shares to be Issued Reserve’, therefore no liabilities 
have been recorded in respect of these schemes.
Executive Share Option Scheme (‘ESOS’) and Long Term Incentive Plan 2003 (‘LTIP’) 
The share options in these schemes were all either granted prior to 7 November 2002 or had vested by 1 January 2005 and therefore do not
fall within the scope of IFRS 2. Accordingly, the only charges arising in 2005 and 2006 in relation to these schemes relates to National Insurance 
Contributions (‘NICs’), based on the Company’s share price at the balance sheet date (see below).
Under the Long Term Incentive Plan, awards may be taken in the form of shares or cash consideration at the discretion of the employee.  
The award is dependent on meeting performance criteria as set out and determined by the Remuneration Committee. The amounts in  
place at 31 December 2005 relate to awards in respect of the performance year ended 31 March 2003, which have fully vested. 
Summary of charges to the income statement 
The total charge in relation to the Group’s share based payment arrangements was as follows:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
APSS 
– cash element       1 , 2 8 6 	 3,632
– deferred bonus       3 , 2 1 5 	 886
PSP       3 2 4 	 375
NICs on ESOS       3 8 9 	 1,611
NICs on LTIP       9 2 	 927
Total       5 , 3 0 6 	 7,431
Included in charges for incentive schemes is US$1,286,000 (2005: US$3,632,000) relating to the cash element of the APSS which does not fall 
within the scope of IFRS 2 and is charged to the profit and loss account in the year of award.
Notes to the Group financial statements
continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
55
Click to return to contents
32 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE
During February 2007, payment was made in respect of the deferred purchase agreement for Turkmenistan (see note 20).
On 16 March 2007, Burren Energy (Congo) Limited concluded a heads of agreement with Eni Congo SA (‘Eni’) to acquire additional interests of 
5.5% in the M’Boundi oil field and 2% in the Kouilou exploration licence in the Republic of Congo. Consideration of US$155,000,000 is payable 
in cash. The transaction is subject to a number of conditions precedent, the most significant of which are the completion by Eni of its acquisition 
of interests in M’Boundi and Kouilou from  Maurel & Prom and approval by the Congolese authorities. Following completion Burren will have a 
37% interest in both the M’Boundi field and the Kouilou licence.
33 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries 
and associates are disclosed in the Company’s separate financial statements.
In addition to Directors and their connected persons, the following companies are considered to be related parties of the Group for the reasons 
set out below:
Castlehawk Consultants Limited (‘Castlehawk’) and Tacoma E&P Limited are subsidiaries of Tacoma Petroleum Holding Limited (‘Tacoma’). 
Pierre Lasry, a Director of the Company from 17 February 2004, is a beneficiary of a trust that controls Tacoma.
Taj Limited (‘Taj’) is a company in which Pierre Lasry, a Director of the Company, owns a beneficial controlling interest.
Sunfloat Shipping Limited (‘Sunfloat’) is controlled by Andrei Pannikov, a Director of the Company.
Balor Holding Limited (‘Balor’) is a company in which Finian O’Sullivan, a Director of the Company, owns a beneficial controlling interest.
The transactions with related parties that have occurred during 2005 and 2006 are discussed below:
Loan transactions
Secured loan 12.5% 2007
In August 2003 Burren Energy Ship Management Limited (‘BESM’) entered into a loan agreement with Sunfloat in which Sunfloat made available 
up to US$1,500,000 to BESM repayable in full on 1 July 2007. The Group had fully drawn down this facility at 31 December 2004. The annual 
interest rate was 12.5% with a charge during 2005 of US$217,000. As security for the loan, BESM had agreed to pledge to Sunfloat its shares  
in Burren Energy Shipping and Transportation Limited (Samara), a subsidiary of the Company. The loan was repaid in full in 2005.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the key management personnel, who are considered to be related parties, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Short-term employee benefits       3 , 6 2 9 	 3,152
Deferred Share Schemes       2 , 8 2 3 	 5,748
Total       6 , 4 5 2 	 8,900
Included in the above is an amount of US$1,962,000 (2005: US$2,942,000) relating to key management personnel other than directors. Further 
information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 32 and 33.
Directors’ transactions
Details of Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are provided in the Directors’ report on page 24 with certain additional information in 
respect of their interests in share options being provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 32 and 33. Details of transactions with 
Directors are provided in the Directors’ report on pages 24 and 25.
•
•
•
• Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
56
Click to return to contents
34 SALE OF 3.5% INTEREST IN M’BOUNDI FIELD
In 2005 Burren entered into an agreement to assign 3.5% of its 35% interest in the M’Boundi field to SNPC, the state-owned national oil company  
of Republic of Congo, leaving the Company with a residual interest of 31.5%. The consideration for this assignment was an extension of the 
M’Boundi development licence period from an original expiry date of 2017, extendable to 2022, to a new expiry date of 2027, extendable to 2030. 
The transaction was subject to several conditions precedent, including Congolese parliamentary approval and the completion of certain 
documentation to give effect to SNPC’s participation in the contractor group, neither of which had been satisfied at 31 December 2005. 
Parliamentary approval was received in March 2006 and completion of the transaction occurred on 2 August 2006. The effective date of
the transaction was 1 January 2006. 
It was concluded, based on calculations as at the effective date in relation to the fair value of the eight-year licence extension, that no gain or 
loss arose in respect of the disposal of the underlying interests.
The Group’s share of net assets disposed of was as follows:
        2 August 
        2006 
        US$’000
Property, plant and equipment        17,340
Trade and other payables        (7,651)
T o t a l 	 c o n s i d e r at i o n 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9 , 6 8 9
Satisfied by:
Cash        (7,651)
Fair value of licence extension        17,340
Notes to the Group financial statements
continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
57
Click to return to contents
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      Note U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
Dividends from subsidiaries       5 2 , 0 0 0 	 35,000
Charge in respect of incentive schemes     39 ( 4 , 0 2 0 ) (3,799)
Other administrative expenses       ( 4 , 8 8 4 ) 	 (7,812)
Total administrative expenses       ( 8 , 9 0 4 ) 	 (11,611)
Other operating expenses       ( 3 1 2 ) 	 (786)
O p e r at i n g 	 p ro fi t       4 2 , 7 8 4 	 22,603
Investment revenue      36 8 , 8 4 9 	 1,719
Finance costs      37 – 	 (2,315)
P ro fi t 	 b e f o r e 	 t a x       5 1 , 6 3 3 	 22,007
Tax      38 ( 7 4 8 ) 	 –
P ro fi t 	 af t e r 	 t a x      39 5 0 , 8 8 5 	 22,007
Dividends declared      47 ( 3 5 , 6 8 9 ) 	 (13,697)
R e t a i n e d 	 p ro fi t 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 y e a r       1 5 , 1 9 6 	 8,310
There was no recognised income and expense other than the profit for the period.
Company income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2006 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
58
Click to return to contents
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      Note U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
N o n - cur r e n t 	 a s s e t s    
Investment in subsidiaries      40 76 , 9 1 5 	 76,915
       76 , 9 1 5 	 76,915
C ur r e n t 	 a s s e t s
Trade and other receivables      41 1 0 7 , 8 7 5 	 72,480
Cash and cash equivalents      41 1 9 7 , 5 1 0 	 116,855
       3 0 5 , 3 8 5 	 189,335
T o t a l 	 a s s e t s       3 8 2 , 3 0 0 	 266,250
C ur r e n t 	 l i a b i l i t i e s
Trade and other payables      42 1 9 7 , 1 4 5 	 100,321
T o t a l 	 l i a b i l i t i e s       1 9 7 , 1 4 5 	 100,321
N e t 	 cur r e n t 	 a s s e t s       1 0 8 , 2 4 0 	 89,014
N e t 	 a s s e t s       1 8 5 , 1 5 5 	 165,929 
E q u i t y
Share capital      43,44 4 6 , 7 4 5 	 46,448
Share premium account      44 9 1 , 7 7 2 	 90,752
Shares to be issued      44 5 , 4 5 8 	 2,745
Retained earnings      44 4 1 , 1 8 0 	 25,984
T o t a l 	 e q u i t y       1 8 5 , 1 5 5 	 165,929
The financial statements were approven by the Board and authorised for issue on 16 March 2007. 
Andrew Rose
Director
Company cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2006
       2 0 0 6 2005 
      Note U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000
O p e r at i n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s   
Cash flow generated by operations     45 1 0 8 , 6 6 9 90,235
N e t 	 c a s h 	 f ro m 	 o p e r at i n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s 	     1 0 8 , 6 6 9 90,235
I n v e st i n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s
Interest received       7 , 1 8 4 1,719
N e t 	 c a s h 	 f ro m 	 i n v e st i n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s 	 	 	 	 	 	 7 , 1 8 4 	 1,719
F i n a n ci n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s   
Dividends paid       ( 3 5 , 6 8 9 ) (13,697)
Interest paid       – (2,315)
Issue of ordinary share capital       4 9 1 1,492
N e t 	 c a s h 	 u s e d 	 i n 	 fi n a n ci n g 	 a c t i v i t i e s      ( 3 5 , 1 9 8 ) (14,250)
N e t 	 i n c r e a s e 	 i n 	 c a s h 	 a n d 	 c a s h 	 e q u i v a l e n t s      8 0 , 6 5 5 77,434
C a s h 	 a n d 	 c a s h 	 e q u i v a l e n t s 	 at 	 b e g i n n i n g 	 o f 	 y e a r 	    1 1 6 , 8 5 5 39,421
C a s h 	 a n d 	 c a s h 	 e q u i v a l e n t s 	 at 	 e n d 	 o f 	 y e a r      1 9 7 , 5 1 0 116,855
Company balance sheet
At 31 December 2006 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
59
Click to return to contents
35 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. As permitted by that Act, the separate 
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Investments in 
subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
36 INVESTMENT REVENUE
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Interest on bank deposits        8 , 5 9 9 	 1,469 
Interest on loans to subsidiaries        2 5 0 	 250
Total investment revenue       8 , 8 4 9 	 1,719
37 FINANCE COSTS
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans       – 723 
Arrangement fees        – 	 1,592 
Total finance costs        – 	 2,315 
38 TAXATION
The tax charge for the current year of US$748,000 represents current tax and arises in the UK. There were no amounts charged in respect of 
current or deferred tax in the prior year. The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Profit before tax       5 1 , 6 3 3 22,007
Profit before tax multiplied by the UK statutory tax rate (30%)     1 5 , 4 9 0 	 6,602
Effects of:
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible      1 , 4 3 0 –
Tax effects of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised     – (1,865) 
Adjustment in respect of employee share schemes     ( 3 , 8 4 8 ) (4,744)
Income not taxable in the period       – 6,900
Tax effect of utilisation of double tax relief      ( 1 3 , 0 7 2 ) (6,893)
Adjustment in respect of prior years      7 4 8 –
Tax charge for the year       7 4 8 –
A deferred tax asset of US$34,808,000 at 31 December 2006 (2005: US$18,074,000), principally relating to foreign tax credits and deferred 
share scheme deductions, has not been recognised on the grounds that there is insufficient evidence of suitable taxable profits in the 
foreseeable future to enable the asset to be recovered.
Notes to the Company financial 
statements Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
60
Click to return to contents
39 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses      ( 2 , 5 3 4 ) 1,967 
Staff costs       7 , 0 8 8 6,012
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services       3 3 5 335 
Further details of amounts payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of non-audit services are provided in note 12 to the consolidated financial 
statements. All such amounts were charged to the Company.
Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
       2 0 0 6 2005 
        N u m b e r 	  Number 
Management        6 	 	 6 
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
Wages and salaries        3 , 0 6 3 	 1,941
Incentive schemes       4 , 0 2 0 	 3,799
Social security costs        – 	 265
Life Insurance         5 	 7 
Total staff costs       7 , 0 8 8 	 6,012
The incentive scheme charge shown above represents all the amounts shown in note 31, except for the cash element of the APSS, which is 
recorded in a subsidiary undertaking and is not accounted for under IFRS 2. As such, all the IFRS 2 disclosures in note 31 also apply to the 
Company’s financial statements.
40 SUBSIDIARIES
 
Company         US$’000 
Cost
A t 	 1 	 J a n u a r y 	 a n d 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 76 , 9 1 5 	
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries at 31 December 2006 are as follows:
 
 Proportion of   
 voting shares held 
Name of company % Nature of business  Country of incorporation
Burren Energy (Bermuda) Limited 100 Holding company Bermuda
Burren Energy (Services) Limited 100 Administrative services England and Wales
Burren Energy Shipping and Transportation  
 Limited (‘BEST’) 100 Shipping Cyprus
Burren Resources Petroleum Limited 100 Oil & gas exploration and production  Bermuda
Burren Energy Congo Limited 100 Oil & gas exploration and production British Virgin Islands
Burren Energy Drilling Services Limited  100 Dormant  England and Wales
Burren Energy Yemen Limited  100 Oil & gas exploration and production England and Wales
Burren Energy Oman Limited  100 Oil & gas exploration and production England and Wales
Burren Energy India Limited  100 Oil & gas exploration and production  England and Wales
Burren Energy (Egypt) Limited 100 Oil & gas exploration and production  England and Wales
Burren Shakti Limited (formerly Unocal Bharat Ltd) 100 Holding company Bermuda
Burren (Cyprus) Holdings Limited 100 Holding company Cyprus
Burren Energy Ship Management Limited 100 Shipping Cyprus
Burren Energy Limited 100 Holding company Cyprus
Burren Energy New Ventures Limited 100 Oil & gas exploration and production England and Wales
Burren Energy Shipping and Transportation (Samara) 100 Shipping Russia
Astrakhan Gas and Oil Company 51 Oil & gas exploration and production Russia
Notes to the Company financial  
statements continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
61
Click to return to contents
41 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings      1 0 6 , 3 4 8 72,208
Other debtors       1 , 5 2 7 	 272
Total trade and other receivables       1 0 7 , 8 7 5 	 72,480
The carrying amounts of the above assets approximate their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
These comprise cash held by the Company and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The carrying amount 
of these assets approximates their fair value.
42 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Trade creditors and accruals       7 , 7 3 0 	 4,808
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings      1 8 9 , 4 1 5 95,513
Total trade and other payables       1 9 7 , 1 4 5 	 100,321
The carrying amounts of the above liabilities approximate their fair value.
43 SHARE CAPITAL
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Authorised: 
300,000,000 ordinary shares of 20p each       1 1 4 , 9 5 3 114,953 
Issued and fully paid:  
2006: 140,701,991 (2005: 139,874,562) ordinary shares of 20p each     4 6 , 7 4 5 46,448
44 SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
     Share 
    Share premium Shares to Profit and  
    capital account be issued loss account Total 
    US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
At 1 January 2005    45,419  87,409  4,364  17,674  154,866
Retained profit for the year     – – – 8,310  8,310
Shares issued in the year     1,029  3,343 (2,880) – 1,492
Share based payments     – – 1,261 – 1,261
At 1 January 2006    46,448 90,752 2,745 25,984 165,929
Retained profit for the year     –  – – 15,196 15,196
Shares issued in the year     297 1,020 (826) – 491 
Share based payments    – – 3,539 – 3,539
A t 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 0 6 	 	 	 	 4 6 , 7 4 5 	 9 1 , 7 7 2 	 5 , 4 5 8 	 4 1 , 1 8 0 	 1 8 5 , 1 5 5
45 NOTES TO CASH FLOW STATEMENT
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Operating profit        4 2 , 7 8 4 22,603
Increase in trade and other receivables       ( 3 3 , 7 3 1 ) (29,938)
Increase in trade and other payables       9 5 , 5 9 6 93,771
Non cash charge for incentive schemes      4 , 0 2 0 3,799
Net cash from operating activities        1 0 8 , 6 6 9 90,235 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
62
Click to return to contents
46 RELATED PARTIES
The Company has entered into a number of unsecured related party transactions with its subsidiary undertakings. The most significant 
transactions carried out between the Company and its subsidiary undertakings are mainly for short- and long-term financing, details  
of such transactions and amounts owed to and from these entities are provided in notes 36, 41 and 42. Information regarding the  
remuneration of key management personnel and Directors and their connected persons is disclosed in note 33.
47 DIVIDENDS
       2 0 0 6 2005 
       U S $ ’ 0 0 0 	 US$’000 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 9.5p (2004: 3.0p)  per share   2 4 , 9 5 5 7,550
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 4.0p (2005: 2.5p) per share   1 0 , 7 3 4 6,147
       3 5 , 6 8 9 13,697
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 10.0p (2005: 9.5p) per share   2 7 , 5 6 2 22,704
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM and has not been included as a liability in these  
financial statements.
Notes to the Company financial  
statements continued Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
63
The amounts disclosed for 2003 and earlier periods are stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practicable to restate amounts for 
periods prior to the date of transition to IFRS. 
   
IFRS  UK GAAP
    2 0 0 6 2005 2004 2003 2002 
    U S $ ’ 0 0 0 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000 US$’000
R e s u l t s
Revenue    4 1 6 , 0 2 2 390,333 185,787 77,364 56,306
Operating profit    2 7 4 , 1 9 0 256,670 87,186 33,095 13,766
Profit before tax    2 8 2 , 4 5 6 254,599 86,155 30,318 11,112
Profit attributable to equity holders of Burren plc   2 4 8 , 8 7 3 220,929 68,407 25,998 9,587
Assets employed
Non-current assets    5 3 3 , 76 3 384,522 259,018 177,212 82,000
Current assets    2 8 4 , 9 9 3 201,581 81,839 51,210 16,514
Current liabilities    ( 9 0 , 2 6 6 ) (84,798) (54,708) (26,399) (30,702)
Non-current liabilities    ( 3 8 , 2 8 9 ) (28,937) (23,389) (9,181) (7,526)
Net assets    6 9 0 , 2 0 1 472,368 262,760 192,842 60,286
Financed by
Equity    6 9 0 , 1 9 9 472,368 262,760 192,842 54,216
Minority interests    2 – – – 6,070
    6 9 0 , 2 0 1 472,368 262,760 192,842 60,286
Net cash from operating activities     3 2 3 , 9 7 2 277,819 103,858 46,809 18,549
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents   76 , 7 8 2 85,189 128 34,226 2,318
Key statistics
Earnings per share (US¢)    1 7 7 . 2 5 159.04 50.07 27.69 13.47
Diluted earnings per share (US¢)    1 7 2 . 8 0 154.12 47.90 25.63 11.73
The Group’s financial statements for 2002 to 2003 were reported in £ sterling. The US$ amounts shown above have been translated using the 
average exchange rate for the year (income statement items) and the closing exchange rate (balance sheet items).
Five year summary
Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
64
Glossary
2D, 3D
two (three) dimensional (in relation to  
seismic surveys)
APSS
Annual Profit Sharing Scheme
bareboat charter
a type of ship charter under which the 
charterer hires the vessel without a crew  
and bears all the expenses of operation
bbl
barrel of oil
bcf
billion cubic feet
boe
barrel of oil equivalent
bopd
barrels of oil per day
Burren or the Group
the Company and its subsidiaries
bwpd
barrels of water per day
the Company
Burren Energy plc
cash flow after development expenditure
net Cash from Operating Activities (i.e. after 
tax paid), less purchases of property, plant 
and equipment which relate to expenditure 
incurred to develop P+P reserves (i.e. excluding 
expenditure in respect of exploration activities 
and licence acquisition, and any non E&P 
related expenditure). This gives a measure  
of discretionary cash flow available to the 
Group after investment in the development  
of its existing reserves
Caspian
the countries of the Former Soviet Union 
bordering the Caspian Sea including  
southern Russia
Congo
the Republic of Congo (Brazzaville)
discount to Brent 
the weighted average price discount to Brent 
(taken on the date of price determination by 
cargo) at which the Group’s crude oil is sold
earnings per share growth
the annual increase in basic earnings per 
share, as shown in the financial statements
Eni
Eni Congo SA (‘Eni’), a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Italian group Eni S.p.A.
entitlement 
with reference to reserves or production, that 
share of the gross amount to which the Group  
is entitled after taking account of the State share 
under the terms of the relevant PSA or PSC
FOB
free on board
HOEC
Hindustan Oil Exploration Company Limited, 
an independent Indian E&P company listed 
(inter alia) on the Mumbai stock exchange. 
HOEC is operator of fields in India
HSEC
Health, Safety, Environment & Community
Initial Oil/Gas
the initial share of production from the Burun 
field in Turkmenistan which is delivered to  
the state and falls outside the production 
sharing provisions of the PSA. It represents 
the production which the original Burren 
consortium inherited upon taking over the 
field in 1997, after applying a decline factor
internal reserves replacement ratio
additions to working interest reserves arising 
from revisions and discoveries, divided by 
working interest production. The ratio is 
calculated on a rolling three year historic 
basis. This ratio excludes acquisitions and 
divestments of reserves so as to provide a 
measure of internally generated reserves 
replacement. The reason for using a rolling  
three year basis of calculation is that internally 
generated additions to reserves usually 
involve a project timescale in excess of  
one year
km (km
2
)
kilometre (square kilometres)
KPI
key performance indicator
Maurel & Prom
an independent French oil exploration and 
production company quoted on Euronext  
stock exchange. Maurel & Prom is operator  
of the fields in Congo in which Burren has  
an interest
mcfd
thousand cubic feet per day
mcm
million cubic metres
P+P
Proven and Probable (reserves)
production costs per barrel 
cost-of-sales, excluding those relating to non-
E&P operations, excluding any hedging gains 
or losses, before deduction of depreciation, 
and adjusted for movements in underlift/
overlift, divided by working interest production. 
Excluding overlift and underlift movements 
allows the measure to be based on production 
rather than sales barrels, which fluctuate 
according to the timing of liftings
production growth 
the year-on-year growth in Group working 
interest production (the definition of which 
excludes the Initial (legacy) Oil in the Burun 
field in Turkmenistan which is attributable to 
the state and falls outside the terms of 
the PSA)
PSA, PSC
production sharing agreement (contract)
reserves growth per share
closing P+P reserves (bbls) divided by the 
closing number of shares in issue, as a ratio  
of opening P+P reserves (bbls) divided by the 
opening number of shares in issue. This ratio 
includes acquisitions and divestments of 
reserves, and is calculated on a rolling three 
year basis. It is a measure of the Group’s ability 
to grow its reserves without resorting to 
increasing its share capital base, and is one 
of the performance criteria in the Group’s 
Performance Share Plan, the awards under which 
vest over a three year performance period
shut-in
refers to an existing well which is closed  
and not producing
SNPC
Société Nationale des Pétroles Congolais;  
the state-owned oil company of Congo
underlift
produced crude oil representing the Group’s 
export entitlement which is awaiting lifting
water injection
a technique whereby water is pumped into  
the reservoir to maintain reservoir pressure 
and enhance oil recovery
working interest
with reference to reserves or production, that 
share of the gross amount to which the Group 
is entitled before taking account of the state 
share under the terms of the PSA or PSC 
(calculated after deduction of initial oil or gas) 
workover
major repairs or modifications to a well which 
restore or enhance production
Click to return to contents  annual report and accounts 2006
Click to return to contents
drilling rig at night. 
n ebit dag, t urkmenistan.
photograph by stuart Holmes,
www.showpedgeimages.co.uk
burren energy is an independent oil and gas exploration 
and production group with assets in four geographic regions: 
the caspian, West africa, the Middle east/north africa 
and India. 
o ur objectives are to grow our production and reserve base 
by further development of our existing fields, exploring our 
existing concessions and acquiring new assets with proven 
reserves and production.
Burren’s shares are listed on the l ondon stock exchange 
(symbol: Bur .l ) and are a constituent of the F tse 250 Index.
Officers and professional advisers
board o F d ire Ctors
executive
atul Gupta
Finian o ’sullivan
andrew r ose
n on-executive
Keith Henry, c hairman
Brian l avers
Michael c alvey
alan c ole 
pierre l asry
andrei pannikov
Co Mpany se Cretary
Hywel John
r egistered oFF iCe
Kierran c ross
2nd Floor
11 strand
l ondon Wc 2n 5Hr
r egistered number 3492720
ban Kers
t he r oyal bank of s cotland
54 l ime street
l ondon ec 3 3tr
n atixis
45, r ue sainte-dominique
75007 paris
France
s oli Citors
t ravers s mith
10 snow Hill
l ondon ec 1a 2al
Finan Cial advis ers  
and s to CKbro Kers
ubs investment bank
1 Finsbury avenue
l ondon ec 2M 2pp
KbC peel Hunt l td
111 o ld Broad street
l ondon ec 2n 1pn
auditors and tax advisers
d eloitte & t ouche llp
Hill House
1 l ittle n ew street
l ondon ec 4a 3tr
Finan Cial publi C relations
pelham public r elations l td
n o 1 c ornhill
l ondon
ec 3V 3nd
petroleu M Consultants
r yder s cott Company, l .p.
1100 l ouisiana, suite 3800
Houston
t exas 77002-5218 
usa
r egistrars
Computershare investor  
s ervices plc
t he pavilions
Bridgwater r oad
Bristol Bs99 7n H
n ote
c ertain sections of this annual r eport, in particular the Business r eview, may contain forward-looking 
statements concerning the financial condition and results of operations of Burren. Forward-looking 
statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations 
and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual 
results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. 
n o assurances can be given as to future results, levels of activity and achievements and actual results, 
levels of activity and achievements may differ materially from those expressed or implied by any forward-
looking statements contained in this report. Burren does not undertake any obligation to publicly update 
or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information.
era Silk is unique in its class in Britain. It is the only coated paper & board 
range actually made from 50% recycled British waste. t he waste is collected 
locally, mostly within a radius of 100 miles of the mill in Kent. u sing 100% 
genuine printed waste in the recycling process means helping reduce the 
pressure on u K landfill sites. By collecting local waste paper it helps minimise 
the environmental impact. r oad transport is kept to a minimum, and close 
monitoring of all supplies of raw material ensure the highest standards. 
r evive uncoated uses 100% post-consumer recycled material and the 
recycled papers used in this grade are mainly elemental c hlorine Free (ec F). Click to return to contents
burren energy pl C annual report and accounts 2006
burren energy plc annual report and a CCounts 2006
burren energy pl C
Kierran Cross
2nd Floor
11 s trand
l ondon
WC2n 5Hr
t . +44 (0)20 7484 1900
F. +44 (0)20 7484 1910
www.burren.co.uk
