 Annual report 2005
711 Europort
Gibraltar
www.partygaming.com
Online gaming...
Annual report 2005 ...we’re number one.
1 Introduction
2 Group at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive’s review
8 Our business
28 Our markets
35 Our risks
36 Our strategy
39 Corporate and social
responsibility
43 Operating and financial review
60 Board of Directors
62 Directors’ report
66 Corporate governance
71 Remuneration report
76 Directors’ responsibility statement
79 Independent auditors’ report 
80 Consolidated income statement
80 Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
81 Consolidated balance sheet
82 Consolidated statement 
of cash flows
83 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
99 Company balance sheet
100 Company statement 
of changes in equity
100 Company statement 
of cash flows
101 Notice of AGM
103 Shareholder information
108 Definitions and Glossary
Contents
‘active affiliates’ an affiliate who generated revenue in that month
‘active player days’ aggregate number of days in the given period in which active players have contributed to rake and/or
placed a wager. This can be calculated by multiplying average active players by the number of days in
the period
‘active player’ or ‘active real money In relation to the Group’s products, a player who has contributed to rake and/or placed a wager in the 
player’ or ‘unique active player’ period 
‘affiliates’ third party online or offline marketers who drive traffic to PartyGaming’s gaming sites for a flat fee or on a
revenue share basis
‘average active players’ the daily average number of players who contributed to rake and/or placed a wager in the given period.
This can be calculated by dividing active player days in the given period, by the number of days in that
period
‘bots’ computer programmes capable of playing virtual poker with a predefined strategy, which can beat new
and inexperienced players by the calculation of pot odds and preferred user adjustments
‘BPO’ business process outsourcing
‘Clean EBITDA’ or ‘Clean EPS’ EBITDA/EPS before IPO-related expenses, non-recurring costs associated with the settlement of legal
claims by certain skins as well as non-cash charges relating to share options that are to be satisfied by
existing Shares that were effectively gifted to the Employee Trust by the Shareholders prior to the Offer,
primarily the Principal Shareholders
EBITDA’ earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
‘flop’ in Texas Hold’em and Omaha High, the first three community cards that are dealt face up in the centre of
the table all at the same time. The flop also indicates the second round of betting
‘gross margin’ gross win as a percentage of revenue
‘gross win’ customer stakes less customer winnings
‘IT’ information technology
‘Omaha High’ a type of poker game
‘online wallet’ a web-based account to which customers transfer funds directly from their bank accounts and from which
funds are transferred for the settlement of transactions with online merchants, such as online gaming sites
‘play money’ playing where no real money is involved, instead, players use ‘fun money’ or ‘free money’ to participate
‘pot’ the aggregate amount wagered on each hand by the players in a ring game
‘rake’ the money charged by PartyGaming for each qualifying poker hand played on its websites in
accordance with the prevailing and applicable rake structure
‘real money’ gambling where money is wagered, as opposed to play money where no money is wagered
‘real money sign-ups’ new players who have registered and deposited funds into an account with the Group 
‘registered player’ a player who has registered with the Group to use its real money sites and/or its play money sites
‘ring game’ a ‘regular’ poker game as opposed to a poker tournament
‘sign-up bonus’ an amount awarded on signing-up to a gaming site, subject to applicable conditions
‘sign-ups’ or ‘new player sign-ups’ new players who register on the Group’s real money or play money sites
‘skins’ or ‘white label services’ arrangements where third parties use the software platform and services of another online gaming
operator, typically on a revenue sharing basis, with the third party providing its own front end, branding
and marketing arrangements
‘slots’ ‘slot’ or ‘fruit’ machines
‘sports betting’ placing bets on sporting events
‘Texas Hold’em’ a type of poker game and the most popular form of poker on PartyPoker
‘wager’ a bet on a game or sporting event
‘yield per active player day’ revenue in the period divided by the number of active player days in that period
Glossary
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. Board photography by Edward Webb
and Kim Sayer , feature photography by John Edwards. Printed by CTD Printers Limited. We are already the world’s number 
one in online poker and online casino.
Being the leader in all of our games is 
a core objective.
In 2005, our real money customers
wagered over $47.6 billion with us.
They deposited over $2.7 billion and
withdrew over $ 1.6 billion.
Y es, the figures are huge.They’re
dwarfed, however , by another key
element of our business:
Our potential.
1 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
  Clean EPS*
Strong profit growth and a
steady tax charge lifted Clean
EPS to 13.9 cents.
Operating cash flow
Strong profit growth and
continued careful management
of working capital boosted
operating cash flow to record
levels in 2005.
+63%
Clean EPS*
(cents)
2002
0.1
2.0
9.3
13.9
2003 2004 2005
Operating cash flow
($million)
2002
6.7
86.1
429.1
620.2
2003 2004 2005
Clean EBITDA*
($million)
2002
6.4
90.3
391.0
583.7
2003 2004 2005
Revenue
($million)
2002
30.1
153.1
601.6
977.7
2003 2004 2005
Clean EBITDA*
Clean EBITDA benefited from
strong revenue growth, offset to 
a degree by rising marketing costs
and additional costs associated
with the transformation to a listed
public company.
+49%
+49% +45%
*EBITDA/EPS before IPO-related expenses, non-recurring costs associated with
the settlement of legal claims by certain skins as well as non-cash charges
relating to share options that are to be satisfied by existing Shares that were
effectively gifted to the Employee Trust by the Principal Shareholders.
Group at a glance
2 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Revenue
Revenue increased strongly,
driven by continued growth in
Poker as well as a strong
performance in Casino following
the introduction of blackjack in
the fourth quarter of 2005. 2005 – revenue by business segment
(%)
Poker
Casino
12
88
Established in 1997, the Group has grown to
become the world’s largest online gaming
company. Having listed on the London Stock
Exchange in June 2005 PartyGaming Plc is a
member of the FTSE 100 Index. The Group’s main
areas of business are currently online poker and
casino. In 2006 the Group will launch two new
games, both of which will be added to its Party-
branded integrated systems platform.
Our business
Our customers
Poker
On average, PartyPoker handles around 32 hands
of real money poker per second, every hour, every
day, every month. Over $45 billion was wagered on
the site in 2005, or $1,454 per second. The Group’s
secondary poker brands include EmpirePoker,
IntertopsPoker, MultiPoker and PokerNOW .
Casino
The Group’s online casino business is the largest 
of its kind in terms of revenue and includes
PartyCasino, Starluck Casino, PartyBingo and
PlanetLuck Casino.
Our sites offer a broad variety of casino games
including blackjack, video poker, slots and roulette.
Market leader
Launched in 2001, PartyPoker
grew rapidly to become the 
clear leader in online poker,
a position it has held since
2003. In 2005, our poker
business generated average
daily revenue of $2.4 million.
Market leader
Started in 1997, our online 
casino operations have grown 
to become the largest in the
world. Following the launch of
blackjack in the fourth quarter
of 2005, our casino business
generated average daily 
revenue of over $0.8 million.
3 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
2005 – revenue by geography
(%)
8
84
USA
Europe
Canada
RoW
6
2
Where our customers are based
(based on registered players)
Countries
where
we have
players
We have over 12 million registered players
throughout the world to whom we offer a wide
variety of online games. 4 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
A company with big
ideas, substantial
cash flow and huge
potential.
Chairman’s 
statement
Michael Jackson
Chairman 5 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
This annual report and accounts for the year ended 
31 December 2005 is PartyGaming Plc’s first. It has been 
a year of great progress and one in which several notable
milestones were reached. During the year for example, the
Group took wagers of more than $47 billion, dealt over 1 billion
hands of real money poker and generated revenues of close to
$1 billion. But, as I have learned during my short tenure as
Chairman since joining the Company in May 2005, this is 
nothing new for PartyGaming. This business moves at a rapid
pace, constantly adapting to changes and opportunities within
the marketplace.
The listing of PartyGaming’s shares on the London Stock
Exchange in June 2005 was one of the largest IPOs to take 
place in London for five years. Little more than two months 
after flotation, the Group was included in the FTSE 100 Index 
of leading companies by market value and is the only pure
internet company in the index.
Last year, revenues increased by 63%, Clean EBITDA climbed by
49% and Clean Earnings Per Share rose by 49%. This performance
was delivered by a highly talented and motivated workforce,
based in Gibraltar, Hyderabad and London.
Our people
The Group’s 1,300 employees are focused on making 2006
another year of major progress. They have already raised 
the bar considerably by launching our fully integrated, 
Party-branded platform, including PartyPoker and PartyCasino,
in the first six weeks of 2006.
PartyGaming has undergone a major transformation from being
a small, entrepreneurial enterprise in 1997 to becoming today’s
world leader in online gaming. Customers in more than 190
countries and daily stakes wagered of more than $130 million
are just two statistics that show how big this business has
become. The Group has risen to the challenges created by such
rapid development and has retained the core attributes that
were critical to its early success. 
At the heart of this has been a determination to recruit and
retain the very best personnel which has been a consistent
feature from the beginning. Finding the right people with the
best skills and attitude has been central to PartyGaming’s
continued success. This philosophy has been extended to the
formation of the Board of Directors and I am delighted to have
fellow directors, all of whom bring a wealth of experience from 
a variety of different fields. 
We are saddened to be saying goodbye to Richard Segal, 
Chief Executive Officer, on or before 1 June 2006. Richard was
instrumental in leading PartyGaming through its successful IPO
and guiding it on its current course, one that has already
delivered strong financial results. Whilst Richard will be sorely
missed, the Board and the rest of his colleagues respect his
decision not to relocate his family to Gibraltar and we wish him
well for the future.
We are currently in the process of recruiting a new Chief
Executive Officer and in addition, a further independent 
Non-Executive Director.
Regulation
PartyGaming’s operations are licensed and regulated by the
Government of Gibraltar. The regulatory environment for online
gaming around the world is constantly changing with new rules
and regulations being considered in a number of territories
where we attract players. This is not surprising given that most
laws and regulations were not written with the internet in mind.
The Group continues to monitor closely developments regarding
any proposed regulatory changes around the globe and
remains committed to promoting a uniform international
regulatory framework for all online gaming. 
Responsible gaming
Responsible gaming is another area that the Group takes very
seriously, with PartyGaming being one of only a handful of online
gaming operators to have been certificated by GamCare. 
In this regard, the Group continues to strive to improve the
processes and systems in place to protect underage and other
vulnerable players.
Dividend 
Reflecting the Group’s strong financial performance in 2005, the
Board has recommended the payment of a final dividend of
5.25 cents per share that, if approved by shareholders at the
AGM on 4 May 2006, will be paid on 19 May 2006. 
Outlook
The financial results for 2005 were very encouraging and 
provide the Group with a solid platform on which to build in
2006. While the online gaming sector remains competitive, the
Group’s scale, market position and brand strength combine to
provide a solid foundation from which we can consolidate 
and extend our position in each of our core products and
geographic territories. 2006 has started strongly and your Board
remains excited about the Group’s prospects.
Final dividend The Group has
recommended its first dividend as 
a public company, which will be
the final dividend for the year
ended 2005, of 5.25 cents 
per share. 6 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Richard Segal
Chief Executive Officer
Introduction
I am delighted to welcome you to the Group’s first annual report
since becoming a listed company in June 2005. In the following
pages we have given you an overview of our business and the
markets in which we operate, the key challenges we face and
the resources and strategies that we have in place to not only
meet those challenges, but to overcome them and deliver
attractive financial returns for our shareholders.
PartyGaming is a dynamic, vibrant and exciting business, one
which is probably unique in its scope, breadth and financial
performance. We hope this annual report brings home to you
the scale of our achievements to date, with a focus on the
events of 2005. But this is just the beginning of our journey.
Yes, we are a gaming company but more than that we are 
a highly professional and commercially driven enterprise. 
Business is our lifeblood, it is what drives every single one of our
employees, all of whom have a stake in the Group’s future
performance. We have the skills, we have the resources and
most importantly we have the capability to fulfil our objective of
becoming the world’s number one gaming company.
My decision to leave PartyGaming has been a difficult one 
given the success already achieved and the exciting prospects
ahead. My gratitude and best wishes go to the first class team at
PartyGaming for the successes and achievements to date, as
well as for their preparations for the even greater things to come. 7 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Our players enjoy a flutter.
Some trust to luck, others employ 
their well-honed skills. Either way,
they play for entertainment.
Over the next few pages we have
sought to communicate the sheer
scale of our business, but at the same
time have some fun. We hope you
enjoy it.
Game on! 8 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Our business
Products and brands
By any measure PartyGaming has been an extraordinary 
success story. From small beginnings back in 1997, the Group 
has become the world’s largest online gaming company.
Currently we have two main business segments: poker and
casino. Our poker operations are dominated by PartyPoker.com
which is the world’s number one poker room. Following the
launch of blackjack on PartyPoker in October 2005, our casino
business is now the world’s number one online casino. We plan 
to add more games to our portfolio and are on track to launch
two new games in 2006. We have a simple philosophy: we aim
to be number one in everything that we do and have made 
a fantastic start by being number one in poker and now number
one in casino.
In 2005 over 1 billion hands of
real money poker were played
on PartyPoker, with a total 
amount wagered of over $45 billion
or $125 million per day. The
average pot size in 2005 was 
$40.0 (2004: $38.6).
Revenue (inc skins)
Clean EBITDA (before central costs)
Poker revenue and Clean EBITDA
($million)
1,000
800
600
400
200
2002
9.7 2.2
123.7
81.5
553.0
361.9
859.1
509.2
2003 2004 2005
Poker
Poker is our largest business segment representing 88% of Group
revenues in 2005 and 87% of Clean EBITDA. Our poker business 
was launched in August 2001 and its growth has been
spectacular – having generated some $9.7 million of revenue 
in 2002, its first full year, by 2004 this had reached $553.0 million. 
In 2005 this grew again by 55% to $859.1 million. Our poker
business is the clear leader – a position it has held for a number
of years. In addition to the real money site, players can also play
for free via a poker school on PartyPoker.com or on a separate
site, PartyPoker.net.
So how does it all work? 
The Group essentially acts as the host for customers wanting to
play poker against each other and as such takes no principal risk
but simply charges players a fee, or ‘rake’, for every hand of real
money poker played (where the pot is greater than $1 and
where the hand reaches the flop). Players can choose to
compete against each other in online tournaments or on
individual tables, known as ‘ring games’.
Ring games
Historically, ring games have generated between 70% and 80%
of the Group’s poker revenues. In 2005 ring games represented
71% of gross poker revenues and players have a wide variety of
different types of poker games they can play including Texas
Hold ‘Em (the most popular game representing 89% of total
poker revenues in 2005) as well as Omaha High and 7-card stud.
All are slight variations on the core game of poker and players
play against each other for the total amount wagered for any
particular hand (the ‘pot’), less the rake charged by PartyPoker
for hosting the game. The amount of rake charged varies
depending on the pot size, but is capped at a maximum of $3
(or $5 for the very high limit tables).
Tournaments
Tournaments work slightly differently. Rather than playing with
money as in ring games, players buy chips in a tournament
which they then use to play against other players. The player
with the most chips at the end of the tournament is the winner
and receives a prize, normally in cash. We earn revenue by
charging a commission for organising the tournament and this
varies depending on the size of the ‘buy-in’ and the number of
players participating in the tournament. On PartyPoker, players
can choose from a wide variety of different tournaments offering
different prize levels for single-table tournaments as well as 
multi-table tournaments.
Chief Executive’s review Full house?
9 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Chief Executive’s review
Market share
The Group had approximately 
41% market share of the 
global online poker segment*, 
as measured by ring game
revenue in December 2005.
Yes – You’ve got it! You’ve also
revealed that we’re more than
three times bigger than our 
nearest competitor.
10 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
*PartyGaming estimates. Skins
Historically, in addition to the Group’s owned poker and 
casino sites, PartyGaming has generated additional revenue 
by providing so-called ‘white-label’ services or ‘skins’ to a limited
number of third parties. Typically, the Group provided operators
of skins with access to the relevant gaming system, certain
customer services, payment processing, IT support and
management reports, with the third party providing its own
‘front end’ and marketing arrangements. Skin revenue
represented the commission retained by PartyGaming for
providing these services and reached a total of $28.7 million
in 2005, or 3% of Group revenues.
During the final quarter of 2005, the Group saw the number of
third party skins in poker reduce from four to just one following
the acquisition by the Group of one skin (MultiPoker), obtaining
effective control of a second skin (IntertopsPoker) and the
departure of a third (CoralEurobet) to a new platform. Since the
year end, the Group has also acquired the business and assets
of EmpirePoker, its last remaining poker skin. As a result, skin
revenue going forward will be substantially lower than that seen
in 2005 as revenue from these sites is now included within the
Group’s poker revenue.
Integrated platform
In February 2006 the Group launched its fully integrated, 
Party-branded systems platform comprising PartyPoker and
PartyCasino. Using a single account, customers can switch easily
between poker and casino games, all using a single log-in and
only having to deposit money once into their PartyAccount. 
As new games are added, so players will be able to enjoy 
an even greater variety of games online, all supported by
PartyGaming’s 24/7 technical support and customer service.
Our business
continued
Casino
Although not as large as our poker business, the Group’s online
casino operations are a substantial business in their own right
and represented 12% of Group revenues and 13% of Clean
EBITDA in 2005. Since being launched in 1997, the casino business
has also grown strongly and following the launch of blackjack in
October 2005, is now the world’s largest online casino
†
.
Now trading under two main brands, PartyCasino and Starluck
Casino, the Group offers a variety of traditional casino games
such as blackjack, roulette, keno and video poker as well as a
variety of different slot machines. As with poker, players can 
also choose to play for free rather than real money. The key
difference between the casino and poker business is that in
casino, players are betting against the house and the outcome
is determined by randomly generated results. In poker, customers
are playing against each other and paying a fee to the house
for hosting the game.
In addition to casino, the Group also operates PartyBingo.com
which offers a variety of online bingo games as well as five and
three-reel slots, Keno, and video poker. 
Until the fourth quarter of 2005, the casino business had been
driven by slots which in 2004 represented 62% of total casino
revenues. Following the launch of blackjack on PartyPoker in
October 2005, the mix of revenues is now dominated by
blackjack which has proved particularly popular with the
Group’s poker players.
Customer bonuses
Under International Financial Reporting Standards, certain
customer bonuses and reward points are required to be netted
from revenue rather than treated as an expense. In poker,
customer bonuses and PartyPoints (earned through a loyalty
programme), as a proportion of gross poker revenue, have
increased over time and in 2005 represented 8.1% of gross poker
revenue (2004: 5.2%). Bonus rates in casino tend to be much
higher than in poker reflecting higher player yields and speed 
of play.
Q1 Q2
2003 2004 2005
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Customer bonus and PartyPoints as a %
of gross poker/casino revenue
40
35
25
30
20
15
10
5
Poker
Casino
Revenue
Clean EBITDA (before central costs)
Casino revenue and Clean EBITDA
($million)
150
100
50
2002
19.2
4.5
29.4
8.7
48.6
29.0
118.6
75.6
2003 2004 2005
11 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
†Source: Global Betting and Gaming Consultants (‘GBGC’). 12 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Our business
continued
A hand of poker typically lasts 
for approximately 52 seconds –
at peak times on PartyPoker, more
than 7,000 real money hands are
being played in any given minute.
Geographic split of total revenues
(%)
100
95
90
85
USA
Canada
Continental Europe
UK
Australia
Others
Q1 Q2
2004 2005
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Poker – new player sign-ups by geography
(%)
100
90
80
70
USA
Scandinavia
Canada
UK
Continental Europe
Others
Australia
Q1 Q2
2004 2005
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Customers
The Group has one of the largest online gaming customer
databases with over 12.2 million registered players of which
1.8 million were active in 2005, i.e. generated revenue for the
Group in 2005. Poker represents the majority of players with
1.6 million registered real money players, of which 1.3 million
were active in 2005.
Geographic split
The majority of the Group’s customers reside in the United 
States although as a percentage of both active customers 
and new player sign-ups, this has been declining steadily over
the past year.
Customer dynamics vary depending upon the game being
played. In poker, on average, customers tend to play between
eight and ten times each month, playing approximately 21
hands of poker and playing for around 18 minutes each time
they play. By comparison in casino, players on average play
between three and five times each month.
Two of the most important metrics for both poker and casino 
are (i) the level of player activity, measured by the number of
active player days (calculated as the daily average number of
active players in a given period, multiplied by the number of
days in the period) and (ii) the spend per customer, measured as
the yield per active player day (calculated as the revenue in 
the period divided by the number of active player days in the
period). It should be noted that all of the key performance
indicators provided by the Group exclude skins. Winning streak?
13 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Chief Executive’s review
Blackjack
Since its launch in October 2005,
blackjack has proved hugely
popular with average daily wagers
of over $47 million and player
winnings of over $46 million, the
difference being the Group’s gross
daily blackjack revenue.
Absolutely!
Our blackjack players
win over $46 million a day.
14 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 15 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Our business
continued
In 2005, the Group’s 1.3 million
active poker customers were
mostly male (90%) with the largest
age group being the 25 – 34 age
group which represented
approximately 38% of the total.
Poker – player activity
As online poker is played against other players rather than
against the house, player liquidity (i.e. having plenty of other
players to play against) is critical for long-term success.
Historically, whilst the Group has continued to grow the number
of active real money players each quarter, the rate of growth in
registered players tends to fluctuate throughout the calendar
year reflecting the impact of marketing campaigns as well as
the inherent seasonality of the business. Both factors in turn
influence the overall level of player activity.
PartyPoker began to experience a substantial uplift in real
money sign-ups in 2003. Management believe that this was due
in part to the Group’s decision to begin advertising on television
in the US, as well as an increase in the popularity of poker
generally. A number of TV campaigns were conducted by the
Group at the same time as the airing of a number of major
poker tournaments on television in the US and this increased the
awareness of poker as an exciting form of entertainment for
adults. The impact on the number of real money sign-ups added
each month was dramatic.
Since then, the number of new real money sign-ups has
continued to increase over time (although there are seasonal
fluctuations affecting quarterly growth rates). The Group hit an all
time high of 82,005 new real money sign-ups for poker in one
calendar month in December 2005. The level of real money 
sign-ups continues to fluctuate with the level of advertising
conducted by the Group and also by coverage of major poker
tournaments on television.
Poker – real money sign-ups
300,000
250,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
50,000
Q1 Q2
2003 2004 2005
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 16 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Our business
continued
As at 31 December 2005, on average across all players,
approximately 33% of new players who sign-up are expected 
to still be active after six months and around 29% after 
12 months. Thereafter, the attrition rates are relatively low and
after 48 months 23% remain active. The trend since 2003 has
been that the rates of attrition have continued to increase
slightly over time. Management believe that this is due to 
the increasing proportion of new players that are more
recreational in nature and for whom online poker is not their
main leisure activity.
Despite this trend, the number of unique active players and the
overall level of player activity has continued to increase every
quarter since the launch of PartyPoker.com in August 2001.
In addition, while the number of players who originally signed-up
in a particular period and who continue to play declines over
time, the total revenue generated by that group of players
remains relatively stable. In other words, players that continue 
to play over time increase their spend, thereby mitigating the
impact of those players that leave the site or become inactive. 
The result is that each group of poker players that sign-up 
adds an incremental layer of revenue. On top of this will be 
any additional revenue generated by the cross-selling of 
other games.
In 2005, the Group invested in a data mining tool that allows the
Group to provide individual players with targeted promotions
and incentives, thereby increasing the effectiveness of overall
retention spend.
2005 2003 2004
Poker – player retention
(%)
80
100
40
20
60
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Q405
Q305 Q105
Q205 Q404
Q304
Q204
Q104
Q403
Q303
Q203
Q103
2001/02
Gross poker revenue by quarter of sign-up
($million)
250
300
150
100
200
2002 2001 2003 2004 2005
Poker – active player days
(million)
14
1.2
0.9
0.6
0.3
12
6
8
10
4
2
Active player days
Unique active players (right hand scale)
Q1 Q2
2003 2004 2005
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 $
$
£
£
Wait for it...
17 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 $
$
£
£
Chief Executive’s review
Employees
Every single one of our 1,359
employees contributes to 
the Group’s success. As at 
31 December 2005 we had 
190 people in Gibraltar, 
1,079 in India and 90 in the UK.
...wow!
Each one of our staff 
generated $429,000 profit*
in 2005.
18 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
*Clean EBITDA. 19 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Our business
continued
Casino – active player days
(million)
2.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
0.5
Q1 Q2
2003 2004 2005
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Casino – yield per active player day
($)
100
120
80
60
40
20
Q1 Q2
2003 2004 2005
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Poker – yield per active player day
($)
20
25
15
10
5
Q1 Q2
2003 2004 2005
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Poker – yield
While the level of player activity is important in driving revenues,
so is the yield generated per player every time they are active.
As with many other online businesses, the first and fourth quarters
are typically strong with the second quarter being the weakest.
As daylight hours increase and the weather in the Group’s 
main markets improves, people typically spend less time online.
The third quarter is usually better than the second but not as
strong as the first or fourth quarters. As well as affecting new
player sign-ups and player activity, seasonality also affects yield
per active player day.
Casino – player activity
As with poker, levels of new player sign-ups are an important
driver for the casino business, particularly as attrition levels 
tend to be higher in casino than in poker. In 2005 the Group 
had a total of over 444,000 unique active players playing its
casino games.
The level of player activity, as measured by active player days,
was totally transformed following the introduction of blackjack
on PartyPoker in October 2005 as illustrated by the substantial
increase in player activity in the final quarter of 2005.
Casino – yield
Given the smaller number of active players in casino, player
yields can be more volatile than in poker – the playing patterns
of high-rolling players, or ‘whales’ as they are known in the
industry, can influence the overall player yield. In addition, it is
worth noting that the yield per active player day in casino is
higher than in poker. This is partly due to the fact that casino
games tend to take less time to play than a game of poker 
and also because one player can generate revenue whereas 
in poker there may be as many as ten players involved in
generating rake from one hand of poker.
The fall in yield per active player day in the final quarter of 2005
was due largely to the impact of blackjack, which tends to
attract smaller bet sizes per game and has a lower margin than
other casino games. Overall, the introduction of blackjack had a
substantial and positive impact on the Group’s performance
and at the same time created the world’s largest online casino. 20 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Our business
continued
Operations
Operations can be divided into three core areas: systems and
technology, marketing and customer service. The Group
operates from three locations. The first is the Group headquarters
in Gibraltar where all senior management are based and all key
operational decisions are made. However, the majority of the
Group’s employees are based in Hyderabad, India where the
Group has established a business process outsourcing operation
(“BPO”) which supports a number of the Group’s systems,
software development and customer service activities. Finally, 
in London there is a team of online marketing professionals as
well as creative staff who provide online and offline marketing
support.
Systems and technology
The Group’s systems and technology are a core part of the
continued success of the business. Having scaleable and flexible
systems is a prerequisite for success in the online gaming
business. They also need to be robust, safe and secure so that
customers’ deposits and transactions remain confidential and
protected while the software needs to be independently
certified as being fair, so maintaining the highest standards 
of integrity.
The Group’s track record in growing its business over a relatively
short period is a testament to the scaleability of the Group’s
systems, which historically have seen month on month growth
rates of up to 90%. The Group seeks to ensure that there is always
headroom for additional customer traffic and so is continuously
adding capacity as the business expands.
Software development
From the very beginning, the Group has recognised the value 
in owning and developing its own gaming software and now 
has a dedicated team of over 200 software engineers based at
its BPO operation in Hyderabad, India. This team is charged
with delivering systems upgrades and developing new games
as well as maintaining the existing systems architecture. India is
renowned for being a centre of excellence as far as software
development is concerned and the Group has been fortunate 
in being able to attract staff of the highest quality to this
important area of its business.
The Group’s gaming software is
independently checked by iTech
Laboratories (“iTech”), a specialist
in independent software testing 
for e-commerce industries.
iTech checks the random 
number generators used by the
Group’s games for statistical
independence, uniform distribution
and unpredictability.
Software development
We have over 200 software
engineers with an average of five
years’ experience. As we roll out
more games, our technical
expertise is expanding even further
and remains a core element of our
intellectual property. Place your bets,
the wheel is spinning...
21 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Chief Executive’s review
Payment processing
The Group continues to expand
the number of ways that
customers can deposit and
withdraw funds. There are now 
23 different payment methods
including online wallets, credit
cards, debit cards and money
transfers.
23...
the number of ways our
players can deposit money
to play.
22 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 23 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Payment processing
In order for real money customers to play they must first pay-in
funds to their player account with the Group. When customers
log onto the online cashier, they are presented with a broad
variety of different payment mechanisms to choose from.
The order in which they appear will depend on the player’s
geographic location and the cost of the mechanism to 
the Group. 
By far the most popular route is via online wallets such as the
Group’s own proprietary online wallet, as well as a variety of
others including NETeller and FirePay. Online wallets are an
increasingly popular and cost-effective way to conduct
payment transactions securely over the internet and represented
63% of the total amount paid in to the Group’s poker player
accounts in 2005. The value of funds paid in by customers is
closely correlated with the number of active players and the
level of player activity.
The Group continues to expand the number of ways that
customers can pay-in and withdraw funds and now offers 
23 different mechanisms, more than any of its competitors.
Providing a secure, confidential and easy to use system is 
vital, as is making sure that customers have access to 
a dedicated customer service function that can provide
assistance 24/7.
Customer withdrawals can also be made by a variety of
different methods including repayment to the customer’s 
online wallet, bank transfer and paper cheques. Over 75% of
withdrawals are made using online wallets, a process which
takes between one and seven days, depending upon the
payment processor concerned. Bank transfers take between
two and three days and between seven and twenty days for
cheques despatched by regular mail (or two to three days if
premium mail is used and for which the customer is charged 
a fee).
At present, all of the Group’s online games are played in US
dollars. Monies paid in using other currencies are automatically
converted into US dollars at the prevailing rate. The Group plans
to launch a multi-currency offering during 2006.
Our business
continued
Payment processing
Over $2.7 billion was deposited
during 2005 while more than
$1.6 billion was withdrawn by 
the Group’s poker and casino
customers during the year.
Customer deposits – Poker
($million)
800
600
400
200
Q1 Q2
2004 2005
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Online wallets Other Credit cards 24 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Marketing
Having robust, reliable and scaleable systems means nothing
without customers. PartyGaming’s marketing prowess has been
a major factor behind the Group’s success to date and has
been built around three main marketing channels: direct (both
online and offline marketing); affiliates (third parties that drive
traffic to the Group’s sites in return for a fee) and through the 
use of bonuses that are offered to attract players to the Group’s
sites. As well as seeking to recruit new players, the Group also has
a broad variety of player retention initiatives, such as a VIP club
and a reward scheme called PartyPoints. These initiatives seek to
encourage existing players to continue to play and ensure that
they remain loyal and are not lured to other sites.
The direct channel is dominated by the use of television
advertising and promotion. Historically this has proved to be
one of the most effective methods to drive new player sign-ups
and has become the Group’s preferred marketing tool. In 2005,
the Group invested in a number of television promotions,
predominantly in the US, but also in several international
territories. Other forms of direct marketing include radio and
billboard advertising, sponsorship, direct mail (software on CDs),
print media as well as online campaigns such as banner
advertising and search engine promotions.
Affiliates are typically internet entrepreneurs who have
established websites that direct player traffic to the Group’s
gaming sites. To become an affiliate of PartyGaming, you must
first sign-up to the terms and conditions at PartyPartners.com, 
before starting to drive traffic to the Group’s sites and generating
income. PartyGaming is an attractive proposition for affiliates
because of its historic success, established brands and quality
offering. The Group has one of the largest affiliate programmes
in the world with its affiliate network generating approximately
34% of total poker revenue in 2005.
Bonuses are the third main marketing tool for the Group and 
one that is commonplace in the online gaming industry.
PartyGaming has over 50 different bonus types although most
fall into one of the following categories: initial sign-up bonus,
reload bonus (such as ‘deposit $100 and we will offer you a
bonus of $20’), refer-a-friend bonus (refer someone who makes 
a deposit and you will earn a bonus), as well as various one-off
promotions.
Our business
continued
Affiliates
Customer traffic generated by our
affiliate network accounted for 34%
of poker revenues in 2005, a small
increase on 2004. One partner…
25 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Chief Executive’s review
Using our network
The Group has one of the largest
affiliate networks with over 5,000
active affiliates in 2005. Through
PartyPartners, the Group’s
dedicated affiliate programme,
our affiliates can promote more
than one of the Group’s sites using
a common account.
…or many partners? 
PartyPartners has over 5,000 
active affiliate partners.
26 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 27 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Our business
continued
Customer service
From the outset, the Group recognised the need to provide
customers with excellent customer service care. As part of 
its operations in Gibraltar and Hyderabad, India, it has
established a dedicated customer service function with over
900 representatives that provide a 24/7 service, addressing
technical as well as personal account enquiries. In 2005, the
Group handled more than 4 million customer contacts, most
of which were by phone, with the balance by email.
This function is separated into two teams: transaction services
which deals with payment processing queries plus fraud and
collusion control; and customer services which deals with all
technical and software related enquiries as well as customer
account, promotion and bonus enquiries.
The Group has established a series of performance targets that 
it seeks to meet on a daily basis as follows:
• 80% of all cash out verifications are completed and processed
within six hours
• 90% of all phone calls are answered within 10 seconds
• 75% of all emails are answered within 30 minutes and 90% are
answered within 90 minutes. 28 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
The global gaming market
It is estimated that the global gaming market generated
approximately $258.3 billion of gross gaming yield in 2005
1,2
,of
which online gaming is estimated to have been approximately
$13 billion, or 5.0% of the total. Gaming, in all its different guises of
lotteries, poker, sports betting, casino gaming and so on, has
continued to increase in popularity with consumers all over the
world. In a recent study
3
, GBGC reviewed 195 different countries
and a total of 274 different jurisdictions and found there to be
some form of licensed gaming activity in 254 of them.
Online gaming has proved to be one of the fastest growing
segments of the overall gaming market, having grown at a
compound annual growth rate since 1998 of over 50%. Over the
next few years it is estimated that the online gaming sector as 
a whole will grow at a compound annual growth rate of over
14%, reaching $25.2 billion by 2010, when it is forecast to
represent some 7.7% of the global gaming market.
North America is the largest gaming market and its residents are
estimated to have accounted for approximately 47% of global
gross gaming yield in 2005, followed by Europe (28%) and then
Asia and the Middle East (16%).
The online gaming sector
Online gaming is a subset of the global gaming market. As there
are no geographical or physical boundaries, customers can log
on from anywhere in the world with an internet connection. 
As such, given the potential, online gaming has attracted a
large number of operators and despite being a young industry, 
is already a market that is highly competitive. In 2005, it is
estimated that there were over 2,400 online gaming websites
around the world
1
(as at February 2006, CasinoCity.com, an
independent casino and gaming directory, listed over 2,300
online gaming sites).
Whilst the barriers to entry for new entrants may appear to be
low, the reality is that there remain significant challenges to
delivering long-term success in this highly competitive market –
challenges to which PartyGaming has risen. As a result, GBGC is
predicting that the number of online gaming sites will decline in
2006 and also in 2007 and 2008. This is partly due to anticipated
consolidation in the sector, but also through the withdrawal of a
number of smaller operators who are unable to make
satisfactory returns.
The online gaming sector can be subdivided into different
segments, with the largest individual segment being online sports
betting, which in 2005 was estimated to have represented
around 36% of total online gross gaming yield, followed by online
casinos (25%) and poker (20%)
1
. The two most important
segments for PartyGaming are online poker and online casino.
Our markets
1 GBGC.
2 Gross gaming yield is defined as gross turnover less the amount 
paid out to players as winnings.
3 Double or Quits – GBGC Global Gaming Review 2005.
The global gaming market –
gross gaming yield
2
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
01 00 99 98 02 03 04 05E 06E 07E 08E 09E 10E
($billion)
Source: GBGC
The online gaming sector –
gross gaming yield
2
30
25
20
15
10
5
01 99 00 98 02 03 04 05E 06E 07E 08E 09E 10E
9%
6%
3%
Online gaming market ($billion)
Online gaming as a % of total gaming market (right hand scale)
Source: GBGC 29 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Looking for something? Chief Executive’s review
Games around the clock
At whatever time of day or night
our customers want to play, they
can find the game they want, at
the stakes they want, with 24/7
customer support.
Bingo!
Our online games 
are available 24/
30 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Online poker
Poker is not a new game, it has been around for decades if 
not centuries. While the origins of poker are unclear, what is 
clear is that it is one of the world’s most popular card games.
North America probably has the most poker players in the world
and according to the American Gaming Association
4
, nearly
one in five American adults played poker during the previous
12 months – a more than 50% increase over the number who
indicated they had played during the previous year.
Online poker has a much shorter history and really began to
appear in a meaningful way in 1998
5
, following increased
broadband penetration around the world, but especially in the
US, where a number of ‘play for free’ sites were launched. Since
then, the popularity of poker and the suitability of the internet as
a medium for allowing people to play games against each other
have combined to deliver strong growth in both the number of
people playing online poker and the total amount of revenue
captured by the operators. It is estimated that in 2005 there were
approximately three million online poker players worldwide
6
and
GBGC estimate that global online poker players generated gross
revenue in 2005 of $2.6 billion, representing approximately 20% of
online gaming revenues (this was almost double the $1.4 billion
achieved in 2004
7
). Although smaller than online sports betting
and online casino, online poker has been the fastest growing
segment within the online gaming sector in recent years.
However, it is clear that the rates of growth seen in online poker
will continue to moderate from the very high levels seen in
recent years. GBGC estimate that the segment will grow at over
18% per annum between 2005 and 2010 compared with 158%
per annum between 2000 and 2005.
Success in online poker
The high rates of growth in poker over recent years has attracted
a number of online poker operators and CasinoCity.com provide
listings for over 390 online poker sites in operation around the
world. However, in order to succeed in online poker over the
long term there are a number of key features which the Group
believes are important:
Player liquidity – players want to be able to find a table playing
the game they want at the stakes they want to play for, with
plenty of other players to make it interesting and all at the time
they want to play. Player liquidity is therefore very important for
attracting and retaining customers. It also means that the larger
sites have a greater variety of tournaments, starting on a regular
basis and can offer larger cash prizes.
Control of software – being able to upgrade, augment and 
add new features to software means that an operator can 
keep pace with changing consumer tastes, stay ahead of the
competition and, should they arise, fix problems quickly.
Payment processing expertise – offering a broad variety of
mechanisms which are both easy to use as well as safe and
secure is also key. Gaining the trust of the consumer can only 
be achieved by executing payments quickly and safely.
Excellent customer service – looking after the customer is a high
priority and simply providing a product online is not enough.
Today’s consumers expect to be able to speak to someone 
at a personal level to address issues that they may have with 
the service offered, as well as to help them complete their
transactions online.
Our markets
continued
31 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Poker and casino segments –
gross gaming yield
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
01 00 99 98 02 03 04 05 06E 07E 08E 09E 10E
($billion)
Poker Casino
Source: GBGC
Geographic growth
In the short to medium-term,
Europe is expected to be the
fastest growing territory for online
gaming with gross gaming yield
expected to grow by 19%
compound between 2005
and 2010
7
.
4 State of the States – 2005 survey of Casino Entertainment – American
Gaming Association.
5 Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein – Leisure & Travel – November 2005.
6 PartyGaming estimates.
7 GBGC. 32 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Our markets
continued
Gross gaming yield for online
casino segment, at $3.3 billion
was estimated to represent
approximately 25% of the total
online gaming sector in 2005.
8 GBGC – EiG presentation 8 November 2005.
Estimated share of online poker segment
#
at December 2005
(%)
1 PartyPoker* 41%
2 PokerStars 13%
3 ParadisePoker 7%
4 Ladbrokes 7%
5 Cryptologic 5%
6 Pacific Poker 5%
7 Ultimatebet 5%
8 Microgaming 4%
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Source: PartyGaming estimates
#Based on gross ring game revenue
*Including EmpirePoker, MultiPoker and IntertopsPoker
Marketing expertise – online poker is a global business and is
highly competitive. Historically, television advertising has proved
to be one of the most effective routes for attracting new players,
but is not cheap. Restrictions on television advertising for online
gaming in certain territories requires creativity in developing
other channels, as well as financial strength to seek out
alternative and previously untested marketing strategies.
Online casino
Online casinos have been around for many years with the first
site being launched back in 1996. By 2000, the global gross
gaming yield from online casinos was estimated to have been
$0.9 billion. Since then online casino revenues have grown
strongly, reaching an estimated gross gaming yield in 2005 of
$3.3 billion, implying a compound annual growth rate of 29%. 
It is estimated by GBGC that online casino gross gaming yield
will continue to grow at approximately 9% per annum until 2010
by which stage it would be worth $5.1 billion.
As casino players play against ‘the house’, player liquidity is not
an issue and as a result there are many more online casino sites
than any other form of online gaming site. CasinoCity.com lists
over 1,050 online casino sites, representing almost 50% of 
the total number of online gaming sites that they monitor 
(this concurs with other market research on the number of 
casino sites
8
). That said, there still remain the issues of control of
software, payment processing, customer service and marketing.
As customers are playing against the house, scale can be an
advantage in giving customers confidence in the site’s integrity
and also, for high value players, that the house has the financial
resources to pay out large winnings. The sorts of games available
at online casinos include slots, roulette, blackjack, craps and
video poker. Outcomes are determined by a random number
generator and the house earns a statistical gross margin
depending on the mix of games played.
Given the nature of the product, data of the relative share of
gross gaming yield for the online casino segment is very difficult
to obtain. However, GBGC has confirmed that, based on current
run rates, PartyGaming’s casino business is the largest online
casino in the world.
Licencing
PartyGaming is a Gibraltar incorporated public company and
is managed and controlled from its head office in Gibraltar.
PartyGaming is licensed and regulated by the Government of
Gibraltar under the Gaming Ordinance. New legislation, the
Gambling Ordinance 2005, has been enacted that updates
Gibraltar’s gaming legislation and provides a modern framework
for the licensing and regulation of online gambling. It is likely 
that the new legislation will be brought into effect during 2006.
PartyGaming’s licence will be grandfathered under the
provisions of the new legislation.
The Group also has a secondary gaming licence issued by the
Kahnawake Gaming Commission. Do you know the rules 
of blackjack?
33 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Chief Executive’s review
Customer care
Our dedicated customer services
and transaction services teams 
in Gibraltar and Hyderabad, 
India go through extensive training
programmes before interacting with
our customers.
Ask any Questions.
We know all the Answers.
(By the way –you’ve won!)
34 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 35 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
PartyGaming faces a number of challenges in the day-to-day
running of its business. The key risks to the Group’s current and
future business performance can be categorised into industry-
specific as well as company-specific issues. Industry-specific risks
include changes to the regulation of online gaming around the
world, especially in the US, as well as technology-related risks
and increased competition.
Online gaming regulation
Although the regulatory regime for land-based gaming
operations is well established in many countries, the gaming laws
in some of them will not necessarily have been updated to take
account of the internet. This can cause uncertainty and affect
the Group’s ability to operate effectively, as can the application
or enforcement of gaming laws or regulations, a change in
sentiment by regulatory authorities or the taking of any action by
relevant authorities which restricts the processing of payments
relating to online gaming transactions or the advertising of online
gaming. The Group actively monitors legislative developments 
in all of the key territories in which it operates and aims to 
ensure that its business is able to adapt to changes in the
regulatory environment.
Technology
PartyGaming is reliant on the continued growth and
maintenance of the internet infrastructure and the integrity 
and operation of the Group’s computer and communication
systems. The Group employs a series of intrusion detection and
prevention measures to ensure that its operating systems 
are safeguarded against hackers, email viruses, distributed
denial of service (‘DDoS’) attacks and other forms of cyber
crime. Any failure in these measures could result in a decline in
user traffic and impact the Group’s operations, reputation and
financial performance.
PartyGaming regularly upgrades its technology and network
infrastructure to handle increased traffic on its websites and 
also to roll out new products and services. Any failureto
implement such upgrades successfully might affect both the
quality of its gaming products and services and the experience
of its customers.
PartyGaming has to rely on third-party bandwidth providers,
communications carriers, and data centres for key aspects 
of the process of providing gaming products and services to 
its customers. 
While the Group is in the process of formalising its disaster
recovery and business continuity plans, there can be no
assurance that, if invoked, the implementation of such plans
would not significantly disrupt its technology systems and have 
a consequent impact on its business performance. 
Our risks
Competition
Online gaming is a highly competitive market with over 2,400
sites in operation in 2005
9
. In online poker, as the number of
players increases, the Group’s competitive advantage due to its
superior player liquidity may be diluted as an increasing number
of competitors build up a comparable number of customers.
There is also expected to be a trend toward industry
consolidation among the Group’s competitors, so smaller
competitors today may become much larger in the future. 
If the legal status of online gaming in the US, where the Group
continues to derive the majority of its revenue, were to be
clarified such that US-based operators decided to enter the
sector, then PartyGaming is likely to face increased competition
from such operators that do not currently offer online gaming
services.
Taxation
The Group aims to ensure that each Group company is resident
for tax purposes only in the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated 
or domiciled and that it has no taxable permanent establishments
or other taxable presence in any other jurisdiction. The Group’s
customers are located worldwide. Revenues earned from
customers located in a particular jurisdiction may give rise to
further taxes in that jurisdiction. If such taxes are levied, either on
the basis of existing law or the current practice of any tax
authority, or by reason of a change in law or practice, then this
may have a material adverse effect on the amount of tax
payable by the Group.
In calculating the tax provision, in addition to any amounts due
in respect of jurisdictions in which Group companies are currently
incorporated or domiciled, a provision has been made to cover
the Directors’ best estimate of additional taxation exposures
which may arise.
The Company and its Gibraltar subsidiaries are registered as
exempt companies for Gibraltar tax purposes. As a result, the
Group pays relatively little tax in Gibraltar. The exempt company
tax regime is due to be phased out by the end of 2010. The
Government of Gibraltar has reiterated its commitment to the
continuation of Gibraltar’s fiscal competitiveness stating that it
intends to seek to introduce alternative arrangements to the
exempt companies legislation by the end of 2010 which will
meet EU requirements and which will be designed to retain
Gibraltar’s fiscal competitiveness. 
The loss by the Company of its tax exempt status (and that of all
the Company’s subsidiaries which currently have tax exempt
status) could have a material adverse effect on the overall tax
rate of the Group. 
A more detailed description of the risks faced by the 
Group was included in the Listing Particulars, a copy of 
which is available on the Group’s website:
www.partygaming.com/images/docs/prospectus.pdf
9 GBGC– EiG presentation 8 November 2005.
  36 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Deliver excellent customer service
In competitive sectors, such as online gaming, delivering a high
level of customer service is critical to attracting new customers
and retaining existing customers. The Group seeks innovative
ways to improve further its customer service as it considers its
infrastructure to be a key competitive advantage. The Group is
committed to broadening the range of convenient local
payment options and accepted currencies available to
customers and to providing fast processing of the pay-in and
withdrawal of funds.
Provide a robust and scalable gaming platform using leading
technologies
Maintaining a robust and scalable gaming platform has been,
and will continue to be, one of the Group’s main priorities. 
The Group’s strategy has been to use robust protocols and
operating systems, purchase proven third party technologies,
recruit and retain experienced and capable technical
employees, comply with security standards and have its systems
tested by independent specialists to ensure gaming integrity and
fairness. The Group promotes responsible online gaming by the
use of systems addressing age verification, fraud detection,
customer-led controls for limiting their spend and, for casino
games, playing duration, social responsibility content and
sources of help. The Group aims to continue this focus by having
a dedicated research and development team to keep the
Group’s systems at the forefront of the available technology.
Create an integrated Party-branded systems platform
In October 2005 the Group launched blackjack on PartyPoker
and in February 2006, launched PartyCasino as part of an
integrated platform using a shared purse called PartyAccount.
The new platform enables players to use funds and transfer
winnings across PartyPoker and PartyCasino. Additional games
will be added to the platform including PartyBingo as well as 
two new games during 2006. 
The Board believes that offering a diverse and comprehensive
portfolio of games will help to attract and retain online gaming
customers, as well as increase our share of our customers’ 
overall gaming spend. 
Acquire complementary businesses and new games
The fragmented nature of the online gaming industry may
present growth opportunities through market consolidation and
expansion through investment and acquisition. If appropriate
opportunities arise, the Directors would consider acquiring or
investing in complementary businesses and new products based
on commercial and strategic merits.
Explore the use of new technology channels
The development of new delivery and access channels also
presents opportunities for the Group to leverage its existing
products and brands. The Group is currently considering
opportunities to offer its products using wireless technology 
and is performing a product trial of Starluck Casino on mobile
telephones within the UK.
Chief Executive’s review
Our strategy
To be the world’s number one gaming
company, with the most trusted brands,
innovative technology and outstanding
customer service
To achieve this objective, the Group has established a number of
key business strategies:
Grow the Group’s poker business
PartyPoker is the world’s largest online poker room, with a 
highly recognised brand in its core territory, the US, and an
increasing presence in other markets. PartyGaming intends
to continue to develop these brand credentials and player
liquidity advantages as well as the Group’s other key strengths
to maintain its leadership in online poker.
Expand internationally
The Group aims to improve PartyGaming’s global market
position by increasing awareness of its ‘Party’ brand, focusing
initially on Europe and, in the longer term, Asia. The Directors
intend to target selected territories for expansion, particularly
in the EU and other countries which have experienced recent
high growth in broadband internet penetration and retail 
e-commerce acceptance. During 2006 the Group will be
launching multi-lingual and multi-currency versions of its games 
in order to broaden its international appeal. Eyes down...
is this your lucky day? Not if your age
matches any of these
numbers. We believe
in responsible gaming.
Responsible gaming
The Group promotes responsible
online gaming by the use of
systems that address age
verification, fraud detection and
customer-led controls for limiting
their spend. 39 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
During 2005 the Company engaged the services of
GoodCorporation, a specialist consultancy in this field, to assist 
in a preliminary verification and audit of many of the Group’s
existing business practices and policies and in particular 
those that affect a number of the Group’s key stakeholders. 
On completion of this review, the Group received a written
report and presentation covering such key areas as employees,
customers, suppliers, shareholders, community and the
environment. 
This preliminary review is being used to identify areas where
opportunities may exist to make meaningful improvements. 
It is intended that the 2006 Annual Report will provide further
details on progress made, including a summary of the
improvements that have been achieved during the current
financial year.
Customers and responsible gaming
Customers are the Group’s lifeblood. Providing appropriate
safeguards and protections is essential to ensure that
PartyGaming remains the players’ choice when it comes 
to online gaming.
The Group’s terms and conditions outline the responsibilities of
both the customer and the relevant PartyGaming subsidiary. 
In particular, the customer agrees that he/she is complying with
the local law, in terms of the legality of playing, by accepting
such terms and conditions.
Protecting vulnerable customers is a crucial element of
PartyGaming’s strategy and in particular the prevention of
underage gaming on its sites. On all of the Group’s real money
sites, a player is first asked for information so as to establish his/her
identity, including date of birth and address. Then, using third
party databases, to the extent available, the Group seeks to
verify the identity of the player and confirm that they are old
enough to play. Where a player cannot be verified by these
means, they are asked to provide additional information.
Corporate and social
responsibility
In delivering these business strategies, the Group recognises that
it is a multi-faceted and international business. As such, it has a
broad range of stakeholders, in a variety of countries, each of
whom has an interest in the activities of the Group. Examples of
some of these ‘stakeholder groups’ include customers,
shareholders, employees, affiliates, suppliers, local communities,
regulators/licensing bodies, trade associations, consumer
protection organisations and governments.
The Company’s behaviour and that of its officers and employees
can affect, directly or indirectly, any or all of these stakeholders,
as well as influence the general perceptions of PartyGaming
and everything that becomes associated with it. Our ‘corporate
behaviour’ in its broadest sense can be expected to influence
the way in which third-parties may do business with us and this 
in turn is likely to influence the long-term success of the Group.
Since the business was formed back in 1997, its philosophy has
been focused on acting properly and responsibly in its dealings
with stakeholders. Senior management recognised the risks and
potential damage to our reputation and business if we fail to
meet a high standard of professional and ethical conduct when
dealing with our key stakeholders. In order to help manage these
relationships, the Company has adopted a range of policies that
establish a framework defining the way in which the Group
interacts with each of its stakeholders, thereby mitigating the
potential risk attached to each of the relationships that
PartyGaming has to address.
A sign of the Board’s commitment to this important task is the
fact that it has established an Ethics Committee of the Board 
to be responsible for overseeing the Company’s framework of
corporate and social responsibility (‘CSR’) practices in the same
way that the Audit Committee oversees the Company’s internal
control environment. Rod Perry chairs the Ethics Committee and 
Lars Berg, Michael Jackson and Janos Libor are the other
members. Whilst the Committee has a broad remit, some of 
the particular issues upon which it is focused, given their
importance to the Group, are as follows:
– Responsible gaming;
– Fairness of the gaming platforms and rules; and
– Charitable donation/investment in the local community.
In addition, the Committee is responsible for overseeing and for
establishing a regular process for reporting on and developing
such practices. 40 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
In a fast growing and rapidly changing market, the Group aims
to ensure that its employees have all of the technical skills and
knowledge required to fulfil their roles effectively. Training is 
an ongoing part of life at PartyGaming and is provided both
internally and externally. For example, our customer service
operators in India undergo a rigorous training programme,
including classroom sessions as well as on-the-job training before
speaking to customers.
Suppliers
The Group’s key suppliers include providers of systems hardware,
bandwidth and telecommunications services, payment
processing, television advertising and other media space. 
The Group seeks to ensure that it enters into valid contracts with
all of its suppliers and acts in accordance with the terms of 
those agreements for the duration of the contract including fair
treatment and prompt payment.
In addition, the Group also contracts with over 5,000 affiliates
who drive player traffic to the Group’s websites. The Group
recently introduced a new affiliate programme called
PartyPartners that aims to provide an integrated service to 
each of its affiliates and since its introduction in 2005 has been
well received.
Community and environment
As an online business, the Group believes that it is a relatively 
low impact company from a community and environmental
point of view. However, the Group is keen to contribute to the
local economies where it has a presence and has introduced a
charity policy under which inter alia, there is now a framework 
to facilitate the donation of funds to charities and the local
community under the guidance of the Ethics Committee. 
In addition, as part of the policy, employees have been granted
the opportunity to participate in a pro bono scheme whereby
each employee is encouraged to spend a day every year
working in their local community. The Group contributed to
a number of disaster relief, health and problem gambling
charities in 2005.
Shareholders and other providers of capital
At the heart of the Group’s investor relations policy is a desire to
maintain regular and open dialogue with the Group’s investors
and investment analysts who follow PartyGaming’s progress. 
In addition to the half yearly publication of financial results,
the Group also publishes its key performance indicators every
quarter and the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director
and Director of Investor Relations are engaged in a continuous
programme of conference calls, presentations and meetings
with investors and analysts around the world, providing an
opportunity to ask questions and improve their understanding 
of the Group’s strategy and key business dynamics. Similarly, 
the Group also maintains a regular dialogue with each of its
lending banks.
Corporate and social
responsibility
continued
PartyGaming has established a series of procedures and controls
in order to promote responsible gaming. These include: only
being able to have one player account (so that if later they 
are excluded, or choose to exclude themselves, they cannot 
re-enter the site), allowing customers to set limits on the amount
they deposit within a given period and providing an option to
exclude themselves from the site for a pre-determined period.
The Group was certificated by GamCare in February 2005 in
recognition of the Group’s high standards of responsible gaming
and player protection. The Group was assessed in each of the
following key areas:
– Age verification system;
– Customer led controls for spend and session play;
– Self-exclusion options;
– Reality checks within games screen;
– Social responsibility content and sources of help; and
– Customer service training.
Employees
The Group is not ‘asset-rich’ in the conventional sense, its main
assets being its customers, its brands, its technology and its
reputation, each of which are driven and sustained by 
its workforce.
Over the past 12 months PartyGaming has undergone an
enormous expansion in terms of employees and the total
number has increased to 1,359 at the end of 2005 compared
with just 856 a year earlier. The Group has a centralised Human
Resources (‘HR’) function with overall responsibility for all
employees, although each of the Group’s locations also has an
HR function to help manage day-to-day issues. The Group has
processes and systems addressing a variety of issues including
equal opportunities, health and safety, grievances and discipline
and whistle-blowing.
PartyGaming is truly international both in terms of customers as
well as its employees and has a highly cosmopolitan workforce
with 23 different nationalities represented across the Group.
Approximately 36% of the employees are female. All employees
in Gibraltar, Hyderabad and London are issued with a contract
of employment. There is also an employee handbook that
outlines the behaviour expected by employees, the policies that
are relevant to them and the obligations of the Company. A good opening hand...
41 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Chief Executive’s review
Tournaments
PartyPoker is one of the largest
providers of online poker
tournaments and paid out over
$2.3 billion in tournament prizes 
in 2005.
Flush!
Which is how our
tournament winners feel.
42 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 43 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Poker remains the largest individual business segment,
representing 88% of 2005 revenues and 87% of Clean EBITDA.
However, the launch of blackjack during the fourth quarter of
2005 has improved the balance of the Group’s business and we
expect this to be further reflected in the 2006 financial results. 
PartyPoker was the driving force behind the Group’s poker
business in 2005 and total poker revenue grew 55% to 
$859.1 million (2004: $553.0 million). Clean EBITDA increased by
41% to $509.2 million (2004: $361.9 million), driven by the
substantial growth in poker revenue.
The casino business saw revenues increase strongly by 144% to
$118.6 million (2004: $48.6 million), due to the launch of blackjack
on PartyPoker during the fourth quarter. Clean EBITDA for this
business segment also rose strongly to $75.6 million (2004: 
$29.0 million).
Overall Clean EBITDA margins declined from 65.0% to 59.7% as
competitive pressures in the online gaming market led to an
increase in marketing expenses, but also reflected increased
administration expenses arising from the additional infrastructure
costs associated with becoming a public listed company.
Business development
The online gaming market is highly dynamic and is continuing to
develop apace. As the world’s leading online gaming business,
the Group has a well-established infrastructure with appropriate
procedures and processes which allow our highly skilled
employees to react quickly to changing market dynamics.
During 2005, there were a number of important developments
within each of the Group’s key areas of operation, namely
marketing, systems and customer service.
Marketing
The Group’s marketing strategy remains focused on growing 
the number of active players on its sites as well as broadening
the appeal of its products internationally. By increasing the range
of product offered to our customers, we aim to broaden the
appeal of our gaming sites and capture a greater share of total
gaming spend. While the main focus will be on promoting the
Group’s fully-integrated, Party-branded sites: PartyPoker,
PartyCasino, and PartyBingo and the other soon to be launched
Party-branded games, the Group will also continue to support
StarluckCasino, PlanetluckCasino and EmpirePoker, each of
which will act as secondary gaming brands. Players on
MultiPoker and IntertopsPoker will be migrated to the 
fully-integrated platform in due course.
During 2005 the Group launched successful multi-channel
marketing campaigns in a number of countries including the 
US, UK and several other European countries. The Group had 
1.3 million active real money poker players in 2005 (2004: 
0.7 million) of which 19% were outside the US compared with 10%
in 2004. In casino, the number of real money players increased 
to 0.4 million (2004: 0.1 million). The proportion of real money 
sign-ups for poker coming from countries outside the US
increased from 10% to 24% while in casino it increased from 
25% to 32%. 
Operating and 
financial review
The 2005 financial year was a period of transformation for the
Group. In addition to the Group’s flotation on the London Stock
Exchange in June 2005, the Group also launched a brand new
affiliate programme, PartyPartners, moved PartyPoker to a 
new operating platform, introduced blackjack to PartyPoker
customers and rationalised its white label arrangements in poker
by acquiring two of its ‘skins’ and terminating its relationship with
a third. Since the year end the Group has also acquired its last
remaining skin, EmpirePoker.com, subject to the approval of
Empire Online’s shareholders. Against this background of rapid
corporate development, the Group’s strong financial
performance has continued, delivering record revenue, 
Clean EBITDA and cash flow.
Results
During the year the Company incurred significant non-recurring
costs in respect of IPO-related expenses and skin-related
settlement costs. Additionally, share option charges contributed
significantly to non-cash expenses. Details of these items are set
out in note 2 to the financial statements.
Reconciliation of operating profit to Clean EBITDA
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million
Operating profit 332.4 383.2
Depreciation and amortisation 17.3 4.6
EBITDA 349.7 387.8
Share option charges 65.6 3.2
IPO-related expenses 22.6 –
Skin-related settlement costs 145.8 –
Clean EBITDA 583.7 391.0
Basic earnings per share before share 
option charges, IPO expenses and 
skin-related settlement costs (cents) 13.9 9.3
Diluted earnings per share before share 
option charges, IPO expenses and 
skin-related settlement costs (cents) 13.6 9.3
Basic earnings per Share (cents) 7.7 9.2
Diluted earnings per Share (cents) 7.5 9.2 44 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
During the year the Group successfully introduced a new 
server centre in Gibraltar. The Group has undertaken to the
Government of Gibraltar that it will use all reasonable
endeavours to ensure that all telecommunications capacity 
is sourced from Gibraltar within six months of the required
bandwidth and resilience becoming available and subject 
to the maintenance of back-up and resilience facilities.
PartyGaming continually strives to ensure that its customers 
have only the very highest levels of trust and confidence in the
Group’s gaming products. In addition to internal review
processes, all of the Group’s sites are checked each day 
by an independent third party to confirm that the highest
standards are maintained.
Customer service
Looking after the Group’s 1.3 million active poker customers and
0.4 million active casino customers during the year is a core part
of the Group’s activities. Customers need to feel that they are
playing in a safe and secure environment and that any issues 
will be resolved quickly. Our state-of-the-art business process
outsourcing (‘BPO’) operation in Hyderabad now has over 900
operators in Customer Services and Transaction Services who are
available to talk to or respond to emails from customers 24 hours
a day. Over the 12 months to 31 December 2005, the customer
service teams dealt with over 4 million customer contacts, 
of which 2.4 million were by phone, the balance by email. 
This represents a 25% increase in the total over 2004. 
In an online survey of customers conducted by
GoodCorporation in January 2006, of those who expressed a
view, 87% found that the customer contact by PartyGaming 
was either better than expected or said it was much better than
competitors. That said, the Group is not complacent and is
determined to continue to improve the quality of its customer
service offering through increased resources and training.
Transaction Services in India helps to resolve customer queries
relating to the online cashier. Both the Customer Service and
Transaction Services teams work closely together and a
customer enquiry received by one team may be resolved by 
the other, if more appropriate to do so. Improving the speed of
transactions for customers and also increasing the range of
methods available to pay-in and withdraw funds remain key
objectives for the Group. There are now 23 ways in which
customers can pay-in funds to their accounts including online
wallets, credit cards and other mechanisms.
Skins
At the time of the IPO, the Group made it clear that it would
seek to change the basis of its relationships with its skins partners,
the rationale for them having diminished following the Group’s
rapid expansion since 2003. 
In November 2005, the Group announced the acquisition of 
the player database and intellectual property of MultiPoker for
US$14.5 million in cash. MultiPoker is a leader in online poker 
in Scandinavia with more than 255,000 registered players. 
The Group also announced the termination of its skin
arrangement with IntertopsPoker.com and the acquisition of
its player database. IntertopsPoker has since become an 
affiliate of PartyPoker, allowing PartyPoker to market its games 
to IntertopsPoker.com players. At the same time the Group
announced that it had agreed to terminate its skin arrangement
with Coral Eurobet. 
Chief Executive’s review
Operating and 
financial review
continued
Customer promotions in a variety of different forms remain one
of the primary tools used by the industry to attract players as well
as retain them. The Group’s brand strength means that it can
continue to drive new player sign-ups, without having to match
the levels of player incentives offered by a number of smaller
competitors, many of whom are offering incentives to a level
that may not deliver long-term returns. However, the market
remains competitive and total bonuses (and other fair value
adjustments to revenue) as a percentage of gross poker
revenue have increased during the year to 9.3% (2004: 6.9%).
Bonus levels in casino tend to be much higher than in poker due
to the faster rate of play and the higher revenue generated per
active player day. However, the impact of blackjack on casino
revenue has meant that bonuses (and other fair value
adjustments to revenue) fell as a percentage of gross revenue
from 29.5% in 2004 to 14.4% in 2005.
While player acquisition remains a key driver for the business,
retaining players is also critical. At the beginning of 2005, the
Group commenced an extensive data mining project, the first
phase of which was completed during the fourth quarter of
2005, allowing a number of marketing initiatives to be introduced
that are expected to drive improved trends in player retention. 
The Group’s affiliate programme for the integrated platform,
PartyPartners, is now operational. PartyPartners combines a
number of the Group’s affiliate programmes enabling affiliates 
to leverage the Group’s existing poker affiliate network to drive
new players to the Group’s non-poker products using one
account, with common reporting systems and payment
mechanisms. During 2005 affiliates generated 34.3% of poker
revenue (2004: 28.3%) and it is expected that, through
PartyPartners, a number of existing PartyPoker affiliates will 
now also promote PartyCasino.com and other Party-branded
games, as and when they are launched.
Systems and product development
The most significant event during the year from a systems and
product development perspective was the separation of
PartyPoker from the Group’s skins in October 2005. 
Whilst the Group regularly updates and adds new features to its
poker and casino games through periodic ‘releases’ of revised
versions of its software, the release of a new version of PartyPoker
in October 2005 in conjunction with the decision to move
PartyPoker to a new and independent operating platform was 
a major step for the Group. This involved moving all of the
Group’s PartyPoker players and was a necessary first step before
launching the fully-integrated Party-branded platform. The move
also allowed us to further differentiate PartyPoker from the skins
by offering new and additional features, including blackjack.
Since the move, the performance of PartyPoker has
strengthened and the additional revenue from blackjack has
been substantial. 
Other new features that were rolled out on PartyPoker during the
year included the introduction of high-limit tables, ‘deal-making’
that allows tournament finalists to agree to split the winnings
rather than risk losing out altogether and the creation of a
number of micro-limit and beginners’ tables for the benefit of 
less experienced players.  Hold on...
it’s looking good.
45 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Chief Executive’s review
Marketing expenses
The Group’s marketing spend 
falls under a variety of different
headings including customer
acquisition and retention
costs, affiliate costs and 
customer bonuses.
Not three in a row...
but... $300 million was our 
annual marketing spend.
46 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 47 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Operating and 
financial review
continued
Regulation
The regulatory environment for online gaming around the world
is constantly changing with new rules and regulations being
considered in a number of territories where we attract players.
These currently include three proposed legislative initiatives in 
the US. The first is the reintroduction of an Internet Gambling
Prohibition Act by Congressman Goodlatte that seeks to update
the US Wire Act in order to prohibit all forms of online gaming 
in the US, subject to certain carve-outs. The other two are
sponsored by Congressman Leach and Senator Kyl respectively
and essentially seek to restrict the processing of ‘illegal online
gaming’ transactions in the US. These initiatives are similar to a
number of previous initiatives, all of which have failed either in
the Senate or the House of Representatives. Elsewhere, in Italy
the authorities have ordered a number of internet service
providers to block online gaming sites being accessed in Italy.
The online gaming industry intends to challenge this move which
it sees as being in contravention of EU law. The Board continues
to monitor closely developments regarding these and other
proposed regulatory changes around the globe and remains
committed to promoting a uniform international regulatory
framework for all online gaming.
Current trading and outlook
In the seven weeks to 18 February 2006 the Group’s trading
performance has been in line with the Board’s expectations, 
with average gross daily poker revenue up 9% versus the fourth
quarter of 2005 to $3.0 million per day. As expected, casino saw
a modest decline in the average daily gross win from blackjack
and average daily gross win for casino as a whole was 
$0.92 million compared with $0.98 million in the fourth quarter 
of 2005.
The Group has continued to grow new real money sign-ups and
in January added a record 92,838 new players to the system.
Whilst it is too early to comment specifically on its longer term
impact, the launch in February 2006 of the new integrated
platform incorporating the latest release of PartyPoker as well as
the new PartyCasino has been well received by players and
industry commentators alike. Our marketing strategies aim to
encourage an increasing proportion of our players to play more
than one game on our platform, using their common account
and shared purse. 
Whilst an increasing proportion of more recreational players can
be expected to increase the impact of seasonality on the
Group’s quarter-on-quarter performance, the introduction of two
new games as well as multi-currency and multilingual versions of
PartyPoker later in the year are expected to be positive for the
Group and the Board remains confident of making good
progress in the current year.
Also in November 2005, the Group announced that it was in
discussions regarding a possible offer to acquire the business and
assets of Empire Online Limited (‘EOL’). Those discussions were
terminated on 21 November 2005 and EOL announced that it
was proposing to commence legal proceedings against the
Group for, inter alia, breach of contract following the separation
of PartyPoker from the rest of the Group’s skins. On 14 February
2006, the Group announced that it had agreed to acquire the
business and assets of EmpirePoker.com, its last remaining skin,
from EOL as well as some other associated assets, for a total
cash consideration of $250 million. As part of the transaction,
that is subject to the approval by EOL shareholders on 6 March
2006, EOL has agreed to withdraw all legal claims against the
Group. The agreement with EOL is conditional upon the
approval of EOL shareholders and the Group has received
irrevocable powers of attorney from EOL shareholders
representing approximately 56% of the issued share capital of
EOL to the effect that their votes will be cast in favour of any
necessary resolution.
As required under International Financial Reporting Standards, a
non-recurring charge of $145.8 million has been included in the
2005 financial year within Administration Expenses to reflect the
settlement of disputes arising from the separation of PartyPoker
players from EmpirePoker and all of the other third party skins.
Management
In order to add strength and depth to the management team,
the Group has continued to appoint high quality personnel into
a number of senior management positions. These include Steve
Heller, previously CEO of IVY Comptech, the Group’s BPO
operation in India, who now has executive responsibility for all
customer service and transaction service operations across the
Group. Bhagwan Dass Goel has recently joined as head of
Group technology having previously held senior positions in a
number of leading e-commerce companies such as Travelocity,
Internet Shopping Network and Infoseek. Nigel Birrell has been
appointed as Director of Mergers and Acquisitions – he was
formerly at HIT Entertainment PLC where he was a main Board
director in charge of corporate development and acquisitions.
Future business developments
From an operational point of view, the Group is continuing to
develop new products and additional services to broaden its
customer base, improve the quality of its product offering and
drive the business forward. The Group has already announced
the launch of PartyCasino and the integrated platform which
took place in February 2006. The introduction of the first of two
new games is on-track for the first half with the second planned
for the third quarter of 2006. Multi-lingual and multi-currency
versions of PartyPoker are also scheduled for the second half 
of 2006.  48 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Revenue 
Revenue was up 63%, driven by a further strong performance 
by the Group’s poker business and also by a substantial
improvement in performance by the casino business which grew
revenue by 144%. In terms of geographic spread, the Group
continued to reduce its dependence on the US where total
revenue growth was 55% over 2004 whilst outside the US it was
even higher at 125%. As a result, the percentage of total
revenue generated outside the US in 2005 was 16% compared
with 11% in the previous year. A breakdown of the two business
segments, poker and casino is summarised below.
Chief Executive’s review
Operating and 
financial review
continued
Summary of results
Revenue Clean EBITDA
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004
$million $million $million $million
Poker 859.1 553.0 509.2 361.9
Casino 118.6 48.6 75.6 29.0
Unallocated (1.1) 0.1
977.7 601.6 583.7 391.0
Clean EBITDA margin 59.7% 65.0%
Revenue was up 63% over the same period in 2004, driven by
continued growth in the Group’s poker business but also by the
strong growth in casino following the launch of blackjack during
the fourth quarter of 2005. Clean EBITDA increased by 49%, the
impact of increased distribution and administration expenses
resulting in a reduction in margin from 65.0% to 59.7%.
Operating profit before share option charges, IPO expenses 
and skin-related settlement costs was 47% ahead of 2004. 
The reduction in operating profit margin (before share option
charges, IPO expenses and skin-related settlement costs) to
57.9% (2004: 64.2%) primarily reflected increased marketing
expenses within the poker business as well as increased
administration costs associated with becoming a listed
company. Share option charges, IPO expenses and skin-related
settlement costs totalled $234.0 million in the period (2004: 
$3.2 million). The share option charge of $65.6 million reflects the
granting of nil-cost share options to the Group’s employees
during the year, the majority of which were granted ahead 
of the Group’s flotation which took place on 30 June 2005. 
The skin-related settlement costs totalling $145.8 million are
amounts attributed to the settlement of disputes arising from 
the separation of PartyPoker players from EmpirePoker and 
all of the other third party skins in October 2005.
Basic clean earnings per Share were 13.9 cents (2004: 9.3 cents),
an increase of 49%. Basic earnings per Share were 7.7 cents, a
reduction of 16% over the prior year (see note 7 of the financial
statements). Diluted clean earnings per Share were 13.6 cents
(2004: 9.3 cents), an increase of 46%. Diluted earnings per Share
were 7.5 cents (2004: 9.2 cents).
Revenue by business segment
(%)
12
88
8
92
2004 2005
Poker
Casino
Revenue by geography
(%)
2
8
6
84
2
5
4
89
2004 2005
USA
Europe
Canada
RoW 49 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Let ’em roll... Chief Executive’s review
Asia
The opportunities to grow in 
the Far East are substantial.
However, issues such as regulation,
language, relatively low levels of
broadband and credit card/debit
card penetration mean that the
Asian markets are unlikely to
present significant financial
benefits in the short-term.
The Group continues to monitor
developments closely and looks
forward to exploiting opportunities
as and when they arise.
One spot…
flagging potential 
in the Far East.
50 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 51 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Poker
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million % change
Gross revenue 903.5 568.4 59%
Bonuses and other fair value 
adjustments to revenue (73.1) (29.5) 148%
Net revenue from own sites 830.4 538.9 54%
Income from skins 28.7 14.1 104%
Net poker revenue 859.1 553.0 55%
Clean EBITDA 509.2 361.9 41%
PartyGaming operates a number of online poker rooms including
PartyPoker, the world’s largest online poker room, MultiPoker,
IntertopsPoker, PokerNOW and subsequent to the year end,
EmpirePoker. During 2005 the Group had 1.3 million active real
money poker customers and revenue from customers playing 
on its poker sites was up by 54% compared with the same period
in 2004. 
During December 2005, it is estimated that PartyPoker had 
an average market share, as measured by ring game gross
revenue, of 38%. Including owned skins, the Group’s share was
over 40% which was more than three times larger than its nearest
rival. PartyPoker’s operating margins in the period were lower
than the previous year as a result of increased distribution costs
reflecting continued competitive pressures as well as wider
brand promotion in a number of new territories such as the UK
and Scandinavia. Higher administration expenses, particularly in
the second half, reflected the Group’s transition to becoming a
listed public company as well as one-off expenses associated
with the conclusion of the Group’s skin strategy.
Poker continues to appeal to an expanding group of online
players as demonstrated by the strong growth in both real
money sign-ups and the number of active players. A summary 
of the key performance indicators of the business during the
period is shown in the table below:
Key performance indicators
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
Active player days 47,403,613 28,216,430
Daily average players 129,815 77,094
Yield per active player day $17.5 $19.1
New real money sign-ups 839,317 596,565
Unique active players during the period 1,340,661 742,398
Unique active players in December 559,189 323,943
Average daily revenue $2,274,943 $1,472,398
The Group increased the total number of real money sign-ups
during the year to 839,317 (2004: 596,565), 24% of which were
outside the US (2004: 10%). This contributed to an 81% increase in
unique active players and a 68% year-on-year increase in active
player days to a record 47.4 million (2004: 28.2 million). 
Yield per active player day fell to $17.5 (2004: $19.1), reflecting
an increasing number of recreational players, the introduction of
blackjack in the fourth quarter and an increase in the level of
bonuses arising from competitive pressures in the marketplace. 
As anticipated, rates of attrition of real money sign-ups in 2005
continued to increase with 29.2 % of the sign-ups in January 2005
remaining active after six months and 26.7% after 12 months.
While the rates of attrition have increased over the previous year,
the trend has improved in recent months reflecting the fact that
a number of previously lapsed players have returned to
PartyPoker. As at 31 December 2005 and across all real money
poker sign-ups to date, the average rate of attrition after six
months was 32.9% and after 12 months it was 29.5%.
Casino
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million % change
Gross revenue 138.6 68.9 101%
Bonuses and other fair value 
adjustments to revenue (20.0) (20.3) (1%)
Net casino revenue 118.6 48.6 144%
Clean EBITDA 75.6 29.0 161%
The Group’s casino business was transformed by the introduction
of blackjack on to PartyPoker during the fourth quarter of 2005
with revenues up 144% on the previous year. Excluding the first
two weeks post-launch, which benefited from a degree of
novelty factor, blackjack generated average daily gross win in
the fourth quarter of $0.9 million with a steady gross win margin
of 2%. While bonus levels in casino tend to be much higher than
in poker, the large increase in revenue from blackjack meant
that bonuses (and other fair value adjustments to revenue) fell 
to 14.4% of gross revenue (2004: 29.5%). Management expect
that over time bonus activity will gradually increase and return 
to levels previously seen in casino. A summary of the key
performance indicators of the business during the year is shown
in the table below:
Key performance indicators
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
Active player days 2,914,940 657,893
Daily average players 7,986 1,798
Yield per active player day $40.7 $73.9
New real money sign-ups 66,741 54,000
Unique active players during the period 444,005 70,177
Unique active players in December 207,391 12,745
Average daily revenue $325,046 $132,754
Blackjack dominated all of the player metrics with total active
player days increasing substantially from 0.7 million to 2.9 million,
while the number of unique active players increased more than
five-fold to 444,005. Yield per active player day fell to $40.7 (2004:
$73.9) again driven by the impact of blackjack and this reduced
the average yield over all casino games for the full year.
Whilst additional distribution costs linked to the increase in
volume were incurred following the launch of blackjack, the fact
that the majority of blackjack players were already existing
players on PartyPoker meant that there were few customer
acquisition costs associated with the blackjack revenue
generated. As a result, Clean EBITDA margins for casino in 2005
increased to 63.7% (2004: 59.7%).
Operating and 
financial review
continued 52 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Operating and 
financial review
continued
Distribution costs
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million % change
Customer acquisition 
and retention (100.1) (37.6) 166%
Affiliates (99.4) (53.7) 85%
Other customer bonuses 
(not netted from revenue) (11.3) (10.0) 13%
Customer bad debts (48.9) (36.7) 33%
Web-hosting and 
technical services (11.4) (4.2) 171%
Total distribution costs (271.1) (142.2) 91%
Total distribution costs as 
% of revenue 27.7% 23.6%
As reflected in the results for the first half of 2005, increased
competitive pressures increased distribution expenses as a
percentage of revenue compared with the previous year. Driven
by a major increase in customer acquisition and retention costs,
distribution expenses were 27.7% of revenue versus 23.6% in 2004.
Affiliate costs have also increased faster than revenue growth,
reflecting their increasing importance as a central part of the
Group’s marketing strategy – affiliates were responsible for 34.3%
of poker revenue in 2005 (2004: 28.3%). However, customer bad
debts fell as a proportion of revenue reflecting improvements 
in systems and processes to prevent fraudulent behaviour. 
Web-hosting and technical costs increased sharply reflecting 
the substantial increase in customer traffic, investment in 
new equipment and further system improvements that were
introduced during the year. 
Administration costs
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million % change
Transaction fees (46.2) (29.3) 58%
Depreciation and amortisation (17.3) (4.6) 276%
Staff costs (38.4) (18.6) 106%
Other overheads (37.2) (20.6) 81%
Administration costs before share 
option charges, IPO expenses 
and skin-related settlement costs (139.1) (73.1) 90%
Share option charges (see below) (65.6) (3.2)
IPO-related expenses (22.6) –
Skin-related settlement costs (145.8) –
Total administration costs (373.1) (76.3) 389%
Total administration costs 
as % of revenue 38.2% 12.7%
Total administration costs 
as % revenue (excluding share 
option charges, IPO expenses 
and skin-related settlement costs) 14.2% 12.2%
Administration costs before share option charges, IPO 
expenses and skin-related settlement costs increased by 90% 
to $139.1 million, driven by increased activity levels and the
transformation to becoming a listed public company.
Transaction costs increased substantially reflecting increased
volumes of customer deposits and withdrawals but reduced as a
proportion of revenue reflecting an increase in the proportion of
transactions using e-wallets rather than more expensive payment
mechanisms. Depreciation and amortisation increased
substantially to $17.3 million reflecting further investment in
bandwidth in Gibraltar, the fit-out of a number of new offices 
in Gibraltar, Hyderabad and London to accommodate the
increase in staff levels and the amortisation of intangibles
associated with the acquisition of PokerNOW, MultiPoker and
IntertopsPoker during the year. Staff costs more than doubled 
in the year reflecting the addition of new employees as the
business has expanded as well as the addition of a number of
listed company-related appointments, including the Board of
Directors. The growth in other overheads included various
advisory fees associated with acquisitions and legal claims.
Customer acquisition
and retention
Affiliates
Chargebacks
Customer bonuses
Web-hosting and tech services
Distribution costs as a % of revenue
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
2003 2004 2005
6.9 6.2
10.2
8.7 8.9
10.2
5.4 6.1
5.0
1.0 1.7
1.1
0.8 0.7
1.2
Other overheads
Staff costs
Depreciation and amortisation Transaction fees
Share option charges
IPO-related expenses
Administration costs* as a % of revenue
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
2003 2004 2005
6.4
4.9 4.7
5.4
3.1 3.9
6.7
3.4
3.8
0.8
1.8
0.7
0.5
6.7
2.3
*Excluding skin-related settlement costs What sort of hand is this?
53 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Chief Executive’s review
The world’s largest poker room
By 31 December 2005 we had
dealt 5.9 billion hands of poker, of
which 3.4 billion were real money
and 2.5 billion were play money.
It’s no joke, since we 
started we have dealt
5,881 million hands 
of poker.
54 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Share option charges
Prior to flotation, the founding shareholders established a share
option plan for the benefit of the current and future workforce.
Under the terms of the plan, the existing workforce were 
granted a number of nil-cost options to be satisfied by existing
shares which had been issued to a dedicated employee trust. 
As such, the exercise of these options had no dilutive effect on
shareholders who subscribed at the IPO and will have no cash
impact on the Company. International Financial Reporting
Standards requires that the fair value of the options be amortised
through the income statement over the life of the options. 
As a result there is a non-cash charge of $65.6 million (2004: 
$3.2 million) which has been included within the income
statement in the period. This can be analysed as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million
Charge relating to
– nil-cost options issued pre-IPO (63.4) (3.2)
– nil-cost options issued post-IPO (2.2) –
Total (65.6) (3.2)
IPO-related expenses
Given that no new money was raised for the Company, 
the IPO-related expenses were apportioned between the selling
shareholders and the Company based on contractual
arrangements. The total IPO-related expenses were $88.0 million
of which the Company incurred $22.6 million (2004: nil). 
Skin-related settlement costs
The separation of PartyPoker from the skins platform in October
2005, the subsequent departure of Coral Eurobet and the
settlement of legal claims by Empire Online Limited resulted in a
non-recurring expense relating to settlement costs totalling
$145.8 million.
Associates 
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million
35% interest in a company incorporated 
in England and Wales 1.0 –
The Group acquired a 35% interest in the ordinary share capital
of a company incorporated in England and Wales during the
period. The Group’s share of losses during the year totalled 
$0.8 million (2004: nil).
Operating and 
financial review
continued
55 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Finance income and costs
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million
Interest payable and other charges (10.2) (12.9)
Interest receivable 3.5 1.4
(6.7) (11.5)
Interest payable fell to $10.2 million due to the repayment of 
all outstanding shareholder loans during the year. Interest
receivable increased to $3.5 million due to an increase in 
cash balances.
Net cash
10
As at 31 December 2005, the Group had net cash of 
$199.9 million
10
(2004: net debt of $350.7 million), having repaid 
all outstanding shareholder loans as well as the balance of a 
$200 million revolving credit facility which was provided by Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc and Barclays Capital at the time of the IPO.
The margin on the revolving credit facility, which is currently
undrawn, is 1% over LIBOR (or EURIBOR where relevant).
Taxation
The effective tax rate, before share option charges, IPO
expenses and skin-related settlement costs is 5.7% (2004: 5.8%).
Dividend
The final dividend for the year to 31 December 2005 will be the
Group’s first dividend since becoming a public company in June
2005. At the time of the IPO the Board indicated that the final
dividend was expected to be an aggregate amount of
approximately $200 million, representing two-thirds of the total
dividend that would have been paid had the Company been
listed since 1 January 2005. Accordingly, the Board is pleased to
recommend a final dividend totalling $200 million in aggregate,
equivalent to 5.25 cents per Share. The final dividend of 
5.25 cents per Share will be payable on 19 May 2006, subject to
approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 May
2006, to Shareholders and Depositary Interest Holders on the
register of members or Depositary Interest register respectively at
the close of business on 7 April 2006. The ex-dividend date will be
on 5 April 2006. Shareholders will receive their dividends in United
States Dollars, unless they elect for Sterling. These Shareholders or
Depositary Interest Holders may make Sterling elections by
notifying Capita IRG by 20 April 2006. The Sterling equivalent of
dividends declared in United States Dollars will be calculated by
reference to a rate prevailing on 28 April 2006.
10 Net cash is defined as cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
less shareholder loans and bank debt. 56 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Cash flow 
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million
Cash flow from operations before 
movements in working capital 415.3 391.0
Working capital movements 
associated with non-recurring 
skin-related settlement costs 142.2 –
Other working capital movements 62.7 38.1
Net cash flow from operating activities 620.2 429.1
Capital expenditure (36.8) (11.9)
Acquisitions of intangible assets (22.6) (5.8)
Investment in associated undertaking (1.8) –
Short-term investments (6.8) –
Purchase and cancellation of own shares – (1.1)
Net finance costs (8.4) (9.6)
Repayment of shareholder loans (482.8) (343.2)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 61.0 57.5
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital
included the charge relating to non-recurring skin-related
settlement costs of $142.2 million and was 6% higher than 2004.
Movements in working capital were again positive, generating
an additional $62.7 million (2004: $38.1 million) reflecting the
continued management of receivables and lower payment
processing reserves, resulting in net cash flow from operations of
$620.2 million, an increase of 45% over the previous year.
During the period, $482.8 million of outstanding shareholder 
loans were repaid. 
Operating and 
financial review
continued
Capital expenditure 
Capital expenditure during the period was $36.8 million (2004: 
$11.9 million) and is analysed in the table below:
Year ended 31 December 2005 2004
$million $million
Poker 12.4 3.0
Casino 0.3 1.4
Corporate assets 24.1 7.5
Total 36.8 11.9
The substantial increase in capital expenditure year on year
reflected a number of capital projects, including the
implementation of a data warehousing solution, the fit-out of
offices in Gibraltar, Hyderabad and London and investment in 
a server centre in Gibraltar.
Acquisitions of intangible assets
During the year the Group completed a number of acquisitions,
further details of which are provided below.
Year ended 31 December 2005
Consideration
$million
MultiPoker 14.5
IntertopsPoker 4.2
PokerNOW 2.8
Other 5.4
Total 26.9
On 11 November 2005 the Group announced the acquisition of
the player database and intellectual property of MultiPoker for
$14.5 million in cash. Other acquisitions included PokerNOW and
control of the IntertopsPoker website as well as a number of
small affiliates for an aggregate sum of $12.4 million.
Operating cash flow
($million)
700
600
500
300
100
400
200
2002 2003 2005 2004
6.7
86.1
429.1
620.2 57 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
What happens next? 58 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Are we off to the races,
the dogs or the big game?
Wait and see. 59 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Games development
We plan to launch two new
games in 2006. Both games will 
be added to the Party-branded,
integrated platform. Going
forward, we will be adding even
more games. Michael Jackson (56)
Chairman
Michael Jackson became
Chairman of PartyGaming in 
May 2005. He is Non-Executive
Chairman of the FTSE 100 software
group, The Sage Group plc, which,
during his time as a director, has
grown from a capitalisation of
£1 million in 1983 to its current 
level of over £3 billion. It was
announced in February 2006 that
Michael would be stepping down
as Chairman of The Sage Group
plc from 1 August 2006. Michael is
also Chairman of the venture
capital and investment company,
Elderstreet Investments Limited,
which he founded prior to its
acquisition by Dresdner Kleinwort
Capital in 2000 and subsequent
sale back to management in
2003. Michael is also a director
and investor in a number of
other quoted and unquoted
companies. Mr Jackson holds 
an MA in law from Cambridge
University and qualified as a
Chartered Accountant with
Coopers & Lybrand.
60 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Board of Directors
Richard Segal (42)
Chief Executive Officer
Richard Segal joined PartyGaming
on 25 August 2004. Before joining
the Group, Richard was for 
the period 1997 to 2003, chief
executive officer of Odeon 
Limited (“Odeon”) and its
successor company. During this
time, Odeon was owned by The
Rank Group Plc (“Rank”) until
February 2000, when Richard led 
a management buyout of Odeon
from Rank. In March 2003, Richard
led the successful sale of Odeon
to a consortium led by WestLB
Bank. During his employment with
Rank, which spanned from 1988 to
2000, Richard held a number of
senior management positions,
including managing director of
Rank’s Entertainment Sector.
Prior to working for Rank, Richard
worked for Arthur Andersen. 
He holds a BA in economics 
from Manchester University and 
is a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of
England and Wales.
Martin Weigold (40)
Group Finance Director
Martin Weigold joined the Group
on 4 January 2005. Prior to joining,
Martin was the chief financial
officer of Jetix Europe NV, formerly
Fox Kids Europe NV, for five years
from its flotation on Euronext in
1999. Before holding this position,
he was the vice president of
finance of Walt Disney Television
International for four years and
was actively involved in the
launch of Disney Channels in
France, Spain, Italy and Germany.
Prior to this he was an assistant
director of Guinness Mahon
Development Capital for six years
following a three year period as 
a management consultant with
Arthur Andersen. Martin holds a
BSc in economics and accounting
from Bristol University and is a
member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of
England and Wales.
Anurag Dikshit (34)
Group Operations Director
Anurag Dikshit joined the Group 
in 1998 and is one of the original
founders. Prior to joining the
Group, Anurag worked as a
development engineer 
at CMC, systems analyst at 
Websci and consultant for
AT&T. He holds a Bachelor of
Technology in computer science
and engineering from the
Indian Institute of Technology
in New Delhi.
Vikrant Bhargava (33)
Group Marketing Director
Vikrant Bhargava’s experience
prior to joining the Group in 2000
included positions as a credit
officer at the Bank of America,
where he was responsible for
managing credit exposure
and revenue for a portfolio of
corporate clients, and a business
analyst at British Gas in the
business development division.
Vikrant has a Postgraduate
Diploma in Management from the
Indian Institute of Management,
Kolkata and graduated with 
a Bachelor of Technology in
electrical engineering from the
Indian Institute of Technology in
New Delhi.  61 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Brian Larcombe (52)
Deputy Chairman and Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director
Brian Larcombe became Deputy
Chairman and the Senior
Independent Non-Executive
Director of PartyGaming in May
2005. Previously Brian had been
with 3i Group plc, having served
as finance director of 3i from 1992
to 1997 and as chief executive
officer from 1997 until 2004. 
He is currently a non-executive
director of Smith & Nephew plc
and of F&C Asset Management
plc and a former chairman of the
British Venture Capital Association.
Lars Berg (58)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Lars Berg became a Non-Executive
Director of PartyGaming in May
2005. Since August 2000, Lars
has been a non-executive 
board member of several
European technology and
telecommunications companies
including Telefonica Moviles, Eniro,
Net Insight and Ratos. In March
1999, he joined the executive
board of Mannesmann AG,
Dusseldorf, Germany, as head of
its Telecommunications Business,
and from 1994 until 1999 
he was president and chief
executive officer of Telia AB.
Between 1970 and 1994 he held
various management positions 
in the Ericsson Group.
Nigel Kenny (57)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nigel Kenny became a Non-
Executive Director of PartyGaming
in May 2005. From 1999 until 2002,
Nigel was Group Executive
Director of Finance at Standard
Chartered plc. Nigel joined
Standard Chartered in 1992 as
Group Head of Audit and held a
number of senior positions during
his tenure, including Regional
General Manager for UK & Europe,
Group Head of Strategy and
Group Head of Corporate and
Institutional Banking, Operations.
Nigel is a chartered accountant,
having qualified with 
Price Waterhouse in London, 
and was with Chase Manhattan
Bank for 13 years prior to joining
Standard Chartered. Since leaving
Standard Chartered he has
worked in the private equity sector.
Rod Perry (60)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Rod Perry became a Non-
Executive Director of PartyGaming
in May 2005. Rod had been an
executive director at 3i Group plc,
latterly responsible for venture
capital investment activities
worldwide. He joined 3i in 1985 as
an industrial adviser and became
Head of Information Systems in
1989. Rod was appointed to the 
3i executive committee in 1996
with responsibility for group
services and later Asia Pacific
investment. He retired from the 
3i Board in July 2005.
Janos Libor (40)
Non-Executive Director
Janos Libor became a Non-
Executive Director of PartyGaming
in October 2005. Janos is a
graduate of the Sorbonne,
University of California and
Harvard Business School. Janos 
is Managing Director of Timber
Cove, a private investment
management company. 
Previously he was a strategy
consultant and held senior
positions within Abeam Consulting,
Deloitte Consulting and McKinsey
working in North America and the
Far East. 62 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
The Directors have pleasure in presenting their first Directors’
Report to Shareholders.
Principal activities and business review
Since its foundation in 1997, PartyGaming has become the
world’s largest online gaming company with 1.3 million real
money poker customers and 0.4 million casino customers 
playing on the Group’s platforms in 2005. PartyGaming owns
and operates PartyPoker, the world’s largest online poker
business (based on revenue and number of players). 
The Group also operates other online gaming sites, including
PartyCasino, Starluck Casino, Planetluck Casino and PartyBingo
and is engaged in introducing new online games to satisfy
consumer demand.
The Company was incorporated in Gibraltar on 28 April 2004 as
Olema Ventures Limited before re-registering as a public limited
company under the name of PartyGaming Plc on 9 February
2005 and becoming the Group’s ultimate holding company for
the purposes of gaining a listing on the London Stock Exchange.
On 30 June 2005 the Company’s Shares were admitted to 
the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange. 
As part of this exercise, 896,889,050 Shares (22.4% of the issued
share capital) were sold in the market.
The Company and all other members of the Group, with the
exception of the Indian and UK incorporated subsidiaries, are
registered under The Companies (Taxation and Concessions)
Ordinance as exempt companies for Gibraltar tax purposes.
A detailed review of the Group’s business and prospects are 
set out elsewhere in this document.
Results and dividends
During the year the Company made a profit of $293.2 million. 
In accordance with the statements made in the Listing
Particulars, the Company has not paid an interim dividend in
2005 and the Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.25 cents
per Share. This proposal is in line with the Board’s dividend policy,
which will reflect the long-term earnings and cash flow potential
of the Group, whilst maintaining an appropriate level of dividend
cover. If approved by the Shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting on 4 May 2006, the final dividend will be paid on 
19 May 2006 to those Shareholders and Depositary Interest
Holders entered in the register of members or Depositary Interest
register respectively, on 7 April 2006. More details regarding the
dividend payment process are set out in the Shareholder
Information section.
Of the 4 billion Shares in issue, as at 28 February 2006 192,631,794
Shares were held in the PartyGaming Employee Share Option
Trust. The trustee of the Employee Trust has waived all dividend
and voting rights in respect of these Shares which are held by
the Employee Trust to satisfy the future exercise of share options.
This waiver only subsists while the Shares are held in the Employee
Trust. The Shares are transferred out of the Employee Trust upon
the exercise of share options under the Share Option Plans.
The Directors
Details of the current Directors are set out under the Board of
Directors section.
Prior to the Company obtaining its listing, Cheam Directors
Limited and Stawell Services Limited (appointed 8 February 2005)
served as Directors until 10 March 2005 and Alfred Ballester and
Vikrant Udeshi, both employees of the Group, served as Directors
from 10 March 2005 to 26 May 2005.
With the exception of Janos Libor, who was appointed to 
the Board on 19 October 2005, all the Directors stood for 
re-appointment at the AGM held on 24 June 2005. Therefore, in
accordance with the Articles of Association, at the 2006 AGM
Janos Libor will retire and seek re-appointment to the Board and
one-third of the remaining nine Directors are required to retire
and seek re-appointment. Consequently, Martin Weigold, Nigel
Kenny and Lars Berg will also be retiring at the AGM and
standing for re-appointment. In accordance with its duties, the
Nominations Committee has considered the re-appointments,
with regard to the performance of these Directors and their
ability to continue to contribute to the Board in light of the
knowledge, skills and experience required. As part of this process,
the results of the Board performance evaluation have been
taken into account. The Nominations Committee recommends
and the Board agrees that, given the valuable contributions
made by those Directors standing for re-appointment, it is in the
best interests of the Company that they are re-appointed at the
2006 AGM.
Directors’ report 63 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
On 5 May 2005 the Company’s issued share capital was
subdivided by a factor of four which meant Anurag Dikshit 
and Vikrant Bhargava’s holding increased to 1,577,600,000 and
448,000,000 Shares respectively. On Admission, Anurag Dikshit
and Vikrant Bhargava, two founding Shareholders of the Group,
disposed of 362,848,000 and 103,040,000 Shares respectively 
at the Offer Price of 116 pence per Share. On Admission,
Richard Segal and Martin Weigold exercised options under the
PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan in respect of 9,200,000 and
3,680,000 Shares respectively and also sold these Shares at 
the Offer Price of 116 pence per Share. Richard Segal and 
Martin Weigold also have further interests in the Company’s
share capital through the options they have been granted under
the PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan, details of which are set
out in the Remuneration Report.
Share capital
The Company has an authorised share capital of £75,000 divided
into 5,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.0015 pence. The Company
has in issue and admitted to the Official List and to trading on
the London Stock Exchange 4,000,000,000 Shares. As securities
issued by non-UK companies cannot be held or transferred
through the CREST paperless settlement system, the Company
has put in place arrangements for a depositary to hold the
Shares and issue dematerialised depositary interests (Depositary
Interests) representing the underlying Shares which are held on
trust for the holders of the Depositary Interests.
As disclosed in the Listing Particulars, on 10 June 2005 the
Directors were authorised to allot further Shares up to an
aggregate nominal amount of £15,000 (1,000,000,000 Shares). 
This authority expires on 10 June 2010. The Directors are also
empowered pursuant to Articles 22 to 25 until 10 June 2010 
to allot Shares for cash, pursuant to the above authority as if 
pre-emption rights did not apply to the allotment, provided that
such authority be limited to (i) the allotment of equity securities 
in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other 
pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders but subject
to such exclusions as may be necessary to deal with fractional
entitlements or legal or practical problems under any laws or
requirements of any regulatory body in any jurisdiction; and 
(ii) the allotment (otherwise pursuant to (i) above) of equity
securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£3,000 (200,000,000 Shares).
Further information regarding the Company’s Shares and
Depositary Interests are set out in the Shareholder Information
section.
Directors’ Share interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors in office at 31 December 2005 in the issued share capital of the Company are set out in the
table below:
Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary 
Shares Shares Shares Shares
28 February 31 December 30 June 1 January
2006 2005 2005 2005
Chairman
Michael Jackson 862,069 862,069 862,069 0
Executive Directors
Vikrant Bhargava 344,960,000 344,960,000 344,960,000 112,000,000
Anurag Dikshit 1,214,752,000 1,214,752,000 1,214,752,000 394,400,000
Richard Segal 0* 0* 0* 0
Martin Weigold 1,368,896 1,368,896 0 0
Non-Executive Directors
Lars Berg 184,293 184,293 188,793 0
Nigel Kenny 50,862 50,862 50,862 0
Brian Larcombe 508,621 508,621 508,621 0
Janos Libor 0 0 0 0
Rod Perry 50,862 50,862 50,862 0
*Richard Segal had the following options under the PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan which had vested but remained 
unexercised; on 30 June 2005 over 800,000 Shares; on 31 December 2005 over 4,550,000 Shares; and on 28 February 2006 over
5,800,000 Shares. 64 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Significant shareholdings
Set out below is a list of shareholdings disclosed to the Company
in accordance with the Gibraltar Disclosure of Interests in Shares
Ordinance 1998, the Articles and Deed Poll.
Ordinary Shares Percentage
currently held of issued
as at 28 February share
Shareholder 2006 capital
Crystal Ventures Limited
(1)
1,214,752,000 30.37
Cheam Directors Limited
(2)
628,320,000 15.71
Cheam Directors Limited
(3)
628,320,000 15.71
Coral Ventures Limited
(4)
344,960,000 8.62
Employee Trust 192,631,794 4.82
(1)
A Company owned indirectly by Anurag Dikshit, one of 
the Directors and Principal Shareholders.
(2)
Cheam Directors Limited holds Shares on bare trust for Stinson
Ridge Limited, a company wholly owned by Russell DeLeon.
(3)
Cheam Directors Limited holds Shares on bare trust for Emerald
Bay Limited, a company wholly owned by Ruth Parasol.
(4)
A company owned indirectly by Vikrant Bhargava, one of the
Directors and Principal Shareholders.
The Principal Shareholders are subject to the Underwriting
Agreement and have agreed to a lock-up undertaking, which
provides that prior to 30 June 2006, none of the Principal
Shareholders will dispose of their Shares without the prior consent
of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, other than in connection with
a takeover bid or to connected persons who are themselves
locked-up.
In addition, the Principal Shareholders entered into a 
Relationship Agreement with the Company dated 14 June 2005.
This agreement contains further provisions concerning the
disposal by the Principal Shareholders of their Shares. If any
Principal Shareholder proposes to effect any sale, transfer or 
other disposal of any Shares (a ‘Disposal’):
(i) such Principal Shareholder undertakes to provide the
Company with as much notice as is reasonably practicable
but in any event not less than 10 business days’ prior notice of
the proposed Disposal;
(ii) conduct such Disposal having such regard as is reasonable 
to the Company’s desire to ensure an orderly market for 
its Shares;
(iii) where, prior to 31 December 2010, any such Disposal would
be reasonably likely to cause the Company to lose its status
as a Gibraltar Tax Exempt Company, provide the Company
with not less than 12 months’ prior notice of the proposed
Disposal, provided that (A) no such Disposal shall take place
within two years of Admission (30 June 2007) and (B) these
obligations shall not apply if the result of the Disposal would
be to expose the Group to an effective rate of Gibraltar
taxation of less than 10%; and
(iv) give notice to the other Principal Shareholders of his or her
intention to make a Disposal.
Details of the contracts of employment that Anurag Dikshit 
and Vikrant Bhargava have with the Company are set out in 
the Remuneration Report. Russell DeLeon and Ruth Parasol have
each entered into separate consultancy agreements with the
Company. Under the terms of the consultancy agreements, the
consultants are appointed as independent and separate
consultants to PartyGaming, which is entitled to call upon their
services in respect of strategic advice, business development,
product development and regulatory affairs. Both consultancy
agreements can be terminated by either party on 12 months’
written notice, provided no notice can be served before 30 June
2006, the first anniversary of Admission. Each consultant is paid a
fee of £1,000 per day for services performed, and is reimbursed
by the Company in respect of reasonable and necessary
expenses incurred in the performance of those services. The
consultancy agreements came into effect on 30 June 2005 and
from this date to 31 December 2005 Russell DeLeon and Ruth
Parasol received $105,600 each in consultancy fees.
Employees
Our employees are the most valuable asset of the Group.
Without their dedication, professionalism and drive the Group
would be unable to serve its customers’ needs and achieve 
its goal of becoming the world’s leading gaming company. 
The founders of the Group recognised this and wanted to 
ensure that employees shared in the success of the business. 
To this end the PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan was
established and, on Admission, the Company allotted 224 million
Shares to the Employee Trust to be used to satisfy the future
exercise of share options under the Share Option Plans and
otherwise for the general purposes of the Employee Trust. 
More information regarding the Group’s employee policies is set
out in the Corporate Social Responsibility section. In recognition
of the value of our employees, the Chief Executive Officer is the
Director who reports on and takes responsibility on the Board for
the Group’s employees and the associated policies.
Customer and creditor payment policy
The Group is committed to prompt payment of customer
cashout requests and the Group maintains at all times adequate 
cash reserves to cover customer cashouts and balances.
Normally payments will be made to customers within 7 days 
of a customer instruction. In the case of other creditors, it is the
Group’s policy to agree terms at the outset of a transaction and
stick to them. In the event that an invoice is contested then the
Group tells the supplier without delay and seeks to settle the
dispute quickly.
Directors’ report
continued 65 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Corporate and social responsibility
The Board believes the way in which the Group behaves and
interacts with its stakeholders is key to the business’ success and
development. The Board has appointed an Ethics Committee 
to review the corporate and social responsibility (‘CSR’)
framework and ensure sufficient focus and resource is given to
implementing, monitoring and managing CSR policies.
Information about the Group’s CSR policies is set out in the
Corporate and Social Responsibility section and information 
on the Ethics Committee is given in the Corporate 
Governance Report.
Charitable and political donations
For the year ended 31 December 2005 the Group made
donations of $248,064 to charitable organisations. The Group 
has not made any contributions to any political parties. 
More information on the Group’s charitable policy is set out in
the Corporate and Social Responsibility section.
Auditors
During the year ended 31 December 2005 BDO Stoy Hayward
LLP was appointed under an engagement letter to act as
auditors for the purposes of the Company meeting its obligations
to prepare financial statements under the Listing Rules. For the
purposes of filing the Company financial statements in Gibraltar,
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants
Limited have been appointed to act as auditors, allowing an
audit report to be issued under Section 10 of the Gibraltar
Companies (Accounts) Ordinance 1999. The Audit Committee
has reviewed the re-appointment of BDO Stoy Hayward LLP
and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited as auditors. 
The Audit Committee recommends and the Board agrees 
with the re-appointment of BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and 
BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited as auditors and
therefore an ordinary resolution to this effect is being proposed
at the AGM (resolution 4) together with an ordinary resolution
authorising the Directors to set the auditors’ remuneration
(Resolution 5).
AGM
The Company’s AGM will be held on Thursday 4 May 2006 at
Tercentenery Sports Hall, Bayside Sports Centre, Bayside Road,
Gibraltar at 11 a.m. The AGM notice is printed later in this
document. The Company is incorporated, managed and
controlled in Gibraltar and therefore the AGM is required to be
held in Gibraltar. Information on attending and voting at the
AGM is set out in the Shareholder Information section of the
Annual Report.
The business of the meeting is set out in the AGM notice, but set
out below is a summary of and rationale for each resolution.
Resolution 1 – To receive the annual accounts 
(ordinary resolution)
The Directors are required by the Companies Ordinance to
present the annual accounts for the year to 31 December 2005
to Shareholders to formally receive them. This gives Shareholders
the opportunity to raise any questions about the 2005 accounts
and accompanying reports and statements.
Resolution 2 – To approve the Remuneration Report 
(ordinary resolution)
The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy of the
Company and is prepared and laid before Shareholders for
approval in accordance with best practice. The vote is advisory
and does not affect the remuneration of the Directors in the year
to 31 December 2005.
Resolution 3 – To approve the final dividend (ordinary
resolution)
As detailed above, the Directors are recommending the
payment of a final dividend of 5.25 cents per Share to
Shareholders and Depositary Interest Holders on the register of
members or Depositary Interest register respectively on 7 April
2006. If Shareholders approve the dividend it will be paid on 
19 May 2006.
Resolution 4 – To re-appoint the auditors (ordinary resolution)
The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each general
meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, 
to hold office until the conclusion of the next such meeting. 
The Directors are recommending the re-appointment of 
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants
Limited as auditors of the Company.
Resolution 5 – To authorise the Directors to set the auditors’
remuneration (ordinary resolution)
The resolution authorises the Directors to set the remuneration
payable to the auditors, in accordance with best practice. 
As explained in the Corporate Governance section, the Audit
Committee is tasked with reviewing the auditors’ remuneration
and making a recommendation to the Board.
Resolutions 6 to 9 – To re-appoint certain Directors 
(ordinary resolutions)
Resolutions 6 to 9 deal with the re-appointment of Janos Libor,
Martin Weigold, Nigel Kenny, and Lars Berg. In accordance 
with the Articles, these Directors must retire at the AGM and
stand for re-appointment. Details of each Director’s background
and experience are set out in the Board of Directors section. 
For the reasons set out in the Directors section of this report
above, the Board believes that it is in the best interests of the
Company to re-appoint these individuals as Directors.
Going concern statement
The Directors have reviewed the Group’s budget and strategy
and consider that the Company has adequate resources to
continue operating for the foreseeable future and therefore it 
is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing these financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Directors
David Abdoo 
General Counsel and Company Secretary 
28 February 2006 66 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Corporate governance
With the exception of the relevant provisions in the Companies
Ordinance, Gibraltar does not have a system of corporate
governance. The Company, however, applies the principles set
out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance annexed
to the Listing Rules (the Code).
Throughout the period from Admission to 31 December 2005, the
Company has complied fully with the Code’s principles except
in the three instances detailed below, being the Chairman’s
second FTSE 100 chairmanship, the Chairman’s initial fixed term
of service and the independence of the Board.
Prior to Admission, the Company was not required to comply
with the Listing Rules and the Code and therefore from 1 January
2005 until 31 May 2005 the Company was not compliant with
all provisions of the Code. During the period to 31 May 2005,
ahead of the proposed listing of the Company’s Shares,
measures were taken to implement a corporate governance
regime within the Company which was compliant with the
Code. These measures included the appointment, on 31 May
2005, of the Non-Executive Directors and Chief Executive Officer
to the Board, the adoption of a schedule of matters reserved to
the Board and the appointment of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees. As a result, from 31 May 2005 until
Admission, the Company was compliant with the Code, except
in respect of the Chairman’s initial fixed term of service and with
the caveat that, on the Company being admitted to the FTSE
100, the Chairman would be the chairman of two FTSE 100
companies.
The Board
In accordance with the Code, the Company is headed by an effective Board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the
Company. The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Company whilst ensuring that a framework of prudent and effective
controls exists in order effectively to assess and manage risk.
Date of Date of last 
Director Age Position Committees Appointment Re-appointment
Michael Jackson 56 Chairman Chairman of the Nominations 31 May 2005 24 June 2005
Committee and member of   (to the Board and
the Ethics Committee the Committees)
Richard Segal 42 Chief Executive Member of the 31 May 2005 24 June 2005
Officer Nominations Committee (to the Board and
the Nominations
Committee)
Martin Weigold 40 Group Finance – 4 April 2005 24 June 2005
Director
Anurag Dikshit 34 Group Operations – 4 April 2005 24 June 2005
Director
Vikrant Bhargava 33 Group Marketing – 4 April 2005 24 June 2005
Director
Brian Larcombe 52 Deputy Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration 31 May 2005 24 June 2005
and Senior Committee and a member (to the Board and
Independent Director of the Audit and the Committees)
Nominations Committees
Lars Berg 58 Independent Member of the Audit, 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 
Non-Executive Nominations and Ethics (to the Board and
Director Committees the Committees)
Nigel Kenny 57 Independent Chairman of the Audit 31 May 2005 24 June 2005
Non-Executive Committee and a member (to the Board and
Director of the Remuneration and the Committees)
Nominations Committees
Janos Libor 40 Non-Executive Member of the Nominations 19 October 2005 –
Director and Ethics Committees (to the Committees
on 5 December 2005)
Rod Perry 60 Independent Chairman of the Ethics 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 
Non-Executive Committee and member of (to the Board and 
Director the Remuneration and the Committees)
Nominations Committees
Set out in the Board of Directors section are biographies for each of the Directors. 67 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of matters
reserved to the Board, setting out which issues must be referred
to the Board for decision. Examples of topics covered by the
schedule are long-term strategy, budgets and forecasts, the
convening of Shareholder meetings, capital expenditure over
certain limits, restructuring of the Group, changes of share
capital, approval of new loan facilities, dividend policy,
acquisitions and disposals.
The Chairman has also met with the Non-Executive Directors
without the Executive Directors present during the year ended
31 December 2005. Subsequent to the year end, led by the
Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors met
without the Chairman present to review the latter’s performance
during the year ended 31 December 2005.
The Company has directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and
prospectus indemnity cover in place.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
In accordance with the Code, the roles of Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer are not exercised by the same individual. The
different responsibilities of both roles have been clearly set out by
the Board in a schedule of responsibilities of the Chairman and
the Chief Executive Officer.
The Code requires that no individual should be appointed to a
second chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company. As disclosed in the
Listing Particulars, Mr Jackson is currently the chairman of The
Sage Group plc, a FTSE 100 company. As anticipated in the
Listing Particulars, following Admission, the Company joined the
FTSE 100 on 19 September 2005 and therefore the requirements
of the Code in this respect have not been met. The Board,
however, is satisfied that Mr Jackson has been able to devote
sufficient time to his duties as Chairman of PartyGaming Plc.
Subsequent to the Company’s year end, on 6 February 2006, 
The Sage Group plc announced that Michael Jackson had
decided to retire as chairman of that company with effect 
from 1 August 2006.
Board independence
The Code recommends that at least half the members of a
board (excluding the chairman) should be non-executive
directors who are independent in character and judgement and
free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect,
or could appear to affect, their judgement. Until 19 October
2005 the Company had four independent Non-Executive
Directors (excluding the Chairman) (Brian Larcombe, Lars Berg,
Nigel Kenny and Rod Perry) and four Executive Directors 
(Richard Segal, Martin Weigold, Vikrant Bhargava and 
Anurag Dikshit) and therefore complied with the Code.
On 19 October 2005 Janos Libor was appointed to the Board as
a Non-Executive Director. As disclosed in the Company’s Listing
Particulars, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement
between the Company and, amongst others, Ruth Parasol and
Russell DeLeon dated 14 June 2005, these Principal Shareholders
have the right to nominate for appointment to the Board a
suitable person whilst they together have an interest of 15% or
more of the Company’s issued share capital. Ruth Parasol and
Russell DeLeon nominated Janos Libor and after considering the
nomination, the Nominations Committee recommended and
the Board approved the appointment. Owing to the
background behind his appointment, Janos Libor cannot be
considered to be an independent director and therefore,
between 19 October 2005 and 31 December 2005, slightly less
than half of the Board (excluding the Chairman) comprised 
Non-Executive Directors considered by the Board to be
independent. Nevertheless, the Board is satisfied that it has
maintained a sufficient degree of independence and continues
to do so. The Board is currently going through a search and
selection process in order to appoint a new independent 
Non-Executive Director and restore the balance of independent
and non-independent Directors serving on the Board and an
announcement regarding the appointment of an independent
Non-Executive Director is expected to be made in due course.
Brian Larcombe has been appointed the Senior Independent
Director and is available to Shareholders if they have concerns
which contact through the normal channels of Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director has not
resolved or for which contact is inappropriate.
The Board meets regularly in Gibraltar, at least eight times a year and minutes of these meetings are recorded. Set out below are
details of the Directors’ attendance record.
Number of meetings held/attended in the period 30 June 2005 to 31 December 2005
Audit Ethics Nominations Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Lars Berg 4/4 2/2 2/2 1/1 N/A
Vikrant Bhargava 4/4 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Anurag Dikshit 4/4 N/A N/A N/A N/A
Michael Jackson 4/4 N/A 2/2 1/1 N/A
Nigel Kenny 4/4 2/2 N/A 1/1 2/3
Brian Larcombe 4/4 2/2 N/A 1/1 3/3
Janos Libor 2/2 N/A * * N/A
Rod Perry 4/4 N/A 2/2 1/1 3/3
Richard Segal 4/4 N/A N/A 1/1 N/A
Martin Weigold 4/4 N/A N/A N/A N/A
*Janos Libor was appointed to the Board on 19 October 2005 and to the Ethics and Nominations Committees after the last meeting
of these Committees had been held in 2005. 68 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Appointments to the Board
The Board has adopted a formal, rigorous and transparent
procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. 
The Board has appointed a Nominations Committee to lead 
the process of appointment and make recommendations 
to the Board. Michael Jackson chairs the Nominations
Committee and Brian Larcombe, Lars Berg, Nigel Kenny, 
Janos Libor (appointed 6 December 2005), Rod Perry and
Richard Segal are members. The Nominations Committee 
has adopted terms of reference approved by the Board 
and these are available on the Company’s website
(www.partygaming.com/investor/nomination_terms.html).
As Janos Libor is a nominee of two of the Principal Shareholders,
the Nominations Committee did not use an external search
consultancy for this appointment. An external search
consultancy has been engaged by the Nominations Committee
and given a description of the role and capabilities required
for suitable candidates to fulfil the role of independent 
Non-Executive Director. The Nominations Committee will review
the candidates put forward by the search consultancy before
making a shortlist of candidates for members of the Nominations
Committee to interview. Following the interview stage the
Nominations Committee will make recommendations to the
Board as to which candidates are best suited to the selection
criteria. An announcement regarding an appointment of an
independent Non-Executive Director will be made in due course.
The Code recommends that notice or contract periods for
Directors should be set at one year or less. Michael Jackson has
an appointment letter governing the terms of his appointment 
as Chairman from Admission under which he is appointed 
for an initial term until 21 March 2008. The appointment may 
be terminated by PartyGaming giving 12 months’ notice to 
Michael Jackson to expire at any time on or after 21 March 2008.
The Board is satisfied that the length of Michael Jackson’s initial
fixed term was necessary to secure his services as Chairman. 
Notice periods for the other Directors comply with the Code.
On 28 February 2006 the Company announced that Richard
Segal, the current Chief Executive Officer, would be leaving the
Company no later than 1 June 2006 following a decision not to
relocate his family to Gibraltar. The Board is responsible for the
recruitment of a new Chief Executive Officer and has identified
the selection criteria for candidates to merit consideration for the
role. The Board is currently working with an external search
consultancy to identify suitable candidates. Once a suitable
candidate has been selected and has accepted the role,
then an announcement will be made by the Company.
The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors 
and the contracts of employment for the Executive Directors will
be available for inspection 15 minutes prior to and during the
2006 AGM.
Board information and professional development
The Chairman oversees, with the assistance of the Company
Secretary, the process of ensuring that all Directors receive timely
and accurate information in order to enable them to perform
their duties. Management provides detailed information 
ahead of each Board or Committee meeting and additional
information or updates between meetings, when deemed
necessary. Each Executive Director is readily available to the 
Non-Executive Directors if the latter should need clarification or
amplification on any information provided. All the Directors have
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary,
who is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures
are complied with and advising the Board through the Chairman
on all governance matters. The Board has also adopted a
procedure for a Director to seek independent professional 
advice at the expense of the Company where they judge 
it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors. 
Each Committee of the Board also has authority under its terms
of reference to obtain outside legal or other independent
professional advice if the Committee considers it necessary in
order to perform its duties.
Each new Director receives a full induction on joining the Board
and major Shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet
new Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman ensures that all
Directors continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity
with the Company required to fulfil their roles on the Board and
Board Committees.
Performance evaluation
Despite the Company only becoming a listed company on 
30 June 2005, the Directors have undertaken a formal evaluation
of their performance in the six months to 31 December 2005. 
At this early stage of the Board’s life the evaluation focused 
on the effectiveness of the Chairman, the Board and its
Committees. The evaluation was conducted using a detailed
questionnaire utilising the suggestions made on good practice 
in The Higgs Report. The results of the evaluation have been
reviewed by the Board. The performance of the Chairman has
been reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior
Independent Director, without the Chairman being present.
Re-appointments
In accordance with the Code, the Company’s Articles state that
each Director must retire and stand for re-appointment at the
first AGM following their original appointment. Consequently, all
the Directors with the exception of Janos Libor who had yet to
be appointed, retired and were re-appointed at the Company’s
AGM on 24 June 2005, being the first AGM following their original
appointments. Janos Libor will retire at the 2006 AGM, being 
the first AGM subsequent to his appointment and is seeking 
re-appointment.
The Articles also dictate that at every AGM one-third of the
Directors (or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, the
number nearest to one-third) shall retire from office; but if any
Director has at the start of the AGM been in office for three years
or more since his last re-appointment, he shall retire at that AGM.
Consequently Martin Weigold, Nigel Kenny and Lars Berg will be
retiring at the 2006 AGM and are seeking re-appointment.
The Nominations Committee has reviewed these re-appointments
and on the basis of experience, performance and commitment
demonstrated, has recommended to the Board that they be 
re-appointed. The Board has considered and agrees with
this recommendation and is therefore recommending to
Shareholders that they re-appoint Janos Libor, Martin Weigold,
Nigel Kenny and Lars Berg as Directors at the 2006 AGM.
The letters of appointment for each of the Non-Executive
Directors do not specify a fixed term of appointment and at this
time none of the Directors has served on the Board for more 
than 12 months. The Board has resolved, however, that if any
Non-Executive Director remains in office for a period of six years,
having satisfied annual performance evaluations and been 
re-appointed by Shareholders at an AGM at least twice, then
that Non-Executive Director’s re-appointment will be subject 
to a rigorous review by the Nominations Committee and the
Board, both bodies taking into account the need for progressive
refreshing of the Board. The Board does not expect that any
Non-Executive Director will serve for a period greater than 
nine years.
Corporate governance
continued 69 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Remuneration and the Remuneration Committee
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee to deal
with matters regarding the remuneration of the Executive
Directors and certain senior management. The remuneration 
of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Executive
Directors. The terms of reference for the Remuneration
Committee are available on the Company’s website
(www.partygaming.com/investor/remuneration_terms.html).
Brian Larcombe chairs the Remuneration Committee and 
the other members are Nigel Kenny and Rod Perry. All three
members are independent Non-Executive Directors. The
Remuneration Report prepared by the Remuneration
Committee is set out in this Annual Report and discloses the
remuneration policy of the Company and the remuneration
of the Directors.
Risk management, internal controls 
and the Audit Committee
The Company maintains a sound system of internal control for
the purpose of safeguarding Shareholders’ investment and the
Company’s assets. At least annually the Board conducts a
review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal
controls, covering all material controls, including financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk management
systems. The Company’s system of internal control reduces 
the probability of risks attaching to the business impeding the
Company from achieving its objectives, but it cannot eliminate
these risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has appointed a Director of Internal Audit who
also heads up the Company’s risk management monitoring.
During the year management have identified the risks 
attaching to the business and, on an on-going basis, efforts 
are being taken to mitigate these risks. Throughout the 
year the Company has engaged the services of
PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP (PWC) to perform internal audits 
of offices and departments within the business to assess that
adequate internal controls are in place to protect the
Company, its employees and Shareholders. PWC’s internal 
audit reports are presented to the Audit Committee and the
Director of Internal Audit meets regularly with the Audit
Committee Chairman, with whom he has direct access, and 
the Audit Committee.
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has
completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the internal
system of control in accordance with the guidance contained in
the Turnbull Report for the reporting period and is satisfied that it
is in accordance with that guidance.
The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and
transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply
the financial reporting and internal control principles and for
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Company’s joint
auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Fidecs Chartered
Accountants Limited. The Board has done this by appointing an
Audit Committee, whose terms of reference, agreed by the
Board are available on the Company’s website
(www.partygaming.com/investor/audit_terms.html).
In accordance with its duties the Audit Committee made
recommendations to the Board on the appointment, for
approval by Shareholders, of the external auditors and 
approved their remuneration and terms of engagement. 
The Audit Committee also established a policy on the
appointment of the auditors to perform non-audit services for
the Group over and above the external audit and keeps this
matter under ongoing review. It remains confident that the
objectivity and independence of the external auditors are not
impaired as a result of this further work.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Nigel Kenny and the other
members are Lars Berg and Brian Larcombe. All three members
are independent Non-Executive Directors and Nigel Kenny has
recent financial experience. The Audit Committee is authorised
to investigate any matter pertaining to the Company’s
management of risk and internal controls, the integrity of the
financial reporting and engagement of the external auditor 
and in doing so may seek any information it requires from any
employee of the Company and all employees are expected to
co-operate. The Audit Committee has authority from the Board,
at the Company’s expense, to obtain outside legal or other
independent professional advice and secure the attendance 
of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers
this necessary.
During the period from Admission on 30 June 2005 to
31 December 2005, the Audit Committee met twice (the Audit
Committee having been appointed on 31 May 2005). In doing
so it monitored the integrity of the Company’s half year financial
statement and the pre-close trading statement. The Board
reviewed the KPI statement made in respect of the third quarter
of 2005. In 2006 the Audit Committee has met twice to review
the preliminary full year results announcement and the annual
report for the year ended 31 December 2005. At the Audit
Committee’s meetings the members met with management and
with the internal and external auditors to review the effectiveness
of internal controls and business risk management. Through these
meetings and review process the Audit Committee has satisfied
itself that proper and satisfactory internal control systems remain
in place to identify and contain business risks and the integrity of
the Company’s financial reporting is sound.
The Company has adopted a formal ‘whistle-blowing’
procedure by which employees can, in confidence, raise
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial
reporting or other matters. These are set out in the PartyGaming
Employee Handbook and have been reviewed by both the
Audit and Ethics Committees. Both Committees are satisfied 
that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and
independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate
follow-up action.
Financial reporting and going concern
The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Company and in performing
this duty has sought to set out clearly in the Annual Report 
the Company’s performance in 2005 and its future prospects. 
In addition, the Board is obliged to report on whether the
business is a going concern, a statement concerning which 
is set out in the Directors’ Report. Corporate governance
continued
70 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Ethics Committee and corporate and social responsibility
Reflecting the importance the Company places on corporate
and social responsibility, the Board has appointed an Ethics
Committee, despite there being no requirement to do so under
the Code. Rod Perry is Chairman of the Committee and Lars
Berg, Michael Jackson and Janos Libor are the other members.
The purpose of the Ethics Committee is to oversee the CSR
framework adopted by the Group, monitoring that adequate
policies are in place to deal with stakeholder risks, just as the
Audit Committee reviews whether the Company has
satisfactory internal controls in place to address the financial
risks faced by the business. In particular, the Ethics Committee
focuses on the Company’s approach to responsible gaming,
the fairness of the gaming platforms and rules, charitable
donations and investment in the local community. In addition,
the Committee is responsible for overseeing the Company’s CSR
practices and for establishing a regular process for reporting on
and developing such practices.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board recognises the need for a productive dialogue with
the Company’s Shareholders based on a mutual understanding
of objectives. With over 70% of the Shares in issue still owned 
by the Principal Shareholders, all of whom are or have
representation on the Board, this facilitates the process of the
Directors engaging with and being aware of the views of these
Shareholders. In addition, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
and Group Finance Director assisted by the Investor Relations
Director, meet with institutional Shareholders on a regular basis.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted via the
Company’s registered office in the event that any Shareholder
wishes to raise an issue which it would be inappropriate
to raise with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group
Finance Director.
The AGM
The AGM provides a valuable opportunity for Shareholders,
particularly private individuals, to meet the Board. Shareholders
are reminded that PartyGaming Plc is a company incorporated,
managed and controlled in Gibraltar and therefore general
meetings will be held in Gibraltar. The Board is looking forward to
welcoming as many Shareholders as possible to the 2006 AGM
on Thursday 4 May 2006. Saving any unforeseen circumstances,
all the Directors will be present at the 2006 AGM and the
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Ethics
Committees will be available to answer questions relating to
their Committees. A live broadcast of the AGM proceedings will
also be available at Deutsche Bank, 75 London Wall, London
EC2 starting at 10.00 am BST which Shareholders are welcome
to attend.
The Notice of AGM is included later in this document and has
been dispatched more than 20 working days before the AGM.
Each item of business is proposed in a separate resolution at 
the AGM and the vote will be undertaken by poll rather than
simply by a show of hands in accordance with best practice.
Following the AGM the voting results will be announced via a
regulatory news service to the London Stock Exchange and
posted on the Company’s website. More information on how to
vote at and attend the AGM is contained in the Shareholder
Information section. 71 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Executive remuneration policy
The Company’s executive remuneration policy is to provide
market-competitive total remuneration packages enabling the
Company to recruit and retain high-calibre individuals required
to drive the future growth and performance of its business. 
Being an online gaming business, operating in a fast-moving
competitive environment, a particular emphasis is placed on
providing a share-based remuneration package appealing to
entrepreneurial and innovative executives.
When establishing remuneration policy, the Remuneration
Committee takes into account a range of special circumstances
relevant to the Company. These include the rapid growth of 
the Company, the characteristics of the sectors in which the
Company operates and the requirement for Executive Directors
and certain other senior management positions to discharge all
their responsibilities from Gibraltar and to relocate to Gibraltar.
The Company’s policy is that fixed compensation (salary and
benefits) should take account of the appropriate rate for each
role, taking into account market practice in the gaming and
internet sectors and geographic location. Variable rewards
provided through share options and bonuses currently form the
majority (c.90%) of the remuneration package for Executive
Directors. The senior management bonus scheme rewards the
achievement of short-term corporate and personal objectives;
the Share Option Plans reward share price performance.
Consistent with this policy, prior to the Company obtaining 
a listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Board established 
a nil-cost option plan (described below). Options were granted
to all employees as reward for their efforts in establishing a
market-leading online gaming business and to align their interests
with those of Shareholders. Grants were also made to certain
Executive Directors and senior managers reflecting the risks 
and challenges in bringing the Company to the public market.
Phased vesting over four to five years as appropriate, following
Admission, helps to ensure that a significant proportion of
Executive Director and senior manager remuneration remains
geared to the Company’s share price performance over the
long term.
In 2006 the Company will be undertaking a thorough
compensation and benefits review for all employees, the findings
of which will be considered by the Remuneration Committee. 
It is expected that the review will impact the Company’s future
remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior managers.
Any changes in policy will be described in future reports, which
will continue to be subject to Shareholder approval.
Introduction
In accordance with the Listing Rules the Company presents a
report on the remuneration of the Directors for the year ended
31 December 2005. The Company is incorporated in Gibraltar
so it is not subject to the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 which apply to UK incorporated companies
and which set out specific disclosure requirements for a
company’s remuneration report. In pursuit of best practice 
and full and transparent disclosure, this Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 31 December 2005 has been prepared 
by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with 
the aforementioned regulations. An ordinary resolution to
approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the 
AGM on 4 May 2006. The vote will have an advisory status only
and will be in respect of the remuneration policy and overall
remuneration packages generally and will not be specific to
individual levels of remuneration. BDO Stoy Hayward LLP has
audited the report to the extent required by the regulations,
being the sections headed ‘Share Option Plans’ and
‘Emoluments table’.
Remuneration Committee
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee. It is the
duty of this Committee to determine and agree with the Board
the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the 
Chief Executive Officer (Richard Segal), Executive Directors
(Anurag Dikshit, Vikrant Bhargava and Martin Weigold),
Company Secretary (David Abdoo) and any other senior
management reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee is also tasked with determining and reviewing on
an annual basis, the total individual remuneration packages of
each of these individuals, including bonuses, incentive payments
and share options or share awards. In a wider context the
Remuneration Committee also oversees major changes in
employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee 
are available on the PartyGaming.com website
(www.partygaming.com/investor/remuneration_terms.htm) 
or on request from the Company Secretary. The Remuneration
Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive
Directors, Brian Larcombe (Chairman), Nigel Kenny and 
Rod Perry. Details of the experience of these Directors is
contained in the Board of Directors section. The Secretary to 
the Remuneration Committee is David Abdoo.
In the period from Admission to 31 December 2005, the
Committee met three times. During the reporting period and in
pursuance of performing its duties effectively, the Committee
consulted internally with the Group Human Resources Director
and Company Secretary. In addition, the Chief Executive 
Officer was invited to attend Committee meetings. No person
was involved in any decisions as to his own remuneration. 
The Committee also appointed Kepler Associates to advise 
the Committee and the Company’s management on market
trends, short and long-term incentives and general executive
remuneration matters. No other services were provided to the
Company by Kepler Associates.
Remuneration report 72 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Salary
Executive Directors’ salaries are reviewed annually with changes
implemented from 1 January. Salaries are benchmarked 
by the Remuneration Committee’s advisors against four
comparator reference groups: (i) other FTSE 100 companies 
with a similar market capitalisation as the Company; (ii) listed
companies in the gaming sector; (iii) listed software companies
and (iv) major internet companies.
The recent benchmarking exercise conducted for the
Remuneration Committee by Kepler Associates indicated that
2005 levels of salary and benefits paid to the Executive Directors
were generally below median of the selected comparator
groups. The Committee has therefore resolved to increase
Executive Director basic salary and benefits levels to market
median over the three financial years 2006, 2007 and 2008.
Executive Directors’ 2005 and 2006 salaries are as follows:
2005 salary 2006 salary
Name Position $ $
Richard Segal Chief Executive 
Officer 705,920 1,023,750
Martin Weigold Group Finance
Director 563,811 673,750
Vikrant Bhargava Group Marketing
Director 385,082 612,500
Anurag Dikshit Group Operations
Director 354,309 612,500
Benefits
Executive Directors receive private medical insurance,
permanent health insurance and life assurance. There are no
pension benefits or company car allowances. Under the terms of
his service agreement, Richard Segal commutes to Gibraltar
Monday to Friday for the purpose of carrying out his duties as
Chief Executive Officer. The Company has agreed to bear the
costs of his accommodation in Gibraltar up to £40,000 each year
plus service and utility costs and to bear the costs of his flights to
and from the United Kingdom for the purpose of carrying out his
duties. Martin Weigold has relocated to Gibraltar and the
Company has paid him a one-off relocation bonus of 16% 
of his 2005 salary ($91,484).
Senior management bonus scheme
For the six months to 30 June 2005, Martin Weigold received 
a bonus payment of $73,174 in respect of his performance 
in the period leading up to Admission. None of the other 
Directors were eligible to receive a bonus payment in respect of
this period. Since Admission, for the six months to 31 December
2005, the Executive Directors participated in a senior
management bonus scheme approved by the Remuneration
Committee.
Remuneration report
continued
For Executive Directors, 60% of this bonus was dependent on
corporate financial performance targets being met and 40% on
the satisfaction of agreed personal performance objectives. The
maximum bonus that could be earned was 50% annualised of
an Executive Director’s basic salary for the six month period to 
31 December 2005. Bonus payments made to the Executive
Directors for the six month period to 31 December 2005 were
as follows:
Bonus paid
Executive Director $
Richard Segal 218,750
Martin Weigold 142,188
Vikrant Bhargava 118,125
Anurag Dikshit 123,375
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the structure of 
the senior management bonus scheme in respect of the year
ending 31 December 2006. The existing Executive Directors will
be eligible for an incentive with a maximum award of 50% of
basic salary. Awards will be earned for achieving stretching
targets linked to revenue, Clean EBITDA and personal
performance against agreed objectives. No bonus will be
payable if revenue thresholds are not met. The performance
measures were chosen for their relevance in driving short-term
performance of the business.
Share Option Plans
Executive Directors, senior managers and other staff are 
eligible to participate in the Company’s long-term incentive
arrangements which are structured around two option plans.
(i) PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan
To attract, retain and reward employees and self-employed
consultants, the Board established the PartyGaming Plc Share
Option Plan (the ‘Plan’). Each option granted to date under the
Plan takes the form of a right to acquire Shares or Depositary
Interests at nil-cost on particular vesting dates. The exercise of
these options will be satisfied by the transfer to participants of
Shares held in the Employee Trust established prior to Admission.
Option exercises will therefore have no dilutive effect on other
Shareholders or Depositary Interest Holders entering the register
after 30 June 2005 and will have no cash impact on the
Company. International Financial Reporting Standards, however,
require that the fair value of the options be amortised through
the income statement over the vesting period of the options,
based on the Group’s estimate of the Shares that will eventually
vest. As at 28 February 2006 192,631,794 Shares were held in the
Employee Trust to cover outstanding options; 57,240,430 Shares
are available in the Employee Trust for future awards under 
the Plan.
Under the Plan, Richard Segal and Martin Weigold were granted
options over 40,000,000 and 16,000,000 Shares respectively. 
The options were granted subject to the Shares being admitted
to the London Stock Exchange by 31 December 2005. 
Richard Segal and Martin Weigold were granted options over
this quantum of shares to attract them to the Company prior 
to the Offer, to incentivise and reward them for successfully
floating the Company and to reflect industry-specific and
Company-specific factors. There are no further performance
conditions applying to these options and the rules of the Plan do
not require performance conditions to apply. 73 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
As Principal Shareholders in the Company, Anurag Dikshit and
Vikrant Bhargava have not been granted options under the
Plan. In accordance with the Code none of the Non-Executive
Directors have been granted options under the Plan.
Richard Segal’s option vested in respect of 10,000,000 Shares 
on Admission. Richard Segal exercised his option in respect 
of 9,200,000 Shares which were sold in the Offer at a price of 
116 pence per Share. Martin Weigold’s option vested in respect
of 3,680,000 Shares on Admission and he exercised his option in
respect of 3,680,000 Shares which were sold in the Offer at a
price of 116 pence per Share.
Richard Segal’s option vests each calendar quarter in 16 equal
instalments commencing on 30 September 2005. As at
31 December 2005, Richard Segal’s option had vested in respect
of an aggregate of 3,750,000 Shares (excluding those vesting on
Admission). As at 31 December 2005 Richard Segal had not
exercised his option in respect of these Shares. Subject to the
terms of the grant, Martin Weigold’s option vests in equal
instalments each calendar quarter commencing with the first
calendar quarter following Admission and ending on
31 December 2009. As of 31 December 2005, Martin Weigold’s
option had vested in respect of an aggregate of 1,368,896
Shares (excluding those vesting on Admission) and Martin
Weigold had exercised his option in respect of all these Shares
and retained the resulting Shares which he continues to hold.
Richard Segal and Martin Weigold are subject to lock-up
arrangements with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein pursuant to
which they cannot, without the prior consent of Dresdner
Kleinwort Wasserstein, dispose of any Shares acquired on the
exercise of options prior to 30 June 2006, other than in
connection with a takeover bid or to connected persons 
who are themselves locked-up.
Future vesting is conditional on their continued employment 
by the Company on the relevant vesting date, save as
described below. 
Richard Segal’s option grant letter provides that in the event 
that he resigns as Chief Executive Officer or his employment is
terminated by the Company in circumstances where (i) it is
entitled to terminate his employment immediately without
compensation; or (ii) his performance has fallen substantially
below the level reasonably expected for a Chief Executive
Officer having regard to the level of performance set by 
the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual bonus
arrangements, then he shall be entitled to exercise his option
within the period of 90 days in respect of Shares vested at the
date on which notice of termination is given or received (the
‘notice date’) plus a pro rata number of Shares for the calendar
quarter in which the notice date falls. The option will lapse in
respect of any remaining Shares. In all other circumstances in
which his employment is terminated, he will also be entitled to
exercise the option within the period of 90 days following the
notice date in respect of such Shares that have vested at the
notice date plus such additional number of Shares as would
otherwise have vested during the 12 months following the 
notice date.
In connection with the arrangements agreed on 27 February
2006 under which he will leave the Company no later than 
1 June 2006, it has been agreed that Richard Segal’s options 
will continue to accrue until his leaving date, rather than his
entitlement being restricted to those Shares which have vested
under the quarterly vesting arrangements described above. 
In addition, Richard Segal will be entitled to exercise his option 
in respect of those Shares which would have vested within 
12 months of the leaving date (being 7.5 million Shares) in
accordance with his contractual entitlement described above.
Martin Weigold’s option grant letter (as amended) provides that
in the event that he resigns as Group Finance Director or his
employment is terminated by the Company in circumstances
where (i) it is entitled to terminate his employment immediately
without compensation; or (ii) his performance has fallen
substantially below the level reasonably expected for a Group
Finance Director having regard to the level of performance
agreed by the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual
bonus arrangements, then he shall be entitled to exercise his
option within the period of 90 days in respect of Shares vested at
the date on which notice of termination is given or received (the
‘notice date’). The option will lapse in respect of any remaining
Shares. In all other circumstances in which his employment is
terminated, he will also be entitled to exercise the option within
the period of 90 days following the notice date in respect of
such Shares that have vested at the notice date plus such
additional number of Shares as would otherwise have vested
during the 12 months following the notice date. In the case of
both Richard Segal and Martin Weigold, these exercise periods
are subject to extension to provide for a minimum open period
for dealing.
Plan participants are not entitled to receive dividends in respect
of Shares relating to options which are unvested or vested 
but unexercised.
The Remuneration Committee has no current intention to 
grant any further nil-cost options under the Plan to the existing
Executive Directors.
(ii) PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan
On Admission, the Company also adopted the PartyGaming Plc
Executive Share Option Plan. The PartyGaming Plc Executive
Share Option Plan provides for grants of fair market value options
over existing or newly issued Shares or Depositary Interests to
eligible employees (including the Executive Directors) and self-
employed consultants of the Group. The exercise of any options
granted under the PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan
is subject to the satisfaction of corporate performance targets
set over three years. To date no options have been granted
under the PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan. 74 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Remuneration report
continued
Executive Director service contracts
Richard Segal, Martin Weigold, Vikrant Bhargava and Anurag
Dikshit were appointed Executive Directors under terms of service
agreements with the Company (the ‘Service Agreements’ and
each a ‘Service Agreement’) dated 7 June 2005, 4 April 2005, 
13 June 2005 and 13 June 2005 respectively. The Service
Agreements are governed by English law.
The Service Agreements grant entitlements to a salary,
discretionary bonus, participation in the Company’s long-term
incentive plans, private medical insurance, permanent health
insurance and life assurance.
In accordance with the Code, each Executive Director’s
employment is terminable by either party on 12 months’ written
notice. The Company may elect to pay an Executive Director
compensation in lieu of notice. Such a payment would comprise
twelve months’ salary at the Director’s then current basic rate
plus a cash payment to compensate for the value of any lost
benefits under the Service Agreement. A compensation
payment is payable where the requisite twelve months’ notice is
not given to the Executive Director or where the Executive
Director terminates by giving twelve months’ notice and the
Company does not wish the Executive Director to serve his
notice. If a period of notice is served then the compensation 
payment is reduced pro rata. In the event that an Executive
Director’s contract is terminated for cause (e.g. gross
misconduct), the Company may terminate the contract with
immediate effect and no compensation would be payable.
An Executive Director’s options are dealt with in accordance with
the terms of his option grant letter. 
On 27 February 2006, the Company entered into an agreement
with Richard Segal under which he will cease employment no
later than 1 June 2006. On leaving, he will be entitled to £585,000
by way of termination payment (equal to one year’s salary), plus
£5,531 to compensate for the value of any lost benefits under his
Service Agreement. Richard Segal will also be eligible for an
annual bonus in respect of the period from 1 January 2006 to the
date his employment ceases. This will be considered by the
Remuneration Committee shortly after his departure, but the
amount paid will not be less than 50% of the maximum bonus
attributable to his period of service during the 2006 financial year
(pro-rated as necessary). Richard Segal’s options will be treated
as described in this Remuneration Report.
(iii) Status summary of options granted
Only options under the PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan have been granted during the year to 31 December 2005 to certain
Executive Directors. These options are nil-cost options and there has been no consideration paid for the grant of these options. 
No options have been granted to Non-Executive Directors.
Number of Number of
Shares over Shares over 
Number of which nil-cost which nil-cost 
Shares over options options
which nil-cost granted remain
options during unvested or
granted on the year to unexercised at
1 January 31 December 31 December
Executive Director 2005 2005 Vested Exercised Lapsed 2005 Expiry date
Vikrant Bhargava Nil Nil N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Anurag Dikshit Nil Nil N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Richard Segal Nil 40,000,000 30.06.05 – 30.06.05 – Nil 30,800,000 07.06.15
10,000,000 Shares option exercised in 
respect of 9,200,000
30.09.05 – Shares and all
1,875,000 Shares these Shares sold
immediately at
30.12.05 – 116 pence 
1,875,000 Shares per Share.
Martin Weigold Nil 16,000,000 30.06.05 – 30.06.05 – Nil 10,951,104 06.04.15
3,680,000 Shares option exercised in 
respect of 3,680,000
Shares and all
these Shares sold
immediately at
116 pence
per Share.
30.09.05 – 684,448 Shares 08.12.05 – 
option exercised 
in respect of 
684,448  Shares
30.12.05 – 684,448 Shares 30.12.05 – 
option exercised 
in respect
of 684,448 Shares
Note: In the period from 30 June 2005 to 31 December 2005 the Share price was 176 pence at its highest (28 July 2005) and 
71 pence at its lowest (10 October 2005). 75 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Chairman’s terms of appointment and remuneration
The Chairman of the Board, Michael Jackson, joined the Group
in March 2005 and has an appointment letter dated 31 May 2005
governed by English law the terms of which, with effect from 
30 June 2005, provide for an initial fixed term until 21 March 2008.
The Company may terminate the appointment by giving 12
months’ notice to expire on or at any time after 21 March 2008.
The Chairman may terminate the appointment at any time by
giving six months’ notice. The appointment is otherwise subject to
the provisions of the Articles.
The Chairman is entitled to an annual fee of £500,000 for his
services, reimbursement of reasonable expenses and to the
provision of office facilities and secretarial support at the
Company’s offices in Gibraltar. The Chairman does not
participate in the Company’s bonus or share plans.
The Chairman is subject to certain restrictive covenants during
the appointment and for a period of 12 months following the
termination of the appointment.
The Chairman received a one-off fee of £1,500,000 (less statutory
deductions) from the Company on Admission. The Chairman
invested £1,000,000 (of which approximately £115,000 was from
his own funds) to acquire Shares in the Offer at 116 pence per
Share and has agreed not to dispose of the Shares acquired for
a period of 12 months following Admission.
Non-Executive Directors’ terms of appointment and remuneration
The Non-Executive Directors have each entered into a letter of
appointment, the terms of which are governed by English law.
Brian Larcombe joined the Group in April 2005 and was
appointed a Non-Executive Director under an appointment
letter dated 31 May 2005. On Admission, he received a one-off
fee of £1,000,000 (less statutory deductions) from the Company.
He invested £590,000 to acquire Shares in the Offer at 116 pence
per Share and has agreed not to dispose of the Shares acquired
for a period of 12 months from Admission. Brian Larcombe is
entitled to an annual fee of £175,000.
Rod Perry, Lars Berg and Nigel Kenny were all appointed under
appointment letters dated 17 April 2005, 21 April 2005 and 
10 May 2005 respectively. On Admission, each one of them
received a one-off fee of £100,000 (less statutory deductions)
from the Company. Each invested £59,000 to acquire Shares in
the Offer at 116 pence per Share to be held for the duration of
their appointments.
Rod Perry, Lars Berg, Nigel Kenny are each entitled to an
annual fee of £75,000 plus an additional £10,000 per annum is
payable for chairmanship of any Board Committee. Rod Perry is
Chairman of the Ethics Committee and Nigel Kenny is Chairman
of the Audit Committee.
Janos Libor was appointed under an appointment letter dated
19 October 2005. He is entitled to an annual fee of £75,000.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is entitled to reimbursement
of reasonable expenses incurred in the course of their duties, 
the use of office facilities in Gibraltar and directors’ and officers’
liability insurance cover.
The appointments may be terminated by either party giving one
month’s notice and are subject to the provisions of the Articles.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for
the Executive Directors and the levels of remuneration reflect the
time commitment and responsibilities of the particular Non-
Executive role as well as the market rates paid to Non-Executive
Directors generally. Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to
participate in any of the Company’s incentive or share plans.
External appointments
All Executive Directors are required to seek the consent of 
the Board before accepting external appointments as 
non-executive directors of companies outside the Group. 
With the consent of the Board, Martin Weigold remains a director
of Ion Group Limited and Anurag Dikshit remains a director of
Integrated Developers Limited. During the year to 31 December
2005, Martin Weigold received fees of £2,500 for his services to
Ion Group Limited. Anurag Dikshit did not receive any fee for his
services to Integrated Developers Limited.
Emoluments table
Proceeds from
Basic IPO-related Allowances/ Total sale of nil- 2005 2004
salary/fees fees Bonus benefits emoluments cost options Total Total
Name $ $ $$$$$$
Executive Directors
Richard Segal 705,920 – 218,750 47,347 972,017 19,260,826 20,232,843 238,230
Martin Weigold 563,811 – 215,362 102,802 881,975 7,704,330 8,586,305 –
Vikrant Bhargava 385,082 – 118,125 9,447 512,654 – 512,654 269,260
Anurag Dikshit 354,309 – 123,375 8,038 485,722 – 485,722 211,600
Non-Executive Directors
Michael Jackson 592,346 2,688,150 – – 3,280,496 – 3,280,496 –
Brian Larcombe 230,015 1,792,100 – – 2,022,115 – 2,022,115 –
Lars Berg 109,049 179,210 – – 288,259 – 288,259 –
Nigel Kenny 95,219 179,210 – – 274,429 – 274,429 –
Janos Libor 26,160 – – – 26,160 – 26,160 –
Rod Perry 103,350 179,210 – – 282,560 – 282,560 –
Aggregate emoluments 3,165,261 5,017,880 675,612 167,634 9,026,387 26,965,156 35,991,543 719,090 76 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the
assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the
preparation of a Directors’ Report which complies with the
Gilbraltar Companies (Consolidated Accounts) Ordinance
1999, the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) Ordinance 1999 and
the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended, and a
Directors’ Remuneration Report which complies with the
requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Financial statements are published on the Group’s website in
accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which
may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions. The maintenance
and integrity of the Group’s website is the responsibility of the
Directors. The Directors' responsibility also extends to the ongoing
integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and
the financial statements. The Directors are required to prepare
financial statements for the Group in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and have also
chosen to prepare financial statements for the Company in
accordance with IFRS.
Group and parent company financial statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial
statements in accordance with IFRS, the Gibraltar Companies
(Consolidated Accounts) Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar
Companies (Accounts) Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar
Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial
statements present fairly for each financial year the Group’s 
and the Company’s financial position, financial performance
and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the
effects of transactions, other events and conditions in
accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for
assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International
Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the Preparation
and Presentation of Financial Statements’. In virtually all
circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by
compliance with all applicable IFRS. A fair presentation also
requires the Directors to:
• consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information; and
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events
and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial
performance. 
Directors’ responsibility statement
Remuneration report
continued
Total shareholder return
The Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the
Remuneration Committee to set out a graph showing the total
shareholder return of the Company’s Shares against the total
shareholder return performance of a suitable index. The Directors
have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as the most appropriate
comparator index as it is a widely-used and understood index 
of leading UK companies, and the Company is a constituent
member. The graph plots the value of an investment of £100 in
the Company’s Shares and in the FTSE 100 Index from Admission
to 31 December 2005. The change in the value of the FTSE 100
Index holding reflects any changes in the constituent companies
over the period. The value of dividend income is treated as
reinvested in the period.
Brian Larcombe
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
28 February 2006
Brian Larcombe 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
[22] March 2006
Value of £100 invested at Admission Value of £100 invested at Admission
120
110
100
90
PartyGaming
FTSE100
30 Jun 31 Dec In the red? 
Or the black?
77 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 Record results
2005 was a cracking year for
PartyGaming with revenue up
63%, Clean EBITDA up 49% and
operating cash flow up 45%.
As if you didn’t know!
78 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 79 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Our report has been prepared pursuant to the terms of our
engagement letter and for no other purpose. No person is entitled to
rely on this report unless such a person is a person entitled to rely
upon this report by virtue of the terms of our engagement letter or
has been expressly authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to any
other person or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly
disclaim any and all such liability.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the
Group’s and the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2005 and
of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Gibraltar Companies (Consolidated
Accounts) Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts)
Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, 
as amended; and
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having
been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with
Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP
Chartered Accountants
8 Baker Street
London W1U 3LL
28 February 2006
BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited
Chartered Accountants
PO Box 575
Montegu Pavilion
8-10 Queensway
Gibraltar
28 February 2006
We have audited the Group and Parent Company (the “Company”)
financial statements (the “financial statements”) of PartyGaming Plc
for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprises the Group
Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets,
the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group
and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the
related notes 1 to 27. These financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited
the information in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described
as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are
set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). PartyGaming Plc has
complied with the requirements of rules 9.8.6 and 9.8.8 of the Listing
Rules and Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985 in preparing
its annual report, as if it was incorporated in the United Kingdom. 
As auditors, we have agreed that our responsibilities in relation to 
the annual report will be those as set out below.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements 
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar
Companies (Consolidated Accounts) Ordinance 1999, 
the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) Ordinance 1999 and the
Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been
properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the UK
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
Directors’ Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the
Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by the listing rules and Gibraltar
legislation is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its
risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors’ Report and the other information contained
in the Annual Report for the above period described in the contents
section, including the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited
financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if 
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information.
Independent Auditors’
Report To The Shareholders
Of PartyGaming Plc
  80 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2005 2004
Note $million $million
Revenue – net gaming revenue 1 977.7 601.6
Other operating (expense)/income (1.1) 0.1
Administrative expenses
• Other administrative expenses (139.1) (73.1)
• Share option charges 2(a) (65.6) (3.2)
• IPO-related expenses 2(b) (22.6) –
• Skin-related settlement costs 2(c) (145.8) –
Total administrative expenses (373.1) (76.3)
Distribution expenses (271.1) (142.2)
Profit from operating activities 3 332.4 383.2
Finance income 4 3.5 1.4
Finance costs 4 (10.2) (12.9)
Share of loss of associate (0.8) –
Profit before tax 324.9 371.7
Tax 5 (31.7) (21.6)
Profit after tax 293.2 350.1
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 293.2 348.5
Minority interest – 1.6
293.2 350.1
Basic earnings per Share (cents) 7 7.7 9.2
Diluted earnings per Share (cents) 7 7.5 9.2
All amounts relate to continuing operations
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2005 2004
Note $million $million
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.0 0.0
Net income/expense recognised directly to equity 0.0 0.0
Profit after tax for the period 293.2 350.1
Total recognised income and expense for the period 293.2 350.1
Issue of share capital 20 0.1 –
Equity share options charge 2(a) 65.6 3.2
Total changes in equity 358.9 353.3
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 358.9 351.7
Minority interests – 1.6
358.9 353.3 81 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2005 2004
Note $million $million
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 8 30.3 7.7
Property, plant and equipment 9 37.1 13.3
Investment in associates 11 1.0 –
68.4 21.0
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 12 128.3 107.8
Cash and cash equivalents 13 194.9 133.9
Short-term investments 14 6.8 –
330.0 241.7
Total assets 398.4 262.7
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 13 (1.8) (1.8)
Trade and other payables 15 (201.5) (39.5)
Shareholder loans 16 – (223.9)
Income and other taxes payable (64.8) (28.0)
Client liabilities and progressive prize pools 17 (165.8) (104.6)
Provisions 18 (6.2) (4.7)
(440.1) (402.5)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 15 (4.2) (6.1)
Shareholder loans 16 – (258.9)
(4.2) (265.0)
Total liabilities (444.3) (667.5)
Total net liabilities (45.9) (404.8)
Equity
Share capital 20 0.1 0.0
Share premium account 21 0.4 0.4
Share option reserve 21 68.8 3.2
Retained earnings 21 710.2 417.0
Other reserve 21 (825.4) (825.4)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent (45.9) (404.8)
These accounts were approved by the Board on 28 February 2006 and signed on its behalf by
Richard Segal Chief Executive Officer
Martin Weigold Group Finance Director
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2005 82 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2005 2004
Note $million $million
Profit before tax 324.9 371.7
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangibles 4.3 0.3
Interest expense 10.2 12.9
Interest income (3.5) (1.4)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13.0 4.3
Increase in share option reserve 65.6 3.2
Loss on investment in associate 0.8 –
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital and provisions 415.3 391.0
Increase in trade and other receivables (20.0) (54.6)
Increase in trade and other payables 225.7 89.9
Increase in provisions 1.5 2.8
Income taxes paid (2.3) –
Cash generated by working capital 204.9 38.1
Net cash inflow from operating activities 620.2 429.1
Investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (36.8) (11.9)
Purchases of intangible assets (22.6) –
Purchase of minority interest in subsidiary – (5.8)
Interest received 3.5 1.4
Purchase and cancellation of own shares – (2.0)
Investment in associated undertaking (1.8) –
Increase in short-term investments (6.8) –
Net cash used in investing activities (64.5) (18.3)
Financing activities
Issue of shares – 0.9
Interest paid (9.6) (11.0)
Cost of revolving credit facility (2.3) –
Repayment of shareholder loans (482.8) (343.2)
Net cash used in financing activities (494.7) (353.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 61.0 57.5
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 132.1 74.6
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of period 193.1 132.1
Cash and cash equivalents 194.9 133.9
Bank overdraft (1.8) (1.8)
13 193.1 132.1 83 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
83 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These financial statements comply with the Gibraltar Companies (Consolidated Accounts) Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts)
Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended.
Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005 will be made available following the Company’s Annual General Meeting.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards including International
Accounting Standards (IASs) and interpretations, (collectively IFRS), published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) which have
been adopted by the European Commission and endorsed for use in the EU.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention other than for the valuation of certain financial instruments.
The functional currency used in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements is United States Dollars (USD) as is the presentation
currency. The functional currency is the currency in which the parent company operates and it reflects the economic substance of the underlying
events and circumstances of the Group. A small minority of Group companies operate in Pounds Sterling and Indian Rupees but the amounts
involved are not material.
Assets, liabilities and expenses of the Group are translated from Pounds Sterling and Indian Rupees into USD as follows:
• assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate existing at the balance sheet date;
• income and expenses are translated at the exchange rates existing at the dates of the transactions or at a rate that approximates the actual
exchange rates;
• equity items other than the net profit or loss for the period that are included within retained earnings are translated at the closing rate existing at
the balance sheet date; and
• any exchange differences arising from the above translations are recognised in the income statement.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are those companies controlled, directly or indirectly by PartyGaming Plc. Control exists where the Company has the power to govern
the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Except as noted below, subsidiaries are consolidated
from the date of acquisition (i.e. the date on which control of the subsidiary effectively commences) to the date of disposal (i.e. the date on which
control over the subsidiary effectively ceases).
Except as noted below, the financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated financial statements using the acquisition method of
accounting. On the date of acquisition the assets and liabilities of the relevant subsidiaries are measured at their fair values. The interest of minority
shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Under Section 10(2) of the Gibraltar (Consolidated Accounts) Ordinance 1999, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own
income statement.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting for the Company’s acquisition of the controlling interest in PartyGaming Holdings Limited
The Company’s controlling interest in its directly held, wholly owned subsidiary, PartyGaming Holdings Limited (formerly Headwall Ventures Limited),
was acquired through a transaction under common control, as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. The Directors note that transactions under
common control are outside the scope of IFRS 3 and that there is no guidance elsewhere in IFRS covering such transactions.
IFRS contain specific guidance to be followed where a transaction falls outside the scope of IFRS. This guidance is included at paragraphs 10 to 12 
of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. This requires, inter alia, that where IFRS does not include guidance for a
particular issue, the Directors may also consider the most recent pronouncements of other standard setting bodies that use a similar conceptual
framework to develop accounting standards. In this regard, it is noted that the United States Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued
an accounting standard covering business combinations (FAS 141) that is similar in a number of respects to IFRS 3. Further there is currently a major
project being run jointly by the IASB and FASB to converge IFRS and US GAAP.
In contrast to IFRS 3, FAS 141 does include, as an Appendix, limited accounting guidance for transactions under common control which, as with 
IFRS 3, are outside the scope of that accounting standard. The guidance contained in FAS 141 indicates that a form of accounting that is similar to
pooling of interests accounting, which was previously set out in Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion 16, may be used when accounting for
transactions under common control.
Having considered the requirements of IAS 8, and the guidance included within FAS 141, it is considered appropriate to use a form of accounting
which is similar to pooling of interests when dealing with the transaction in which the Company acquired its controlling interest in PartyGaming
Holdings Limited.
  84 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Accounting policies (continued)
In consequence, the Consolidated Financial Statements for PartyGaming Plc reports the result of operations for the period as though the acquisition
of its controlling interest through a transaction under common control had occurred at 1 January 2004. The effects of intercompany transactions
have been eliminated in determining the results of operations for the period prior to the acquisition of the controlling interest, meaning that those
results are on substantially the same basis as the results of operations for the period after the acquisition of the controlling interest.
Similarly, the consolidated balance sheets and other financial information have been presented as though the assets and liabilities of the combining
entities had been transferred at 1 January 2004.
Associates
Where the Group has the power to exercise significant influence over (but not control) the financial and operating policy decisions of another entity,
it is classified as an associate. Associates are initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost. The Group’s share of post-acquisition
profits and losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except that losses in excess of the Group’s investment in the associate are not
recognised unless there is an obligation to make good those losses.
Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated investors’ interests in
the associate. The investor’s share in the associate’s profits and losses resulting from these transactions is eliminated against the carrying value of the
associate.
Any premium paid for an associate above the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is
capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the associate and subject to impairment in the same way as goodwill arising on a business
combination described below.
Investments in associates held by the Company are carried at cost less any impairment in value.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are carried at cost less any impairment in value.
Foreign currency
Transactions entered into by Group entities in a currency other than the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates (the
“functional currency”) are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at
the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are similarly
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Revenue
Revenue from online gaming, comprising poker, casino and ‘white label/skins’ (third party entities that use the Group’s platform and certain
services), is recognised in the accounting periods in which the gaming transactions occur.
Poker revenue represents the commission (“rake”) charged or tournament entry fees where the player has concluded his participation in the
tournament. Casino revenue represents net house win. Revenue in respect of ‘white label/skin’ arrangements is the net commission invoiced.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is net of certain promotional bonuses.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Segment information
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged either in providing products or services (business segment), or products or
services within a particular economic environment (geographical segment) which are subject to risks and rewards that are different to those of
other segments.
Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because 
it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or
deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. It is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally
recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects
neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised. Deferred tax is
charged or credited to profit or loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also
dealt with in equity.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 85 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
85 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Accounting policies (continued)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current assets against current tax liabilities and when
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment
All property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. Cost includes directly attributable costs incurred in
bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, including professional fees. Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their
intended use.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of all property, plant and equipment, evenly over their expected useful
lives. It is calculated at the following rates:
Leasehold improvements – over length of lease
Plant, machinery, computer equipment – 33% per annum
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment, vehicles – 20% per annum
Where an item of property, plant or equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items
of property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised where it is incurred to replace a component of an item of plant, property or equipment where that item is
accounted for separately including major inspection and overhaul. All other subsequent expenditure is expensed as incurred, unless it increases the
future economic benefits to be derived from that item of plant, property and equipment.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of an
acquired subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity.
For acquisitions where the agreement date is on or after 31 March 2004, goodwill is not amortised and is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Goodwill arising on earlier acquisitions 
was being amortised over its estimated useful life of 20 years. In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations,
the unamortised balance of goodwill at 31 December 2004 was frozen and reviewed for impairment, and will be reviewed for impairment 
at least annually.
Intangible assets
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the
acquisition date. The identified intangibles are amortised over the useful economic life of the assets. For acquisitions during the period the useful
economic life of the intangible assets acquired is estimated to be between 18 months and five years.
Internally generated assets – research and development expenditure
Expenditure incurred on development activities, including the Group’s software development, is capitalised only where the expenditure will lead 
to new or substantially improved products or processes, the products or processes are technically and commercially feasible and the Group has
sufficient resources to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of
overheads. All other development expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only where it clearly increases the economic benefits to be derived from the
asset to which it relates. All other expenditure, including that incurred in order to maintain the related intangible asset’s current level of performance,
is expensed as incurred.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order
to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is
tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset
is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of 
its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as 
income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as 
a revaluation increase.
An impairment loss for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period unless:
• The impairment loss was caused by a specific external event of an exceptional nature that was not expected to recur; and
• Subsequent external events have occurred that reverse the effect of that event. 86 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
Accounting policies (continued)
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash in hand and balances with financial institutions. Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily
convertible to known amounts of cash. They include unrestricted short-term bank deposits originally purchased with maturities of three months or less.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at amortised cost.
Share option charge
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments. The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain
employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-
settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Group’s estimate of the Shares that will
eventually vest. Fair value is measured by use of a suitable option pricing model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based 
on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the goods or services received and the liability incurred are measured at the fair value of 
the liability. Up to the point at which the liability is settled, the fair value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date of
settlement, with changes being recorded in the income statement. The Group records the expense based on the fair value of the share-based
payments on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Provisions
The Group recognises a provision in the balance sheet when it has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable
that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Where time value is material, the amount of the related provision is
calculated by discounting the cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects market assessments of the time value of money and any risks specific to 
the liability.
Leased assets
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance
lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Financial instruments
A substantial portion of the Group’s revenue is received in its functional currency. As such, currency exposure on revenues is minimal. Further, the
Group minimises foreign currency exposure by netting non-US$ deposits and payments of winnings in the respective currency.
Additionally, other exposures include interest rate risk from borrowings and the investment of cash balances. The Group seeks to limit these risks by
investing cash in short-term instruments and interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. In the case of interim dividends to equity Shareholders, this is when declared by the
Directors. In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Bank borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received. Finance charges, including premiums payable
on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the
carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 87 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
87 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
1. Business and geographical segment information
For management purposes and transacting with customers, the Group is divided into the following two operating divisions:
• Poker; and
• Casino.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information. Unallocated corporate expenses, assets and liabilities relate
to the entity as a whole and cannot be allocated to individual segments.
Unallocated 
Poker Casino corporateConsolidated
$million $million $million $million
Year ended 31 December 2005
Revenue 859.1 118.6 – 977.7 
Clean EBITDA 509.2 75.6 (1.1) 583.7 
Profit before tax 354.0 75.0 (104.1) 324.9
Other information 
Capital additions 12.4 0.3 24.1 36.8 
Depreciation and amortisation 8.6 0.6 8.1 17.3 
Balance sheet 
Assets 
Assets – tangibles 12.2 1.0 23.9 37.1 
Assets – intangibles 30.3 – – 30.3 
Assets – associates 1.0 – – 1.0
Segment assets – current 144.1 9.2 176.7 330.0 
Total assets 187.6 10.2 200.6 398.4
Liabilities 
Segment liabilities 329.2 10.1 105.0 444.3 
Impairment losses 43.6 5.2 – 48.8
Product development 1.1 0.4 0.7 2.2 
Cash flows from operating activities 558.6 78.6 (17.0) 620.2
Cash flows from investing activities (36.8) (0.3) (27.4) (64.5) 
Cash flows from financing activities – – (494.7) (494.7) 
Unallocated 
Poker Casino corporate Consolidated
$million $million $million $million
Year ended 31 December 2004
Revenue 553.0 48.6 – 601.6 
Clean EBITDA 361.9 29.0 0.1 391.0 
Profit before tax 360.1 28.4 (16.8) 371.7 
Other information
Capital additions 3.0 1.4 7.5 11.9 
Depreciation and amortisation 1.9 0.6 2.1 4.6 
Balance sheet
Assets
Assets – tangible 4.0 1.4 7.9 13.3 
Assets – intangible 7.7 – – 7.7 
Segment assets – current 96.5 8.7 136.5 241.7 
Total assets 108.2 10.1 144.4 262.7
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (129.0) (6.6) (531.9) (667.5) 
Impairment losses 40.6 1.6 – 42.2 
Product development 2.6 1.1 – 3.7 
Cash flows from operating activities 392.5 28.8 7.8 429.1 
Cash flows from investing activities (10.7) (1.4) (6.2) (18.3)
Cash flows from financing activities (0.2) – (353.1) (353.3)
Revenue by Geographical Segment
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue by geographical segment.
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
USA 824.5 533.5
Europe 81.0 30.3
Canada 54.1 25.7
Rest of the world 18.1 12.1
Total revenue 977.7 601.6 88 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
1. Business and geographical segment information (continued)
Carrying Value of Fixed Assets by Geographical Segment
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Europe 26.0 7.4
Canada 6.0 4.2
Rest of the world 5.1 1.7
Total fixed assets 37.1 13.3
Capital Expenditure by Geographical Segment
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Europe 27.1 7.3
Canada 4.7 3.3
Rest of the world 5.0 1.3
Total capital expenditure 36.8 11.9
2(a) Share option charges
Prior to flotation, the Principal Shareholders established a share option plan for the benefit of the current and future workforce. Under the terms of
the plan, the existing workforce were granted a number of nil-cost options to be satisfied by existing shares which had been issued to a dedicated
employee trust. As such, the exercise of these options had no dilutive effect on Shareholders who subscribed at the IPO and will have no cash
impact on the Company. International Financial Reporting Standards requires that the fair value of the options be amortised through the income
statement over the life of the options. Nil-cost options issued pre-IPO were granted in order to attract and retain key employees and are considered
to be significant. As a result there is a non-cash charge of $65.6 million (2004: $3.2 million), which has been included within the income statement in
the period. This can be analysed as follows:
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Charge relating to
– nil-cost options issued pre-IPO (63.4) (3.2)
– nil-cost options issued post-IPO (2.2) –
Total (65.6) (3.2)
Of the nil-cost options issued, $10.4 million (2004: nil) related to employees of the parent company.
2(b) IPO-related expenses
The total IPO-related expenses were $88.0 million of which the Company incurred $22.6 million (2004: nil). Given that no new money was 
being raised for the Company, the IPO-related expenses were apportioned between the selling Shareholders and the Company based on
contractual arrangements.
2(c) Skin-related settlement costs
At the time of the IPO, the Group made it clear that it would seek to change the basis of its relationships with its skins partners, the rationale for them
having diminished following the Group’s rapid expansion since 2003.
In November 2005, the Group announced the acquisition of the player database and intellectual property of MultiPoker for US$14.5 million in cash.
MultiPoker is a leader in online poker in Scandinavia with more than 255,000 registered players. The Group also announced the termination of 
its skin arrangement with IntertopsPoker.com which has since become an affiliate of PartyPoker, allowing PartyPoker to market its services to
IntertopsPoker.com players. At the same time the Group announced that it had agreed to terminate its skin arrangement with Coral Eurobet.
Also in November 2005, the Group announced that it was in discussions regarding a possible offer to acquire the business and assets of Empire
Online Limited (‘EOL’). Those discussions were terminated on 21 November 2005 and EOL announced that it was proposing to commence 
legal proceedings against the Group for, inter alia, breach of contract following the separation of PartyPoker from the rest of the Group’s skins. 
On 14 February 2006, the Group announced that it had agreed to acquire the business and assets of EmpirePoker.com, its last remaining skin, from
EOL as well as some other associated assets, for a total cash consideration of $250 million. As part of the transaction, that is subject to the approval
by EOL shareholders on 6 March 2006, EOL has agreed to withdraw all legal claims against the Group.
As required under IFRS, a non-recurring charge of $145.8 million has been included in the 2005 financial year within Administration Expenses to reflect
the settlement of disputes arising from the separation of PartyPoker players from EmpirePoker and all of the other third party skins. The agreement
with EOL is conditional upon the approval of EOL shareholders and the Group has received irrevocable powers of attorney from EOL shareholders
representing approximately 56 per cent of the issued share capital of EOL to effect that their votes will be cast in favour of any necessary resolution. 89 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
89 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
3. Profit from operating activities
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
This has been arrived at after charging:
Staff costs 104.0 21.8
Amortisation of goodwill and intangibles 4.3 0.3
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 13.0 4.3
Product development (including staff costs) 2.2 3.7
Transaction fees 46.2 29.3
Exchange loss 1.2 0.0
Auditors remuneration for
– Audit services 0.7 0.4
– IPO-related expenses 7.2 –
– IT related services 0.4 –
– Due diligence for acquisitions 0.7 –
– Other services 0.0 0.2
Impairment losses – trade receivables 48.8 42.2
4. Finance income and costs
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Interest payable (10.2) (12.9)
Interest on bank deposits 3.5 1.4
Net finance cost (6.7) (11.5)
5. Tax
(a) Analysis of tax charge for the year
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Current tax expense for the period 31.7 21.6
Deferred tax – –
Income tax expense for the year 31.7 21.6
Domestic income tax is calculated at 35% (2004: 35%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at
the rate prevailing in the relevant jurisdiction.
There are no material deferred tax balances arising in the year.
(b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Profit before tax from continuing operations 324.9 371.7
Tax at the weighted average tax rate of the Group being tax expense at the effective tax rate for the period 18.5 21.6
Effect of IPO-related expenses, Share option charges, and skin-related settlement costs 13.2 0.0
Income tax expense 31.7 21.6
The Group’s policy is to manage, control and operate Group companies only in the countries in which they are registered. However, the rules and
practice governing the taxation of e-commerce activity are evolving in many countries. It is possible that the amount of tax that will eventually
become payable may differ from the amount provided in these financial statements. In calculating the tax provision, in addition to any amounts
due in respect of jurisdictions in which Group companies are currently incorporated or domiciled, a provision has been made to cover the Directors’
best estimate of additional taxation exposures which may arise.
The Group has received indemnities from the Principal Shareholders in connection with certain potential historic corporate taxation liabilities. 
The Directors consider the likelihood of any such liability arising to be remote. Accordingly, neither has a provision for any such potential taxation
been made, nor has an asset been recognised in respect of the indemnity. 90 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
5. Tax (continued)
(c) Factors that may affect future tax charges
At the year end, there were PartyGaming Group companies and associates registered in Gibraltar, India and the UK.
In Gibraltar, the Group benefits from the exempt company regime. The Gibraltar exempt company regime will be phased out between 1 July 2006
and 31 December 2010; under current rules assessable income is taxed in Gibraltar at 35.0%.
In India, the Group benefits from a tax holiday on income from qualifying activities until March 2009; under current rules assessable income is taxed in
India at approximately 36.6%.
6. Staff Costs
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 35.6 17.6
Option charge 65.6 3.2
Other benefits 2.8 1.0
104.0 21.8
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
Number Number
Average number of employees
Directors 9 2
Administration 73 41
Customer service 791 473
Others 316 213
Total 1,189 729
7. Earnings per Share
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
cents cents
Basic earnings per Share 7.7 9.2
Diluted earnings per Share 7.5 9.2
Basic earnings per Share before share option charges, IPO-related expenses and skin-related settlement costs 13.9 9.3
Diluted earnings per Share before share option charges, IPO-related expenses and skin-related settlement costs 13.6 9.3
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per Share is based on the following data:
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Earnings
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per Share being profit from ordinary activities 
attributable to equity holders of the parent 293.2 348.5
Share option charges 65.6 3.2
IPO-related expenses 22.6 –
Skin-related settlement costs 145.8 –
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per Share before share option charges, IPO-related expenses 
and skin-related settlement costs 527.2 351.7 91 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
91 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
7. Earnings per Share (continued)
In accordance with IAS 33, the weighted average number of Shares for basic and diluted earnings per Share takes into account the one to four
ordinary share sub-division that occurred on 5 May 2005 and the number of options which vested following flotation (see note 20).
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
Number Number
million million
Number of Shares in issue 4,000.0 3,776.0
Number of Shares issued to the Employee Trust (224.0) –
Effect of Shares which vested during the period 15.6 –
Weighted average number of ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per Share 3,791.6 3,776.0
The Shares held by the Employee Trust are accounted for as treasury shares.
In accordance with IAS 33, the weighted average number of Shares for diluted earnings per Share takes into account all potentially dilutive Shares
granted, which are not included in the number of Shares for basic earnings per Share above. Although the unvested potentially dilutive Shares are
contingently issuable, in accordance with IAS 33 the period end is treated as the end of the performance period. Those option holders who were
employees at that date are deemed to have satisfied the performance requirements and their related potentially dilutive Shares have been
included for the purpose of diluted EPS (see note 24).
Year ended Year ended 
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
Number Number
million million
Number of Shares for diluted earnings per Share
Number of Shares in issue 4,000.0 3,776.0
Number of Shares issued to the Employee Trust (224.0) –
Effect of Shares which vested during the period 15.6 –
Effect of potential dilutive vested and unvested Shares 92.6 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per Share 3,884.2 3,776.0
8. Intangible assets
Other 
intangibles Goodwill Total
$million $million $million
Cost
As at 1 January 2004 – 2.1 2.1
Additions – 8.0 8.0
As at 31 December 2004 – 10.1 10.1
Additions 26.9 – 26.9
As at 31 December 2005 26.9 10.1 37.0
Amortisation 
As at 1 January 2004 – 2.1 2.1
Charge for the year – 0.3 0.3
As at 31 December 2004 – 2.4 2.4
Charge for the year 4.3 – 4.3
As at 31 December 2005 4.3 2.4 6.7
Carrying amounts:
As at 31 December 2005 22.6 7.7 30.3
As at 31 December 2004 – 7.7 7.7
In accordance with IFRS 3, the Group regularly monitors the carrying value of its intangible assets. A review was undertaken at 31 December 2005 
to assess whether the carrying value of assets was supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from assets using cash flow
projections for each asset in respect of the period to 31 March 2015.
The other intangible assets primarily include the customer database and relationships acquired from MultiPoker, PokerNOW and IntertopsPoker. 
The value is based on cash flow projections from existing customers taking into account the expected impact of attrition.
The discount rates for the review were based on company specific pre-tax weighted average cost of capital percentages and ranged from 
9% to 12%.
The results of the review undertaken at 31 December 2005 indicated that no impairment was necessary in respect of intangible assets. 92 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
9. Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures,
Plant, fittings,
Land and machinery tools and
buildings and vehicles equipment Total
$million $million $million $million
Cost or valuation
As at 1 January 2004 0.1 0.6 7.2 7.9
Additions 1.4 0.3 10.2 11.9
As at 31 December 2004 1.5 0.9 17.4 19.8
Additions 6.3 2.7 27.8 36.8
Transfers (0.2) 0.2 – –
As at 31 December 2005 7.6 3.8 45.2 56.6
Depreciation and impairment losses
As at 1 January 2004 0.0 0.2 2.0 2.2
Charge for the year 0.0 0.3 4.0 4.3
As at 31 December 2004 0.0 0.5 6.0 6.5
Charge for the year 0.7 0.8 11.5 13.0
As at 31 December 2005 0.7 1.3 17.5 19.5
Carrying amount
As at 31 December 2005 6.9 2.5 27.7 37.1
As at 31 December 2004 1.5 0.4 11.4 13.3
10. Commitments for capital expenditure
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Contracted but not provided for 3.7 4.6
11. Investments
Group
The Group acquired a 35% interest in the ordinary share capital of a company incorporated in England and Wales, in the period ended 
31 December 2005, for a cash consideration of $1.8m (this represents 35% of the voting rights). This is accounted for under the equity method. 
The Group’s share of losses for the period ended 31 December 2005 was $0.8m, resulting in a carrying value of $1.0 million.
Group
$million
As at 1 January and 31 December 2004 –
Additions 1.8
Share of loss of associate (0.8)
As at 31 December 2005 1.0
Company
As at 31 December 2004 the Company held a 43.2% interest in the ordinary share capital of PartyGaming Holdings Limited at a cost of $0.4 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2005 it acquired the remaining 56.8% share capital of PartyGaming Holdings Limited for a fair value of 
$1.53 billion and as at 31 December 2005 held 100% of the share capital.
Additionally, the Company has issued share options with a fair value of $52.0 million (2004: $3.2 million) in respect of employees of subsidiary
undertakings. These amounts have been added to the carrying value of the Company’s investment in its subsidiary undertakings.
Company
$million
As at 1 January 2004 –
Additions 0.4
Options issued to employees of subsidiary undertakings 3.2
As at 31 December 2004 3.6
Additions 1,533.6
Options issued to employees of subsidiary undertakings 52.0
As at 31 December 2005 1,589.2 93 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
93 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
12. Trade and other receivables
Group
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Trade receivables 108.7 91.9
Prepayments 12.0 5.3
Other receivables 7.6 10.6
128.3 107.8
Company
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Due from Group companies 254.0 –
254.0 –
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value, which is based on estimates of
amounts recoverable. The recoverable amount is determined by calculating the present value of expected future cash flows.
13. Cash and cash equivalents
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Cash in hand and current account 194.9 133.9
Bank overdrafts (1.8) (1.8)
193.1 132.1
14. Short-term investments
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Cash on deposit for more than 3 months 6.8 –
15. Trade and other payables
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Trade and other current payables 201.5 39.5
Non-current payables to former minority shareholders 4.2 6.1
Trade and other payables comprise of amounts outstanding for trade purchases and other ongoing costs. The average credit period for trade
purchases is 30 days. The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value which is based on net present value of
expected future cash flows.
16. Bank debt and shareholder loans
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Current – 223.9
Non-current – 258.9
Total shareholder loans – 482.8
Total bank debt and shareholder loans – 482.8 94 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
17. Client liabilities and progressive prize pools
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Client liabilities and progressive prize pools 165.8 104.6
Client liabilities and prize pools represent amounts due to customers including net deposits received, undrawn winnings, jackpots and tournament
prize pools and certain promotional bonuses.
18. Provisions
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Provision at beginning of period 4.7 1.9
Additional net provision in period 1.5 2.8
Provision at end of period 6.2 4.7
Provisions are expected to be settled within the next year and relate to chargebacks which are recognised as the Directors’ best estimate of the
provision based on past experience of such expenses applied to the level of activity.
19. Operating lease commitments
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease commitments are analysed below:
As at 31 December 2005 As at 31 December 2004
Land & Other Land & Other
Buildings assets Buildings assets
$million $million $million $million
Payments due
Within one year 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0
Later than one year but not later than five years 5.5 0.0 0.0 0.0
More than five years 2.9 0.0 0.0 0.0
9.3 0.0 0.0 0.0
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement in equal annual amounts over the period of leases.
20. Share capital
Issued and
fully paid Number
$ million
Ordinary shares
As at 1 January and 31 December 2004 40,800 408.0
Issued during the year ended 31 December 2005 59,652 3,592.0
As at 31 December 2005 100,452 4,000.0
Shares issued are converted into US dollars at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction. The issued and fully paid share capital of the
Group amounts to $100,452 and is split into 4,000,000,000 ordinary shares. The share capital in UK sterling is £60,000 and translates at an average
exchange rate of $1.6742 USD to GBP. The authorised share capital of £75,000 comprises 5,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.0015p.
Authorised share capital and significant terms and conditions
The total authorised share capital of £75,000 comprises 5,000 million ordinary shares with a par value of 0.0015 pence. All issued Shares are fully paid. 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared and are entitled to one vote per Share at meetings of the Company.
The share capital is shown on the basis that it has been in issue throughout the period. The following changes in share capital occurred during 
the period:
1. On 31 January 2005, the authorised share capital was increased from $50,000 to $100,000 divided into 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 
$0.0001 each.
2. On 7 February 2005, 536,000,000 ordinary shares of $0.0001 each were issued to acquire the controlling interest in PartyGaming Holdings Limited
as set out in the accounting policies.
3. On 5 May 2005, the authorised share capital of the Company of $100,000 divided into 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares of $0.0001 each was
redenominated into £60,000 divided into 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.006 pence each. The authorised share capital of £60,000 divided into
1,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.006 pence each was then sub-divided into 4,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.0015 pence each.
4. On 26 May 2005, the authorised share capital was increased from £60,000 divided into 4,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.0015 pence each to
£75,000 divided into 5,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.0015 pence each. 95 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
20. Share capital continued
Authorised share capital and significant terms and conditions continued
5. On 13 June 2005, 224,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.0015 pence each were issued conditional on flotation to the Employee Trust. The Trustee has
waived all voting and dividend rights in respect of shares held by the Employee Trust.
6. A total of 159.0 million ordinary shares of 0.0015 pence each were conditionally granted under the share option scheme. 36.2 million shares
vested during the period of which 31.3 million shares had been exercised by employees at 31 December 2005.
21. Reserves
Group
Share 
Share Retained Other option
premium earnings reserves reserve
$million $million $million $million
As at 1 January 2004 0.4 68.6 (0.4) –
Profit from ordinary activities attributable to equity holders of the parent – 348.5 – –
Purchase and cancellation of own shares – (0.1) – –
Reserves created on business combination under common control – – (825.0) –
Share option charge ––– 3.2
As at 31 December 2004 0.4 417.0 (825.4) 3.2
Profit from ordinary activities attributable to equity holders of the parent – 293.2 – –
Share option charges – – – 65.6
Issue of treasury shares –– 0.0–
As at 31 December 2005 0.4 710.2 (825.4) 68.8
The other reserve of $825.4 million is the amount arising from the application of accounting which is similar to the pooling of interests method, as set
out in the accounting policies note. Under this method of accounting, the difference between the consideration for the controlling interest and 
the nominal value of the shares acquired is taken to other reserves on consolidation. As a result, the share capital reflects PartyGaming Plc’s share
capital and the retained earnings for the period ended 31 December 2005 and reflects the cumulative profits as if the current group structure had
always been in place.
Treasury shares relate to 224,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.0015p issued to the Employee Trust under the PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan.
Company
Share Retained Other Share option Capital
premium earnings reserves reserve reserve
$million $million $million $million $million
As at 1 January 2004 0.4 ––––
Share option charge – – – 3.2 –
As at 31 December 2004 0.4 – – 3.2 –
Issue of treasury shares – – (0.0) – –
Share option charge ––– 62.4–
Profit from ordinary activities attributable to equity holders – 243.6 – – –
Capital reserve – – – – 1,533.5
As at 31 December 2005 0.4 243.6 (0.0) 65.6 1,533.5
The Company’s capital reserve arises in respect of the excess of fair value of the shares issued over the nominal value of shares issued in acquiring
the 56.8% share capital of PartyGaming Holdings Limited in February 2005 (see accounting policies and note 11).
22. Financial risk management
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and liquid resources, and various items, such as trade receivables and payables that arise directly
from its operations. Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business.
Management monitors liquidity to assure that sufficient liquid resources are available to the Group. The Group’s principal financial assets are cash,
bank deposits and trade and other receivables.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to receivables from payment service providers and from customers who charge back deposits made
after playing on the Group’s websites. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset on the
balance sheet. There is no significant concentration of credit risk.
Investments are allowed only in liquid securities and only with counter parties that have a credit rating equal to or better than the Group. 
The Group considers that its exposure to interest rate risk is acceptable and will continue to monitor this position.
The Group incurs foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than US dollars. In respect of
such transactions and other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than US dollars, the amounts involved have historically been
immaterial. Going forward the Group will continue to monitor the position and will take steps to ensure that the net exposure is kept to an
acceptable level.
At 31 December 2005, the Group had a revolving credit facility of $200 million, on which interest on the drawn amount is charged at 1 per cent
above Libor. The Group considers that its exposure to interest rate risk is acceptable and will continue to monitor the position. 96 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
22. Financial risk management (continued)
Effective interest rate and repricing analysis
In respect of income-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following tables indicate the effective interest rates at the
balance sheet dates and the periods in which they reprice.
Effective 
interest 6 months
rate Total or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years
% $million $million $million $million $million
At 31 December 2004
Cash and cash equivalents 2.24% 133.9 133.9 – – –
Bank overdrafts 0.00% 1.8 1.8 – – –
Secured loans:
US$ fixed rate shareholder loan 3.00% 482.8 111.1 112.8 229.1 29.8
US$ loan payable to former minority 3.00% 8.5 1.4 0.8 2.1 4.2
At 31 December 2005
Cash and cash equivalents 1.80% 194.9 194.9 – – –
Bank overdrafts 0.00% 1.8 1.8 – – –
Short-term investments 3.83% 6.8 6.8 – – –
Secured loans:
US$ fixed rate shareholder loan 3.00% – – – – –
US$ loan payable to former minority 3.00% 6.3 1.3 0.8 1.9 2.3
23. Related parties
Relationships
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in
this note.
Anurag Dikshit, Ruth Parasol and Russell DeLeon are the ultimate controlling shareholders of the Group. During the period the controlling
shareholders, and corporate entities controlled by controlling shareholders received aggregate consulting fees as follows:
$million
Year ended 31 December 2004 0.7
Year ended 31 December 2005 0.5
As disclosed in the Listing Particulars, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the Company and Ruth Parasol and Russell DeLeon
dated 14 June 2005, these Principal Shareholders have the right to nominate for appointment to the Board a suitable person whilst they together
have an interest of 15% or more of the Company’s issued share capital. Ruth Parasol and Russell DeLeon have nominated Janos Libor and after
considering the nomination, the Board and its Nominations Committee approved the appointment of Janos Libor. Since the date of appointment 
to the year end, Janos Libor was paid US$ 26,160 by the Company for services rendered as a Non-Executive Director.
Remuneration of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those individuals who the Directors believe have significant authority and responsibility for planning, directing and
controlling the activities of the Group. The aggregate short-term and long-term benefits and share-based payments of the Directors and key
management personnel of the Group are set out below:
Short-term Long-term Share-based Total
$million $million $million $million
Year ended 31 December 2004 5.2 – 3.2 8.4
Year ended 31 December 2005 9.7 – 39.5 49.2
Remuneration of Directors is set out in the Remuneration Report. 97 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
23. Related parties (continued)
Transactions
The following aggregate balances were due to/(from) key management at each period end:
As at As at
31 December 31 December
2005 2004
$million $million
Due to 2.5 1.8
Due from (0.1) (0.0)
The wife of a Principal Shareholder owns a property leased to the Group’s Indian subsidiary. Rentals paid were:
$
Year ended 31 December 2004 28,230
Year ended 31 December 2005 30,323
Additionally a security deposit in the sum of $13,800 has been paid.
The total IPO-related expenses were $88.0 million of which the Company incurred $22.6 million (2004: nil). Given that no new money was raised for the
Company, the IPO-related expenses were apportioned between the selling shareholders and the Company based on contractual arrangements.
One of the Group subsidiaries has leased an unfurnished property to the Group Finance Director at an annual lease rental of £36,000, which the
Directors believe is a fair rental value of the property.
The Principal Shareholders have also given certain indemnities to the Group.
On 29 April 2004, PartyGaming Holdings Limited acquired a 100% interest in ElectraWorks Ltd for a total consideration of $826.0 million in a transaction
under common control. The shareholders of ElectraWorks Ltd also ultimately owned PartyGaming Holdings Limited in similar proportions.
The consideration was settled by way of cash of $118.0 million and loans of $708.0 million. The loans were repayable in quarterly instalments by 
29 April 2007 and bear compound interest at 3%. The loans were secured by way of a mortgage debenture over the assets of the Group. 
During the period to 31 December 2005, capital repayments to shareholders were made totalling $482.8 million (year ended 31 December 2004:
$343.2m) and interest charged of $5.1 million (year ended 31 December 2004: $12.6 million), repaying these loans and any interest accrued in full. 
As at 29 April 2004, PartyGaming Plc owned 43.2% of PartyGaming Holdings Limited. On 7 February 2005 PartyGaming Plc acquired the remaining
interest through a transaction under common control.
Share option arrangements
Directors and employees have conditional nil-cost option arrangements under service contracts, which were formally granted under the Group’s
share option plan during the year ended 31 December 2005.
24. Share options
The Group has designed the PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan (‘the Plan’) as a reward and retention incentive for employees and self-
employed consultants of the Group, including the Executive Directors (the ‘Participants’). Certain individuals have nil-cost option arrangements
under their service contracts, which were formally granted under the Plan during the year. Each option takes the form of a right, exercisable at nil-
cost, to acquire shares in the Company. Options granted under the Plan during the period generally vest in instalments over a four to five year
period, commencing on 30 June 2005.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
Number Number
million million
Outstanding at beginning of period 40.0 –
Options granted during the period 119.0 40.0
Options lapsed during the period (1.0) –
Exercised during the period (31.3) –
Outstanding at end of period 126.7 40.0
Exercisable at the end of period 4.9 –
Weighted average share price £1.18 N/A
Weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding 756 days 923 days 98 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued
25. Principal subsidiary undertakings
The Company is the holding company of the Group. The following table shows details of the Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings. 
Each of these companies is wholly-owned by a member of the Group, the issued share capital of each is fully paid and each will be included 
in the consolidated accounts of the Group (unless otherwise specified):
Name of company Country of incorporation or registration and operation
Bay Management Limited Gibraltar
ElectraGames Limited Gibraltar
ElectraWorks Limited Gibraltar
iGlobalMedia Entertainment Limited Gibraltar
iGlobalMedia Marketing (Gibraltar) Limited Gibraltar
iGlobalMedia Marketing (UK) Limited United Kingdom
IVY Comptech Private Limited India
Leo Data Limited Gibraltar
Paytech International Limited Gibraltar
PartyGaming Services (UK) Limited United Kingdom
WPC Productions Limited Gibraltar
26. Post balance sheet event
On 14 February 2006, the Group announced that it had agreed to acquire the business and assets of EmpirePoker.com, its last remaining skin, from
EOL as well as some other associated assets, for a total cash consideration of $250 million. As part of the transaction, that is subject to the approval
by EOL shareholders on 6 March 2006, EOL has agreed to withdraw all legal claims against the Group.
As required under International Financial Reporting Standards, a non-recurring charge of $145.8 million has been included in the 2005 financial year
within Administration Expenses to reflect the settlement of disputes arising from the separation of PartyPoker players from EmpirePoker and all of the
other third party skins. See note 2(c) for further details.
27. Dividend
The Board is pleased to recommend an inaugural final dividend of 5.25 cents per share which will be considered at the Annual General Meeting to
be held on 4 May 2006.
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
$million $million
Final dividend (proposed) 200.0 –
Dividends per ordinary share
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December
2005 2004
$ cents $ cents
Final dividend (proposed) 5.25 – 99 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2005
As at As at
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
Note $million $million
Non-current assets
Investments 11 1,589.2 3.6
Current assets
Due from group companies 12 254.0 –
Total assets 1,843.2 3.6
Total net assets 1,843.2 3.6
Equity
Share capital 20 0.1 0.0
Share premium account 21 0.4 0.4
Other reserve 21 (0.0) –
Share option reserve 21 65.6 3.2
Retained earnings 21 243.6 –
Capital reserve 21 1,533.5 –
Total equity 1,843.2 3.6
These accounts were approved by the Board on 28 February 2006 and signed on its behalf by
Richard Segal Chief Executive Officer
Martin Weigold Group Finance Director Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
Note $million $million
Profit after tax for the period being total recognised income for the period 243.6 –
Issue of share capital 21 0.1 0.4
Equity share option charge 21 62.4 3.2
Capital reserve 21 1,533.5 –
Total changes in equity 1,839.6 3.6
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Year ended Year ended
31 December 31 December 
2005 2004
Note $million $million
Profit before tax 243.6 –
Increase in share option reserve 2(a) 10.4 –
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital and provisions 254.0 –
Increase in trade and other receivables (254.0) –
Cash generated by working capital (254.0) –
Net cash and cash equivalents – –
The Company does not have its own bank account, with its cash obligations being discharged by its operating subsidiaries. Amounts paid in cash 
by those subsidiaries are accounted for through an adjustment to the related inter-company balances. In consequence, the Company has no cash
flows of its own.
Company statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2005
100 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005 101 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notice of AGM
Notice is hereby given that the 2006 Annual General Meeting of PartyGaming Plc will be held on Thursday 4 May 2006 at 11.00 a.m. at Tercentenary
Sports Hall, Bayside Sports Centre, Bayside Road, Gibraltar to consider the following business (all Resolutions are proposed as Ordinary Resolutions
and will be decided on a poll):
1. To receive the financial statements, Directors’ Report and Auditors’ Report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
2. To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2005.
3. To declare a final dividend of 5.25 cents per Share payable on 19 May 2006 to those Shareholders on the register of members on 7 April 2006.
4. To re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited as the Company’s auditors with BDO Fidecs Chartered
Accountants Limited acting as the auditor for the purposes of Section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies (Accounts) Ordinance 1999.
5. To authorise the Directors to set the auditors’ remuneration.
6. To re-appoint Janos Libor as a Director
7. To re-appoint Martin Weigold as a Director.
8. To re-appoint Nigel Kenny as a Director.
9. To re-appoint Lars Berg as a Director.
By order of the Board of Directors
David Abdoo 
General Counsel and Company Secretary 
PartyGaming Plc
711, Europort
Gibraltar
29 March 2006
Notes:
1. General
The Notice of AGM is an important document. If there is anything you do not understand then you should consult with the appropriate professional
adviser. If you have any questions regarding how to attend and/or vote at the AGM then please contact the Registrar.
If you have recently sold all of your PartyGaming Shares and/or Depositary Interests then please send this document and the enclosed forms to the
person who sold the Shares/Depositary Interests for you. They can then send them to the new owner of the Shares/Depositary Interests.
References to times in the Notice are to the time in Gibraltar which is one hour ahead of British Summer Time (‘BST’).
2. Re-appointment of the Directors (Resolutions 6 to 9)
Biographies of Messrs. Libor, Weigold, Kenny and Berg are set out in the Annual Report in the Board of Directors section. The Board unanimously
recommends the re-appointment of these Directors for the reasons set out in the Directors’ Report.
3. Right of attendance
3.1 Shareholders
To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be a Shareholder of the Company holding Shares entered on the Company’s register of
members by 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST) on 2 May 2006. If you are planning on attending the AGM the Company would be grateful if you could also
return the enclosed attendance card. This assists us in ensuring we have sufficient seating and refreshments for those planning to attend.
3.2 Depositary Interest Holders
To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be entered on the Company’s register of Depositary Interests by 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m
BST) on 2 May 2006 and bring to the AGM a letter of corporate representation validly executed on behalf of the Depositary. A letter of corporate
representation can be obtained from the Depositary.
4. Voting
4.1 Shareholders
Shareholders may attend the AGM in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll. A Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may
also appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote in his/her place. A proxy need not be a Shareholder of the Company. A proxy may demand or
join in demanding a poll but has no right to speak at the meeting, except with the permission of the Chairman.
A proxy form may be submitted in hard copy form by post or courier or electronically via the www.partygaming-shares.com website and by
selecting the Annual General Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page. Hard copy proxy forms must be completed by or on behalf of the
Shareholder. If the Shareholder is a corporation then the proxy form must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in 
a manner authorised by its constitution. A proxy form is enclosed with the Annual Report. To be valid completed proxy forms must be returned to
The Registrar, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU to be received no later than 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m BST) on 2 May 2006.
Shareholders wishing to submit proxy forms electronically should visit the www.partygaming-shares.com website and select the Annual General
Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page. To be valid electronic proxy instructions must be received by the Registrar no later than 11.00 a.m.
(10.00 a.m BST) on 2 May 2006.
  102 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Notice of AGM
continued
4.2 Depositary Interest Holders
Depositary Interest Holders may attend in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll if the Depositary has appointed them a corporate
representative (see section 3.2 above]. Depositary Interest Holders not wishing to attend the AGM but wishing to vote in respect of the resolutions to
be considered at the AGM can do so by instructing the Depositary. This may be done in one of two ways:
(i) Depositary Interest Holders who are CREST members may give such an instruction utilising the CREST electronic voting service in accordance with
the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal Depositary Holders or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members
who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the
appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for an instruction made by CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (‘a CREST proxy instruction’) must be properly authenticated 
in accordance with CRESTCo’s requirements and must contain information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. 
The message, in order to be valid, must be transmitted so as to be received by the Depositary’s agent, ID RA10 by 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST) on
1 May 2006. The time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications
host) from which the Depositary’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. The Depositary may
treat as invalid a CREST voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5) (a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special
procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy
instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes) such
action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. Please refer to the CREST
Manual for further guidance.
(ii) Depositary Interest Holders who cannot give voting instructions via CREST should complete the enclosed form of direction and submit it to 
the Depositary. If the Depositary Interest Holder is a corporation then the form of direction must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its
common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution. To be valid forms of direction must be received by the Depositary no later than 11.00
a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST) on 1 May 2006.
5. PartyGaming employees
PartyGaming employees who have exercised their PartyGaming options and have retained all/some of the resultant Shares, hold these Shares
through the PartyGaming Nominee Account Service, Capita IRG Trustee (Nominees) Limited. Employees who wish to attend the AGM, speak and
vote at the AGM should request Capita IRG Trustee (Nominees) Limited to appoint them as a corporate representative. This is done by completing
the Nominee Account Instruction form enclosed with their Annual Report. Whether an eligible employee wishes to attend the AGM or not, they are
recommended to complete the Nominee Account Instruction form and send it to The Registrar, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU, United Kingdom, to be received no later than 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST) on 1 May 2006.
6. Documents for inspection
Copies of the following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office at 711 Europort,
Gibraltar. These documents will also be available for inspection at Tercentenary Sports Hall, Bayside Sports Centre, Bayside Road, Gibraltar on the
day of the meeting from 10.30 a.m. until the conclusion of the meeting:
• Memorandum and Articles of Association;
• Listing Particulars;
• Executive Directors’ Service Agreements;
• Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment;
• The signed Annual Report for the year ended 2005; and
• Register of Members. 103 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Shareholder information
Share information
Ordinary Shares of 0.0015 pence in issue: 4,000,000,000*
Number of Shares in the free float (as at 31 December 2005): 899,800,406 (22.5)%
Listing: London Stock Exchange since 30 June 2005
TDL: PRTY.L
ISIN Number: G10000A0ERMF2
SEDOL Number: BOB3SV4
*See ‘Depositary Interests’ section below. As at 31 December 2005 893,793,041 Shares were held by the Depositary in respect of 893,793,041
Depositary Interests, one Depositary Interest being represented by one Share.
Share price
(all prices mid-market Shares at the close of business)
Offer price 116p
High during the period to 31 December 2005 176p
Low during the period to 31 December 2005 71p
31 December 2005 134p
Increase over the period 15.5%
FTSE 100 Index increase over the period 11.8%
Share price information is available on the Company’s website, www.PartyGaming.com and the London Stock Exchange website,
www.londonstockexchange.co.uk. In the UK, information can also be found in The Financial Times, The Times and The Daily Telegraph share 
price listings.
Market capitalisation
The market capitalisation of PartyGaming Plc as at 31 December 2005 was £5.4 billion (equivalent to US$9.4 billion). The Company is ranked within
the FTSE 100 Index of companies.
Depositary Interests
The Company has entered into depositary interest arrangements to enable investors to settle and pay for interests in the Shares through the CREST
system. CREST is a paperless settlement system allowing securities to be transferred from one person’s CREST account to another without the need to
use share certificates or written instruments of transfer. Securities issued by non-UK companies, such as PartyGaming, cannot be held or transferred in
the CREST system. Under arrangements put in place by the Company, a depositary holds the Shares and has issued dematerialised depositary
interests representing the underlying Shares which are held on trust for the holders of the Depositary Interests.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited (‘Capita IRG Trustees’ or the ‘Depositary’), a sister company of PartyGaming’s Registrars, Capita IRG (Offshore) Limited,
has issued the dematerialised depositary interests or ‘Depositary Interests’. The Depositary Interests are independent securities constituted under
English law which may be held and transferred through the CREST system.
The Depositary Interests have been created pursuant to and issued on the terms of a deed poll executed by Capita IRG Trustees in favour of the
holders of the Depositary Interests from time to time (the ‘Deed Poll’).
As at 31 December 2005 893,793,041 Shares were held by the Depositary in respect of a total 893,793,041 Depositary Interests. There were 1,316
Depositary Interest Holders on the Depositary Interest register as at that date.
Each Depositary Interest is treated as one Share for the purposes of determining, for example, eligibility for any dividends. Capita IRG Trustees will
pass on to holders of Depositary Interests any stock or cash benefits received by it as the holder of Shares on trust for such Depositary Interest holder.
Depositary Interest holders will also be able to receive notices of meetings of holders of Shares and other notices issued by the Company to 
its shareholders.
The Depositary must pass on to Depositary Interest Holders and, so far as they are reasonably able, exercise on behalf of Depositary Interest Holders
all rights and entitlements received or to which they are entitled in respect of the underlying Shares which are capable of being passed on or
exercised. Rights and entitlements to cash distributions, to information, to make choices and elections and to call for, attend and vote at meetings
shall, subject to the Deed Poll, be passed on in the form in which they are received together with amendments and additional documentation
necessary to effect such passing-on, or, as the case may be, exercised in accordance with the Deed Poll. The Depositary Interests have the same
ISIN and SEDOL numbers as the underlying Shares and do not have a separate listing on the Official List.
Registrar UK Transfer Agents Depositary
Capita IRG (Offshore) Limited Capita Registrars Capita IRG Trustees Limited
Victoria Chambers The Registry The Registry
Liberation Square 34 Beckenham Road 34 Beckenham Road
1/3 The Esplanade Beckenham Beckenham
St. Helier Kent BR3 4TU Kent BR3 4TU
Jersey United Kingdom United Kingdom
E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com Website: www.capitaregistrars.com E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Telephone: 01534 632310 E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com Telephone: 0870 162 3135 (from UK)
Fax: 01534 632236 Telephone: 0870 162 3100 (from UK) + 44208 639 3135 (from overseas)
+ 44208 639 2157 (from overseas) Fax: 020 8639 2213
Fax: 020 8639 2342 104 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Shareholder information
continued
Dividends
The Company intends paying two dividends each year, an interim dividend in October and a final dividend in May, in the approximate proportions
of one third and two thirds, respectively, of the total annual dividend. Dividends are not subject to any withholding tax in Gibraltar and are therefore
paid gross. For further information, see the taxation section elsewhere in this Shareholder Information section.
The first dividend to be recommended by the Board following the Offer is the final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005. 
As anticipated and explained in the Listing Particulars this dividend represents two thirds of the total dividend which would have been paid 
for the full year 2005 had the Company been listed since 1 January 2005. Subject to this final dividend being approved by Shareholders at 
the AGM on 4 May 2006 this dividend will be paid to Shareholders and Depositary Interest Holders on 19 May 2006. The record date for the 
final dividend is 7 April 2006 and the Shares go ex-dividend on 5 April 2006. Dividends will be declared and paid by the Company in US dollars.
In order to assist Shareholders and Depositary Interest Holders, the cash dividend may be paid either in US dollars or, if holders so elect, in Pounds
Sterling. Should you wish to elect to receive this dividend and all future dividends in Pounds Sterling you should follow the instructions below. If you
make no election you will continue to receive your dividend in US dollars. If you elect to receive your dividend payable on 19 May 2006 in Pounds
Sterling, the exchange rate for the purchase of Pounds Sterling with US dollars quoted by the Company at or about 5.00 p.m. (4.00 p.m. BST) on 28
April 2006 will apply. Please note that Shareholders and Depositary Interest Holders will only be able to use the procedure mentioned below for
making their currency election. No other form of election will be accepted.
Procedure for Depositary Interest Holders 
If you hold your Shares in Depositary Interest form in CREST and will continue to do so at 5.00 p.m. on the relevant dividend record date and whether
or not you have validly elected to receive your dividends in CREST, you may elect to receive your dividend in Pounds Sterling by means of the CREST
procedures to effect such an election referred to below. If you are a CREST Personal Member, or other CREST Sponsored Member, you should consult
your CREST sponsor, who will be able to take the appropriate action on your behalf. 
The CREST procedures require the use of the Dividend Election Input Message in accordance with the CREST Manual. The message includes the
following fields which, for a valid election to be made, must be correctly input as indicated below by close of business on the Pound Sterling election
deadline (20 April 2006 for the final dividend payable on 19 May 2006). 
(i) Dividend Election Reference – you must indicate here a reference for the dividend election which is unique to your CREST participant I.D.; 
(ii) Account ID – If you have more than one member account, you must indicate the member account I.D. to which the election relates: the
relevant account must be enabled (i) at the time your Dividend Election Input Message is entered into CREST, and (ii) on the relevant dividend
payment date; 
(iii) ISIN – This is GI000A0ERMF2; 
(iv) Evergreen – This field must be entered with its flag set to “yes”. This requests the Company to apply your election to the current dividend and to
all future dividends in respect of your entire Depositary Interest holding in CREST at each relevant record date until (i) you delete your Dividend
Election Input Message and that deletion is accepted in accordance with the CREST procedures on behalf of the Company, (ii) you transfer your
Depositary Interest holding in CREST, or (iii) the facility is withdrawn by the Directors; 
(v) Corporate Action Number – This is not to be input; 
(vi) Distribution type – You must enter “currency” here; 
(vii)Currency code – This is GBP;
(viii) Number of shares – This field should be left blank. If this field is completed, the message will be rejected;
(ix) Contact details – this field is optional, although you are asked to include details of whom to contact in the event of a query relating to 
your election. 
A valid election made by means of Dividend Election Input Message will, to the extent it relates to Shares held in Depositary Interests at the relevant
record date, supersede all previous written elections made in respect of holdings in the same member account. 
You may only revoke an election which has been made by Dividend Election Input Message by utilising the CREST procedures for deletions
described in the CREST Manual. The deletion will be valid in relation to the then current dividend only if the deletion is accepted, in accordance with
the CREST procedures, by or on behalf of the Company prior to close of business on the Pound Sterling election deadline (20 April 2006 for the final
dividend payable on 19 May 2006). With respect to subsequent dividend payments, the valid revocation must be received by the record date for
the relevant dividend payment. It is recommended that you input any deletion message 48 hours in advance of this deadline to give the Company
or its agent sufficient time to accept the deletion. 
There is no facility to amend an election which has been made by Dividend Election Input Message; if you wish to change your election details, 
you must first delete the existing election as described above and then input a Dividend Election Input Message with the required new details. 
Any attempts to send a new Dividend Election Input Message, where an existing Dividend Election Message is present and has not been deleted,
will be rejected. 105 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Procedure for Registered Shareholders
Shareholders wishing to make a Pounds Sterling election should complete and submit the enclosed election form to the Registrar no later than 
6.00 p.m. (5.00 p.m BST) on 20 April 2006. 
General notes
Shareholders or Depositary Interest Holders who submit their currency election instruction after the Pound Sterling election deadline (20 April 2006
for the final dividend payable on 19 May 2006) will receive their dividends in US dollars.
Incorrectly completed currency election forms will be rejected.
Elections may not be split in respect of one Share or Depositary Interest holding and elections are enduring for future dividends unless a subsequent
election is submitted to the Registrar or Depositary.
Depositary Interest Holders who hold their Depositary Interests through CREST will receive their dividend payments through CREST irrespective of
whether they elect to have the dividend paid in Pounds Sterling.
Shareholders who elect to receive the dividend in Pounds Sterling are advised to complete a BACS instruction so that their dividend can be paid
electronically directly into their bank account. A BACS instruction form is enclosed for completion and should be submitted to the Registrar 
no later than the close of business on 28 April 2006. If a BACS instruction is not validly submitted then dividends will be paid by cheque.
Shareholders receiving US dollar dividend payments will be sent a cheque. Unfortunately, the BACS payment process can only be used for 
Pounds Sterling payments.
Dividend calendar
Final dividend
Ex-dividend date 5 April 2006
Record date 7 April 2006
Sterling election deadline 20 April 2006
$/£ foreign exchange 28 April 2006
Payable 19 May 2006
Interim dividend
Ex-dividend date 13 September 2006
Record date 15 September 2006
Sterling election deadline 6 October 2006
$/£ foreign exchange transaction 13 October 2006
Payable 27 October 2006
Annual General Meeting, attendance and voting
Date and time: Thursday 4 May 2006 at 11.00 a.m.
Venue: Tercentenary Sports Hall, Bayside Sports Centre, Bayside Road, Gibraltar
The Notice of AGM is contained within this document, setting out the resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
The Company will also be broadcasting live the AGM proceedings at Deutsche Bank, 75 London Wall, London EC2, starting at 10.00 a.m. BST.
Registered Shareholders and Depositary Interest Holders with the requisite letter of corporate representation are welcome to attend the broadcast.
If you are a Shareholder planning on attending the AGM in Gibraltar, or the broadcast of AGM proceedings in London, the Company would be
grateful if you could also return the enclosed attendance card. This assists us in ensuring we have sufficient seating and refreshments for those
planning to attend.
Shareholders
To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must be a Shareholder of the Company holding Shares entered on the Company’s register of
members at 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST) on 2 May 2006.
Shareholders may attend the AGM in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll. A Shareholder may also appoint a proxy to attend the AGM
and, on a poll, vote in his/her place. A proxy need not be a Shareholder of the Company. A proxy may demand or join in demanding, a poll but
has no right to speak at the meeting, except with the permission of the Chairman.
A proxy form may be submitted in hard copy form by post or courier or electronically via the www.partygaming-shares.com website and by
selecting the Annual General Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page. Hard copy proxy forms must be completed by or on behalf of the
Shareholder. If the Shareholder is a corporation then the proxy form must be executed by a duly authorised person or under its common seal or in 
a manner authorised by its constitution. A proxy form is enclosed with the Annual Report. To be valid completed proxy forms must be returned to
The Registrar, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, United Kingdom to be received no later than 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST)
on 2 May 2006.
Shareholders wishing to submit proxy forms electronically should visit the www.partygaming-shares.com website and select the Annual General
Meeting tab on the left hand side of the page. To be valid electronic proxy instructions must be received by the Registrar no later than 11.00 a.m.
(10.00 a.m. BST) on 2 May 2006. 106 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Shareholder information
continued
Depositary Interest Holders
If you are a Depositary Interest Holder and you wish to attend and vote at the AGM, you must be entered on the Company’s register of Depositary
Interests by 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST) on 2 May 2006 and bring to the AGM a letter of corporate representation validly executed on behalf of the
Depositary. A letter of corporate representation can be obtained from the Depositary.
Depositary Interest Holders may then attend in person and vote on a show of hands or on a poll. Depositary Interest Holders not wishing to attend
the AGM but wishing to vote in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM can do so by instructing the Depositary. This may be done in
one of two ways:
(i) Depositary Interest Holders who are CREST members may give such an instruction utilising the CREST electronic voting service in accordance with
the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal Depositary Holders or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST
members who have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take
the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for an instruction made by CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST voting instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with
CRESTCo’s requirements and must contain information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, in order to be
valid, must be transmitted so as to be received by the Depositary’s agent, ID RA10 by 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST) on 1 May 2006. The time of receipt
will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host) from which the Depositary’s
agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. The Depositary may treat as invalid a CREST voting
instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5) (a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special
procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy
instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or to procure that his/her CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes
such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. Please refer to the
CREST Manual for further guidance.
(ii) Depositary Interest Holders who cannot give voting instructions via CREST should complete the enclosed Form of Direction and submit it to the
Depositary. If the Depositary Interest Holder is a corporation then the Depositary Instruction form must be executed by a duly authorised person 
or under its common seal or in a manner authorised by its constitution. To be valid Forms of Direction must be received by the Depositary no later
than 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST) on 1 May 2006.
Investors in the Shares or the Depositary Interests holding through a nominee service should arrange with that nominee service provider to be
appointed as a corporate representative in respect of their holding in order to attend and vote at the AGM.
PartyGaming employees
PartyGaming employees who have exercised their PartyGaming options and have retained all/some of the resultant Shares, hold these Shares
through the PartyGaming Nominee Account Service, Capita IRG Trustee (Nominees) Limited. Employees who wish to attend the AGM, speak and
vote at the AGM should request Capita IRG Trustee (Nominees) Limited to appoint them as a corporate representative. This is done by completing
the Nominee Account Instruction form enclosed with their Annual Report. Whether an eligible employee wishes to attend the AGM or not they are
recommended to exercise the votes in respect of their Shares by completing the Nominee Account Instruction form and sending it to The Registrar,
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, United Kingdom to be received no later than 11.00 a.m. (10.00 a.m. BST) on 
1 May 2006.
Corporate calendar
31 December 2005 Year-end
27 January 2006 2005 fourth quarter KPI’s announced
28 February 2006 Preliminary announcement of 2005 annual results
29 March 2006 Annual report posted
5 April 2006 Shares go ex-dividend
7 April 2006 Record date for final dividend
18 April 2006 2006 first quarter KPI’s announced
20 April 2006 Last day for electing for final dividend to be paid in Pounds Sterling
28 April 2006 Foreign exchange transaction for Pounds Sterling dividend payments
1 May 2006 Deadline for submitting AGM form of direction
2 May 2006 Deadline for submitting AGM proxy forms
4 May 2006 Annual General Meeting
19 May 2006 Final dividend paid
30 June 2006 Half year-end
September 2006 Preliminary announcement of 2006 half year results
October 2006 Interim dividend paid
31 December 2006 Year-end 107 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Analysis of Share and Depositary Interest holdings
% of total Number of 
Shares/ Shares/
Number of % of total Depositary Depositary
Holdings of Shares/Depositary Interests as at 31 December 2005 accounts accounts Interests Interests
Up to 1,000 785 31.5 0.01 484,092
1,001 to 10,000 1,116 44.7 0.10 4,169,055
10,001 to 100,000 291 11.7 0.25 9,983,013
100,001 to 1,000,000 182 7.3 1.69 67,481,414
1,000,001 to 10,000,000 91 3.6 8.13 325,190,643
10,000,001 to 100,000,000 25 1.0 14.56 582,235,169
100,000,001 to 1,000,000,000 3 0.1 13.48 539,064,622
Over 1,000,000,000 2 0.1 61.78 2,471,391,992
Totals 2,495 100.0 100.00 4,000,000,000
The interests of the Directors in the Company’s share capital is set out in the Directors’ Report. The interests of the Directors in the Company’s share
options are set out in the Remuneration Report.
A table of those parties with a material interest in 3 per cent. or more of the Company’s share capital or, in the case of other interests in 10 per cent.
or more of the share capital, as notified to the Company in accordance with the Gibraltar Disclosure of Interests in Shares Ordinance 1998, the
Articles and Deed Poll, is set out in the Directors’ Report.
Taxation
The following statements are intended to apply only as a general guide to current tax law for an individual Shareholder who holds Shares as an
investment and who is the beneficial owner of the Shares. Shareholders should consult their own tax advisers in connection with their potential liability
to pay tax in the country of their nationality or the country where they live on disposal, gift or bequest of their Shares or on the receipt of dividends. 
Taxation of dividends
PartyGaming Plc is not required to withhold tax in Gibraltar in respect of dividends. Shareholders, whether resident in Gibraltar or not, receive the full
amount of the dividend declared.
Taxation of capital gains
There is no capital gains tax in Gibraltar on a disposal of Shares in PartyGaming Plc. Shareholders may be liable to pay tax in the country of their
nationality or the country where they live.
Stamp duty
No stamp duty is chargeable in Gibraltar on the transfer of Shares in PartyGaming Plc for as long as PartyGaming Plc is a tax-exempt company.
There is no stamp duty reserve tax in Gibraltar.
Provided that the Shares are not registered in any register kept in the UK by or on behalf of the Company, an agreement to transfer the Shares
would not be expected to be subject to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax. The Share register is not kept in the UK and it is not intended that
any such register will be kept in the UK. A transfer on sale of Shares would not be expected to be subject to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax
provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and does not relate to any property situate or to any matter or thing to be done 
in the UK.
No UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is expected to be payable on an agreement to transfer Depositary Interests within CREST provided 
that relevant conditions are met including in particular that (i) no register of Shares is kept in the UK by or on behalf of the Company; (ii) the central
management and control of the Company is not exercised in the UK. It is intended that these conditions will be met. It is not expected that an
instrument subject to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax would be created in respect of such a transfer. 108 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
Definitions
The following definitions apply throughout this document unless the context requires otherwise:
‘Act’ or ‘Companies Act’ UK Companies Act 1985, as amended
‘Admission’ admission of the ordinary share capital of the Company, issued and to be issued pursuant to the Offer, 
to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed securities, which
occurred on 30 June 2005
‘Annual General Meeting’ or ‘AGM’ the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders convened for 11.00 a.m. on 4 May 2006 at Tercentenary Hall,
Bayside Sports Centre, Bayside Road, Gibraltar
‘Annual Report’ the Company’s financial statements and accompanying reports for the year ended 31 December 2005
‘Articles’ the articles of association of the Company
‘Board’ or ‘Directors’ the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors listed in the Board of Directors section in this
Annual Report
‘Company’ or ‘PartyGaming’ PartyGaming Plc
‘Companies Ordinance’ the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance, as amended
‘CREST’ the system for the paperless settlement of trades in listed securities, of which CrestCo is the operator
‘CrestCo’ CrestCo Limited, the operator of CREST
‘Deed Poll’ a deed poll executed by the Depositary in favour of the holders of Depositary Interests from time to time
‘Depositary’ or ‘Capita IRG Trustees’ Capita IRG Trustees Limited
‘Depositary Agreement’ the depositary agreement dated 14 June 2005 between the Company and Capita IRG Trustees Limited
‘Depositary Interest Holder’ holders of the Depositary Interests
‘Depositary Interests’ the dematerialised depositary interests in respect of the Shares issued or to be issued by the Depositary
$ represents US dollars throughout
‘Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein’ Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Limited and/or Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Securities Limited, 
or ‘DrKW’ as appropriate
‘‘Employee Trust’ the PartyGaming Plc Shares Trust, a discretionary share ownership trust established by the Company in
which the beneficiaries include all of the current and former employees and self-employed consultants of
the Group
‘Executive Directors’ the executive directors of the Company
‘Gambling Ordinance 2005’ the Gibraltar Gambling Ordinance, which was enacted in 2005 and is expected to be brought into effect
in 2006
‘Gaming Ordinance’ the Gibraltar Gaming Ordinance, as amended
‘Group’ or ‘PartyGaming Group’ the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings from time to time or, prior to 
7 February 2005, PartyGaming Holdings Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary
undertakings
‘IFRS’ International Financial Reporting Standards
‘Licence’ the licence issued under the Gaming Ordinance by Gibraltar’s Financial & Development Secretary to
ElectraWorks Limited, a member of the Group, for the operation of remote gambling and online casino
activities from Gibraltar
‘Licence Agreement’ the Gaming Licence Agreement between the Government of Gibraltar and ElectraWorks Limited
‘Listing Particulars’ the Company’s supplementary listing particulars issued on 27 June 2005 in connection with the Offer
‘Listing Rules’ the listing rules of the UKLA
‘London Stock Exchange’ London Stock Exchange plc
‘Non-Executive Directors’ the non-executive directors of the Company
‘Offer’ the global offer of Shares described in the Listing Particulars
‘Offer Price’ the price per Share at which Shares were sold under the Offer, being 116 pence
‘Official List’ the Official List of the UKLA
‘Principal Shareholders’ Anurag Dikshit (holding through Crystal Ventures Limited), Russell DeLeon (holding through 
Stinson Ridge Limited), Ruth Parasol (holding through Emerald Bay Limited) and Vikrant 
Bhargava (holding through Coral Ventures Limited), each of which was a promoter of the Company
‘Registrars’ Capita IRG (Offshore) Limited, the registrars of the Company
‘Relationship Agreement’ the relationship agreement between the Company, Crystal Ventures Limited, Coral Ventures Limited,
Stinson Ridge Limited, Emerald Bay Limited and the Principal Shareholders dated 14 June 2005
‘Shareholders’ holders of Shares in the Company
‘Share Option Plans’ the PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan and the PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan
‘Shares’ ordinary shares of 0.0015 pence each in the capital of the Company
‘UKLA’ the UK Listing Authority
‘Underwriters’ Dresdner Bank AG, an indirect subsidiary of Allianz AG (the ultimate parent company of Dresdner
Kleinwort Wasserstein) acting through its London Branch at 2 Swan Lane, London EC4R 3UX, Bayerische
Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG, Calyon, Commerzbank AG, Enskilda Securities AB, ING Bank NV, Mediobanca
– Banca di Credito Finanziario SPA
‘Underwriting Agreement’ the underwriting agreement entered into between, amongst others, the Company, Principal
Shareholders, the Chairman, the Directors, the Employee Trust, certain members of senior management
and the Underwriters
‘United Kingdom’ or ‘UK’ the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
‘United States’ or ‘US’ the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any state of the United States of America and
the District of Columbia ...we’re number one.
1 Introduction
2 Group at a glance
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive’s review
8 Our business
28 Our markets
35 Our risks
36 Our strategy
39 Corporate and social
responsibility
43 Operating and financial review
60 Board of Directors
62 Directors’ report
66 Corporate governance
71 Remuneration report
76 Directors’ responsibility statement
79 Independent auditors’ report 
80 Consolidated income statement
80 Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
81 Consolidated balance sheet
82 Consolidated statement 
of cash flows
83 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
99 Company balance sheet
100 Company statement 
of changes in equity
100 Company statement 
of cash flows
101 Notice of AGM
103 Shareholder information
108 Definitions and Glossary
Contents
‘active affiliates’ an affiliate who generated revenue in that month
‘active player days’ aggregate number of days in the given period in which active players have contributed to rake and/or
placed a wager. This can be calculated by multiplying average active players by the number of days in
the period
‘active player’ or ‘active real money In relation to the Group’s products, a player who has contributed to rake and/or placed a wager in the 
player’ or ‘unique active player’ period 
‘affiliates’ third party online or offline marketers who drive traffic to PartyGaming’s gaming sites for a flat fee or on a
revenue share basis
‘average active players’ the daily average number of players who contributed to rake and/or placed a wager in the given period.
This can be calculated by dividing active player days in the given period, by the number of days in that
period
‘bots’ computer programmes capable of playing virtual poker with a predefined strategy, which can beat new
and inexperienced players by the calculation of pot odds and preferred user adjustments
‘BPO’ business process outsourcing
‘Clean EBITDA’ or ‘Clean EPS’ EBITDA/EPS before IPO-related expenses, non-recurring costs associated with the settlement of legal
claims by certain skins as well as non-cash charges relating to share options that are to be satisfied by
existing Shares that were effectively gifted to the Employee Trust by the Shareholders prior to the Offer,
primarily the Principal Shareholders
EBITDA’ earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
‘flop’ in Texas Hold’em and Omaha High, the first three community cards that are dealt face up in the centre of
the table all at the same time. The flop also indicates the second round of betting
‘gross margin’ gross win as a percentage of revenue
‘gross win’ customer stakes less customer winnings
‘IT’ information technology
‘Omaha High’ a type of poker game
‘online wallet’ a web-based account to which customers transfer funds directly from their bank accounts and from which
funds are transferred for the settlement of transactions with online merchants, such as online gaming sites
‘play money’ playing where no real money is involved, instead, players use ‘fun money’ or ‘free money’ to participate
‘pot’ the aggregate amount wagered on each hand by the players in a ring game
‘rake’ the money charged by PartyGaming for each qualifying poker hand played on its websites in
accordance with the prevailing and applicable rake structure
‘real money’ gambling where money is wagered, as opposed to play money where no money is wagered
‘real money sign-ups’ new players who have registered and deposited funds into an account with the Group 
‘registered player’ a player who has registered with the Group to use its real money sites and/or its play money sites
‘ring game’ a ‘regular’ poker game as opposed to a poker tournament
‘sign-up bonus’ an amount awarded on signing-up to a gaming site, subject to applicable conditions
‘sign-ups’ or ‘new player sign-ups’ new players who register on the Group’s real money or play money sites
‘skins’ or ‘white label services’ arrangements where third parties use the software platform and services of another online gaming
operator, typically on a revenue sharing basis, with the third party providing its own front end, branding
and marketing arrangements
‘slots’ ‘slot’ or ‘fruit’ machines
‘sports betting’ placing bets on sporting events
‘Texas Hold’em’ a type of poker game and the most popular form of poker on PartyPoker
‘wager’ a bet on a game or sporting event
‘yield per active player day’ revenue in the period divided by the number of active player days in that period
Glossary
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. Board photography by Edward Webb
and Kim Sayer , feature photography by John Edwards. Printed by CTD Printers Limited. Annual report 2005
711 Europort
Gibraltar
www.partygaming.com
Online gaming...
Annual report 2005
