 k managers Brewers Broadcasters
ers Designers Distributors
ers Governmentdepartments
estors Lawyers Local authorities
mpanies Police forces Railways
anies Supermarkets Systems
rriers Tourist resorts Utilities
Choose Wisely  
2005
Annual report  Section 1: Profile 
4 About us and highlights
5 Chairman’s statement
7 Chief Executive’s review
Business overview
11 Introduction
12 Geographic operations
18 Services
20 Regulatory framework
23 History and development of Cable & Wireless
Section 2: Corporate governance
Corporate governance
26 Corporate and social responsibility report
30 Board of Directors 
32 Directors’ report
41 Directors’ remuneration report
54 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Section 3: Performance
Operating and financial review
56 Cautionary statement regarding forward looking statements
57 Overview
59 Group financial performance
66 Review by division
75 Acquisitions
76 Review by division – summary
77 Liquidity and capital resources
79 Capital expenditure
80 Cash flow
81 Property and network infrastructure
82 Disclosures about market risk
83 Five year summary
84 Critical accounting policies
87 Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures
89 Risk factors
93 Legal proceedings
96 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
97 Consolidated profit and loss accounts
100 Consolidated balance sheets
101 Company balance sheets
102 Consolidated cash flow statements
103 Consolidated statements of total recognised gains and losses
104 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated equity 
shareholders’ funds
104 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds 
for the Company
105 Statement of accounting policies
109 Notes to the financial statements
Section 4: Reference
Shareholder information
146 Trading market
147 Dividends
148 Glossary of terms
152 Shareholder information
Contents 2/3 2005 Annual Report
This report (“Annual Report”) comprises the annual report of Cable and Wireless plc in accordance with United Kingdom
requirements.The Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the requirements of the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission is filed separately.The 2005 Annual Review is published as a separate document.
Unless otherwise stated in this Annual Report the terms “Cable & Wireless”, the “Group”,“it”,“we”,“us” and “our” refer to
Cable and Wireless plc and its subsidaries, collectively.The term “Company” refers to Cable and Wireless plc.
Cable & Wireless prepares its financial information in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“UK
GAAP”). Unless otherwise indicated, any reference in this report to Financial Statements is to the Financial Statements of
Cable & Wireless (including the Notes to the Financial Statements) included in this report.
References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references to the Company’s financial year ending 
31 March of such year. In this report, financial and statistical information is, unless otherwise indicated, stated on the basis 
of the Group’s financial year.
This document is dated 10 June 2005 including the Legal Proceedings section at pages 93 to 95. Note 33 to the Financial
Statements for the year ended 31 March 2005 discusses legal proceedings also but has not been updated to reflect most
recent developments given that the Financial Statements are dated 3 June 2005.
This document includes terms which may be specific to the industry, the Group or UK GAAP . A glossary of terms 
is included on pages 148 to 151 to explain and define such terms as appropriate. Profile
4 About us and highlights
5 Chairman’s statement
7 Chief Executive’s review
Business overview
11 Introduction
12 Geographic operations
18 Services
20 Regulatory framework
23 History and development 
of Cable & Wireless 4/5 2005 Annual Report
About us and highlights
About us
Cable & Wireless is the leading telecoms operator in the majority of countries in 
which it operates. It is the second largest fixed network telecoms operator in the UK.
Its principal operations are in the UK, the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco.
It provides voice, data, broadband, internet protocol (“IP”) and mobile services to business
and residential customers, fixed and mobile telecoms carriers, mobile operators and content,
application and internet providers.
Its extensive international network conveys traffic between these operations and provides 
a platform from which to offer telecommunication services to other carriers.
Highlights
Cable & Wireless completed the second year of its turnaround programme with 
a robust financial performance and further progress in reshaping the Group. Key
developments included:
– restructuring of UK operations around customer segments;
– acquisition of Bulldog Communications and a controlling interest in Monaco Telecom;
– expansion of National Telcos’ broadband and mobile activities;
– completion of US exit for £220 million and withdrawal from Japanese domestic 
market; and 
– launch of £250 million share buyback.
We achieved further cost savings in the traditional legacy voice and data sectors. Led by 
a strengthened management team, we accelerated investment to position the Group for
profitable growth in new services. Shortly after the year end, we announced a three-year 
plan to develop an IP-based Next Generation Network in the UK and confirmed that Bulldog
had completed the first phase of its local loop unbundling programme ahead of schedule.
In National Telcos, we have continued to invest in our broadband and mobile infrastructure.
Profit before tax and exceptionals
(continuing operations):
– up 13 per cent to £361 million
Earnings per share (total Group):
– 13.0 pence per share
Full year dividend:
– up 21 per cent to 3.8 pence  Chairman’s statement
The past 12 months have been a time of transition as Cable &
Wireless entered a new phase in the three-year programme to
revive the Group. By the end of the year, the Chief Executive and
his new team were no longer preoccupied with the Group’s past,
and had turned confidently to face the future.
A year of transition
Over the past year, management has delivered on the promises it
made in June 2003.We completed our exit from the US market at
considerably lower cost than originally expected.This allowed the
Chief Executive to concentrate on the restructuring of our UK
business and on defining a path to a sustainable position in this
market.An enormous amount of work has gone into improving
operations and tightening cost controls in the legacy businesses.
Customer focus has been central to our new structures.
We are also seeing some excellent groundwork in network
development.A prime example is our investment in Bulldog, the 
UK broadband operator we acquired last May. Bulldog gives us
network access across the “last mile” to the customer, enabling 
us to offer an end-to-end service in competition with BT. Building
our customer base in this way is an important goal as we embark
upon investment of £190 million over three years in our UK 
IP-based Next Generation Network.This new technology offers
network economies that will benefit our customers and improve
our margins. In this context, we welcome Ofcom’s vision of a UK
telecommunications market based on realistic and sustainable
competition among players willing to invest in future 
technological strength.
Our financial disciplines and continued cost reduction have created
a stable framework so that Cable & Wireless can move forward.
Since November, a corporate reorganisation has refocused our
activities on the key customer segments at the heart of our business.
We are now well-placed to exploit rising global demand for
broadband, IP and mobile services across the whole market, from
large multinational corporations to residential users.
Outside the UK, our National Telcos have become more aggressive
in dealing with competition. Co-operation and communication
have also improved between our operations, so that these
businesses can benefit from each others’ experiences of the rapidly
liberalising telecom landscape.We are successfully capitalising on the
controlling stake in Monaco Telecom acquired a year ago, and will
take opportunities to expand our footprint into new geographies
as appropriate.
The exit from the US and disposal of our Japanese business kept
our cash intact, which allowed us, in November 2004, to launch 
a £250 million share buyback.As at March 2005 we had bought
back 60.5 million shares, at an average price of 124.4 pence.
– Turnaround programme on track
– Revenue from continuing operations
stable at constant currency
– Launch of £250 million share 
buyback programme
– Initiated £190 million investment in 
Next Generation Networks
– Targeted National Telcos investment 
in broadband, IP and mobile
Profile
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman 6/7 2005 Annual Report
Chairman’s statement
Results and dividend
The 2005 financial performance demonstrates our progress. Profit
before taxation and exceptional items for continuing operations,
for the year ended 31 March 2005, was £361 million. Revenue 
from continuing operations at £3,023 million, was stable at constant
currency compared to 2004.
The Board has recommended a full year dividend of 3.8 pence 
per share, after paying 1.16 pence per share at the interim stage.
This represents a 21 per cent increase in the total dividend,
indicating our confidence in the Group.
The Board
The Board was strengthened during the year. In July, George
Battersby joined the executive team as Group Human Resources
Director and in December, Harris Jones was appointed as Executive
Director, International Businesses.We also appointed three new
Non-executive Directors, Kate Nealon,Agnès T ouraine and Clive
Butler.Their combined experience has significantly broadened the
skills of our Board as we undertake the next stage of the Group’s
transformation. Kevin Loosemore resigned from the Board on 
1 December 2004 and left Cable & Wireless at the end of the
financial year, we would like to thank him for his contributions.
Dr Janet Morgan retired from the Board in July 2004 having served
16 years during which time her contribution has been considerable,
and for which we thank her.
On page 35, our senior Non-executive Director reports on the 
four key aspects of good corporate governance. I am pleased to
report that Cable & Wireless continues to operate governance 
to high standards.
Our team
Cost-cutting and corporate reorganisation has inevitably been
unsettling for staff, and I want to thank our management and
employees for meeting the challenges so far with resilience and
determination.Their contribution has enabled us to strengthen 
our business for the future.
Looking ahead
Our markets continue to suffer from excess capacity and severe
price competition. Performance improvement will come from
efficiencies and cost-cutting, and a shift in our sales mix towards
broadband, IP and mobile.We are in a unique position to help 
our customers embrace these new technologies and I look 
forward with confidence to the year ahead.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman Chief Executive’s review
We have defined a clear path for our business based around key
trends in customer demand and the rapid shift in technology.
It is key to our success to manage margins in traditional services
and to be able to invest for profitable growth in new services.
In 2005 we made solid progress in strengthening Cable & Wireless’
competitive position:
– we have focused the Group on markets where we have a
relevant presence and can develop and maintain a sustainable
position;
– we completed the US exit and the sale of our domestic
business in Japan;
– we committed to invest £190 million over three years in a 
UK Next Generation Network to increase competitiveness 
and enhance financial performance;
– we focused National T elcos to compete in the growth areas 
of mobile and broadband and continue to reduce costs;
– we reshaped our UK business into four customer-focused
segments, Enterprise, Business, Carrier Services and Bulldog,
each led by experienced telecom professionals; and
– in May 2005 we completed the first phase of Bulldog’s
unbundling programme to cover 30 per cent of UK 
households, just a year after acquisition.
We streamlined central management and relocated our head office
to Bracknell, reflecting our reduced cost base and a culture where
the centre drives performance across the Group.Worldwide we 
are a leaner organisation, in line with our aim to be the lowest cost
provider in all our markets.
Industry context
The telecoms industry is experiencing profound structural changes.
There are common challenges and opportunities across the Group
that have shaped our strategic priorities. Revenues from traditional
services continue to decline, so we must protect margins by further
forcing down costs.At the same time, we are pursuing growth.As
new broadband, IP and mobile services replace legacy services we
are investing to win customers in these highly competitive growth
areas.
UK Group
Our UK operations are focused around the customer segments of
Enterprise, Business and Carrier Services.At present, 67 per cent
of our revenues in the UK are generated by switched voice services,
however, we have adopted targeted strategies for each customer
segment as they migrate to new technologies.These customers are
also supported by our operations in Europe,Asia, and the US.
Focusing on margin 
and investing in profitable
growth
Profile
Francesco Caio
Chief Executive Officer 8/9 2005 Annual Report
Chief Executive’s review
Enterprise
Enterprise provides integrated telecommunication services to large
corporations and central government departments.The convergence
of voice, data and internet access on IP-based services is reshaping
the way many businesses operate. Migrating to IP offers lower costs
and more sophisticated services, such as video-streaming, multi-party
conferencing and remote access into corporate IT systems.
Enterprise won a number of new contracts with major customers.
Although our current revenue is still generated primarily by traditional
services – which are subject to continued decline – we have made
solid gains in winning IP business, which now accounts for 13 per
cent of Enterprise turnover.
Cable & Wireless has the network and the capabilities to support
our biggest customers as they make the transition to new generation,
IP-based technologies.
Business
Business addresses a market that includes a wide range of customers.
In the last year we have focused on the top end of the segment and
saw new business wins with Damovo, easyJet, Lothian Health Board
and Littlewoods. Overall, however, revenue was reduced by severe
competition. Pressure on revenues in legacy services has been higher
than in Enterprise reflecting the fact that, as many customers only
buy switched voice, they have higher price sensitivity and propensity
to switch.
Take-up of IP is growing among our small business customers.We
are developing a new portfolio of packaged and bundled products
such as Intelligent Voice and Straight Talk.The services, including IP ,
are being designed for ease of implementation and use.
Carrier Services
Cable & Wireless has worldwide coverage across 200 countries and
is one of the world’s largest carriers of international voice and data.
Carrier Services generates 45 per cent of UK revenue and operates
in a highly competitive market that continues to suffer from over-
capacity and declining margins, although these have been partially
offset by increased volumes. Our innovative customer solutions have
won notable contracts.We now enable the Post Office to provide 
a fixed phone line service, and won an international termination
deal with Skype, the Voice over IP (“VoIP”) operator for which 
we now transport around 100 million minutes a year. This year 
we will expand our services to international customers by offering
wholesale VoIP . By taking a Group-wide view of network assets,
Carrier Services aims to improve utilisation of our international
network.
We continue to develop new services for mobile carriers and
launched MMX, a platform to exchange pictures and multimedia
messages developed with Vodafone.We operate one of the largest
Global 3G roaming exchanges and support email roaming for a
third of the world’s mobile networks.We also launched our Global
Carrier multi-protocol label switching (“MPLS”) service, which can
transmit any type of traffic in IP format, including time-sensitive and
business-critical information and we have already signed up eight
significant carriers.
Revenue declined following a fall in mobile termination rates,
imposed on all carriers in the UK by Ofcom, but had no impact on
profits. In Europe we downsized and refocused on the demands of 
a customer base of fewer, larger clients.
Bulldog
The acquisition in May 2004 of Bulldog, the broadband operator,
was an important step in advancing our UK access strategy.
Local loop unbundling (“LLU”) strengthens our presence in the
valuable access network, while Bulldog’s appeal to the residential
and small/home office market (the so-called SoHos) broadens 
our UK customer base.This additional traffic increases use of the
existing core network and can, in future, migrate very simply to 
our Next Generation Network.
Through LLU, Bulldog puts its own equipment inside BT’s local
exchanges to take control of the “last mile” copper link (the “local
loop”) into the customer’s home or office.Access to this last mile
improves our end-to-end control of the network resulting in lower
outpayments to BT and, hence, higher gross margins. It also allows
us to innovate, differentiate and control the end-to-end quality of
our services to business and residential customers.
LLU enables Cable & Wireless to redefine its position in the
telecom industry away from the alternative network model.We
have the capability, the core network, and the funding to exploit
unbundling. LLU enables us to make the most of these advantages
to differentiate our business from our competitors.
Our unbundling programme has made rapid progress.We reached
our initial target of 400 exchanges in May 2005, seven months ahead
of the original timetable.The Bulldog team, under its new Chief
Executive, is now progressing with plans to extend its UK coverage
and intends to unbundle an additional 200 exchanges by March 2006
and a further 200 exchanges in the first half of 2006/07 bringing the
total number of exchanges unbundled to 800. This will increase
planned investment and start-up losses in 2005/06. Over the next three years UK voice and data traffic will continue
to migrate to IP . Cable & Wireless has the scale to lead this
transformation. Our infrastructure size, combined with the efficiency
of putting all traffic onto a single IP-based core network, will deliver
significant economies. Our Next Generation Network will offer
customers greater functionality and customised solutions, at an
attractive price.The benefit for Cable & Wireless will be lower
operating and maintenance costs, and a more flexible network 
that can accommodate significant growth in traffic at a much lower
capital cost, offering the potential to achieve a higher margin.
Ofcom
The regulatory framework is fundamental to our business and our
investment decisions.The strategic review by Ofcom, the telecom
and media regulator, provides an opportunity to create a more
transparent and effective regulatory regime in areas where BT 
still controls access to customers.The promised level playing field
must become a reality. Establishing the appropriate structure and
processes to obtain equality of access to BT’s local loop assets will
enable the market to take the lead in setting prices for products
and services where there is already competition.
We are encouraged by Ofcom’s emphasis on infrastructure-based
competition.We are also pleased that the regulator has adopted the
principle of equivalence as the tool to deliver parity in the market.
Successfully implemented, this would require BT to offer regulated
products to competitors at exactly the same price and quality of
service as it does to BT’s own businesses.There should be no
discrimination between non-BT customers and BT’s own operations
when purchasing products such as wholesale broadband capacity
and call origination. Our recent experience has shown considerable
room for improvement in, for example, BT’s co-operation over local
loop unbundling.
It is critical that equivalence is designed into BT’s planned 21st
Century Network so that new barriers to entry are not created by
BT’s migration to next generation systems. Fair infrastructure-based
competition must be at the heart of the UK telecoms market if
customers are to benefit from the variety of services that new
technologies can offer and the UK is to recapture its pre-eminent
position as a business location.
Bulldog’s dual super-fast 4Mbps broadband and voice telephony
offer attracted early customer enthusiasm in the residential and SoHo
markets and we quickly followed this with the release of 8Mbps
across all 400 exchanges.As the roll-out progresses we have
supported it with a broader commercial marketing programme.
With the largest non-incumbent telecom network in the UK, our
new end-to-end infrastructure has offered customers a real choice
of total fixed voice and broadband provider for the first time.
Bulldog has similar characteristics to a start-up in the early days of
mobile; it is marketing led, innovative, and offers customers a fast,
convenient, good value service. For clarity of management and
transparency, we are therefore reporting the results of Bulldog
separately in our segmental analysis.
Next Generation Networks and Operations
In all our markets, we are an infrastructure-based competitor.
Control of our own network is a key source of competitive
advantage through which we can provide high-quality, cost-effective
innovative services.The creation last year of an integrated
management structure for network systems and operations has
enabled us to enhance quality of service, identify investment
priorities, reduce hand-offs and target cost reductions.
We have carried out a review of our existing UK network, and
launched a programme to address operating costs, interconnection
costs and loading.The first phase of this programme will cut costs
by £50 million in 2006 enabling us to mitigate, to some extent, the
continuing effects of price pressure.
The network review also demonstrated the significant benefits 
of moving to an IP-based Next Generation Network architecture,
and the associated IT systems and processes. In April we announced
investment of £190 million over three years to transform our core
UK network into a single integrated IP platform, carrying voice, data
and internet services.
This decision was driven by the shift in demand in all customer
segments towards IP-based products, and the rapid advance in IP
technologies.The development of new services will be supported
by Bulldog’s expanding broadband access network, which will feed
traffic into the IP core.We expect our new IP architecture to be
in place by the end of 2008.
A large proportion of the anticipated £190 million capital
expenditure on our Next Generation Network will replace
expenditure that would otherwise have been needed to maintain
our legacy system, leaving a net increase in planned investment 
over the three years of £35 million.
Profile 10/11 2005 Annual Report
Chief Executive’s review
National T elcos
Cable & Wireless is the market leader in integrated fixed, broadband
and mobile services in 34 countries. Our National Telcos have
delivered solid results in the context of an increasingly liberalised
environment.As at 31 March 2005 88 per cent of our National
T elco revenues were generated by companies operating in liberalised
markets although not all of these are yet fully competitive. Revenues
increased by 10 per cent due to good performances in Panama and
Rest of the World and the acquisition of Monaco Telecom. Mobile
revenues grew by 26 per cent and data and IP revenues grew by 
13 per cent year on year. (All revenue changes are expressed at
constant currency.)
Our new leadership team aims to take advantage of the National
Telcos’ breadth of operations.We believe that this increased cross-
business co-operation, and sharing of knowledge and expertise
across our geographies, will continue to sharpen performance.
Our National Telcos’ markets are at different stages of liberalisation.
Each has its own customer profile but the competitive challenges
they face are similar, and so must be the response:
– reducing the costs of legacy services, where margins are 
under pressure;
– investing further in the key growth services of broadband,
IP and mobile; and
– developing sales and marketing skills to stay ahead of the
competition.
In broadband and IP we are leaders in most of our markets and 
are investing to meet growing demand. Many of the countries in
which we operate still have relatively low take-up of broadband and
IP services, and we are well positioned to offer services that assist
customers in the transition.We have started to invest in IP
backbones in countries where traffic volumes justify the
expenditure, including in the Caribbean where hurricane damage
has accelerated infrastructure replacement. Upgrades are underway
in Monaco, Macau, the Cayman Islands and Grenada.
Across all the National Telcos, we have established tight financial
discipline and control over investment.This has sharpened our 
focus on initiatives that produce results.We intend to expand
broadband and mobile services and this strategy will determine 
our investment decisions.
The future
Over the last two years we have created a more focused and
streamlined platform, better equipped to face the challenges and
opportunities from the rapidly transforming telecommunications
industry.
Our markets will remain very challenging, but I believe that we 
can build on our early achievements. In the UK, our reorganisation
will sharpen our customer focus and strengthen our competitive
position.The investment in Bulldog and our Next Generation
Network will further distinguish us from other UK operators.
In our overseas businesses, we will strive to maintain profitable
market leadership.
Francesco Caio
Chief Executive Officer Profile
– the Carrier Services segment comprising large telecoms
companies that provide long distance international voice services;
mobile operators buying international voice and transport
services; and operators, including resellers and ISPs. Cable &
Wireless’ objective in Carrier Services is to leverage the depth of
its intercontinental network and advanced services to position the
Group as the backbone of choice for mobile and other operators.
In November 2004, management commenced a restructuring of
its European operations to focus principally on Carrier Services;
– the SoHo/consumer segment which Cable & Wireless addresses
through Bulldog. Bulldog provides high speed data and voice
services in the UK via LLU.
The Group’s remaining operations in the United States, Europe and
Asia provide international services to UK-based Enterprise and
Carrier Services customers.
Relocation of Group Head Office
Consistent with the steps taken to reshape and re-focus 
Cable & Wireless, the Group has relocated its head office from
central London. This move has combined corporate and UK
functions and has resulted in a shift towards a more customer
oriented, responsive culture.
National T elcos 
Almost all the 34 national markets in which the National Telcos
operate are now fully or partially liberalised and present very similar
competitive challenges. For this reason Cable & Wireless’ strategy
across the National Telcos is based on three principles: invest in key
growth services of broadband, IP and mobile; lower costs on legacy
services where margins are under pressure and develop sales and
marketing skills.
In line with these principles, Cable & Wireless acquired Monaco
Telecom in June 2004. Monaco Telecom is a fully integrated
telecommunications company.
In addition, the Group completed the roll out of its GSM network
across the National Telcos, improving coverage and services to
residential and business customers across 22 businesses.The Group
also launched proactive marketing initiatives to increase broadband
penetration across the National Telcos.
Going forward, the Group aims to take advantage of the National
Telcos’ breadth of operations, increasing cross-business cooperation
and sharing knowledge and expertise across the National Telcos
geographies to continue to improve performance.
Cable & Wireless is a leading international telecommunications
company with principal operations in the United Kingdom,
the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco. Cable & Wireless
provides voice, data, internet protocol (“IP”) and mobile services
to business and residential customers as well as to fixed and
mobile telecommunications operators and content, application
and internet providers.
Business overview
Cable & Wireless’ strategy is to exploit growing demand for
broadband, IP and mobile services in markets where it can achieve
significant scale.As a result, Cable & Wireless intends to be the
number one or two operator in the principal markets in which 
it operates.T o continue to achieve this as the telecommunications
industry faces unprecedented changes in customer behaviour,
technology and market structure, the Group must protect margins
by reducing costs whilst accelerating investment to position itself for
profitable growth in new services.
During the past two years, Cable & Wireless has pursued this
strategy, exiting markets where it did not have a relevant position,
reshaping its operations, investing for growth and streamlining the
central office.
Exit from US and Japan
In 2005, the Group completed its exit from the United States and
Japan, two markets where it did not have sufficient scale to sustain
a competitive position.T o exit the US, the Group agreed, at the
request of the purchaser, to sell its business through a Chapter 11
process under the United States Bankruptcy Code. In Japan, the
Group conducted a competitive auction process culminating in the
sale of the Group’s Japanese subsidiary.
Reshaping the UK business
Following its review in 2004 of the dynamics of the UK market,
the Group restructured its United Kingdom operations and in 
April 2005 announced a three-year plan to develop an IP-based
Next Generation Network. In addition, the Group acquired Bulldog
Communications Ltd (“Bulldog”) in May 2004, a UK-based
broadband provider specialising in local loop unbundling (“LLU”).
Through Bulldog and its investment in a Next Generation Network,
Cable & Wireless is in the process of redefining its position in the
UK telecom industry, moving away from the alternative network
model.T o effect this move, the UK is now structured around the
following key customer segments:
– the Enterprise segment comprising businesses and institutions with
the biggest telecoms spend in the UK. Cable & Wireless’ objective
in Enterprise is to be the partner of choice in transitioning
customers to new generation, IP-based technologies;
– the Business segment, comprising small and medium-sized
companies. Cable & Wireless aims to be a credible, strong supplier
to small and medium-sized customers through targeted sales of
bundled products, including IP services;
Business overview
Introduction Business overview
Geographic operations
Cable & Wireless Group
Cable & Wireless 2005 Turnover by geography
(Continuing operations)
T otal turnover: £3,023 million
Cable & Wireless has principal operations in the United Kingdom, the
Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco.The Group’s operations are
managed and reported on a country-based structure.
The Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World are
collectively referred to as the National T elcos. For a discussion of
Cable & Wireless’ turnover by geographic operation for the past
three years, see Operating and financial review – Group turnover.
United Kingdom
United Kingdom 2005 Turnover by customer segment
T otal turnover: £1,602 million
Cable & Wireless is the largest fixed voice telecommunications
service provider in the United Kingdom after BT, the incumbent
telecom operator.
The UK operation is structured around three key customer 
segments known as Enterprise, Business and Carrier Services.
Additionally, the SoHo/Consumer customer segment is served
through Bulldog.The UK sells voice and data services over fixed
line networks using legacy and IP platforms.
The UK uses the United States (“CWAO”), Europe and Asia to
provide services to UK-based Enterprise and Carrier Services
customers with international service requirements. For this reason,
the United States, Europe and Asia operations are managed from
the UK and organised around the three relevant customer segments.
This section discusses the customer segments in the UK and
1
2
3
1. Enterprise
2. Business
3. Carrier services
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. United Kingdom
2. Caribbean
3. Panama
4. Macau
5. Monaco
6. Rest of the World
provides an outline of the operations that support the UK, the
United States, Europe and Asia. For a discussion on Bulldog and 
on the United States, Europe and Asia see page 13.
UK Enterprise (2005 T urnover: £475 million)
Cable & Wireless defines Enterprise customers as large national
and international organisations where significant customisation of
their telecommunications services is required. Enterprise customers
purchase voice and data telecommunications services.
Enterprise customers typically buy telecommunications services
from a variety of suppliers, although many have a longer-term
relationship with a primary supplier. Enterprise customers often
require interconnection between multiple sites, so deep network
reach is important.As a result, Cable & Wireless generally competes
against other operators with large networks. Price pressure
continues to be significant in this market.
Cable & Wireless’ objective in the Enterprise market is to become
the partner of choice for companies as they transition from voice
and data services delivered over legacy platforms to new voice,
data and integrated services delivered over IP-based platforms.
Currently, fixed voice represents 54 per cent of total turnover for
Enterprise customers in the UK.
Cable & Wireless addresses the needs of its UK-based Enterprise
customers for international services through its presence in the
United States, Europe and Asia.
UK Business (2005 T urnover: £394 million)
Cable & Wireless defines business customers as mid-sized
companies who purchase voice and data services over legacy 
and IP-based platforms through direct or indirect sales channels.
Often, Business customers are regional entities with one or 
a small number of sites. Cable & Wireless aims to serve these
customers through standardised service offerings.This market
attracts competition from operators with both large and relatively
small networks.
Currently, fixed voice represents 39 per cent of total turnover 
for Business customers in the UK. Customers in the Business market
are more easily able to switch providers, resulting in significant price
pressure and high levels of churn across all services delivered over
legacy platforms, particularly fixed voice services.The key area of
growth in this market is voice, data and integrated services delivered
over IP-based platforms.These platforms allow customers to access
enhanced features such as voice, video and data provided through
a single cost-effective platform.
UK Carrier Services (2005 T urnover: £733 million)
Cable & Wireless defines Carrier Services customers as large
national and international telecommunications operators or resellers
who purchase wholesale services mainly focusing on voice and data
services delivered over legacy platforms.
12/13 2005 Annual Report The ability to deliver IP services using its own network provides
Bulldog with technological advantages over competitors reselling
the incumbent’s products.This allows Bulldog to differentiate its
service offerings, maintain full bandwidth control and own the
customer from end-to-end.
In September 2004, Cable & Wireless announced the initial LLU
plan for Bulldog including the target to unbundle 400 exchanges by
December 2005. Bulldog had completed LLU on 252 exchanges as
at 31 March 2005 and completed LLU on 400 exchanges in 
May 2005.
Cable & Wireless believes LLU is more than an opportunity to offer
fast internet access. LLU can also provide a cost effective platform
from which Cable & Wireless can launch a wide range of new and
existing telecom services from voice to video.
United States (“CWAO”)
2005 T otal turnover: £16 million
Cable & Wireless operates in the United States through its
subsidiary Cable & Wireless Americas Operations, Inc. (“CWAO”).
CWAO operates a small, efficient and predominantly international
network.The business provides US connectivity for data and IP
services to Enterprise customers principally those based in the UK.
Europe
2005 T otal turnover: £186 million
Cable & Wireless’ operations in continental Europe are in Germany,
France, Spain and Italy, together with smaller operations in Russia,
Belgium,The Netherlands, Switzerland and Sweden.
The continental European operations are focused on Carrier
Services, and also support UK Enterprise customers. Carrier
Services represents over 80 per cent of turnover in continental
Europe.The main Carrier Services customers are mobile operators
and other telecommunications operators.
Asia
2005 T otal turnover: £39 million
Cable & Wireless’ operations in Asia span Australia, China, Hong
Kong, India, Japan and Singapore and focus on Carrier Services 
and Enterprise segments.The Group’s network of 33 nodes in 
13 countries provides a footprint across the entire region.
Following the disposal of the Group’s domestic business in Japan in
February 2005, the Asia operations have been focused on serving
Enterprise customers that require IP and managed data services 
to and from Asia (principally those based in the UK) and Carrier
Services customers in Asia that require voice, IP and data services
to the rest of the world.
Carrier Services provide fixed voice and data services to the
following types of customers:
– large international telecommunications operators, who buy fixed
long distance and international fixed voice services;
– national mobile operators, who buy both international voice 
and data transport/backbone services to allow them to connect
their radio networks via the fixed infrastructure.T o serve mobile
operators in their migration to new “3G” networks, we have
launched services that support international data roaming;
– regional and domestic telecommunications operators to whom
we sell fixed voice and data services;
– virtual telecommunications operators and resellers, who purchase
voice services using Carrier Pre-Select (“CPS”). CPS allows
consumer calls to be automatically connected from the incumbent
operator network to the network of a competing operator.
Virtual operators purchase CPS services from Cable & Wireless
and re-sell them under their own brands to residential 
customers; and
– Internet Service Providers (“ISP”), who buy data and internet
transport services.
Currently, fixed voice represents 91 per cent of total UK Carrier
Services turnover.The Carrier Services market is highly competitive
and price sensitive.As a result, significant price declines have been
seen in all key service areas.
Driven by the requirements of its Carrier Services customers, Cable
& Wireless leverages its presence in the United States, Europe and
Asia as well as the National Telcos to provide voice and data
services internationally.
SoHo/Consumer (Bulldog)
2005 T otal turnover: £11 million
In May 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 100 per cent of Bulldog 
in order to capture the growth opportunity in broadband, leverage
the Cable & Wireless backbone network and expand the Group’s
IP network.
Bulldog provides IP services by way of broadband internet access to
SoHo and residential customers. Bulldog uses full LLU to connect
directly to customers, providing voice telephony and high speed
internet access services independent of the incumbent operator.
Full LLU refers to the process by which providers, such as Bulldog
install their own Digital Subscriber Line (“DSL”) equipment in 
rented space within an incumbent operator’s local exchanges.
DSL technology allows Bulldog to deliver broadband capabilities
to customers over ordinary copper telephone lines.
Profile Business overview
Geographic operations
National T elcos
National T elcos 2005 T urnover by service
T otal turnover: £1,191 million
In the National Telcos, Cable & Wireless typically operates the
domestic fixed line telecom network and associated international
interconnect facilities. Its fixed and mobile voice, data and IP services
meet the needs of corporate and residential customers, including
the fast-growing demand for internet access through dial-up IP and
broadband ADSL connections.
Almost all the 34 markets in which Cable & Wireless operates 
are fully or partially liberalised.The principal exception is Monaco
Telecom which has an exclusive concession to operate international,
domestic, data and mobile services until 2023.As competition has
intensified across the National Telcos, Cable & Wireless has
transformed its organisation, taking on its new competition by
investing in innovation, such as GSM networks, managing and
reducing costs, and marketing proactively.
Caribbean 
Caribbean 2005 Turnover by service
T otal turnover: £550 million
Overview
Cable & Wireless operates in 16 Caribbean countries providing
domestic and international voice, data and IP services to residential
and business customers.The Caribbean’s principal businesses are
subsidiary operations in Jamaica, Barbados, and the Cayman Islands
and an equity holding in Trinidad and T obago.
In nearly all the Caribbean countries in which it operates,
Cable & Wireless is the incumbent operator, providing domestic 
and international fixed and mobile voice and data services and IP
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. International V oice
2. Domestic V oice
3. Data
4. IP
5. Mobile
6. Other
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. International V oice
2. Domestic V oice
3. Data
4. IP
5. Mobile
6. Other
services. Liberalisation is at an advanced stage across the Caribbean
with nearly all markets either fully liberalised or in transition to
competitive markets. Further discussion on liberalisation is in
Regulatory framework.
In response to growing competition and to customer demand,
Cable & Wireless is increasingly focused on developing and
enhancing its mobile and IP service offerings, whilst retaining its
position in fixed voice services.
In order to develop and enhance mobile services in the Caribbean,
Cable & Wireless continued its expansion of GSM mobile services
to reach all 13 of the countries in which Cable & Wireless holds
mobile licences. Cable & Wireless continues to enhance network
coverage, capacity and roaming capabilities, enabling the launch 
of new products and services, including mobile email, prepaid 
pan-Caribbean roaming and mobile messaging services (“MMS”).
At 31 March 2005, there were over 900 GSM equipped sites in 
the Caribbean with land mass coverage on most islands between 
65 per cent and 99 per cent. During the year, Cable & Wireless total
mobile subscribers in these countries increased from 1,141,000 to
1,367,000.
During 2005, Cable & Wireless expanded its broadband
capabilities across the Caribbean. Sales and marketing activities
have been focused on the rebranding of broadband services.
Investment has been focused on increasing the number of fixed
lines enabled to deliver broadband service, average prices have
been reduced and line speeds increased. DSL customers at 
31 March 2005 were approximately 38,000, an increase of 
over 125 per cent from 31 March 2004.
In the Caribbean countries where Cable & Wireless provides
domestic voice services, customers at 31 March 2005 totalled
735,000, an overall decrease of approximately 12 per cent in 
the year.This reduction is a result of customers substituting mobile
services for fixed line services.
Jamaica
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited (“Cable & Wireless Jamaica”), a
subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, is the incumbent operator and is the
largest of Cable & Wireless’ Caribbean operations (by turnover)
generating 37 per cent of the Caribbean’s turnover in 2005.
Cable & Wireless Jamaica is the largest telecommunications
company in Jamaica.
Cable & Wireless Jamaica provides domestic and international fixed
and mobile voice and data services and IP services to residential and
business customers.
The Jamaican market has been liberalising since March 2000.
In addition to Cable & Wireless Jamaica, there are currently two
active competitors in the mobile sector, 10 active ISPs (out of a total
of 76 licensed parties), 32 licensed data service providers and two
competitors in the domestic voice sector.The international carrier
14/15 2005 Annual Report Trinidad and T obago to ensure an orderly liberalisation.
Panama
Panama 2005 Turnover by service
T otal turnover: £257 million
Cable & Wireless Panama S.A. (“Cable & Wireless Panama”), a
subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, is the incumbent operator and
provides domestic and international voice, data and IP services to
residential and business customers in Panama. Cable & Wireless
Panama is the largest telecommunications company in Panama.
The telecoms market in Panama has been liberalising since 
2003. International and domestic fixed line services are now fully
liberalised, whilst Cable & Wireless Panama operates in a duopoly in
the mobile market (with Telefonica) until 2008. Competition in fixed
line voice services is concentrated in international and long distance
services with 56 and 32 operators licensed in each segment,
respectively. IP services have been liberalised for many years with
84 licensees.
In light of the increased competition and in line with customer
demand Cable & Wireless Panama continues to focus on the
development of its mobile and IP capabilities as well as maintaining
high standards in customer service and retaining its market leading
position in fixed line services.
In the year to March 2005, Cable & Wireless Panama continued its
investment in GSM services to enable an expansion of capacity in
order to meet the increase in demand for its services.T otal mobile
customers increased to 634,000 at 31 March 2005, an increase of
25 per cent over the prior year.
Cable & Wireless Panama has also invested in DSL services in 
the year.This investment has enabled the launch of a range of
bundled IP solutions for business as well as an increase in access
for residential customers.At the 31 March 2005, DSL customer
numbers were 38,000 an increase of over 123 per cent in the year.
During the year to March 2005, Cable & Wireless Panama has
continued to focus on retaining its market leading position in fixed
line.Activities have focused on customer service improvement and
customer retention. Fixed line customers in Panama have increased
from 360,000 at 31 March 2004 to 383,000 at 31 March 2005.
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. International V oice
2. Domestic V oice
3. Data
4. IP
5. Mobile
6. Other
market has been liberalised since March 2003 and now comprises
68 licensed carriers, of which six are active and interconnect with
Cable & Wireless Jamaica. Nine ISPs offer internet services to end
customers over Cable & Wireless’ network.
Barbados
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Limited (“Cable & Wireless
Barbados”), a subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, is the incumbent
operator and provides domestic and international fixed and mobile
voice and data services and IP services to residential and business
customers. Cable & Wireless Barbados generated 18 per cent of the
Caribbean’s turnover in 2005. Cable & Wireless Barbados is the
largest telecommunications company in Barbados.
The Barbados domestic fixed and mobile voice markets have 
been liberalising since August 2003, while liberalisation in the
data and IP market has been longstanding.The domestic voice
telecommunications market is now fully liberalised with three
licensed operators, none of which were active at 31 March 2005.
International services were liberalised in February 2005 with two
licences issued and both operators active in the market using their
own international facilities.Three mobile licences have been issued
to competitors in Barbados and two are currently active in the
market. Seven ISPs offer internet services to end customers over
Cable & Wireless’ network.
Cayman Islands 
Cable and Wireless (Cayman Islands) Limited (“Cable & Wireless
Cayman Islands”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Cable & Wireless,
is the incumbent operator and provides domestic and international
fixed and mobile voice and data services and IP services to
residential and business customers in the Cayman Islands. Cable &
Wireless Cayman Islands generated 11 per cent of the Caribbean’s
turnover in 2005. Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands is the largest
telecommunications company in the Cayman Islands.
The Cayman Islands market was fully liberalised in early 2004.
At 31 March 2005, 18 new entrants have been licensed in various
telecommunications, broadcasting and other communication 
market sectors. Most licensees have multiple licences. In addition
to Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands, there are currently two active
competitors in the mobile sector (out of the six licensed); two
active ISPs; three active fixed-wireless providers; and one active
reseller of telephony services.
Trinidad and T obago
Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and T obago Limited
(“TSTT”), a 49 per cent equity investment of Cable & Wireless, is
the incumbent operator and provides domestic and international
fixed and mobile voice and data services and IP services to
residential and business customers.TSTT is the largest
telecommunications company in Trinidad and T obago.
The process of liberalisation is under way in the Trinidad and T obago
market although no additional licences have been issued.TSTT and
Cable & Wireless are in negotiations with the government of
Profile Business overview
Geographic operations
Macau
Macau 2005 Turnover by service
T otal turnover: £117 million
Companhia de Telecomunicações de Macau S.A.R.L. (“CTM”), a
subsidiary of Cable & Wireless, is the incumbent operator in Macau
offering international and domestic fixed and mobile voice and data
and IP services to business and residential customers. In addition,
CTM provides an international transit service through its nodes in
Hong Kong and Singapore serving national and international
carriers. CTM is the largest telecommunications company in Macau.
CTM is the exclusive provider of domestic fixed voice services in
Macau, with the licence expiring in 2011.The remaining market
segments are fully liberalised with active competition in most sectors
from local and international operators.
In the mobile market Macau has issued two further licences for
GSM technology and one other licence for CDMA technology.
The internet market was liberalised in October 2000. CTM is the
leading provider with only one competitor in the dial-up internet
access market, at present there is no active competition in the
broadband DSL access market.
In response to changes in the competitive environment and
customer demand, CTM continues to focus on enhancing its fixed
line voice and data services whilst further developing capabilities in
mobile and IP services.
The Macau government is considering the issue of a Third
Generation Wireless (“3G”) licence. Licensing procedures for 
3G are expected to be announced in the fourth quarter of 
calendar 2005.
1
2
3
4 5
6
1. International V oice
2. Domestic V oice
3. Data
4. IP
5. Mobile
6. Other
Monaco T elecom
Monaco T elecom 2005 T urnover by service
T otal turnover £100 million (9.5 months)
Monaco Telecom S.A.M. (“Monaco Telecom”), a subsidiary of Cable
& Wireless, was acquired on 18 June 2004. Monaco Telecom was
created in 1997 following the privatisation of the incumbent
operator. Monaco Telecom provides fixed and mobile voice and data
services as well as IP services. It holds an exclusive licence to
provide domestic and international fixed and mobile voice services,
internet access and cable services in Monaco until 2023.
The focus within Monaco is on the quality of service while
maintaining pricing parity with neighbouring countries. Outside
Monaco, it is developing its international activities in network
management and satellite services.
The primary growth opportunities within Monaco are focused on
mobile and DSL. Since acquisition, mobile subscribers have increased
21 per cent to 35,000. During the same period, the DSL lines have
increased 17 per cent to 7,500.
Monaco Telecom is also focused on maintaining its fixed turnover
contribution from fixed to mobile substitution by creating value
added services, customer service improvements, and high value
product bundles. In addition, Monaco Telecom intends to leverage 
its wide portfolio of telecommunication services in the Principality
by offering convergent communication services and billing.
Outside the Principality, Monaco Telecom has provided network
services to a mobile network in Kosovo under a management
contract since 2000.At the beginning of 2003, Monaco Telecom 
was awarded the second GSM licence in Afghanistan as the strategic
partner in a consortium 51 per cent owned by the Aga Khan Fund
for Economic Development.These contracts are included in Other
turnover for financial reporting purposes.
1
2
3
4
5
6
1. International V oice
2. Domestic V oice
3. Data
4. IP
5. Mobile
6. Other
16/17 2005 Annual Report Bahrain
Cable & Wireless operates in Bahrain through its associate Bahrain
T elecommunications Company B.S.C. (“Batelco”). Batelco provides
domestic and international fixed and mobile voice and data and IP
services to residential and business customers.
In Bahrain, competition in domestic mobile, in the form of MTC
Vodafone, was introduced in 2003. Internet services were liberalised
on a similar timeframe. In the summer of 2004 the market for
international services and facilities was liberalised. In the second half
of 2004 a licence to provide national fixed line services was put up
for sale but as yet no additional licences have been awarded, resulting
in Batelco currently being the only licence holder for the provision of
domestic fixed line services and IP .
Rest of the World
Rest of the World 2005 Turnover by service
T otal turnover: £167 million
Overview
Rest of the World comprises Cable & Wireless’ subsidiary operations
in Guernsey and the Maldives together with smaller operations in the
Seychelles, Bermuda, Sakhalin in Russia, Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands,
Fiji,Ascension, St Helena,Vanuatu, Solomon Islands, Jersey and the Isle
of Man. Cable & Wireless also has an associate holding in Bahrain.
Guernsey and the Maldives account for 60 per cent of the Rest of
the World turnover .
In the geographies where Cable & Wireless operates, it is typically the
incumbent operator, providing domestic and international fixed and
mobile voice and data services as well as IP services.The status of
liberalisation across the Rest of the World is varied. Most businesses
however are currently in transition to liberalised markets. Further
details on the liberalisation status of the Rest of the World can be
found in the regulatory section on page 22.
Guernsey
Cable & Wireless operates in Guernsey through its wholly owned
subsidiary Cable and Wireless Guernsey Ltd (“Cable & Wireless
Guernsey”). Cable & Wireless Guernsey is the incumbent operator
in Guernsey providing domestic and international fixed and mobile
voice and data services and IP services to all residential, business and
government customers.
The States of Guernsey liberalised the market in 2002.
At 31 March 2005, in addition to Cable & Wireless Guernsey, there
were two competitors for domestic and international voice and 
one competitor for mobile.
Maldives
Cable & Wireless operates in the Maldives through its subsidiary
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Limited (“Dhiraagu”). Dhiraagu is
the incumbent operator and provides domestic and international
voice and mobile services and IP services to residential and business
customers.
The Maldives began liberalisation in 2002.At 31 March 2005, in
addition to Dhiraagu, there was one competitor in the IP market and
one licence issued in the mobile market with competition expected
to begin in the next fiscal year.
1
2
3
4
6
5
1. International V oice
2. Domestic V oice
3. Data
4. IP
5. Mobile
6. Other
Profile Business overview
Services
Cable & Wireless 2005 Turnover by service
(Continuing operations)
T otal turnover: £3,023 million
Cable & Wireless provides voice, data, and IP services to business
and residential customers across the world.The Group delivers
these services over fixed line and mobile networks.The majority of
services are delivered over traditional legacy platforms, with a small
but growing proportion being delivered over IP-based platforms.
The term legacy platform generally refers to the existing
communications and transmission infrastructure that underpins most
telecom operator networks across the world that were deployed
up until the late 1990’s. Each family of service delivered over legacy
technology generally requires a proprietary platform to deliver
service, resulting in multiple overlapping telecommunication
networks.
The term internet protocol (“IP”) generally refers to a set of
protocols or rules that govern how interconnected devices
communicate. IP-based devices share data in ‘packets,’ or discrete
bundles of data. IP networks allow the delivery of voice, video and
data over the same network, allowing simplification of network
design and operation, and supporting the delivery of new 
integrated services.
Historically, in many operations, Cable & Wireless was the
incumbent operator, focusing on voice and data services over 
fixed lines on legacy platforms.T oday, most markets in which 
Cable & Wireless operates have liberalised. New voice and data
services delivered over mobile and IP networks are growing and
over time, replacing services on our fixed line networks.
New IP-based platforms allow Cable & Wireless to deliver new
types of integrated service that blur the old boundaries between
voice and data/fixed and mobile and deliver seamless integrated
communications to end users.
1
2
3
4
5
1. Voice
2. Data
3. IP
4. Mobile
5. Other
Voice services
Fixed voice
Cable & Wireless offers domestic and international voice services to
residential, corporate and other telecommunication companies and
service providers. In the UK, Cable & Wireless also provides services
to non-telecommunication companies who provide residential
telephony, but do not have their own network infrastructure.
The majority of fixed voice turnover is delivered over legacy
platforms, using traditional copper telephone lines and 
switch networks.
Cable & Wireless also offers IP-based voice services, such as 
voice over IP (“VoIP”).These services can provide enhanced end
user functionality (for example, providing better integration between
customers’ own voice and data networks) at reduced cost.
Mobile voice
Cable & Wireless offers domestic and international mobile voice
services to residential and business customers outside the United
Kingdom. Cable & Wireless delivers voice services to mobile
handsets through wireless technologies such as GSM.
Global system for mobile communications (“GSM”) is a standard 
for digital mobile telephone transmissions that allows global roaming
and enhanced features for data transmission as compared with 
time division multiple access (“TDMA”) networks. Because of the
increased turnover potential associated with GSM technologies,
Cable & Wireless has been expanding its GSM networks throughout
the National Telcos in recent years.
Data services
Fixed data 
Cable & Wireless offers data services to businesses that operate
over fixed-line networks using legacy platforms, including leased
line services, and networking services based on Frame Relay and
asynchronous transfer mode (“ATM”) technology.
Leased line services predominantly utilise a technology known 
as synchronous digital hierarchy (“SDH”) to deliver data from 
point-to-point.
Frame Relay and ATM services provide an additional layer 
of intelligence and functionality beyond leased lines, allowing
customers to build and manage complex networks across multiple
locations and to prioritise traffic flows through their network.
Cable & Wireless also offers ‘next generation’ data services, such as
IP virtual private networks (“IP-VPN”) and internet services that are
delivered over IP-based networks.
IP-VPN allows customers to replace traditional private data
networks with virtual private networks (“VPN”) which can reduce 
the expense and complexity of private networks, while providing
enhanced services such as the bundling of voice, video and data.
18/19 2005 Annual Report Mobile data
Cable & Wireless offers a range of data services for its mobile
customers utilising SMS and MMS based technologies.
IP Services
Cable & Wireless provides customised services to many of its large
corporate customers.Typically, these involve the development of
integrated voice, data transmission and/or data storage solutions that
are uniquely configured for individual customers.
Increasingly, these service solutions are offered using IP-based
platforms and technologies and include voice services such as VoIP
and data services such as IP-VPN.
IP access solutions provide security services (such as managed
firewalls), intrusion detection, scanning and analysis (such as email
virus protection), and authentication and encryption services to
control access into customers’ networks.
IP contact centres enable our customers to manage all contact with
their customers including incoming and outbound calls, emails or
web contact requests.
Bulldog and the National Telcos provide broadband services that
include voice and internet access as well as dial-up narrowband
internet access, that allow business and residential customers to
access the internet from their business or home.
Profile Business overview
Regulatory framework
20/21 2005 Annual Report
regulatory regime. Cable & Wireless will continue to offer
telecommunications services subject to obligations set forth 
in general conditions as dictated by the relevant electronic
communications directive and individual member states.
Outside the European Union, Cable & Wireless operates in
Guernsey, the Isle of Man, Monaco, Norway, Russia and Switzerland
with relevant licences and authorisations.
Some licences provide that, upon their termination, the relevant
government may purchase, or have the option to purchase, the
property, plant and equipment of the licensee in that territory at
a fair market value. In some cases, where the Group owns an
operating company jointly with government, that government has
the right to purchase, at specified times, the whole or part of the
Group’s shareholding in the operating company.
The international trend is for telecommunications liberalisation and
the replacement of exclusive licences with non-exclusive licences
alongside rules governing competition between operators.
Jurisdictions that currently support monopoly provision may also
decide to promote competition, and Cable & Wireless anticipates
that some existing exclusive licences will not be renewed on an
exclusive basis, or that governments will seek to withdraw their
exclusivity before the licence expires, replacing the current operating
licence with a non-exclusive licence.
The Group is committed to participating in discussions on the
introduction of competition in any territory where its government
wishes to do so.
There is no guarantee that an agreement to provide either a
monopoly or franchised service will remain in effect for the full term
of the agreement.
Regulation by jurisdiction
The regulatory institutions and policies of the jurisdictions in which
the Group operates are varied.
Europe
The regulatory framework in member states of the European 
Union is harmonised by EU directives, though there are divergences
in regulatory policy and practice between member states. Many
member states have implemented, or are implementing, the
directives of the European Union 2003 electronic communications
package.This package seeks to harmonise telecommunications
across the European Union, and involves the concept of Significant
Market Power to determine which operators should have prior
obligations placed on them, on the grounds that such operators
might exploit that market position to the detriment of competition
and therefore consumers.This speed of adoption of the electronic
communications package varies significantly across the EU and this
can affect the ability of the non-incumbents to compete.
Cable & Wireless, like other international telecommunication
providers around the world, faces various regulatory and market
access constraints in various countries resulting from laws, public
policies and licensing requirements.This reflects the perception
of telecommunications as a public service, a history of special or
exclusive rights to provide services and often, a move towards
liberalisation. Generally, specialist telecommunications regulation
is administered through enforcement of conditions contained in
‘authorisations’ or in operating and service licences held by the
Group and its subsidiaries.
Most of the markets in which Cable & Wireless operates are fully
liberalised although some are in transition to competitive markets,
and a few small geographies are expected to remain monopolies for
the foreseeable future.Where countries have moved to competitive
environments, Cable & Wireless has actively engaged with
governments in order to facilitate an orderly transition to a fully
competitive environment.The discussions involve negotiating fair
regulatory arrangements that provide for equal treatment during
the transitional period and beyond.
In all jurisdictions where it operates, Cable & Wireless is required
to comply with regulations that affect its business.The Group
believes it complies in all material respects with all material
regulatory obligations and where regulatory compliance issues
emerge it takes action to ensure compliance.
Licensing
Cable & Wireless provides international and domestic
telecommunications services under general authorisation regimes
or licences in the jurisdictions in which it operates.These licences
are either held by Cable & Wireless itself or by local operating
entities owned either wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, by
Cable & Wireless.
The Group believes it has all licences material to the running of its
business. It is possible that from time to time, as further products
and services are deployed or changed, additional licences or
authorisations will be required.Where the Group identifies the 
need for further licences or authorisations, it intends to acquire
such licences.The terms of the Group’s licences vary, although 
most remain in effect for a fixed period of 10 to 25 years, or for
an indefinite period subject to notice of termination after a specified
minimum period. Licence fees are sometimes required, either as a
fixed annual fee or a fee equal to a percentage of the revenue or
profits arising from the licence.
In 2003 the European Union established a harmonised framework
for licensing laid out under the electronic communications directives.
This has been transposed into national law by most of the member
states.As a result these member states will no longer issue individual
telecommunications licences to companies except in exceptional
circumstances such as the allocation of spectrum.Therefore, for
Cable & Wireless, most of the telecommunications licences it holds
in EU member states, including those in the UK, have been revoked
and replaced by the relevant general authorisations under the new Profile
United Kingdom
The telecommunications market in the United Kingdom is governed
by the EU communications package (described above) which has
been transposed into national law by the Communications Act 
2003 (“UK Comms Act”).The UK Comms Act sets the framework
for the regulation of telecommunications and broadcasting markets
as well as the civilian use of spectrum in the United Kingdom.
Insofar as it applies to telecommunications markets, it updates 
the Telecommunications Act 1984 and transposes the EU 
electronic communications directives into UK law. It also lays out
the powers and duties of the industry regulator, the Office of
Communications (“Ofcom”).
Following reviews by Ofcom, BT has been designated as having
Significant Market Power in a number of markets. BT is therefore
required to provide cost-based interconnection for switched voice
services and leased line access circuits (Partial Private Circuits) to
providers of public electronic communications networks such as
Cable & Wireless on non-discriminatory terms. Such services are
subject to network charge controls.The network charge controls
applying to BT are in the process of being reviewed. It is not yet
clear what form the new controls will take given that over the likely
four-year period of the next cap BT will be migrating from legacy to
next generation networks.
Following the review of wholesale International Direct Dial (“IDD”)
markets, Cable & Wireless has a designation of Significant Market
Power on wholesale IDD routes from the United Kingdom to four
destinations:Ascension, Diego Garcia, Montserrat and Turks &
Caicos.The obligations associated with this designation are minimal.
In addition, in common with all other providers of fixed public 
voice networks in the United Kingdom, Cable & Wireless has been
designated as having Significant Market Power in the markets for
geographic call termination on the UK network.As this designation
has been applied to all operators, obligations are likely to be minimal
and the Group expects that there will be little or no impact.
In early 2004, Ofcom undertook a Strategic Review of the UK
Telecommunications market.This review is ongoing, with Ofcom 
due to consult on its final decisions in summer 2005. Ofcom’s
preliminary views, as described in its Phase 2 consultation paper
published in November 2004, are that it would seek to promote
competition at the deepest level of infrastructure where effective
and sustainable.
Ofcom intends to do this by introducing the concept of ‘equality
of access’.This principle would be applied to the regulation of
wholesale products delivered by BT and would require BT to
provide competitors with the same or similar regulated wholesale
access products, at the same price and using the same or similar
transactional processes as provided to BT’s own retail activities.
Ofcom have also publicly stated an expectation of behavioural and
organisational changes within BT to support the development of
equality of access in products and to minimise the ongoing need for
regulatory intervention. BT has offered to set up an ‘Access Services
Division’, which would be responsible for appropriate regulated
access to its products and assets.
Ofcom’s proposed policies in respect to the Strategic Review
provide the industry, including Cable & Wireless, with guidance on
the regulator’s expectations for regulated solutions provided by BT.
In the event that the principle of ‘equality of access’ is effectively
implemented in relation to BT, this will lead to an improvement in
the operating environment for all industry players competing with
BT as it will reduce the long standing, inherently advantageous
market position that BT has held over other players as a result of 
its ownership of the near monopoly local access network assets.
Once the policy formulation stage concludes in summer of 2005,
the process will move into practical implementation of that policy
framework.
It is possible that Ofcom may decide that it does not have 
the power to make the required changes to the regulatory or
competitive framework. If Ofcom conclude this, they have the
option to refer the matter to the Competition Commission under
the Enterprise Act.
The Caribbean
Cable & Wireless has businesses in 16 countries in the Caribbean.
Whilst in the past Cable & Wireless was exclusively licensed in the
majority of these territories, nearly all are now either fully liberalised
or are in transition to competitive markets. Cable & Wireless is
engaged in ongoing dialogues with host governments and regulators
to ensure that the regulatory environment is fair and consistent.
The regulatory frameworks in which the most significant Cable &
Wireless Caribbean businesses operate are described in this section.
Cable & Wireless Jamaica operates in a fully liberalised market,
regulated by the Office of Utilities Regulation.
Cable & Wireless Barbados is now operating in a fully liberalised
market since the issuance of international licences to competitors in
February 2005.The regulatory authority for fixed telecommunications
in Barbados is the Fair Trading Commission.The Ministry of Industry
and International Business regulates mobile telecommunications.
Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands operates in a fully liberalised
market. Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands is subject to the regulation
of the Information and Communications Technology Authority.
Five member states of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean 
States (Dominica, Grenada, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent
and the Grenadines) are contracted in a single jurisdiction for
telecommunications regulation with a regional regulator, the Eastern
Caribbean Telecoms Authority (“ECTEL”), and are also subject to
the jurisdiction of national regulators, the National Telecoms
Regulatory Committees.Telecommunications markets in the ECTEL
states are fully liberalised. Mobile and IP services were liberalised in 2001. CTM is subject 
to the regulation of the Office for the Development of
Telecommunications and Information Technology.
Cable & Wireless acquired Monaco Telecom in June 2004 with
exclusive rights to provide fixed line, mobile, IP and cable services
in Monaco. Monaco Telecom is regulated by the Direction de
Telecommunications de Monaco, which is within the Ministry of
State of the Principality of Monaco.
Batelco, a Cable & Wireless associate company in which 
Cable & Wireless has a holding of 20 per cent, operates in Bahrain
where the market has been liberalised since July 2003.The
Telecommunications Regulatory Authority regulates Batelco.
Cable & Wireless has smaller operations and interests in other
countries, which are at varying stages of liberalisation.
22/23 2005 Annual Report
Japan
Following the sale of Cable & Wireless IDC Inc., Cable & Wireless
UK applied for its own telecommunications registration with the
Japanese Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications. Cable &
Wireless UK (Japan branch) was registered in September 2004 and
is authorised to provide certain telecommunications services in
Japan including international and domestic data services, IP access
and leased circuits.
The separation of telecommunication business licences between
Type I (facilities) and Type II (services) was abolished in 2004.
Telecommunication licences now are classified as notified or
registered telecommunication licences.
United States
Cable & Wireless Americas Operations, Inc. provides international
communications services to customers who require service to,
from or through the United States. Under US law, the Federal
Communications Commission (“FCC”) regulate interstate and
international telecommunications services while state commissions
regulate intrastate services. Non-dominant service providers such as
CWAO are subject to a lesser degree of regulation than designated
dominant service providers. CWAO also provides information
services, which generally are not regulated in the United States.
The regulated telecommunications services provided by CWAO
may be classified as either common carrier or private carrier
services depending upon the nature of the service offering.As a
general matter, US law requires that common carrier services be
offered (a) upon reasonable request, (b) on rates, terms and
classifications which are just and reasonable, (c) without unjust
discrimination or undue preferences basis, and (d) pursuant to
authorisation of the FCC. Private carriers generally are not subject
to these requirements, but are required to make contributions to
the federal universal service fund based on international and
interstate telecommunications revenues, in the same manner 
as common carriers. Intrastate telecommunications services are
subject to regulation by the relevant state public utility commission
and may be subject to licensing requirements, tariffs, and/or 
subsidy mechanisms.
Other markets
Cable & Wireless Panama operates in a partially liberalised market.
The regulator is Ente Regulador De Los Servicios Publicos. Cable
& Wireless Panama is a full service provider across fixed line and
mobile markets for business and residential customers.There has
been increasing regulatory activity on the broadband front in 2005
with wholesale broadband services already being available and 
plans in place to introduce local loop unbundling. In the area of
mobile the regulator has recently sought to introduce indirect 
access over mobile.
CTM has an exclusive concession agreement to provide fixed
national and international services until 2011, however, a review will
be undertaken in 2006 to determine the way forward in 2011.
Business overview
Regulatory framework Profile
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications business
with customers in some 80 countries. Its principal operations are in
the United Kingdom, the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco.
Cable & Wireless provides voice, data, and IP services to business
and residential customers and wholesale services to fixed and
mobile telecommunications operators, and content, application 
and internet providers.
For 130 years, Cable & Wireless has provided telecommunications
services, networks and equipment to customers around the world.
Except for 34 years as a state-owned company after the Second
World War, Cable and Wireless plc has been incorporated in
England and Wales as a public limited company.
Historically, in many of our operations, Cable & Wireless was 
the sole telecommunications provider (‘incumbent’ operator),
focusing on switched voice and data services delivered over
traditional phone lines (‘legacy’ platforms).T oday, most markets 
in which Cable & Wireless operates have opened to competition
(‘liberalised’) and market trends are moving away from these 
legacy platforms, toward new services delivered over IP networks.
Recent acquisitions and disposals
On 17 February 2005, Cable & Wireless sold its Japanese domestic
business, Cable & Wireless IDC Inc. (“IDC”) to Softbank Corp, for a
consideration of £71.7 million comprising £62.3 million of cash and
the assumption by Softbank of debt of £9.4 million. Results for IDC
are included in discontinued operations.
On 28 January 2005, Cable & Wireless sold its 3.4 per cent stake
in Intelsat (the satellite communications company) for cash
consideration of £56 million (US$104.8 million).
On 18 June 2004, Cable & Wireless acquired 55 per cent of
Monaco Telecom S.A.M. (“Monaco Telecom”), a Monaco based
telecommunication service provider from Vivendi Universal, for a
total consideration of £108 million (€162 million).
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred
legal ownership of six per cent of the shares of Monaco T elecom
to Compagnie Monegasque de Banque S.A.M. (“CMB”), an unrelated
third party. Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and
economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In addition,
the six per cent interest is subject to certain put and call options
that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide
full management control of Monaco T elecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders’ agreement
with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other
provisions, a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the
Principality (subject to certain limited exceptions) selling their shares
in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on
transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the
Principality.The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 
45 per cent shareholding in Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless 
at certain times after 1 January 2008.The exercise price under the
put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the
minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
Results for Monaco Telecom are discussed separately in the
Operating and financial review.
On 28 May 2004, Cable & Wireless acquired 100 per cent of
Bulldog Communications Limited (“Bulldog”), a company specialising
in providing residential and business broadband services over its
own network in the UK, for a consideration of £18.6 million. Results
for Bulldog are discussed separately in the Operating and financial
review.
In June 2003, Cable & Wireless announced that it planned to
withdraw from the US domestic market.At the request of the
purchaser of the Group’s US assets, certain of the Group’s US
subsidiaries (Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. and Cable &
Wireless USA, Inc., collectively referred to as “CWA”) filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the US Bankruptcy Code.
As a result of the subsequent auction process, on 23 January 2004,
SAVVIS Communications Corporation (“SAVVIS”) entered into an
agreement with CWA for SAVVIS to acquire substantially all of the
assets of CWA for a sum of US$155 million in cash and
approximately US$12.4 million of assumed liabilities.
In order to provide US connectivity for data and IP services to
Cable & Wireless’ multinational customers based in the United
Kingdom and other regions, Cable & Wireless continues to operate
in the United States through its subsidiary Cable & Wireless
Americas Operations, Inc. (“CWAO”).
On 13 July 2004, as part of the ongoing bankruptcy process to
which CWA is subject, the US Bankruptcy Court confirmed a
bankruptcy Plan of Liquidation (the “Liquidation Plan”) which
provided for the transfer of the assets remaining in the bankruptcy
estate to a liquidating trust for the benefit of creditors, named the
Omega Liquidating Trust.The Omega Liquidating Trust’s operating
committee includes a representative of Cable and Wireless plc.
The Omega Liquidating Trust is in the process of determining final
claim amounts and distributing the assets of the bankruptcy estate
to the creditors.The process is expected to continue through 2006
and possibly beyond.
Also, on 13 July 2004, as part of the Plan of Reorganisation
(“Reorganisation Plan”), the US Bankruptcy Court approved a
Global Settlement Agreement between Cable and Wireless plc 
and certain of its affiliates (collectively referred to as the “Named
Participants”), CWA and the committee of unsecured creditors.
Pursuant to the Global Settlement Agreement, as implemented by
the Reorganisation Plan, the Named Participants agreed to reduce
certain of their claims against CWA in exchange for releases from
any liability from CWA and to assign a portion of the distributions
to which they would otherwise be entitled in respect of their
Business overview
History and development of Cable & Wireless Organisational structure
Cable & Wireless is a consolidated group of companies comprising
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures around the world.The
companies listed below represent the largest of these:
Ownership
Country of interest 
incorporation per cent
Subsidiary
a
Bulldog Communications Limited England 100
Cable & Wireless 
Americas Operations, Inc. USA 100
Cable & Wireless 
(Barbados) Limited Barbados 81
Cable and Wireless 
(Cayman Islands) Limited Cayman Islands 100
Cable and Wireless Guernsey Ltd Guernsey 100
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited Jamaica 82
Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. Panama 49
Cable & Wireless UK England 100
Companhia de Telecomunicacoes 
de Macau, S.A.R.L. Macau 51
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Limited Maldives 45
Monaco T elecom S.A.M.
1
Monaco 49
Joint venture
b
Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and 
Trinidad and Tobago Limited Tobago 49
Associate
c
Bahrain T elecommunications 
Company B.S.C. Bahrain 20
a
Subsidiaries are entities that Cable & Wireless controls through a majority of voting
rights, a majority of representation on the Board or through the right or actual exercise
of management control over the operating and financial policies of the subsidiary with a
view to gaining economic benefit from its activities. Results are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes.
b
Joint ventures are entities in which Cable & Wireless holds an interest on a long-term
basis and are jointly controlled by Cable & Wireless and one or more others under 
a contractual arrangement. Results are accounted for under the gross equity method 
for financial reporting purposes.The gross equity method differs from the equity
method only in that it requires additional disclosures of the share of gross assets and
liabilities of ‘Interest in net assets of joint ventures’ and ‘Turnover of the Group
including its share of joint ventures’ on the face of the balance sheet and profit 
and loss account respectively.
c.
Associates are entities for which Cable & Wireless has at least a 20 per cent interest 
in the voting rights of the entity, held on a long-term basis and over which Cable &
Wireless exercises significant influence, but not management control. Results are
accounted for under the equity method for financial reporting purposes.
1
The Group holds an economic interest of 55 per cent in Monaco Telecom, S.A.M.
remaining claims to individual unsecured creditors who would grant
the Named Participants individual releases for any claims they might
have against them. More than 90 per cent in value of the unsecured
claimants agreed to provide the release to the Named Participants.
Under the asset purchase agreement with SAVVIS (completed on 
8 March 2004 following SAVVIS’ success in the Chapter 11 based
auction process for CWA assets), the Named Participants agreed 
to remain contingently liable until 5 September 2007 (subject to
the earlier occurrence of certain events) for up to approximately
US$104 million of guarantees and letters of credit in favour of
CWA landlords, which SAVVIS has agreed in the asset purchase
agreements to reimburse in the event of a call for payment. SAVVIS
has also agreed to replace the Named Participants’ guarantees and
letters of credit with direct SAVVIS guarantees and letters of credit
by 23 July 2007.
24/25 2005 Annual Report
Business overview
History and development of Cable & Wireless Corporate governance
26 Corporate and social responsibility report
30 Board of Directors
32 Directors’ report
41 Directors’ remuneration report
54 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Corporate
governance Corporate governance
Corporate and social responsibility report
Cable & Wireless is committed to effective management of social,
ethical and environmental matters.The Board manages and
monitors corporate responsibility through the Corporate
Responsibility Steering Group, chaired by the Executive Deputy
Chairman, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen.
Business principles
The Cable & Wireless Board Code of Business Principles,
(December 2004) provides standards and guidelines for business
conduct across the Group. It commits the business to ethical
conduct and includes clear guidance on:
– corporate governance;
– community investment;
– employee relations and development;
– human rights;
– management of the Group’s environmental impact;
– occupational health & safety; and
– supplier, customer and other stakeholder relations.
The Board additionally has a Code of Ethics specifically applicable to
the Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers. Employees
are encouraged to report any breach of the codes and can do so
confidentially and anonymously through the Group’s whistle-blowing
procedures. Both codes are available on the Company’s website.
Community investment
Cable & Wireless is committed to contributing positively to the
communities around it.The Group’s community investments are run
in partnership with voluntary and community based organisations,
governments and charities and directed by a cross Group
Community Investment Committee.
In 2005, Cable & Wireless’ total Group-wide community
contributions were valued at £7.7 million, of which £6.4 million
were cash charitable contributions. Of the total, £1.7 million was
spent in the UK.
Most of Cable & Wireless’ business units undertake charitable and
community initiatives with significant activity at Group level and
in the UK, Barbados, Jamaica and Panama. Cable & Wireless 
has established charitable foundations in Panama, Jamaica and 
the Seychelles.
The Cable & Wireless community investment programme currently
focuses on three main areas: addressing the “digital divide”;
promoting safety and security in the use of the internet and
information and communication technologies (“ICT”); and
encouraging positive use of ICT.
Addressing the digital divide
Cable & Wireless works with governments, charities and voluntary
organisations to enable those from underprivileged communities to
use and benefit from access to ICT.
– Bracknell’s popular Cable & Wireless After School ICT Academy is
based at the Group’s head office in Bracknell and helps 11 to 14
year olds to develop confidence in the use of technology and gain
new skills. Cable & Wireless’ staff are volunteer mentors to 
the scheme;
– through WebPlay, Cable & Wireless enabled more than 3,000
underprivileged 8 to 12 year olds to learn through the creative
use of ICT. The initiative supports national curriculum targets in
literacy, technology and citizenship.Volunteer mentors from 
Cable & Wireless support the project;
– in October 2004, Cable & Wireless supported Age Concern’s four-
week Silver Surfers Festival.This provided free internet taster sessions
for older people across 100 Age Concern centres in the UK;
– the Cable & Wireless Panama Foundation works with the Ministry
of Education to provide PCs and internet connectivity for 20,000
pupils in 14 schools across the country.The Foundation helped
create a new IT suite in a rural primary school in Pacora, hailed
by the Minister of Education as the country’s first ‘Technological
Innovation Classroom’.The government hopes to replicate the
model in schools across Panama; and
– Cable & Wireless India has worked with the Christel House
School, Bangalore to provide pupils with an internet-ready, fully
equipped and maintained computer laboratory.
Using the internet safely 
The internet offers exciting opportunities but can have hidden
dangers. Cable & Wireless works with its partners to protect
children from unsuitable content and raise understanding of 
internet safety.
Run with internet charity Childnet International, the Cable & Wireless
Childnet Academy 2005 highlighted positive use of the internet by
young people, through an international web development competition
for young people which attracted entries from 49 countries.The
programme offered specialist web support, technical advice and
leadership training.The winning websites can be seen at
www.childnetacademy.org
Alongside the Childnet Academy 2005, the Cable & Wireless
Jamaica Foundation, Childnet International and the British Council
hosted a 180 strong policy conference to examine safe use of the
internet by children and young people in Jamaica in March 2005.
Policy makers, teachers and industry representatives shared best
practice to ensure that young people in the Caribbean can use the
internet safely.The Kidsmart Internet safety programme, supported
by Cable & Wireless, offered internet safety guidelines to teachers,
parents and pupils.
26/27 2005 Annual Report Corporate governance
Employees may join employee representative bodies or trade
unions. Cable & Wireless recognises unions for collective bargaining
purposes in some, but not all, the countries in which it operates.
Career development
We have introduced personal development plans for employees to
help them reach their career development goals.The Group offers
training and development opportunities to employees at all levels.
Human rights
Cable & Wireless supports the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the ILO Core Conventions relating to freedom of
association, the abolition of forced labour and the elimination of
child labour.
Occupational health, safety and environment 
Cable & Wireless has a comprehensive occupational health, safety
and environmental programme to minimise the risks detailed below.
OHSE process is the responsibility of the Group’s Corporate
Responsibility Steering group chaired by the Executive Deputy
Chairman, Lord Robertson.
The integrated OHSE Management System sets common Group
standards, based on international standards (OHSAS 18001 and 
ISO 14001).These are supported by detailed local policies and
procedures to ensure compliance with local legal requirements.
The Group’s continual risk assessment procedures identify and
manage potential hazards appropriately.
Performance targets
Cable & Wireless has identified key OHSE risks. In 2004 the Group
set OHSE objectives in each of these areas:
– zero occupational health, safety, fire or environment prosecutions
or notices from enforcing authorities;
– zero fatal injuries to employees, customers, partners or
contractors;
– major injuries and lost time accidents to be reduced by 20 per
cent before 2010 (against the 2003 baseline);
– at least 25 per cent of National Businesses to attain ISO 14001
Environmental Management Standard certification by the end 
of 2008;
– reduce energy consumption by 5 per cent during 2005 based on
the 2003 baseline consumption;
– increase the procurement of renewable energy to 25 per cent 
by 2010 (from 2004);
– develop and report progress on plans to remove all HCFCs
Group-wide by the end of 2010;
– remove all CFCs and Halons Group-wide by the end of 2010;
Disaster response
Following Hurricane Ivan in the Caribbean and the Asian Tsunami,
Cable & Wireless made two US$1 million donations during 2005.
The first provided relief and reconstruction work in Cayman,
Grenada and Jamaica following the devastation in September 2004.
Cable & Wireless also provided immediate humanitarian supplies,
telecoms equipment and expert help in the immediate aftermath 
of the hurricane and sent 30 tonnes of relief supplies to the 
affected region.
The second donation was made towards the reconstruction of the
Maldives following the Tsunami in December 2004.Again this was in
addition to support from Cable & Wireless’ engineers in restoring
the communications networks to the devastated islands.The
Maldives’ national telecommunications company, Dhiraagu, which 
is 45 per cent owned by Cable & Wireless, made a further 
US$1 million donation.
Employment
Workforce profile
At 31 March 2005, Cable & Wireless had 14,781 employees
comprising – UK (4,499), US (41), Europe (423),Asia (221), Bulldog
(505), Caribbean (4,147), Panama (1,818), Macau (932), Monaco
(458), Rest of the World (1,411) and Other (326). In March 2005,
across the Group, the male/female mix of the workforce was 66 per
cent male to 34 per cent female.
Employment policies
Cable & Wireless’ employment policies comply with local
requirements and meet standards of occupational health, safety and
environment (“OHSE”), business ethics, diversity, disability, performance
management and employee relations.
Cable & Wireless is committed to providing a working environment
in which employees can realise their potential and contribute to
business success.The Group aims to ensure that no employee, job
applicant, customer or supplier is discriminated against.
The Group’s employment philosophy is underpinned by the
principles of fostering diversity in its workforce.This enables the
business to access the broadest possible pool of talent and sustain
high-performance teams and to meet its aim of offering
opportunities to all the local cultures in which we operate.
Employee consultation and employee relations
Cable & Wireless has formal and informal channels for employee
consultation and communication.The Group values the participation
of its employees and keeps them informed about the Group’s
development. Cable & Wireless undertakes regular surveys to
ascertain employee satisfaction and feeds back results to employees.
In the UK and Europe employees are represented through the
Employee Consultation Forum (“ECF”).There were no strikes or
formal disputes during 2005. Corporate governance
Corporate and social responsibility report
– assess suppliers of defined goods and services to ensure their
ability to manage OHSE risks; and 
– complete and report OHSE internal audits of all substantial
national businesses.
Performance Data
OHSE performance is measured via an annual data collection
exercise. In 2005, Cable & Wireless recognised that, due to significant
change in the business, a new approach to data collection was
required. Accordingly, we limited data collection to four main areas
of the business; UK, Caribbean, Panama and Macau.Thirteen of our
businesses submitted data, equivalent to 79 per cent of the total
business by turnover and 75 per cent of the total business by
number of employees.
This change in the data collection process brings improved 
efficiency but means figures are not directly comparable with
previous years’ results.
Further information can be found in the Cable & Wireless
Occupational Health and Safety Report (OHSE) 2005, which will 
be available on the Company’s website in July 2005.
Performance against targets during 2005 is summarised as follows:
28/29 2005 Annual Report
2005 2004
Target Actual
1a
Actual
1b
On target
Occupational Health and Safety
Prosecutions 000 Yes
Enforcement notices 0 1
2
0No
Fatal injury accidents (Cable & Wireless employees) 0 0
3a
0
3b
Yes
Lost time incident rate (per 10,000 employees)
4
Reduce by 20% by
end 2010 over 2003 baseline 67.6
5
88.4 Y es
Environmental management
Per cent of businesses by turnover with ISO14001 25% of businesses with 
certification by end 2008 12.4% 8.3% Yes
Energy and transport
CO
2
per unit turnover (tonnes CO
2
/£1million turnover) Reduce by 5% in 2004/2005 
against 2003 baseline 74.9 59.0 No
Per cent of electricity from renewable energy Increase use to 25% by 2010 14.3% – Yes
HCFCs stored (kg) Remove all by 2010 13,535 31,500 Yes
CFCs stored (kg) Remove all by 2010 4,122 5,900 Yes
Halons stored (kg) Remove all by 2010 27,544 52,400 Yes
Supplier and business unit assessment
Per cent of suppliers of defined goods audited Assess 100% of suppliers of 
defined goods 100% 10.8% Yes
Per cent of businesses by turnover conducting
OHSE internal audits Audit 100% of substantial 
businesses 94.5% – Y es
Notes:
1a
All normalised data is normalised against, or shown as a per cent of, the turnover of businesses participating in the data collection exercise.
1b
All normalised data is normalised against the turnover of the total Group businesses.
2
Cable & Wireless UK was served with one improvement notice in October 2004 (see ‘Significant OHSE Incidents’).
3a
There were no fatalities in Cable & Wireless businesses during the 2005 financial year. One incident was reported in which a contractor died as a result of a fall while working at
one of Cable & Wireless’ sites in St Lucia. A full investigation following the accident demonstrated that Cable & Wireless bore no responsibility.
3b
There were no fatalities in Cable & Wireless businesses during the 2004 financial year.Although an incident was reported in which two contractor employees died in a mud slide
on a road, the full investigation showed that the employees were not engaged in work on behalf of Cable & Wireless, though the contractor had undertaken work for us in the past.
4
A lost time incident (LTI) is defined as any incident which results in an employee being absent for one day or more due to incapacity or ill health arising out of the incident and
occurring within 24 hours of the incident.The lost time incident rate is defined as the number of LTI’s in the past 12 months divided by the working population, expressed as 
a rate per 10,000 employees.
5
This lost time incident rate is comparable with other telecom industry performance. Corporate governance
Internet acceptable use
Cable & Wireless has an Internet Acceptable Use Policy (“AUP”).
This confirms the sole responsibility of Cable & Wireless’ customers
for their content and messages. It defines the activities which
customers are prohibited from undertaking, such as those which
violate the law or threaten the integrity of any network or
computer system.The AUP is available on the Company’s website.
Stakeholder dialogue
Cable & Wireless engages with many external organisations,
including non-governmental organisations, fund managers and rating
agencies, regarding the Group’s corporate responsibility
performance.
Cable & Wireless continues to be a constituent member of the
FTSE4Good Index. Cable & Wireless performance during 2005 led
to an improvement in the Group’s corporate responsibility rating by
two of Europe’s leading rating agencies,Vigeo and Core Ratings.
Cable & Wireless scored 84.5 per cent in the Business in the
Environment 2004 Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
The average index score was 79 per cent.
Significant OHSE incidents
Cable & Wireless was served an improvement notice in October
2004 relating to the use of a domestic extractor within a UK office
building. Cable & Wireless complied with this fully and awaits 
a decision on prosecution.An internal investigation has been
conducted and all recommendations for improvement have 
been implemented.
In January 2005 an oil spill occurred at a Cable & Wireless 
technical site in the UK. Cable & Wireless co-operated fully with
the Environment Agency in the clean-up operation.An internal
investigation into the incident has been conducted and
recommendations for improvement are being implemented.
Purchasing and supply chain 
Cable & Wireless is committed to fair relations with suppliers,
customers and business partners.The Group’s purchasing and supply
chain function has made significant effort in 2005 to encourage
suppliers to respect the Group’s business principles and maintain
high standards of social, ethical and environmental conduct.
The Group’s Responsible Procurement Policy is being piloted from
April 2005. Suppliers and contractors will be requested to comply
with the policy through amended contract terms.
All new suppliers will be required to comply with the policy and
Cable & Wireless will work with existing suppliers unable to comply
with the policy to help them to meet its requirements over 
a reasonable period.The full policy can be found on the 
Company’s website.
The Cable & Wireless Supplier Related Ethics Policy sets out rules
and guidelines to ensure that all dealings with suppliers are entirely
ethical.This policy has been communicated to all relevant UK
employees and will be rolled out across the Group during 2006.
Mobile phone safety
Cable & Wireless monitors and manages issues related to concerns
about possible adverse effects to human health from mobile 
phone use.
The Group tracks scientific and medical research, media, legal,
regulatory and other developments as well as the public perception
of risk arising from the use of mobile phones.
The scientific research on mobile phones and health has been
reviewed by a number of independent expert scientific panels.
None of these panels has concluded that the use of mobile phones
is harmful. Corporate governance
Board of Directors
The following are the Company’s Directors and Company Secretary
as at the date of this report.
Richard Lapthorne
N
(62)
Non-executive Chairman; Chairman, Nominations Committee 
Richard Lapthorne was appointed Chairman in January 2003.
He is a Non-executive Chairman of Morse PLC,Avecia plc,
Arlington Securities Ltd and the New Look Group. He is a 
Non-executive Director of Oasis International Leasing in Abu Dhabi
and Vice Chairman of JP Morgan Investment Bank. Mr Lapthorne
joined the Board of Amersham International plc in 1988 as a 
Non-executive Director and was Chairman from 1999 until 
May 2003. He was Finance Director of British Aerospace plc from
July 1992 and Vice Chairman from April 1998 until he retired in
September 1999 having previously been Finance Director of
Courtaulds plc from 1986 to 1992. Richard Lapthorne was awarded
the CBE for services to the British aerospace industry in 1997.
Francesco Caio
N
(47)
Chief Executive Officer
Francesco Caio was appointed Chief Executive Officer in April
2003. Prior to his appointment, Francesco Caio founded Netscalibur
Italia, the European business telecommunications and internet
service provider, in 2000 having previously been Chief Executive
Officer of Merloni Elettrodomestici from 1997 to 2000. In 1996 he
was Chief Executive Officer of Olivetti having previously headed its
telecommunications and multimedia divisions. He led the creation
and launch of Omnitel Pronto, Italy’s second largest mobile phone
company before its acquisition by Vodafone, and was its first Chief
Executive Officer from 1994 to 1996. He has also worked with
McKinsey in London. He is a Non-executive Director of Netscalibur
Italia SpA and a former Non-executive Director of Equant from
1998 to 2000, of Merloni Elettrodomestici from 2000 to 2004, and
of Motorola from 2000 to 2003.
The Right Honourable Lord Robertson of 
Port Ellen KT , GCMG (59)
Executive Deputy Chairman
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen was appointed Executive Deputy
Chairman in February 2004. He was Secretary General of NATO
and Chairman of the North Atlantic Council from October 1999 to
December 2003, Secretary of State for Defence from 1997 to 1999
and Member of Parliament for Hamilton and Hamilton South from
1978 to 1999. He is a Non-executive Director of the Weir Group
PLC and Smiths Group PLC, Strategic Advisor to the Royal Bank 
of Canada, Europe and a member of the Advisory Board of
Englefield Capital.
Robert (Rob) Rowley (55)
Executive Deputy Chairman
Rob Rowley was appointed a Non-executive Director in September
2002 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January
2003. Following a restructuring of the Board, he relinquished
chairmanship of the Audit Committee and was appointed as
Executive Deputy Chairman on 21 January 2003. He is a Non-
executive Director of Prudential plc, where he is also Chairman 
of the Audit Committee,Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and Liberty
International plc. He was on the Board of Reuters Group plc from
1990, serving as Finance Director from 1990 until 2000, then as
Chief Executive of Reuterspace until he retired in 2001.
George Battersby (58)
Executive Director, Human Resources
George Battersby was appointed as Executive Director of Human
Resources in July 2004. He has held senior human resources
positions in a number of FTSE 100 companies over the past 
20 years. Prior to joining Cable & Wireless he was Group Human
Resources Director and a member of the Board of Amersham
International plc. He is a Non-executive Director of SHL Group plc,
a leading international HR consultancy, where he is Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
Charles Herlinger (49)
Chief Financial Officer
Charles Herlinger was appointed Chief Financial Officer in
December 2003. Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, he worked for
Siemens AG, most recently as Corporate Vice President and Group
Controller. He joined the Siemens Group in 1987 and was Director
of the Overseas Mergers and Acquisitions Group between 1990
and 1993, Controller of Siemens Corporation from 1993 to 1995
and Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Siemens
Energy and Automation from 1995 to 1998. From 1985 to 1987 he
was Assistant Controller of L’Oréal in the United States. He qualified
as a chartered accountant in the United Kingdom and as a certified
public accountant in the United States with KPMG, for whom he
worked from 1977 to 1985.
Harris Jones (43)
Executive Director, International Business
Harris Jones was appointed as Executive Director of International
Business in December 2004. He has international experience in the
telecoms industry as Chief Executive Officer of T -Mobile UK after
its acquisition by Deutsche Telekom and, previously, as a senior
executive with Omnipoint Communications and Sprint Spectrum.
He is a Non-executive Director of Caracal, Inc.
30/31 2005 Annual Report Corporate governance
Agnès T ouraine
A
(50)
Non-executive Director
Agnès T ouraine was appointed a Non-executive Director on 
18 January 2005. Based in France,Agnès is Managing Partner of 
Act III Consultants, a Board member of Fondation de France and 
a Non-executive Director of Lastminute.com. She was previously
Chairman and CEO of Vivendi Universal Publishing and held various
senior executive positions with Lagardere Group. She began her
career with McKinsey in Paris.
Clive Butler
A R
(59)
Non-executive Director
Clive Butler was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 May
2005. He was Corporate Development Director at Unilever until
May 2005 and had served on the main board since 1992. During
that period he also undertook the roles of Personnel Director and
Category Director for Unilever’s Home and Personal Care division.
He was a Non-executive Director of the Lloyds TSB group from
1996 until 2003 following the acquisition by Lloyds Bank of the TSB
group, where he had been a Non-executive Director since 1993.
He joined Unilever in 1970 and has worked with the company 
ever since, in a variety of marketing and general management roles,
including positions in the USA, Zimbabwe and The Philippines.
Dr. Janet Morgan
Retired 22 July 2004.
Kevin Loosemore
Resigned 1 December 2004.
Andrew Garard (38)
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
Andrew Garard was appointed Company Secretary in May 2004.
A
Denotes membership of Audit Committee
N
Denotes membership of Nominations Committee
R
Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee
Bernard Gray
A N R
(44)
Non-executive Director; Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Bernard Gray was appointed a Non-executive Director in January
2003. He is Chief Executive of CMP Information, the UK publishing
and events division of United Business Media and United Advertising
Publications (“UBM”). Previous roles have included Special Adviser
to the Secretary of State for Defence from 1997 to 1999 during
the UK’s Strategic Defence Review and almost ten years with the
Financial Times Group, including two years on the Lex column.
He began his career in capital markets in London and New Y ork.
Graham Howe
A N R
(44)
Non-executive Director; Senior Independent Director
Graham Howe was appointed a Non-executive Director in May
2003. Until 30 April 2003 he was Deputy Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Operating Officer of Orange S.A., having joined them in
1992 as a founding Director. His previous experience includes senior
positions at Hutchison Telecom, First Pacific Company and T ouche
Ross Management Consultants.
Kate Nealon
A R
(52)
Non-executive Director
Kate Nealon was appointed a Non-executive Director on 
18 January 2005. She is a US-qualified lawyer and has practised
international banking and regulatory law in New Y ork. She was
Group Head of Legal and Compliance for Standard Chartered plc
until 2004 and is currently Non-executive Director of HBOS plc,
Monitor (the independent regulator of the NHS Foundation trusts)
and a senior associate of the Judge Institute of Management at
Cambridge University.
Anthony (T ony) Rice
A N
(52)
Non-executive Director; Chairman,Audit Committee
T ony Rice was appointed a Non-executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee in January 2003. He was a member of the
Remuneration Committee until 1 May 2005. He has been Chief
Executive of Tunstall Holdings Ltd since 2002. Prior to this role his
career was largely spent with British Aerospace plc where he was
Group Treasurer, Group Managing Director Commercial Aircraft 
and was involved in the financing and flotation of Orange SA.
Kasper Rorsted
A
(43)
Non-executive Director, Chairman, Community Investment
Committee
Kasper Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive Director in May
2003. He was a member of the Remuneration and Nominations
Committees until 22 February 2005. He is Executive Vice President
at Henkel KGaA having previously been Senior Vice President and
General Manager, EMEA for Hewlett Packard following its merger
with Compaq. He held various other senior management positions
with Compaq since 1995 and has previous experience with Oracle,
Digital and Ericsson. Corporate governance
Directors’ report
The Directors submit their report and accounts for Cable and
Wireless plc, together with the consolidated accounts of the Cable
& Wireless Group of companies, for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The Directors’ corporate governance and remuneration reports are
set out on pages 34 and 41 respectively.
Principal activities and business review
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company.
Its principal operations are in the United Kingdom, the Caribbean,
Panama, Macau and Monaco. Cable & Wireless provides voice, data
and IP services to business and residential customers and wholesale
services to carriers, mobile operators and content, application and
internet providers.
Details of the Group’s performance during the year are contained
in the Operating and financial review on pages 59 to 65.
Overseas trading branches of the Company exist in Ascension,
Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands, Singapore and St. Helena.
Share capital
Details of shares issued during the year are shown in Note 23 to
the accounts.
Acquisitions and disposals
Details of acquisitions and disposals in the year are set out in
Business overview – Recent acquisitions and disposals on pages 
23 to 24.
Results and dividends
The Group’s profit for the year after taxation and minority interests
amounted to £302 million.
The Board recommends a final dividend for 2005 of 2.64 pence per
Ordinary Share which subject to approval by shareholders at the
2005 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on 11 August
2005 to shareholders on the register at 8 July 2005.The total
dividend for the year is 3.8 pence per Ordinary Share.
The Company will offer a Scrip Dividend alternative for the final
dividend payable on 11 August 2005. Full details are contained in
the Scrip Dividend brochure which can be obtained from the
Company’s Registrar, from the Company Secretary or from the
Company’s website.
Directors
The following served as Directors of the Company during the year
and subsequent to the year-end:
Richard Lapthorne
Francesco Caio 
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen
Rob Rowley
George Battersby (appointed 27 July 2004)
Charles Herlinger 
Harris Jones (appointed 1 December 2004)
Bernard Gray
Graham Howe 
Kate Nealon (appointed 18 January 2005)
T ony Rice
Kasper Rorsted 
Agnès T ouraine (appointed 18 January 2005)
Clive Butler (appointed 1 May 2005)
Kevin Loosemore (resigned 1 December 2004)
Dr Janet Morgan (retired 22 July 2004)
Biographical details for the current Directors are set out on pages
30 to 31.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles, any Director appointed
since the last AGM is required to retire and seek election by the
shareholders at the next following AGM.Accordingly, George
Battersby, Clive Butler, Harris Jones, Kate Nealon and Agnès T ouraine,
having been appointed Directors since the 2004 AGM will retire at
the 2005 AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.The
unexpired portion of the service contracts for George Battersby
and Harris Jones is disclosed on page 45.
The Articles also require all Directors to retire every third year from
when last elected by shareholders. In view of the fact that the Board
of Directors has been reconstituted since January 2003, and to help
stagger the re-election of Directors going forward, it is proposed
that Francesco Caio, Bernard Gray and T ony Rice should seek 
re-election as Directors of the Company at the 2005 AGM
notwithstanding the fact that they were elected by shareholders at
the 2003 AGM.All three will then be subject to re-election at the
2008 AGM.The unexpired portion of the service contract for
Francesco Caio is disclosed on page 45.
Disclosable interests
The Directors have no interest in the Ordinary Shares of the
Company’s subsidiaries.The beneficial interests of the Directors and
their immediate families in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are
shown in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 47.
Employment policies
Details of employment policies are set out in Corporate and social
responsibility report – Employment.
32/33 2005 Annual Report Corporate governance
2005 Number of Percentage of
Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary
Ordinary Shares Share capital
Shareholder
The Trustees of the BT 
Pension Scheme 101,950,148 4.30
Legal & General Group plc 77,951,197 3.30
2004 Number of Percentage of
Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary
Ordinary Shares Share capital
Shareholder
Legal & General Group plc 106,545,863 4.47
The Trustees of the BT 
Pension Scheme 79,356,278 3.33
2003 Number of Percentage of
Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary
Ordinary Shares Share capital
Shareholder
Franklin Resources, Inc. 108,105,460 4.54
FMR Corporation & Fidelity 
International Ltd. 93,127,830 3.91
Legal & General Investment 
Management 80,687,822 3.39
The Company’s major shareholders do not have different voting
rights from other holders of the Company’s Ordinary Shares.
Related Party Transactions
T ransactions with joint ventures and associated companies
All transactions with joint ventures and associated companies 
arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees
for use of Cable & Wireless products and services, network and
access charges.The aggregate transactions recorded by Cable &
Wireless with joint ventures and associated companies, which are
considered to be material, are disclosed below and in Notes 17, 19,
21 and 32 to the Financial statements.
Loans to joint ventures and associated companies, amounts owed
by joint ventures and associated companies and owed to joint
ventures and associated companies are set out in Note 32 to 
the Financial statements.
Transactions with Directors
Except as disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report, as of 
3 June 2005, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries was
a party to any material transactions, or proposed transactions, in
which any Director, any other Executive Officer, any spouse or child
under 18 years of age of a Director or Executive Officer had or
was to have a direct or indirect material interest.
During the years ended 31 March 2003, 31 March 2004 and 
31 March 2005, and as of 3 June 2005, no Director nor any other
Executive Officer, nor any associate of any Director or any other
Executive Officer was indebted to the Company or any of its
subsidiaries.
Charitable and political donations
Details of charitable donations made during the year are given on
page 26 in the Corporate and social responsibility report –
Community investment.
The Group does not make any political donations and has no
intention of making donations to what are generally regarded as
political parties.As a precautionary measure and in light of the
wide definitions of political organisations in The Political Parties,
Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (the Act), a resolution to
permit the Company to make political donations and incur political
expenditure was passed at the 2004 AGM.The purpose of the
resolution was to ensure that the Company did not unintentionally
breach the Act.That resolution is valid for a period of four years
from 22 July 2004 or until the date of the 2008 AGM, if earlier.
Payments to suppliers
In the United Kingdom, the Group agrees payment terms with its
suppliers when it enters into binding purchase contracts.The Group
seeks to abide by the payment terms agreed whenever it is satisfied
that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance
with the agreed terms and conditions.The Group seeks to treat all
its suppliers fairly according to a standard which deals specifically
with the payment of suppliers.The Group’s e-procurement
procedure which is being adopted worldwide, standardises the
procedures for procuring goods and services and the internal
authorisations required to approve spending and supplier selection.
The Company had 53 days’ purchases (2004 – 65 days’ purchases)
outstanding at 31 March 2005 based on the average daily amount
invoiced by suppliers during the year ended 31 March 2005.
Acquisition of own shares
Following completion of the Group’s exit from the US, its decision
to exit Japan and the realisation of cash through the sale of other
investments, the Board decided to return £250 million to
shareholders through a rolling share buyback programme. Following
receipt of shareholder approval at the 2004 AGM, the Company
commenced the share buyback programme on 16 November 2004.
Between 16 November 2004 and 31 March 2005, the Company
acquired 60,500,000 Ordinary Shares in the Company for an
aggregate cost of £75 million.This number of Ordinary Shares
represents 2.53 per cent of the Company’s total issued share capital
as at 31 March 2005.As at 31 March 2005 and 3 June 2005, all
Ordinary Shares purchased are held in treasury.
Substantial shareholdings
Except for the holdings of Ordinary Shares listed below, the
Directors are not aware of any person or organisation holding 3 per
cent or more of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at
3 June 2005, the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this
report. Comparative figures for 2004 and 2003 are also given. Corporate governance
Directors’ report
Corporate governance
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and also has
a secondary listing on the New Y ork Stock Exchange.As such, it is
required to comply with the listing rules of the United Kingdom
Listing Authority (“UKLA”) and with many of the provisions of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) as well as the New Y ork
Stock Exchange’s corporate governance rules.
The Financial Services Authority requires UK listed companies to
disclose whether they have complied with the provisions set out
in section 1 of the UKLA’s Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (“Combined Code”) and, where the provisions have
not been complied with, to provide an explanation. Companies are
also required to explain how they have applied the principles set
out in the Combined Code.
The Board confirms that the Company was fully compliant with all
the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the
period except as explained below.The Statement of Directors’
responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the financial
statements is set out on page 54.
The Board
The Board firmly believes in good corporate governance and
particularly that strong governance controls improve the
performance of the business and enhance shareholder value.The
Board’s role includes:
– deciding and reviewing on the strategy of the Group;
– increasing shareholder value by assessing business opportunities
and measuring and controlling associated risks;
– ensuring compliance with legal, regulatory and corporate
governance requirements;
– promoting and maintaining good corporate citizenship and high
standards of ethical behaviour by the Group’s employees;
– providing the Chief Executive Officer with appropriate support to
drive and improve the performance of the Group;
– setting and monitoring challenging performance objectives and
benchmarks for the Chief Executive Officer and the executive
team;
– setting an appropriate control environment within which
executive management can operate;
– constituting subcommittees of the Board covering remuneration,
nominations and audit matters; and
– the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
The Board is chaired by Richard Lapthorne and Francesco Caio is
the Chief Executive Officer. Rob Rowley and Lord Robertson of
Port Ellen are both Executive Deputy Chairmen. Charles Herlinger
is Chief Financial Officer, George Battersby is Group Human
Resources Director and Harris Jones is Executive Director of
International Business. During the year to 31 March 2005, there
were seven independent Non-executive Directors, namely: Bernard
Gray, Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan (retired 22 July 2004), Kate
Nealon (appointed 18 January 2005),T ony Rice, Kasper Rorsted 
and Agnès T ouraine (appointed 18 January 2005). Clive Butler was
appointed as an additional Non-executive Director on 1 May 2005.
The Senior Independent Director is Graham Howe who is available
to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through
the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief
Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is
inappropriate. Full biographical details of each of the Directors are
set out on pages 30 to 31.
The Combined Code states that at least half the Board, excluding
the Chairman, should comprise Non-executive Directors determined
by the Board to be independent.The Company did not comply with
this provision for the period from 22 July 2004 to 17 January 2005.
During the period from 1 April 2004 to 22 July 2004 the Board
comprised five Executive Directors namely, Francesco Caio, Charles
Herlinger, Kevin Loosemore, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen and Rob
Rowley and five Non-executive Directors, namely Bernard Gray,
Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan,T ony Rice and Kasper Rorsted.
Dr Janet Morgan retired from the Board on 22 July 2004 at the
conclusion of the Company’s 2004 AGM, on 27 July 2004 George
Battersby was appointed as an additional Executive Director and
on 1 December 2004, Harris Jones replaced Kevin Loosemore 
on the Board.
During the period from 22 July 2004 to 17 January 2005 the
Nominations Committee undertook a formal and rigorous process
to identify additional Non-executive candidates who possessed 
the skills, knowledge and experience required by the Company.
Following the conclusion of that process Kate Nealon and Agnès
T ouraine were appointed as Non-executive Directors of the
Company on 18 January 2005.
The Chairman’s role is to lead and manage the business of 
the Board of Directors in setting the strategy and delivering
performance of the Group to its shareholders and other key
stakeholders.The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the
performance of the Group to its shareholders and other key
stakeholders.The division of responsibilities between the Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer has been approved by the Board of
Directors and is set out in writing.A copy of this is available from
the Company Secretary or the Company’s website.The Board has
nine scheduled meetings a year concentrating on strategy, financial
and business performance.Additional Board meetings may be called
as required to deal with specific matters. During the year under
review there were no additional Board meetings.
The agendas for Board meetings are set by the Chairman in
consultation with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
34/35 2005 Annual Report Corporate governance
– contracts and expenditure over a certain financial limit;
– Board membership and other senior management appointments;
– Director and senior executive remuneration;
– delegation of authority; and
– corporate governance.
A copy of the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board is
available from the Company Secretary or the Company’s website.
The Board has delegated the responsibility for the day-to-day
management of the Group to the Chief Executive Officer.The Chief
Executive Officer is supported in this by the Executive Committee,
which he chairs.The Executive Committee comprises all the Executive
Directors of the Company together with the Group Director
Strategy and Business Development, the Group Director Corporate
and Public Affairs, the Group General Counsel, the Group Director
Operations, the Group Director Sales and Marketing and the Head
of Wholesale.
Additionally, specific responsibilities have been delegated to the
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Under the direction and control of the Chairman, the Board
considers its performance both as a group, as individual members
and its various sub-committees.This involves regular discussions
between the individual Board members and external support 
where necessary.
As part of the evaluation process, the Non-executive Directors
meet independently to consider management performance 
and succession issues. The independent Non-executive Directors
also appraise the Chairman’s performance and review the
relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
to ensure that the relationship is working to promote the creation
of shareholder value.
Statement from Independent Directors
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Independent Directors
met three times, in addition to Board meetings, to formally discuss
governance issues: once with the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer present, once with the Chairman present and once on their
own.After the third meeting, as during the previous year, Graham
Howe, Senior Independent Director, provided feedback to the
Board on the Independent Directors’ collective views of the
following:
– the perceived quality of the relationship between the Chairman
and the Chief Executive Officer;
– the degree of openness between the Chief Executive Officer and
the Board;
and Company Secretary. Formal minutes recording decisions of all
Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to
each Director as appropriate. If a Director objects to a particular
proposal this will be recorded in the minutes of Board or
Committee meetings.There were no such objections during the
year under review.
The Board considers that all of the Non-executive Directors who
served during the year ended 31 March 2005, namely Bernard Gray,
Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan (retired 22 July 2004), Kate
Nealon (appointed 18 January 2005),T ony Rice, Kasper Rorsted and
Agnès T ouraine (appointed 18 January 2005) are independent. The
Non-executive Directors come from diverse business backgrounds
and have unique expertise covering finance, telecoms, IT and
government relations. Each of the Non-executive Directors is of
independent mind and character and actively contributes to the
effective performance of the Board and its Committees.This
combination of skills and expertise materially enhances the
judgement and overall performance of the Board.
T o enable Directors to perform their duties properly and to ensure
the effective functioning of the Board and its Committees, they are
given full and timely access to all relevant information. In addition,
each of the Directors has access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary.
The Board has also adopted a procedure whereby Directors,
including Non-executive Directors, may, in the furtherance of their
duties, take independent professional advice on any matter at the
Company’s expense.
On the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman is responsible
for ensuring that an appropriate induction, involving meetings with
other Directors, senior management and key advisers, is undertaken.
In addition, the new Directors are provided with appropriate
background materials covering the business, the financial performance
of the Group and the legal and corporate governance environment.
The Directors further receive appropriate ongoing briefings and
information to enable them to perform their roles both on the
Board and its principal Committees, involving internal briefings and
external training where appropriate. On request, the Company is
prepared to offer major shareholders the opportunity to meet 
new Non-executive Directors.
The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for
decision including approval of matters such as:
– strategy and management;
– structure and capital;
– financial reporting and controls;
– internal controls; Corporate governance
Directors’ report
– the visibility of checks and balances within the Executive Directors’
team; and 
– whether all questions asked by the Non-executive Directors in
the Board have been adequately addressed.
The Independent Directors believe that the Company has an
effective Board.
During the year under review, there has been greater emphasis placed
on tackling real business issues rather than fire fighting on legacy
which has led to a greater clarity of direction. Significant progress has
also been made to create a more balanced management team both
at the Board and the level below. Challenges remain, particularly
around the pace that will be required to execute the priorities
identified for the Group.
The Independent Directors believe that the quality of the
relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
remains a good one, characterised by mutual trust and frankness.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have complementary 
skill sets creating a balanced partnership.Their relationship continues
to evolve as more of the initiative for strategic direction has now
transferred to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Independent Directors continue to be comfortable with the
degree of openness between the Chief Executive Officer and the
Board.The quality of papers circulated to the Board prior to meetings
and the presentations made at Board meetings have improved
allowing more time to be allocated to discussion and debate.
During the year, the Executive team has been strengthened with
Charles Herlinger, Chief Financial Officer, being in place for the full
year (thereby improving internal procedures and financial disciplines),
by the appointment of George Battersby as Group Human
Resources Director and by the appointment of Harris Jones to
provide leadership to the Group’s international businesses.A Group
Executive has been reconstituted to provide a formal framework for
the Executive Directors to provide checks and balances on each
other but at the Board this role is still largely undertaken by the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Independent Directors believe that all questions asked by them
in the Board have been answered in an honest and constructive
manner.Where some uncertainty has existed around questions not
capable of being fully answered, the Independent Directors believe
the answers given were appropriate to the circumstances.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2005, a continued period 
of change for the Company, the significant efforts of the Board of
Directors, its principal committees and the senior management 
team have satisfied the Independent Directors that the appropriate
corporate governance controls have been effective.
An annual audit of investor opinion was commissioned on behalf of
the Board.The audit took the form of structured interviews with
individual, mainly institutional, investors through an independent
external adviser.The report gathered opinion on strategy,
operational performance, corporate governance and management
capability from investors in the UK, Europe and North America.
The non-attributable opinions, which were subsequently reported 
to the Board, gave the Board direct access to investor feedback.
Attendance
The Board requires all members to use their best endeavours to
attend Board and Committee meetings and to devote sufficient
time to the work of the Board to discharge their duties.A schedule
setting out the attendance of Directors at Board and Committee
meetings during the year (including those Directors who resigned
during the year) is given below.
36/37 2005 Annual Report
Board Remuneration Nominations Audit
meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings
Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible
Richard Lapthorne 99––4411
Francesco Caio 99––44––
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen 99––––––
Rob Rowley 89––––––
George Battersby 66––––––
Charles Herlinger 99––––––
Harris Jones 44––––––
Bernard Gray 99554455
Graham Howe 99554455
Kate Nealon 2211––11
Tony Rice 99554455
Kasper Rorsted 99444445
Agnès T ouraine 22––––11
Kevin Loosemore 55––––––
Janet Morgan 33221122 Corporate governance
Until 22 February 2005, the Nominations Committee comprised
Richard Lapthorne, who chairs the Nominations Committee,
Francesco Caio (Chief Executive Officer) and any three of the
following independent Non-executive Directors: Bernard Gray,
Graham Howe, Kasper Rorsted and T ony Rice. From 22 February
2005 the composition of the Nominations Committee was
amended to Richard Lapthorne (Chairman of the Committee),
Francesco Caio (Chief Executive Office), Bernard Gray, Graham
Howe and T ony Rice.
The Nominations Committee met four times during the year 
under review.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises all the independent Non-
executive Directors of the Company, namely:T ony Rice (Chairman),
Clive Butler (appointed 1 May 2005), Bernard Gray, Graham Howe,
Dr Janet Morgan (retired 22 July 2004), Kate Nealon (appointed 
18 January 2005), Kasper Rorsted and Agnès T ouraine (appointed
18 January 2005).The Company’s Chairman, Richard Lapthorne,
was a member of the Audit Committee until 5 May 2004 and the
Company was not therefore compliant with the Combined Code
principle on the membership of Audit Committees during the
period 1 April to 5 May 2004. Since 5 May 2004 the Chairman and
Executive Directors attend Audit Committee meetings by invitation
but are not members.The Group Director of Internal Audit, Group
General Counsel and representatives of the external auditors also
attend by invitation. Other employees of the Company may be
invited to attend as and when required.
The Combined Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at 
least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant
financial experience.The Board considers that there is a strong
breadth of financial expertise across the Audit Committee and that,
collectively, the members have the requisite skills and attributes to
enable the Audit Committee to properly discharge its
responsibilities, so it has concluded that it will not name any single
member as having such experience.
The Audit Committee is authorised to engage the services of
external advisers, as it deems necessary, at the Company’s expense
in order to carry out its function.
The Audit Committee’s objectives are:
– to assist the Company in meeting its responsibilities in ensuring an
effective system of internal control and compliance and accurate
external financial reporting; and
– to assist management in conducting and reporting the effective
risk management of the Company and Group’s activities.
The full written terms of reference of the Audit Committee are
available from the Company Secretary or from the Company’s
website. In summary the Audit Committee:
– reviews the financial integrity of the financial statements of
the Company;
Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to 
the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration 
and long-term incentive arrangements of the Company’s Chairman,
Executive Directors and senior executives.The Remuneration
Committee’s full terms of reference are available either from the
Company Secretary or the Company’s website.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the membership of the
Remuneration Committee comprised Bernard Gray (Chairman),
Graham Howe, Kate Nealon (appointed 22 February 2005),
Dr Janet Morgan (resigned 22 July 2004),T ony Rice and Kasper
Rorsted (resigned 22 February 2005). Subsequent to the year-end,
Clive Butler was appointed and T ony Rice resigned from the 
Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2005.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and
Group Human Resources Director may be invited to attend and
speak at meetings of the Remuneration Committee, but do not
participate in any matter which impacts upon their own remuneration
arrangements. Representatives from the Company’s remuneration
consultants, New Bridge Street Consultants, attend meetings by
invitation. Meetings are scheduled in February, March, May and June
each year but may be held at other times.There were five meetings
in the year ended 31 March 2005.
The Remuneration Committee is authorised to engage the services
of external advisors as it deems necessary at the Company’s
expense in order to carry out its function.
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 41 to 53 includes
details on remuneration policy, practices and the remuneration of
the Directors.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee reviews the composition of,
and succession to, the Board and recommends to the Board
appointments of Executive and Non-executive Directors following
a formal and rigorous review process.This involves an ongoing
assessment of the overall balance and performance of the Board
and its individual members ensuring a strong executive and
independent non-executive team, taking account of existing and
proposed corporate governance requirements and emerging 
best practice.
The Nominations Committee in particular considers the experience
and skills of individuals who may be suitable as Directors.
Members of the Nominations Committee abstain when matters
affecting their own appointments are discussed.
The Nominations Committee’s full terms of reference are available
either from the Company Secretary or the Company’s website.
The Nominations Committee is authorised to engage the services
of external advisors as it deems necessary at the Company’s
expense in order to carry out its function. Corporate governance
Directors’ report
– reviews the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements arising from its listings in London and New Y ork;
– reviews material complaints regarding accounting, internal controls
and auditing raised by the Company’s employees;
– monitors the Company’s whistle-blowing procedures;
– reviews the internal audit programme and considers the
effectiveness of the internal audit function;
– makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of 
the Company’s auditors;
– determines the level of audit fees and the scope of the audit in
accordance with the authority given by the Company’s
shareholders at every AGM;
– assesses the independence of the auditors; and
– reviews and agrees the process of the approval of audit and non-
audit services provided by the auditors.
Meetings
The Audit Committee met five times during the year under review.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 36.
Prior to each meeting, the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
meets with the Group Director of Internal Audit, Director of Group
Accounting Services and with the external auditors without the
presence of Executive management.The Chairman of the Audit
Committee also has private meetings with the Chief Financial
Officer before each Audit Committee meeting. In addition, the
entire Committee will meet (i) the external auditors without 
the presence of management, and (ii) management without the
presence of external auditors, at least annually.
The Audit Committee receives the following standing reports at
each scheduled meeting:
– Report of the Chief Financial Officer;
– Report of the external auditors;
– Report of the Group Director of Internal Audit; and
– Litigation Report,
In addition, during the year under review, the Audit Committee 
considered and discussed the business set out below and made
recommendations to the Board where appropriate:
– the full year results and Press Release together with the Annual
Report and Accounts;
– half year results and Press Release and quarterly trading
statements;
– presentation of the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet in 
March 2005;
– Group Risk Review updates;
– the effectiveness of the employee “whistle-blowing” programme
and resolution of matters raised through the whistle-blowing line
and other channels;
– corporate governance developments in UK and US arising from
the revised Combined Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002
including regular updates on the work being undertaken in
connection with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;
– developments in accounting standards including the preparation
for adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards;
– register of interests for Board and Senior Management; and
– the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and the 
external auditors.
The Committee also received presentations on business continuity,
fraud control, security and health and safety issues.
Financial reporting
The Audit Committee reviews and, where necessary, challenges the
actions and judgements of management in relation to the interim
and full year financial statements before submission to the Board.
Particular attention is paid to critical accounting policies and
practices and any changes; clarity of disclosure; compliance with
accounting standards, stock exchange and other legal and regulatory
requirements. In this, the Audit Committee is assisted by the
Disclosure Committee, which is primarily responsible for identifying
and considering disclosure control issues in connection with the
preparation of all releases containing material financial information.
Internal audit
The Group monitors its internal controls through a programme of
internal audits.The Internal Audit function is headed by the Group
Director of Internal Audit who is supported by a team of auditors
based in the UK and Jamaica.The Group’s Internal Audit function
has a formal charter approved by the Board that describes its
purpose, authority and responsibility. Its annual audit plan is
approved by the Audit Committee and reporting to the Audit
Committee is achieved through the submission and discussion 
of regular formal reports as well as private meetings between 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Director 
of Internal Audit.
External audit
KPMG Audit Plc has acted as auditors for the Company since 1991.
The Audit Committee has established a policy which is intended to
38/39 2005 Annual Report Corporate governance
maintain the independence of the Company’s auditors when acting
as auditor of the Group accounts.The policy governs the provision
of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditor and its
associates to the Company and its subsidiaries.The policy clearly
identifies those services which are permitted, and those which are
prohibited from being provided by the auditor. In addition, the policy
clearly sets out the procedure to be followed for the approval of
all audit and non-audit services; all engagements with an expected
value in excess of £250,000 require the prior approval of the
Chairman of the Audit Committee. For the year ended 31 March
2005, fees for audit and audit related services of £4.6 million,
of which £0.3 million related to the prior year, were approved 
by the Audit Committee. During the year, fees for non-audit work 
of £1.5 million were approved.The non-audit work mainly comprised
tax compliance services.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) will be held at
the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre on 22 July 2005. Business
at the Company’s AGM will cover the Annual Report and Accounts,
Directors’ Remuneration Report, final dividend, election/re-election
of Directors, re-appointment of the auditors and authorisation for
the Directors to set the auditors’ fees. Special business will cover
amendments to the rules of the Incentive Plan and Deferred Short
Term Incentive Plan, a share buy back authority, an increase in the
cap on total fees to Directors and amendments to the Articles 
of Association.
Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in 
the Chairman’s Letter and Notice of AGM.At the AGM, a business
review is presented to shareholders by the Chief Executive 
Officer.All Directors including the Chairman of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees attend and are available to answer
shareholders’ questions.All resolutions at the AGM are taken on a
poll, in accordance with best practice. Results are announced to the
London Stock Exchange and published on the Company’s website.
Apart from the AGM, the Company communicates with its
shareholders by way of the Annual Report and Accounts or the
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements.The Company’s
website contains investor relations’ material including results
presentations, dividends and share capital history.Additionally, the
Company communicates with its institutional shareholders via
regular analyst briefings throughout the year but particularly at the
time of the interim and year-end results.The Company clearly
recognises the importance of maintaining a regular dialogue with
shareholders to ensure that the Company’s strategy and
performance are understood.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing basis.The Board
has adopted a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the guidance
of the Turnbull Committee on Internal Control.
The Board considers that the Group’s system of internal control
is appropriately designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk
of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost 
of a control procedure should not exceed the expected benefits.
Reviews of the Group’s systems of internal control are undertaken
to improve them as necessary, taking into account emerging best
practice. During the year and up to the date of this report
procedures were in place throughout the Group to ensure
compliance with the report of the Turnbull Committee.
Using a common risk management framework, each principal
business and functional unit identifies risks that could impede the
achievement of their objectives and records them in a Risk Register.
For each significant risk, line managers document an overview of the
risk, consider the effectiveness of the current mitigating controls in
place and identify any improvement actions required. In addition
to this, the Group’s Executive Directors monitor all significant risks
through a structure of Risk Review Boards in each of the major
business units.The Risk Review Boards comprise the Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other relevant senior executives
of the business unit.A schedule of the Group’s risks, which covers
significant operational, financial and strategic risks, is reviewed by the
Audit Committee.
The past few years have been transitional ones for the Group, with
the Company making a number of acquisitions and disposals and
having undergone a number of restructurings.As with all acquisitions
or reorganisations, the Company has dedicated resource to embed
processes and controls across its businesses consistent with the
standards acceptable to the Group. Over the last year this has been
supported by the roll-out of a Financial Controls T oolkit to reinforce
the standardisation of financial controls across the Group. Business
units are now required to sign off compliance with the requirements
of the Financial Controls T oolkit on an annual basis.
A control self-assessment exercise is conducted annually 
to complement the work of Group Internal Audit, the risk
management framework and the external auditors.This exercise
requires management to assess the effectiveness of their
fundamental operating controls over all aspects of their operations,
in addition to the financial controls covered by the Financial
Controls T oolkit. Group Internal Audit considers the results of 
this exercise in planning their work for the forthcoming year.
At the end of the financial year, the finance and general management
of operating units are required to sign a letter of representation to
confirm that their financial reporting is based on sound data, that they
are fully aware of their responsibility to operate internal control
systems and that their results are properly stated in accordance with
Group and statutory requirements.Additionally, a structure has been
developed to assess the Group’s corporate social responsibility
including social, environmental and ethical matters and this is covered 
in ‘Corporate governance – Corporate and social responsibility report’
on page 26. Corporate governance
Directors’ report
These procedures reflect the Group’s commitment to ensuring 
it has policies in place that ensure high standards of integrity
and transparency throughout its operations. Further, when these
procedures detect unauthorised management practices, the Group
is committed to the correction of such events.The Group is also
committed to analysing its internal controls to make them more
robust and further limit the risk of such incidents.The Board believes
such action properly reflects the Group’s commitment to financial
discipline and integrity at all levels.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within joint
ventures and associates rests, on the whole, with the senior
management of those operations. Cable & Wireless monitors its
investments and exerts influence through Board representation.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new and enhanced
standards of corporate governance, and business and financial
disclosure, apply to US public companies and non-US companies,
including the Company, with securities registered in the United
States.Where applicable the Group has developed policies and
procedures to enable it to comply with the provisions of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.The Group also has ongoing programmes in
place, relating in particular to section 404, to enable it to comply
with provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that will come into force
in the future.
Going concern
After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial
statements on pages 97 to 144.
By order of the Board of Directors.
Andrew S Garard
Company Secretary
3 June 2005
40/41 2005 Annual Report Corporate governance
– total reward levels should reflect the markets in which the Group
competes.The Group’s competitive position is regularly monitored
by independent analysis against comparator groups of companies
selected on the basis of relevant size, business and geographic
focus;
– fixed salaries and benefits should be set with reference to the
mid-market level compared with similar types of company;
– the majority of total remuneration should only be receivable as a
result of the Group achieving demanding performance targets;
– an appropriate mix of short and long-term incentives should be
set so that Directors are incentivised to maximise performance
over both the short and medium term; and
– the remuneration structure for Directors should be cascaded
down to other senior executives in a consistent manner.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the
current remuneration structure.A number of changes are proposed
as a result of this review.These changes have been discussed with
leading shareholders and their representative bodies, who have been
generally supportive. In summary, proposals (outlined more fully
below) comprise:
– Fixed remuneration (i.e. salary and pension) – frozen;
– Annual bonus – potential unchanged;
– Long-term incentives – restructured. Principal changes are a
reduction in the proportion of awards vesting for median
performance, the granting of performance shares to selected
senior executives and an enhanced potential share match to
encourage executive share investment.
The overall impact of these changes is illustrated in the graph below
for Francesco Caio.The graph demonstrates that for target
performance, total remuneration would be enhanced by no more
than a five per cent increase in base salary, however superior levels 
of performance would merit higher levels of reward.
This report sets out the policy and disclosures in relation to
Directors’ remuneration.The Remuneration Report will be subject
to an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of 
the Company to be held on 22 July 2005 in accordance with the
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. Full details of 
the resolution are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Composition and terms of reference of the
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the
Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company’s
framework of executive remuneration and on the specific
remuneration of the Chairman and Executive Directors.The
Remuneration Committee also monitors remuneration paid to
members of the Executive Committee. During the year the Board
approved all recommendations from the Remuneration Committee
without amendment.The terms of reference for the Remuneration
Committee are obtainable from the Company’s website or from the
Company Secretary.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Remuneration
Committee was comprised of independent Non-executive
Directors, namely: Bernard Gray (Chairman), Graham Howe,
Dr Janet Morgan (retired 22 July 2004),T ony Rice, Kasper Rorsted
(until 22 March 2005) and Kate Nealon (from 22 March 2005).
In forming their recommendations, the Remuneration Committee
received advice and information from the Chairman, the Chief
Executive Officer, the Group Human Resources Director and the
Group Director of Performance and Reward.The Remuneration
Committee has appointed independent consultants, New Bridge
Street Consultants LLP (“NBSC”), to provide advice on remuneration
and share plans both for Executive Directors and the wider
executive population. In addition they provide the Company with
measurement of it’s relative total shareholder return (“TSR”)
performance. NBSC’s terms of engagement are available on request
from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman, Executive Directors and officers attending a meeting
abstain from any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.
Statement of remuneration policy
Remuneration philosophy
Cable & Wireless is an international company, trading in some 
80 countries around the world.Attracting, retaining and motivating
high quality people is key to the Group’s success. Remuneration
arrangements are designed to enable the Group to maintain a
competitive position in each country in a cost-effective way and
are reviewed annually against best practice.
The Company’s remuneration philosophy for Directors is based 
upon creating a strong link between performance and reward,
underpinned by the following guiding principles:
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report
£1,000
£2,000
£3,000
£4,000
£5,000
£6,000
£7,000
Illustration of impact of proposal for Francesco Caio
T otal Remuneration (£000)
Current + 5% salary increase 
Proposal (1/3rd of bonus invested)
Proposal (2/3rds of bonus invested)
Lower Quartile Median Upper Quartile Upper Decile 42/43 2005 Annual Report
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report
Elements of remuneration
Executive Directors’ remuneration consists of salary, pension and
other benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentives.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the majority of
Executive Directors’ potential remuneration should be performance
related.The appropriate mix and level of performance related
awards may vary from year to year and between each Executive
Director according to the judgement of the Remuneration
Committee.The actual value delivered is dependent upon the
achievement of stretching performance conditions.
The chart below illustrates the average proportion of Executive
Directors’ potential remuneration for 2006 that will be 
performance related.
Split of potential total remuneration
Figures reflect ‘on-target’ payment potential under the annual bonus
plan and the ‘expected’ value of long-term incentive awards at the
time of grant. It is assumed that one-third of the annual bonus is
deferred into shares under the Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan.
Base salary
Base salaries are reviewed by reference to the mid-market of
comparator groups of companies selected on the basis of
comparable size, geographic spread and business focus. Individual
salary decisions take into account personal contribution, business
performance and the level of salary increases across the Group 
as a whole. Salaries are generally reviewed on an annual basis 
to take effect from 1 July or following a significant change 
in responsibilities.
1
2
3 4
1. Salary
2. Pension
3. Performance-related
annual bonus
4. Performance-related
long-term incentives
Salaries were not increased in 2004 and will again not be increased
on 1 July 2005 following the latest review.Accordingly, salaries for
the forthcoming year will be:
Francesco Caio £700,000
Harris Jones £500,000
Charles Herlinger £400,000
George Battersby £350,000
Robert Rowley £250,000
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen *£250,000
* With effect from 1 March 2005, the Company increased the
minimum working days for Lord Robertson from 80 to 100 per
annum, resulting in a pro-rata salary increase from £200,000 to
£250,000 per annum.
Executive Directors’ pensions are based only on their base salaries.
Short T erm Incentive Plan and Deferred Short T erm
Incentive Plan
Short T erm Incentive Plan (“STIP”)
Individual awards under the STIP for 2006 will be based upon
individual performance targets and annual performance against the
following objective financial targets: profit before tax, revenue and
net cash flow.The specific measures and targets are reviewed and
set annually by the Remuneration Committee to reflect the key
business priorities for the year in question.
The structure of the STIP for 2005/06 is set out below:
Financial performance
1
Maximum
00
Personal Target Maximum bonus 
Director performance
1
potential
1
Francesco Caio/
Harris Jones up to 37.5% 67.5% 112.5% 150%
Other Executive 
Directors up to 25% 45% 75% 100%
1
As a percentage of salary. Corporate governance
The vesting of share options granted under the SOP is subject to
relative TSR performance conditions (see Performance conditions
for share based awards).
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
Under the PSP , Executive Directors and other senior executives can
receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The plan rules limit the value of shares that can be granted to an
individual in any year to 100 per cent of salary. For the 2006 financial
year, the Remuneration Committee currently intends to award
shares worth 50 per cent of salary to Executive Directors shortly
after the AGM.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative TSR
performance conditions (see Performance conditions for share
based awards).A dividend award supplement operates on the 
PSP . Dividends that would have been paid on the performance
shares which vest, will be regarded as having been re-invested in
additional shares.
Restricted Share Plan (“RSP”)
The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares, primarily as a
retention or a recruitment tool to compensate for the forfeiture of
long-term incentive arrangements when transferring to the
Company.The Remuneration Committee, taking into account the
previous arrangements of the new recruit, will set the quantum,
performance measures and vesting schedule for any restricted share
awards.There is currently no intention to make awards to any
Executive Director in the forthcoming financial year.
Other plans
The Stock Appreciation Rights Plan (“SARP”) is used to exactly
replicate the plans described above but rewards are delivered as
a cash equivalent. It is used in exceptional cases only for countries 
in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share
options. No Executive Director has ever received awards under 
this plan.
Performance conditions for share based awards
TSR is the main performance measure used in the SOP , the
Deferred STIP and the PSP as it provides an objective external
measure of financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee believes that it is important to
measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set
of companies.The Company’s relative TSR performance is assessed
against a comparator group comprising the FTSE Global Telecoms
Sector Index (“FTSE GTSI”), which provides a global benchmark of
independently selected industry peers.
TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions.
TSR performance is averaged over a three-month period at the
beginning and end of the performance period.This moderates the
effect of short-term share price volatility.
Deferred Short T erm Incentive Plan
Currently the Executive Directors and selected senior executives
may elect to re-invest up to half of any STIP bonus into the
Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan (“Deferred STIP”). Shareholder
approval will be sought at the AGM to adjust the plan so that this
executive population is required to compulsorily invest a third of any
STIP bonus into the Deferred STIP and is given the opportunity to
invest up to a further third.
The Deferred STIP is designed to encourage participants to 
invest in shares to align their interests more closely with those
of shareholders. Under this plan any bonus deferred is used to
purchase shares in the Company, which are held in trust for three
years before being released to the participant.
Participants may also be awarded up to two matching shares 
for every one purchased share based on the relative TSR
performance of the Company measured over a three-year period
(see Performance conditions for share based awards).A dividend
award supplement also operates on the Deferred STIP . Dividends
that would have been paid on the purchased shares and the actual
award of matching shares during the performance period are
reinvested in additional shares.
Currently the matching award is provided on a net of tax basis.
Shareholder approval will be sought at the AGM to adjust the plan
so that the match is provided on a gross basis i.e. for every £100 of
gross of tax bonus invested in the Deferred STIP , participants would
be able to receive matching shares worth up to £200.
Long-term incentive awards under the 
Incentive Plan 2001
Under the Incentive Plan 2001, the Remuneration Committee can
make awards of share options, performance shares and restricted
shares to Executive Directors and other senior executives.The
Remuneration Committee’s intended award policy for 2006, which
has been determined after considering personal and Group
performance and total reward within comparator companies is
outlined below.
Share Option Plan (“SOP”)
The SOP is the principal vehicle for long-term retention and
incentivisation of the Executive Directors and other senior executives.
The plan rules limit the face value of shares that can be optioned to
an individual in any year to 600 per cent of salary for the Chief
Executive and 400 per cent of salary for other Executive Directors.
For the 2006 financial year, the Remuneration Committee currently
intends to grant options over shares worth 300 per cent of salary
to the Chief Executive and 250 per cent of salary to the other
Executive Directors shortly after the AGM. 44/45 2005 Annual Report
Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report
Awards vest depending upon the Company’s TSR ranking relative to
the comparator group at the end of a single three-year
performance period.
Following feedback from leading investors, the vesting schedules
outlined below for future SOP and PSP awards have been made
significantly more challenging than was previously the case under
these plans.
Future vesting schedule
Level of vesting under
0005§0
Ranking Deferred STIP SOP PSP
Below median No match 0% 0%
Median 1:2 match 33.33% 33.33%
Upper quartile 2:1 match 100% 100%
Previous vesting schedule
Level of vesting under
0005§0
Ranking Deferred STIP SOP PSP
Below median No match 0% 0%
Median 1:2 match 50% 40%
Upper quartile 2:1 match 100% 100%
In order for any matching shares, share options or performance
shares to vest, the Remuneration Committee has now decided that 
it must also be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of
the Group warrants the release of the shares determined by the
Company’s TSR performance.The Committee has up to 12 months
after the end of the performance period to judge the underlying
performance. Specific Committee decisions will be explained in future
Remuneration Reports.
Changes to the 2001 Incentive Plan to incorporate these tougher
targets will be the subject of approval by shareholders at the
forthcoming AGM.
Performance graphs
The graph below shows the change in value of a hypothetical £100
holding in the Company’s Ordinary Shares over five years relative to
a broad equity market index.The FTSE 100 index was considered
by the Remuneration Committee to be the most relevant index for
this purpose as the Company is a constituent of the index and a
five-year history is available.
The following graph shows the change in value of a hypothetical
£100 holding in Cable & Wireless Ordinary Shares over four years
against the FTSE GTSI.The FTSE GTSI is the comparator group
against which relative performance is assessed under the SOP ,
Deferred STIP and PSP . This index was only created in February
2001, therefore comparative TSR performance can only be provided
for the last four financial years
Dilution
The Remuneration Committee ensures that at all times the number
of new shares which may be issued under any share option or share-
based plans, including all-employee plans, does not exceed the dilution
limit of 10 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital over any
ten-year rolling period.As at 31 March 2005, 2.7 per cent of the
issued shared capital was available for issue under the Company’s
share-based plans.
Awards under the various plans are funded by a mix of purchased
and newly issued shares, as determined by the Remuneration
Committee. Newly issued shares are subject to the dilution limit
outlined above. Purchased shares, which are held by the Cable &
Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust, are subject to a
limit of 5 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the
Company.
Pension and other benefits
Francesco Caio, Harris Jones, Charles Herlinger and George
Battersby participate in the Cable & Wireless Lifetime Benefits Plan,
Value  (£)
£100
£80
£60
£40
£20
£0
31 Mar 01 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 05
T otal shareholder return
C & W      
FTSE 100
Source: Thomson Financial
This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2005, of £100 invested in Cable & Wireless 
on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Global 
T elecoms Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
T otal shareholder return
Value (£)
£120
£100
£80
£60
£40
£20
£0
31 Mar 00 31 Mar 01 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 05
C & W      
FTSE 100
Source: Thomson Financial
This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2005, of £100 invested in Cable & Wireless
on 31 March 2000 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends. Corporate governance
a defined contribution scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
Robert Rowley and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen do not receive
any Company provided pension benefits. Further details of the
pension benefits earned in the year to 31 March 2005 can be found
in the Directors’ Remuneration table on pages 48 to 49.
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in employee
benefit programmes including life, disability and health insurance
plans and, where appropriate, receive relocation expenses.The value
of these benefits is included in the Directors’ Remuneration table on
pages 48 to 49.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in all-employee
share schemes and savings plans applicable in their home countries.
These include the Cable & Wireless Savings Related Share Options
Scheme and the Cable & Wireless Share Purchase Plan – further
details can be found in Note 23 to the Financial Statements.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
Policy
The Remuneration Committee’s policy is that new Executive
Directors’ service contracts should contain a maximum notice
period of one year.A longer notice period may apply initially, where
this is required to secure the services of high calibre executives in
exceptional circumstances, but in all cases the notice period will
reduce to one year or less after two years.
In the event of early termination, the Remuneration Committee 
will, within legal constraints, determine the approach to be taken
according to the circumstances of each individual case, taking full
account of the departing Executive Director’s obligation to mitigate
loss. Except in cases of early termination for cause, the Remuneration
Committee will take into account the relevant Executive Director’s
current salary, notice period and contractual benefits when
calculating any liability of the Company.The principal contractual
benefits provided in addition to salary are pension and life insurance.
Annual bonuses and long-term incentives are granted at the
discretion of the Remuneration Committee and therefore would be
dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes.A
significant proportion of each Executive Director’s total remuneration
is subject to performance conditions and therefore will not be
payable to the extent that the relevant targets are not met.
Current Directors
Date of contract Notice period
Francesco Caio 2 April 2003 One year
Harris Jones 29 November 2004 Two years until June 2005, reducing to one year by June 2006
Charles Herlinger 26 July 2003 Two years until December 2005, one year thereafter
George Battersby 27 July 2004 One year
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen 1 February 2004 Fixed term until February 2007, one year thereafter
Robert Rowley 1 February 2003 Fixed term until August 2005, six months thereafter
Current Directors
Directors’ service contracts continue until their normal 
retirement date.
The service contracts of Executive Directors contain a clause that
governs a change of control. In the event of a change of control of
the Company, if the executive’s employment is adversely changed,
then a change of control provision will be triggered.
In these circumstances, the executive will receive a payment equal
to their notice period and a pro-rated bonus under the STIP (to the
extent that the executive would have been awarded a bonus in
respect of the year during which their employment terminates).
The executive’s entitlements under the Deferred STIP , the PSP , the
SOP and the RSP will be those applicable in the case of termination
of employment by reason of redundancy or early retirement under
the prevailing rules of each plan.
The Executive Directors’ service contracts contain no other
provisions for compensation payable on early termination.
Former Directors
Kevin Loosemore’s contract was dated 2 April 2003 and continued
until his departure as an employee on 31 March 2005.The notice
period under contract was two years until 2 April 2005 and one
year thereafter, however he agreed to a reduced period of one year.
He resigned from the Board on 1 December 2004.
Chairman
The Chairman, Richard Lapthorne, has been appointed for an initial
fixed term of three years from 10 January 2003 and continuing until
terminated by either party.The appointment will be terminable by
either party serving not less than six months’ prior written notice
expiring on the anniversary of the appointment, save that no notice
can take effect prior to the expiry of the initial three-year term.
Richard Lapthorne receives an annual fee of £386,000, which is fixed
for the three-year term.
The Chairman is committed to retaining at least 500,000 Ordinary
Shares throughout his service as a Director.
If Richard Lapthorne’s appointment is terminated by reason of death Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report
46/47 2005 Annual Report
or by the Company otherwise than by due notice or if there is 
a change of control, he or his personal representatives shall be
entitled to an immediate payment equivalent to his fee for the
balance of the period ending on the earliest date on which the
appointment would have been terminated if the Company had
given the requisite prior written notice, unless in the case of a
change of control he remains a Chairman of the Company on
similar terms.
Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with
the Company, but instead have letters of appointment, which are
available at the Company’s registered office.Their fees are
determined by the Board, within the limits set out in the Company’s
Articles of Association, with Non-executive Directors abstaining
from any discussion or decision on their fees. Fee levels reflect the
Directors’ responsibilities, the committees on which they serve and
the general market conditions for their services. Full details of the
fees paid in the year ended 31 March 2005 are set out in the
Directors’ Remuneration table and the associated notes on pages
48 to 49.The Non-executive Directors do not receive any pension.
Base fees paid to each Non-executive Director have been fixed for
a three-year period from 1 March 2004 or date of appointment if
later than 1 March 2004 at the following levels:
Tony Rice £90,000
1
Bernard Gray £75,000
2
Graham Howe £65,000
Kasper Rorsted £65,000
Kate Nealon £65,000
Agnès T ouraine £65,000
1
Includes £25,000 for role as Chairman of the Group Audit Committee
2
Includes £10,000 for role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Bernard Gray and T ony Rice have been appointed for a three-year
term commencing on 21 January 2003, with the expectation that 
a further three-year term will follow.
Graham Howe and Kasper Rorsted have been appointed for a
three-year term commencing on 27 May 2003, with the expectation
that a further three-year term will follow.
Kate Nealon and Agnès T ouraine have been appointed for a three-
year term commencing on 18 January 2005, with the expectation
that a further three-year term will follow.
After two three-year terms, the period may be extended on an
annual basis at the invitation of the Chairman.Termination of the
appointment may be earlier at the discretion of either party on
one month’s written notice.
None of the Non-executive Directors are entitled to any
compensation if their appointment is terminated.
Of these Non-executive Directors the following have undertaken to
purchase the following number of Ordinary Shares in the Company
on 4 June 2004, 4 June 2005 and 4 June 2006 at 103.5 pence per
Ordinary Share:
Director Number of Ordinary Shares
Bernard Gray 100,000
Graham Howe 100,000
Tony Rice 100,000
Kasper Rorsted 30,000
The Non-executive Directors are expected to hold the purchased
Ordinary Shares for a minimum period of three years from the 
date of purchase and to hold a minimum of 30,000 shares
throughout their service as a Director. None of the benefits under
the arrangement is pensionable.There is no intention to offer 
similar share purchase arrangements to Non-executive Directors 
in the future.
Executive Directors’ shareholding requirement
The Company operates a policy of encouraging Executive Directors
(including the Chief Executive) to closely align their interests with
shareholders by requiring them to build up and maintain a holding
of Ordinary Shares in the Company to the value of at least twice
their base salary.This is to be achieved through the retention of any
net awards received from the short and long-term incentive plans
described above.
External Directorships
The Company allows Executive Directors to hold Non-executive
directorship and retain the fees received from that role. Full time
Executive Directors including the CEO, are only entitled to hold
up to one external directorship.
The following provides details of Non-executive directorships held,
and the annual fees for the financial year 2004/05.
Francesco Caio
Non-executive Director of Netscalibur Italia SpA No fee
Harris Jones
Non-executive Director of Caracal Inc No fee
Lord Roberston
Non-executive Director of Weir Group Plc including
membership of the Nomination Committee £32,000
Non-executive Director of Smiths Group Plc 
including membership of the Audit and 
Nomination Committee £40,000
Robert Rowley
Non-executive Director of Prudential Plc including
Chairmanship of the Audit Committee £90,000
Non-executive directorship of Liberty International Plc,
including membership of the Chairman’s Committee £24,390
Non-executive directorship of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc 
including membership of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees and senior Independent 
Directorship £38,750
George Battersby
Non-executive Director of SHL Group Plc including
Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee £25,000 Corporate governance
Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the Ordinary Shares of the Company were as follows:
As at
1 April 2004
(or date of As at
appointment Shares 31 March Per cent
Director if later) acquired 2005 of class
Richard Lapthorne
2
2,600,000 – 2,600,000 *
Francesco Caio
1 3
383,632 41,667 425,299 *
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen
1 3
– 3,009 3,009
Robert Rowley
1 3
436,214 61,156 497,370 *
George Battersby
1
– 1,318 1,318
Charles Herlinger
1 3
– 31,401 31,401
Harris Jones
1
220,750 – 220,750
Bernard Gray – 100,000 100,000
Graham Howe – 100,000 100,000
Kate Nealon –––
Tony Rice – 100,000 100,000
Kasper Rorsted – 30,000 30,000
Agnès T ouraine – – –
1
As potential beneficiaries from outstanding awards, which may be satisfied by shares held by the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Trust, Francesco Caio, Charles
Herlinger, Harris Jones, George Battersby, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen and Robert Rowley are deemed, by the Companies Act 1985, to have an interest in all of the Ordinary
Shares held by the Trust, which at 31 March 2005, amounted to 54,759,057 shares.
2
1,000,000 of Richard Lapthorne’s shares will be returned to the Company if, before 10 January 2006, he ceases to be Chairman of the Company or fails to retain beneficial
ownership of the 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares he acquired on 10 January 2003.
3
Included in the shares acquired during the year are shares purchased under the Deferred STIP and any dividends received on the purchased shares which are converted into
additional shares.
*Less than one per cent
Between 31 March 2005 and 1 June 2005 there were the following changes to the Directors’ shareholdings: Robert Rowley purchased 
199 Ordinary Shares under the Share Purchase Plan. Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report
48/49 2005 Annual Report
Directors’ remuneration
The following sections of the Directors’ Remuneration Report have been subject to audit.
Employer Employer
Pension pension pension
Other Compensation cash contribution contribution
Salary and benefits for loss of allowance 2005 2004
fees Bonuses Note 2 office Note 5 T otal 2005 T otal 2004 Note 5
Name of Director £££££££££
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 386,000 – 10,520 – – 396,520 394,949 – –
Current Executive Directors
Francesco Caio 700,000 854,000 195,907 – 175,000 1,924,907 2,188,278 – 116,666
Harris Jones 170,454 197,137 55,956 – 42,614 466,161 – – –
(from 1 December 2004)
Charles Herlinger 400,000 320,000 408,487 – 56,000 1,184,487 278,112 44,012 14,666
Note 6
George Battersby 238,636 283,500 11,070 – 31,023 564,229 – 32,136 –
(from 27 July 2004)
Note 7
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen 204,167 202,500 14,934 – – 421,601 64,800 – –
Robert Rowley 250,000 202,500 184 – – 452,684 958,673 – –
Current Non-executive Directors
Bernard Gray 75,000 – 1,204 – – 76,204 58,098 – –
Graham Howe 65,000 –––– 65,000 43,674 – –
Kate Nealon (from 18 January 2005) 13,412 –––– 13,412 – – –
Tony Rice 90,000 –––– 90,000 76,250 – –
Kasper Rorsted 65,000 – 1,824 – – 66,824 43,674 – –
Agnès Touraine (from 18 January 2005) 13,412 –––– 13,412 – – –
Former Directors
Kevin Loosemore 326,667 367,500 34,741 612,500 77,681 1,419,089 1,238,424 4,000 6,000
(until 1 December 2004)
Note 3
Dr Janet Morgan 20,189 – 134 – – 20,323 51,365 – –
(until 22 July 2004)
T otals 3,017,937 2,427,137 734,961 612,500 382,318 7,174,853 5,396,297 80,148 137,332 Corporate governance
Notes
1.The aggregate emoluments of the Directors, which exclude compensation for loss of office, were £6,562,353 (2004 – £6,319,991).
2. In compliance with the Companies Act 1985,‘Other benefits’ includes the reimbursement of costs associated with staff entertaining, relocation and the
value of benefits in kind relating to Company provided life assurance, professional advice, travel and accommodation.
3. Kevin Loosemore resigned as a Director of the Company on 1 December 2004 but remained as an employee until 31 March 2005.The figures in the table
above represent his earnings as a director. He also received salary of £163,333 and pension and other benefits of £41,124 (excluding bonus) as an employee
during this financial year. Kevin Loosemore was contractually entitled to compensation for a notice period of two years but agreed to a reduced settlement.
Compensation for loss of office in the table above, therefore, represents one year’s salary and employer’s pension contributions.
4. David Prince resigned as a Director of the Company on 30 November 2003 but remained an employee until 3 June 2004. He received a salary of
£72,212, pension benefits of £16,236 and annual bonus of £201,771 as an employee during this financial year.
5.‘Employer pension contributions’ list the Company contributions paid into Directors’ defined contribution pension plans. Company pension contributions
that would otherwise have breached the Inland Revenue’s funding limit have instead been paid to the Director as an annual cash allowance.An amount of
£12.5 million (2004 – £12.1 million) is included in provisions to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
6. Charles Herlinger was reimbursed for relocation and moving related expenses during the financial year that were incurred in 2003/04.
7.The performance bonus for George Battersby has not been pro-rated for the nine months that he served as a director.The Remuneration Committee felt
that this was appropriate given the significant amount of time that he spent on Company business in the months prior to joining the Board on 27 July 2004
and for which he did not receive payment. Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report
50/51 2005 Annual Report
Directors’ share options
Shares under Granted Shares under
option at between option at
1 April 2004 1 April 2004 3 1 March 2005
Date from Date Exercise (or date of and Lapsed (or date 
which first of expiry price appointment 31 March cancelled or of leaving
Name of Director Scheme Grant date exercisable of option (pence) if later) 2005 Exercised forfeited if earlier)
Francesco Caio
SOP Approved 26/6/03 26/6/06 25/6/10 103.7 28,929 – – – 28,929
SOP Unapproved 26/6/03 26/6/06 25/6/10 103.7 2,671,167 – – – 2,671,167
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 – 1,946,000 – – 1,946,000
SAYE 4/7/03 1/9/06 28/2/07 89 10,393 – – – 10,393
2,710,489 1,946,000 – – 4,656,489
Harris Jones SOP Approved 1/12/04 1/12/07 30/11/11 113.55 26,420 – – – 26,420
(from 1 December 2004) SOP Unapproved 1/12/04 1/12/07 30/11/11 113.55 1,734,918 – – – 1,734,918
1,761,338 – – – 1,761,338
Charles Herlinger SOP Approved 15/12/03 15/12/06 14/12/10 135.7 22,107 – – – 22,107
SOP Unapproved 15/12/03 15/12/06 14/12/10 135.7 1,156,964 – – – 1,156,964
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 – 927,000 – – 927,000
SAYE 30/6/04 1/9/07 29/2/08 102.6 – 9,186 – – 9,186
1,179,071 936,186 – – 2,115,257
George Battersby SOP Approved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 – 27,777 – – 27,777
(from 27 July 2004) SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 – 783,223 – – 783,223
– 811,000 – – 811,000
Kevin Loosemore SOP Approved 26/6/03 26/6/06 25/6/10 103.7 28,929 – – – 28,929
(until 1 December 2004) Note 4
SOP Unapproved 26/6/03 26/6/06 26/6/10 103.7 1,861,139 – – – 1,861,139
Note 4
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 – 1,135,000 – (914,306) 220,694
– Note 4
SAYE 4/7/03 1/9/06 28/2/07 89 10,393 – – – 10,393
Note 4
1,900,461 1,135,000 – (914,306) 2,121,155
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen SOP Approved 6/2/04 6/2/07 5/2/11 143.25 20,942 – – – 20,942
SOP Unapproved 6/2/04 6/2/07 5/2/11 143.25 537,522 – – – 537,522
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 – 463,000 – – 463,000
558,464 463,000 – – 1,021,464
Robert Rowley SOP Approved 26/6/03 26/6/06 25/6/10 103.7 28,929 – – – 28,929
SOP Unapproved 26/6/03 26/6/06 25/6/10 103.7 935,391 – – – 935,391
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 – 579,000 – – 579,000
SAYE 4/7/03 1/9/08 28/2/09 89 17,893 – – – 17,893
982,213 579,000 – – 1,561,213 Corporate governance
Notes
1. SOP Approved and Unapproved – Inland Revenue approved and unapproved grants respectively made under the Share Option Plan (see page 43 for
details).The vesting of options awarded under the SOP is subject to relative TSR performance conditions. Full vesting occurs only if the Company’s TSR
performance ranks at or above the upper quartile of a comparator group comprising FTSE Global Telecoms companies. For median ranking, 50 per cent of
the award vests.A sliding scale operates between median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median. For awards granted
after May 2004, performance will be measured over a single three-year performance period. For earlier grants, performance is able to be re-tested until the
fifth anniversary of the grant.
2. C&W SAYE – Cable & Wireless Save As Y ou Earn share option scheme.These options are not subject to performance conditions because this is an
all-employee scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
3. Nil price was paid by Directors for the award of the options listed in the table above.
4. In accordance with the rules of the SOP prevailing at the date of grant, the 2003 option grant for Kevin Loosemore is exercisable for 12 months 
until 31 March 2006.The outstanding 2004 option grant has been time pro-rated and will be exercisable for 24 months following the end of the normal
performance period but only to the extent that the TSR performance condition is satisfied. In accordance with the rules of the SAYE scheme, these options
are exercisable for 6 months until 30 September 2005.
5.The closing mid-market price of an Ordinary Share on 31 March 2005 was 129.25 pence.The highest closing mid-market price of an Ordinary Share
during the year was 133.5 pence and lowest closing mid-market price was 96.50 pence.There were no changes to the Directors’ share options from
31 March 2005 to 1 June 2005.
6. No Directors had any gains on the exercise of share options in the years ended 31 March 2004 or 31 March 2005. Corporate governance
Directors’ remuneration report
52/53 2005 Annual Report
Directors’ Deferred Short T erm Incentive Plan (“STIP”) and Restricted Share Plan Awards
Shares
Shares under awarded Shares under
award at between award at 31
Market price 1 April 2004 1 April 2004 Shares March 2005
on date of (or date of and lapsed, (or date of
Award Vesting awardappointment 31 March Shares cancelled cessation if
Name of Director Scheme date date (pence) if later) 2005 vested or forfeited earlier)
Francesco Caio Restricted 4/6/03 4/6/06 97.75 383,632 – – – 383,632
Share Plan Note 1
Deferred STIP 17/08/04 25/6/07 105.75 – 80,182 – – 80,182
(matching shares) Note 6
Deferred STIP 13/8/04 25/6/07 102.25 – 2,340 – – 2,340
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/2/05 25/6/07 130 – 812 – – 812
(matching dividend shares)
383,632 83,334 – – 466,966
Harris Jones Restricted 1/12/04 1/12/07 113 220,750 – – – 220,750
(from 1 December 2004) Share Plan Note 2
(matching shares)
Restricted share plan 1/12/04 1/12/07 113 441,500 – – – 441,500
(performance shares) Note 3
662,250 – – – 662,250
Charles Herlinger Restricted 15/12/03 1/12/06 135.7 250,000 – – – 250,000
Share Plan Note 4
Deferred STIP 17/08/04 25/6/07 105.75 – 57,944 – – 57,944
(matching shares) Note 6
Deferred STIP 13/8/04 25/6/07 102.25 – 1,691 – – 1,691
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/2/05 25/6/07 130 – 586 – – 586
(matching dividend shares)
250,000 60,221 – – 310,221
Kevin Loosemore Restricted 4/6/03 4/6/06 97.75 383,632 – 383,632 – –
(until 1 December 2004) Share Plan Note 7
Note 7
Restricted 31/7/03 31/7/06 113.5 110,132 – 110,132 – –
Share Plan Note 7
Deferred STIP 17/08/04 25/6/07 105.75 – 85,186 – 63,890 21,296
(matching shares) Note 6
Deferred STIP 13/8/04 25/6/07 102.25 – 2,486 – – 2,486
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/2/05 25/6/07 130 – 862 – – 862
(matching dividend shares)
493,764 88,534 493,764 63,890 24,644
Robert Rowley Restricted 4/6/03 4/6/06 97.75 383,632 – – – 383,632
Share Plan Note 5
Deferred STIP 17/08/04 25/6/07 105.75 – 115,104 – – 115,104
(matching shares) Note 6
Deferred STIP 13/8/04 25/6/07 102.25 – 3,360 – – 3,360
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/2/05 25/6/07 130 – 1,166 – – 1,166
(matching dividend shares)
383,632 119,630 – – 503,262
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen Deferred STIP 17/08/04 25/6/07 105.75 – 5,792 – – 5,792
(matching shares) Note 6
Deferred STIP 13/8/04 25/6/07 102.25 – 169 – – 169
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/2/05 25/6/07 130 – 58 – – 58
(matching dividend shares)
– 6,019 – – 6,019 Corporate governance
Notes
1. Subject to Francesco Caio remaining an employee of the Company and retaining beneficial ownership until 4 June 2006 of the 383,632 Ordinary Shares 
he acquired on 4 June 2003, the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him. No performance conditions are attached to this award since it
represents compensation for arrangements forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
2. Subject to Harris Jones remaining an employee of the Company and retaining beneficial ownership until 1 December 2007 of the 220,750 Ordinary Shares
he acquired on 1 December 2004, the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him. No performance conditions are attached to this award, as it was
part of the terms felt to be necessary to secure his employment with the Company.
3.These performance share awards will be delivered by the Company to Harris Jones on the third anniversary of grant if he is still an employee of the
Company, if he has retained beneficial ownership of the 220,750 Ordinary Shares he acquired on 1 December 2004 and if the Company’s TSR performance
against a comparator group of FTSE Global Telecoms companies has been at least upper quartile. If TSR performance has been median, 25 per cent of the
shares will be delivered, for performance between median and upper quartile, shares will be delivered on a pro-rata basis. No shares will be delivered for
below median performance.
4. Subject to Charles Herlinger remaining an employee of the Company until December 2006 the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him.
No other performance conditions are attached to this award.
5. Subject to Robert Rowley remaining an employee of the Company and retaining beneficial ownership until 4 June 2006 of the 383,632 Ordinary Shares 
he acquired on 4 June 2003, the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him. No other performance conditions are attached to this award.
6.These Deferred STIP matching awards will be delivered by the Company to the executive on the third anniversary of grant if the executive is still an
employee of the Company, if the executive has retained beneficial ownership of the required number of Ordinary Shares and if the Company’s TSR
performance against a comparator group of FTSE Global Telecoms companies has been at least upper quartile.The matching shares are based on one
matching share for two purchased shares for median TSR performance, rising to two matching shares for one purchased share for performance at upper
quartile or above. No matching shares are awarded for below median performance.A dividend award supplement also operates on the Plan. Dividends that
would have been paid on purchased shares and the actual award of matching shares during the performance period are re-invested in additional shares.
7. Following the cessation of Kevin Loosemore’s employment on 31 March 2005, the Restricted Share Award with a value of £638,190 vested in full.
The outstanding Deferred STIP awards (matching and dividend shares) were time pro-rated and remains subject to a TSR condition and will vest at the 
end of the performance period only to the extent that the condition is satisfied.
On behalf of the Board
Bernard Gray
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
3 June 2005 54/55 2005 Annual Report
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss for that period. In preparing those Financial Statements,
the Directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
– make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
– state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and 
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company or the Group will
continue in business.
The Directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial
position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements, and having a reasonable
expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, continue to adopt
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the preparation of the financial statements Operating and 
financial review
56 Cautionary statement regarding 
forward-looking statements
57 Overview
59 Group financial performance
66 Review by division
75 Acquisitions
76 Review by division – summary
77 Liquidity and capital resources
79 Capital expenditure
80 Cash flow
81 Property and network infrastructure
82 Disclosures about market risk
83 Five year summary
84 Critical accounting policies
87 Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures
89 Risk factors
93 Legal proceedings
96 Independent auditor’s report
Financial statements
97 Consolidated profit and loss accounts
100 Consolidated balance sheets
101 Company balance sheets
102 Consolidated cash flow statements
103 Consolidated statements of total 
recognised gains and losses
104 Reconciliation of movements in 
consolidated equity shareholders’ funds
104 Reconciliation of movements in equity
shareholders’ funds for the Company
105 Statement of accounting policies
109 Notes to the financial statements
Performance Operating and financial review
Cautionary statement regarding 
forward-looking statements
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
Financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this
Annual Report.
Cautionary statements regarding forward-looking
statements
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements
with respect to the financial condition, results of operation and
business of Cable & Wireless.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about
Cable & Wireless’ beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking
statements.Words such as ‘believes’,‘anticipates’,‘expects’,‘intends’,
‘seeks’ and ‘plans’ and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of
identifying such statements.These statements are based on current
plans, estimates and projections and, therefore, undue reliance
should not be placed on them. Forward-looking statements speak
only as of the date they are made, and it should not be assumed
that they have been revised or updated in light of new information
or future events.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
Cable & Wireless cautions investors that a number of factors could
cause actual results to differ, in some instances materially, from those
anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statement.These
factors include:
Risks specific to Cable & Wireless’ business
– the restructuring of the Group may not result in an improvement
to performance and financial position;
– transformation initiatives by the Group may not be successfully
implemented;
– technological changes in communication and information
technology may render the Group’s products and services
obsolete or non-competitive resulting in an adverse impact on
financial results;
– network or critical IT system failures may expose the Group to
potential liability or loss of customers;
Regulatory risk
– unforeseen changes in regulation and government policy in the
countries in which Cable & Wireless operates may result in
planned business objectives not being met;
– exposure to other telecommunications operators and the
behaviour of other market participants may have a detrimental
effect on the Group’s operations;
– the Group may lose revenue if unlicensed operators are able 
to gain access to the Group’s network;
Risks specific to the telecommunications industry
– the Group’s operations could suffer from adverse effects of
competition and price pressures on the demand for products 
and services;
– continued overcapacity and other factors could lead to lower
prices for the Group’s products and services;
– mobile communications devices may pose health risks;
Legal and other
– the historic activities of the Group’s insurance subsidiary may
result in material claims;
– the ongoing US Securities Act Class action might adversely impact
the Group’s financial condition;
– the Group’s withdrawal from the US domestic market may result
in unforeseen claims against Cable & Wireless;
– changes in the pension regulatory framework and volatility in the
financial markets may require the Group to provide further cash
funding to its pension funds; and
– fluctuations in currency exchange rates in the countries where
Cable & Wireless operates may adversely affect the Group’s
reported results and financial condition.
Trends and factors that are expected particularly to affect Cable
& Wireless’ results are discussed in more detail elsewhere in this
Annual Report, including, without limitation, in the Business 
overview and the Operating and financial review.
56/57 2005 Annual Report Performance
Overview
On 18 June 2004, the Group acquired a 55 per cent economic
interest in Monaco Telecom S.A.M (“Monaco Telecom”) for a total
consideration of £108 million (€ 162 million). Monaco Telecom
contributed turnover of £100 million and a total operating profit of
£17 million for the period from acquisition to 31 March 2005.
On 17 February 2005, the Group completed the sale of its Japanese
business, Cable & Wireless IDC Inc. (“IDC”) to Softbank Corp. for a
consideration of £71.7 million comprising £62.3 million of cash and
Softbank’s assumption of £9.4 million of debt. IDC contributed
turnover of £199 million and a total operating profit of £13 million,
from 1 April 2004 to disposal.
On 28 January 2005, the Group sold its 3.4 per cent stake in Intelsat
(the satellite communications company) for cash consideration of
£56 million (US$104.8 million).
United Kingdom
T otal operating profit before exceptional items increased by
£50 million to £82 million in 2005.The improvement in performance
reflected reductions in operating costs and a lower depreciation
charge following impairment write downs in the prior year.
T urnover at £1,602 million was £59 million lower than 2004 primarily
due to regulatory changes in fixed to mobile termination rates.
T o reduce costs and protect margins, an in-depth review of the 
UK network was carried out and a programme was designed to
address operating costs, interconnection costs and loading.As a
result it is expected that the first phase of the programme will cut
costs by £50 million in 2006.The Group believes these savings will
mitigate the impact of continued pricing pressure.
This network review also supported the Group’s view of the
benefits that can be achieved by moving to IP-based Next Generation
Network architecture, and the associated IT systems and processes.
In April 2005 we announced a programme to invest £190 million 
over three years to transform the core UK network into a single
integrated IP platform.A large proportion of the planned expenditure
is expected to replace expenditure that would otherwise have been
necessary to maintain legacy UK systems.As a result the incremental
spend associated with this Next Generation Network over the next
three years is expected to be £35 million.The Group believes the
benefit of this investment will give the ability to deliver next
generation customer services over a less complex, highly scalable
network capable of accommodating significant growth with lower
operating and maintenance costs.The Group also believes the UK
Next Generation Network will support customer demand for new
services providing greater functionality and customised solutions on
a competitive basis.
The following discussion on Operating and financial performance
should be read in conjunction with the Business overview, the
Financial statements and the notes thereto.
The Group’s continuing operations reported a profit before taxation
and exceptional items of £361 million in 2005 as compared with
£319 million in 2004 and £96 million in 2003.The Board has
recommended the payment of a full year dividend of 3.8 pence per
share.This represents a 21 per cent increase in the total dividend for
2005 compared with 2004.
Continuing operations
1
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Group turnover 3,023 3,130 3,377
Profit before taxation and
exceptional items 361 319 96
1
The full profit and loss account for the Group, which is prepared in accordance with
UK GAAP , and from which the information above is extracted, is set out on pages 97
to 99 of the Financial statements.A reconciliation of ‘Continuing operations –
Profit/(loss) before taxation and exceptional items’ to ‘T otal Group – Profit/(loss) 
on ordinary activities before taxation’ for the three years presented, is set out on
page 87 of the Operating and financial review.
The markets in which the Group operates continued to suffer
from excess capacity and price pressure. In this context, the Group
has set priorities in efficiency and cost cutting as well as investing 
to continue to shift its revenue mix toward broadband, IP and
mobile services.
In the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group completed the exit
of its US domestic business, sold its Japanese business and entered
the UK broadband market through the acquisition of Bulldog
Communications Limited (“Bulldog”).
In the UK, the business has been reshaped around three customer-
focused segments – Enterprise, Business and Carrier Services with
Bulldog focused on the SoHo/Consumer segment. UK customers 
are also supported by the Group’s operations in Europe,Asia, and
the US (CWAO), which are managed centrally from the UK.
The National Telcos have become more proactive in dealing with
competition and have focused efforts on competing profitably in
mobile and broadband, while continuing to pursue cost reduction.
The National Telcos are seeking to reduce costs through a variety
of initiatives including  the ongoing consolidation of property
portfolios and data centres, outsourcing the mobile supply chain
in the Caribbean and leveraging the strengths of Group wide
procurement.
Acquisitions and disposals
On 28 May 2004, the Group acquired Bulldog for a consideration 
of £18.6 million. Bulldog contributed turnover of £11 million and
a total operating loss of £34 million for the period from acquisition
to 31 March 2005. Operating and financial review
Overview
Bulldog
The acquisition of Bulldog was an important step in advancing 
the Group’s access strategy. Local loop unbundling (“LLU”)
strengthens Cable & Wireless’ presence in the access network
market and addresses the needs of the SoHo/Consumer
customer segment.The additional traffic would also increase 
the use of the existing core UK network.
LLU allows Bulldog to put its own equipment inside BT’s local
exchanges to take control of the “last mile” copper link (the “local
loop”) to the customer’s home or office.The Group believes access
to the “last mile” improves end-to-end control of the network
resulting in lower outpayments to BT and, hence, higher gross margins.
The Group further believes this allows it to innovate, differentiate and
control the end-to-end quality of services to business and residential
customers.
In May 2005, Bulldog reached its initial target of unbundling 400
exchanges giving Bulldog coverage of 30 per cent of UK households.
It is now planned to unbundle an additional 200 exchanges by
March 2006 and a further 200 exchanges in the first half of
2006/07 bringing the total number of exchanges unbundled to
800.This will increase the Group’s planned investment and start-
up losses in 2006.
National T elcos
The National Telco markets are at different stages of liberalisation
and each has its own customer profile, but their competitive
challenges are similar.We expect to continue to respond to these
challenges by:
– reducing the costs of legacy services, where margins are under
pressure;
– investing further in the key growth services of broadband, IP and
mobile; and
– developing sales and marketing skills to stay ahead of the
competition.
Many of the countries in which the National Telcos operate have
relatively low take-up levels for broadband and IP . Cable & Wireless
believes it is well positioned to offer services that assist customers 
in the transition.The Group has started to invest in IP backbones
in those countries where traffic volumes justify the expenditure,
including in the Caribbean where hurricane damage accelerated
infrastructure replacement. Network upgrades are also under way 
in Monaco, Macau, the Cayman Islands and Grenada.
Hurricane Ivan adversely impacted Cayman and Grenada and, to 
a lesser extent, Jamaica.This resulted in exceptional operating costs
of £18 million together with £3 million of asset write-offs and
adversely impacted the Caribbean’s total operating profit before
exceptional items by approximately £11 million.
Presentation of results
The analysis and commentary included in this Operating and
financial review is based on the Group’s geographic operations and
reflects the manner in which the business has been organised and
managed.The results for IDC have been classified as discontinued
and prior periods have been amended accordingly.
The Group’s operations are all considered to fall into one class of
business, namely telecommunications.
The following sections set out, for each of the three years ended
31 March 2005, turnover, operating costs and operating profit or
loss of the Group and of the operations: United Kingdom; CWAO;
Europe;Asia; Bulldog; Caribbean; Panama; Macau; Monaco and Rest
of the World.
58/59 2005 Annual Report Performance
Group financial performance
a
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m 
T urnover
Continuing operations 3,023 3,130 3,377
of which: continuing operations 2,912 3,130 3,377
acquisitions
1
111 ––
Discontinued operations
2
199 541 1,014
Group turnover 3,222 3,671 4,391
Outpayments and network costs (1,763) (2,005) (2,453)
Staff costs (554) (664) (915)
Other (413) (554) (689)
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items (2,730) (3,223) (4,057)
Depreciation (before exceptional items) (194) (252) (735)
Amortisation (before exceptional items) (7) 3 (126)
Share of operating profits in joint ventures and associates 40 41 75
T otal operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items 331 240 (452)
of which: continuing operations (including 2005 acquisitions of (loss of £17 million)) 317 272 (15)
discontinued operations 14 (32) (437)
Exceptional operating costs:
– depreciation (8) (526) (2,381)
– amortisation – (10) (2,725)
– other operating costs (145) (244) (442)
T otal operating profit/(loss) 178 (540) (6,000)
of which: continuing operations (including 2005 acquisitions of (loss of £17 million)) 165 (361) (3,936)
discontinued operations 13 (179) (2,064)
Profit less (losses) on sale or termination of operations: non exceptional 3 ––
exceptional 116 250 (147)
Profit less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets: non-exceptional 5 25 –
exceptional 23 28 62
Exceptional amounts written off investments – – (274)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest 325 (237) (6,359)
Net interest and other similar income/(charges) 38 13 102
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 363 (224) (6,257)
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 14 12 (36)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after taxation 377 (212) (6,293)
Equity minority interests (75) (25) (124)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 302 (237) (6,417)
1
The Group acquired interests in Monaco Telecom and Bulldog Communications during the year.The effect of these acquisitions on the results for the year is set out on page 75.
2
The Group sold its holdings in Cable & Wireless IDC Inc. (“IDC”) in Japan effective 17 February 2005. Under FRS 3 – “Reporting Financial Performance”, this business has been
classified as discontinued. Comparatives for the years ended 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003 have been amended accordingly.
a
“Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items” is presented on the face of the profit and loss account.This is a non-UK GAAP financial measure 
which is used by management as a key performance measure.A reconciliation of the non-UK GAAP financial measure “Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and
exceptional items” to the GAAP financial measure of “T otal operating costs”, by major geography, is set out on page 88 of the Operating and financial review. 60/61 2005 Annual Report
lower than in 2003.A significant element of the National Telcos’
turnover and costs are denominated in currencies that are linked to
the US dollar.As a consequence, reported results were adversely
impacted by a 9 per cent strengthening of sterling against the US
dollar and a 31 per cent strengthening against the Jamaica dollar.
At constant currency, operating profit from continuing operations
before exceptionals in 2004 more than doubled when compared
with 2003.
Group turnover
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
United Kingdom 1,602 1,661 1,684
CWAO 16 11 –
Europe 186 262 304
Asia 39 32 79
Bulldog 11 ––
National T elcos
Caribbean 550 633 756
Panama 257 265 279
Macau 117 128 146
Monaco 100 ––
Rest of the World 167 161 159
Total National Telcos 1,191 1,187 1,340
Inter-segment turnover (22) (23) (30)
Continuing operations 3,023 3,130 3,377
Discontinued operations 199 541 1,014
Group turnover 3,222 3,671 4,391
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Group turnover at £3,222 million in 2005 was £449 million,
or 12 per cent, lower than in 2004.Turnover from continuing
operations at £3,023 million, including £111 million from
acquisitions made in the year, was £107 million or 3 per cent,
lower in 2005 compared with 2004. At constant currency
turnover from continuing operations was stable year on year.
Turnover in the United Kingdom at £1,602 million was £59 million
lower in 2005 compared with 2004.This was principally due to the
decline in Carrier Services turnover by 4 per cent to £733 million
in 2005 following the regulated reduction in mobile termination
rates from 1 September 2004. Business turnover in 2005 declined
by 11 per cent, to £394 million, reflecting the high price erosion and
churn levels experienced in this customer segment.
These reductions were partly offset by Enterprise turnover, which
increased by 5 per cent to £475 million in 2005 as a result of
continued expansion of sales to key financial services customers.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Cable & Wireless reported a profit for the year of £302 million
compared with a loss for the year of £237 million in 2004, an
improvement of £539 million. Depreciation and amortisation charges
were £576 million lower in 2005 following significant impairment
charges in 2004.The results in 2005 were further improved because
of reduced other exceptional costs in 2005 at £145 million,
compared with £244 million in 2004.Against this, the Group
recorded exceptional credits of £116 million in 2005 compared
with £250 million in 2004.
Continuing operations achieved a total operating profit before
exceptional items of £317 million in 2005, compared with 
£272 million in 2004, an improvement of £45 million.The main
drivers of the Group’s improved performance were the stronger UK
performance together with the contribution from Monaco Telecom.
These improvements were partially offset by the £11 million
adverse impact on total operating profit before exceptional items
in the Caribbean from Hurricane Ivan.
T otal operating profit before exceptional items for discontinued
operations was £14 million compared with losses of £32 million in
2004. In 2004, discontinued operations included the results of the
Group’s operations in Japan (£(2) million), the US (£(40) million)
and TeleY emen (£10 million).
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
Cable & Wireless reported a loss for the year of £237 million in
2004 compared with £6,417 million in 2003.
The Group’s total operating loss was £540 million in 2004,
£5,460 million lower than in 2003 of which £1,885 million was
attributable to the discontinued operations, mainly the United States.
Continuing operations reported a total operating loss of 
£361 million compared with £3,936 million in 2003.Tangible fixed
asset and goodwill impairment charges of £414 million were
recognised at 31 March 2004 and principally related to the businesses
in the Caribbean, £207 million, the United Kingdom, £119 million
and Panama, £65 million.This compares with tangible fixed asset 
and goodwill impairment charges of £3,770 million for continuing
operations in 2003. In 2004, competition in the Caribbean and the
consequent acceleration of the GSM roll-out led to a downward
revision of expected cash flows from older TDMA assets. In the
United Kingdom under-utilised cabling was written-down.
T otal operating profit before exceptional items for continuing
operations was £272 million in 2004 compared with a total
operating loss before exceptionals in 2003 of £15 million. Charges
for depreciation and amortisation before exceptional items
decreased by £449 million, mainly reflecting the lower fixed asset
base following asset impairments in 2003. Operating profit in
continuing operations, before depreciation, amortisation and
exceptional items was £453 million, £128 million or 22 per cent
Operating and financial review
Group financial performance Performance
The Caribbean turnover at £550 million in 2005 decreased by 
£83 million, or 13 per cent, compared with 2004.At constant
currency, the Caribbean’s turnover decreased by 3 per cent in 2005
compared with 2004, reflecting the decline in international and
domestic voice turnover throughout the year as well as the adverse
impact of Hurricane Ivan, offset by growth in mobile turnover in 2005.
In Panama, international voice turnover fell by 22 per cent 
(14 per cent at constant currency) to £18 million and domestic
voice turnover fell by 16 per cent (8 per cent at constant currency)
to £117 million in 2005 due to increasing competition following the
liberalisation of international and domestic voice services from
2 January 2003.These declines were in part offset by continued
strong growth in mobile turnover which increased by 35 per cent
(48 per cent at constant currency) to £77 million in 2005 reflecting
strong growth in GSM mobile subscribers and an increase in the
mobile market penetration in Panama. Data and IP and other
turnover remained broadly stable at £45 million in 2005.
European turnover fell from £262 million in 2004 to £186 million
primarily due to the full year impact of disposals of certain domestic
businesses in continental Europe in 2004.
In 2005, discontinued operations included the turnover from 
the Group’s business in Japan. In 2004 and 2003, discontinued
operations included the turnover of the Group’s discontinued
operations in Japan, the US and Y emen.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
Group turnover in 2004 was £3,671 million; £720 million or 16 
per cent lower than in 2003. Of total turnover, £541 million related
to discontinued operations in Japan, the United States and Y emen.
Turnover from continuing operations decreased by £247 million, or
7 per cent, to £3,130 million in 2004 compared with 2003.
Caribbean turnover at reported rates was £123 million, or 16 per
cent, lower in 2004 compared with 2003.At constant currency 
rates there was an underlying decrease of 1 per cent. International
turnover at constant currency was 26 per cent lower reflecting
increased competition in Jamaica following liberalisation and pre-
emptive tariff reductions in other markets.There were offsetting
increases in mobile, where the rollout of GSM in all major regions
supported an increase in customer numbers, and domestic, due to
rate rebalancing and increased volumes of interconnect as the
number of competitors increased.
Turnover in Europe was £42 million or 14 per cent lower than in
2003. Increased Enterprise turnover was more than offset by a
decline in Carrier Services and Business as a result of increased
competition and the sale of domestic operations in some countries.
Turnover in the United Kingdom in 2004 was broadly in line with
2003 following several years of decline. Increased Carrier Services
and Enterprise turnover was offset by reduced turnover from the
Business segment.
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation 
and exceptional items
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Outpayments and network costs
1
1,763 2,005 2,453
Staff costs 554 664 915
Other 413 554 689
T otal 2,730 3,223 4,057
of which:
United Kingdom 1,452 1,560 1,568
CWAO 21 27 –
Europe 198 268 347
Asia 33 33 100
Bulldog 39 ––
National T elcos
Caribbean 388 442 467
Panama 151 156 143
Macau 67 70 86
Monaco 73 ––
Rest of the World 85 89 79
Total National Telcos 764 757 775
Other and eliminations 40 32 6
Continuing operations 2,547 2,677 2,796
Discontinued operations 183 546 1,261
T otal 2,730 3,223 4,057
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with 31 March 2004.
T otal operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and
exceptional items were £2,730 million in 2005, £493 million or 
15 per cent lower than 2004. Excluding discontinued operations,
there was a decrease in 2005 of £130 million or 5 per cent
compared with 2004.
Outpayments and network costs for continuing operations at
£1,649 million were £96 million, or 6 per cent lower in 2005
compared with 2004.The increase of £68 million of outpayments
and network costs associated with the consolidation of Monaco
Telecom and Bulldog was more than offset by reductions in the
United Kingdom (£92 million), Europe (£55 million) and Caribbean
(£20 million).The reduction in costs was driven by reducing
interconnect prices (regulatory and competition), cost savings
initiatives and the full year impact of disposal of certain domestic
businesses in continental Europe in 2004.
Staff costs for continuing operations increased marginally from
£524 million in 2004 to £527 million in 2005, including £25 million
of costs associated with Bulldog and Monaco Telecom.Adjusting for
this, staff costs reduced by 4 per cent in 2005 compared with 2004.
Other costs for continuing operations fell by £37 million, or 9 per
cent to £371 million, before adjusting for the impact of consolidating Operating and financial review
Group financial performance
Monaco Telecom and Bulldog (£19 million).The reduction
predominantly related to one-off charges in 2004 together 
with the result of cost reduction initiatives across the Group.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with 31 March 2003
T otal operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and
exceptional items were £3,223 million in 2004, £834 million or 
21 per cent lower than 2003. Excluding discontinued operations,
there was a decrease in 2004 of £119 million or 4 per cent
compared with 2003.
Outpayments and network costs for continuing operations at
£1,745 million were £64 million lower in 2004 compared with
2003. Reductions in Europe (£44 million),Asia (£62 million) and the
Caribbean (£37 million), were partly offset by a £48 million increase
in the United Kingdom and a £23 million increase in respect of the
newly created CWAO network. In Europe, network costs and
outpayments fell reflecting the exit from domestic business
and network rationalisation.The decrease in the Caribbean was
primarily due to the impact of currency translation. UK network
costs included £34 million in relation to an IBM contract that
was terminated.
Staff costs for continuing operations at £524 million in 2004 were
£67 million, or 11 per cent, lower than in 2003 reflecting the benefit
of a 3,150 net reduction in headcount across the Group.
In the UK, headcount at 31 March 2004 was 1,284 lower than at 
31 March 2003 despite recruitment of an additional 603 staff to
enhance the skills mix.
Other costs for continuing operations were broadly consistent year
on year.
Headcount – continuing operations
1
2005 2004 2003
United Kingdom 4,499 4,398 5,682
CWAO 41 60 –
Europe 423 519 1,136
Asia 221 173 240
Bulldog 505 ––
National T elcos
Caribbean 4,147 4,254 5,073
Panama 1,818 1,881 2,218
Macau 932 881 947
Monaco 458 ––
Rest of the World 1,411 1,414 1,449
Total National Telcos 8,766 8,430 9,687
Other 326 285 270
T otal 14,781 13,865 17,015
1
Headcount in the table above is stated at 31 March. Employee numbers set out in
Note 6 to the Financial statements are based on the average monthly number of
employees in each business, as required by the UK Companies Act.
The increase in the United Kingdom headcount from 1 April 2004
to 31 March 2005 is attributable to the insourcing of an IT contract
during the year together with the transfer of the Group IT
department to the United Kingdom towards the end of 2005.
The net increase in the headcount for Other during the year is due
to the formation of a National Telcos head office function, the
insourcing of Coventry College, a training facility for the Group, and
other one-off projects.
62/63 2005 Annual Report Performance
Goodwill and other intangibles amortisation before
exceptional items
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
United Kingdom – –62
Asia – –4
Bulldog 4 ––
National T elcos
Caribbean – –1
Monaco 5 ––
Rest of the World (2) (3) (2)
Total National Telcos 3 (3) (1)
Continuing operations 7 (3) 65
Discontinued operations – –61
T otal 7 (3) 126
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
An amortisation charge of £9 million was recorded in respect of
the goodwill and other intangibles arising on the acquisition of
Monaco Telecom and Bulldog in 2005.The amortisation credit of 
£2 million relates to the negative goodwill arising on the acquisition
of Guernsey in 2003.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
Following the write-off of substantially all of the Group’s goodwill at
31 March 2003, the Group reported a goodwill credit of £3 million.
The credit mainly relates to the amortisation of negative goodwill
arising on the acquisition of Guernsey in 2003.
Share of operating profits in joint ventures and associates
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
United Kingdom (8) (1) –
National T elcos
Caribbean 19 30 33
Monaco 1 ––
Rest of the World 28 12 29
Total National Telcos 48 42 62
Other – –13
T otal 40 41 75
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
The Group’s share of operating profits in joint ventures and
associates decreased by £1 million from £41 million in 2004 to 
£40 million in 2005. In the UK the loss of £8 million was primarily
due to the impairment of a sub-sea cable held by the Apollo
joint venture.
Depreciation before exceptional items
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
United Kingdom 60 68 413
Europe – 128
Asia 1 13
Bulldog 2 ––
National T elcos
Caribbean 58 76 74
Panama 31 39 45
Macau 15 18 18
Monaco 6 ––
Rest of the World 18 20 22
Total National Telcos 128 153 159
Other 1 23
Continuing operations 192 225 606
Discontinued operations 2 27 129
T otal 194 252 735
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Depreciation before exceptional items at £194 million in 2005 was
£58 million, or 23 per cent lower than in 2004.This decrease was
mainly attributable to the lower fixed asset base following the
impairments recorded in previous years.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
Depreciation before exceptional items at £252 million in 2004 was
£483 million lower than in 2003.This decrease was mainly
attributable to the lower fixed asset base following the impairments
in September 2002 and March 2003. Operating and financial review
Group financial performance
TSTT, the Group’s joint venture in Trinidad and T obago recorded a
redundancy provision in the second half of 2005.The Group’s share
of this charge was £11 million.This accounted for the decline in the
reported results for the Caribbean.
The increase in Rest of the World is due to the strong performance
of Batelco, the Group’s associate in Bahrain.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
The Group’s share of operating profits in joint ventures and
associates fell by £34 million from £75 million in 2003 to 
£41 million in 2004. Rest of the World declined from £29 million
in 2003 to £12 million mainly due to lower contribution from
associates in Bahrain and Fiji reflecting increased competition and 
an impairment in the carrying value of associates.
Exceptional operating costs before taxation
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Depreciation 8 526 2,381
Amortisation – 10 2,725
Other 145 244 442
T otal 153 780 5,548
United Kingdom 66 266 3,570
CWAO (6) ––
Europe 38 7 298
Asia 1 816
National T elcos
Caribbean 21 245 19
Panama – 73 14
Macau – 2–
Rest of the World 1 11
Total National Telcos 22 321 34
Other 31 31 3
Continuing operations 152 633 3,921
Discontinued operations 1 147 1,627
T otal 153 780 5,548
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Exceptional other operating costs of £145 million were charged 
in 2005.These costs include £68 million in respect of redundancy
costs in continuing operations (United Kingdom £29 million, Europe
£29 million,Asia £1 million, Other £9 million), £54 million in 
respect of property costs principally relating to the United Kingdom
and Europe.
Hurricane Ivan and the Asian tsunami adversely impacted the Group’s
operations in the Caribbean and Maldives, respectively. Exceptional
restoration costs of £19 million were incurred in rectifying damage
caused to the network and other assets of these operations.
In addition to the exceptional restoration charges noted above,
the Group wrote off £3 million of assets that were damaged 
by the hurricane and tsunami and a further impairment charge 
of £5 million relating to the fixed assets of the Group’s 
European operations.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
Exceptional operating costs of £780 million were charged in 2004.
Fixed assets were impaired by a further £526 million:TDMA assets
were impaired across the Caribbean and in Panama as the roll-out
of GSM was accelerated to improve service levels; in Japan over-
capacity and price reductions led to a downwards reassessment of
future cash flows and in the United Kingdom under-utilised cabling
was written off. Other exceptional operating costs of £244 million
in 2004 related to the cost of restructuring Group businesses and
included £113 million of redundancy costs and £92 million of
property costs.
Exceptional profit/(loss) on disposal or termination 
of operations
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Profit/(loss) on disposal or 
termination of operations 116 250 (147)
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
The Group realised an exceptional profit on disposal of its
operations in Japan of £42 million in 2005.An exceptional credit of
£66 million was recorded in respect of US domestic operations that
were discontinued in the year ended 31 March 2004, principally
comprising cash refunded to the Group as part of the Chapter 11
process. In addition, a gain of £8 million was recorded in respect of
the sale or termination of Group operations being the net of
previously accrued costs no longer required of £42 million partially
offset by additional charges in the year of £34 million.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
The Group realised an exceptional profit on disposal or termination
of operations of £250 million in 2004, of which £191 million relates
to the exit from the US business. In addition, £57 million of accrued
costs relating to disposals in previous years, principally the disposal
of the Group’s former UK cable business, have been released.
64/65 2005 Annual Report Performance
The profit and loss account in 2003 has been amended to reverse
the £116 million impairment in respect of the Company’s Employee
Share Option Plan Trust (“ESOP”) following the change in UK
accounting rules in respect of ESOPs. See Note 24 of the Financial
statements for further explanation.
T axation
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
before taxation 363 (224) (6,257)
Tax credit/(charge) on profit/(loss)
on ordinary activities 14 12 (36)
Effective tax rate (3.9)% 5.4% (0.6)%
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Including the impact of exceptional items, the effective tax rate for
2005 was (3.9) per cent compared to an effective tax rate in 2004
of 5.4 per cent.The effective tax rates excluding the impact of
exceptional items and an exceptional tax credit in 2005 were 
19.9 per cent in 2005 and 21.9 per cent in 2004.
The principal reason for the difference in the rates is the mix of
profits and losses between countries with different tax rates.
The exceptional tax credit of £85 million relates to the settlement
and clarification of various longstanding overseas tax items at less than
their expected cost.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
Tax credits of £12 million were generated in 2004 on a loss before
tax of £224 million.The main reason for the tax rate of 5.4 per cent
being lower than the UK standard rate of tax of 30 per cent was
due to tax losses for which no benefit had been recognised in the
year as realisation of the benefit was not considered probable.The
losses were carried forward to future periods. Exceptional items on
which tax relief is denied were lower than 2003 resulting in a
positive tax rate in 2004 compared to a negative tax rate in 2003.
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Non-exceptional 5 25 –
Exceptional 23 28 62
T otal 28 53 62
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Non-exceptional profits on disposal of fixed assets largely relate to
the sale of various trade investments and associates including the
Group’s 3.4 per cent stake in Intelsat (the satellite communications
company) and RTC, a Bulgarian associate.
The exceptional profit on disposal of fixed assets primarily relates to
the disposal of a trade investment by the Japanese business prior to
its disposal by the Group.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003 
Non-exceptional profits on disposal of fixed assets primarily relate
to the sale of various satellite interests and other investments.
The exceptional profit on disposal of fixed assets includes 
£16 million, relating to the disposal of certain properties in the
United States as part of the restructuring of the US business prior
to its filing for Chapter 11, and £12 million mainly relating to the sale
of properties in the United Kingdom and the Caribbean as part of
the Group’s restructuring.
Exceptional amounts written off investments
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Exceptional amounts written 
off investments – – (274)
T otal – – (274)
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
There were no exceptional amounts written off investments during
2005.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003 
There were no exceptional amounts written off investments during
2004.
The current asset investments principally relating to PCCW Limited
were written down by £274 million to market value at 31 March
2003.The PCCW shares were sold during the year ended 31 March
2004 for consideration of £229 million resulting in a loss of less than
£1 million. Operating and financial review
Review by division
difficult trading conditions, recent initiatives undertaken in the UK
have resulted in some noteworthy wins. For example, in April
2005 the UK executed a three-year contract with Scottish and
Newcastle plc, valued at £2.1 million, to provide IP-VPN quality of
service to integrate 66 of its manufacturing, distribution and sales
sites to a single data network. Management anticipates the key
areas of focus in Enterprise in 2006 include increased upselling
to existing customers, particularly with new IP-based services.
Carrier Services turnover also declined from £763 million in 2004
to £733 million in 2005.This reduction was largely due to the
regulated reduction in mobile termination rates in the UK from
September 2004.Adjusting for this, Carrier Services turnover was
stable in 2005 compared with 2004.T o combat the loss of turnover
following the reduction in mobile termination rates, the UK will
seek to increase volumes in most of the key product sets and has
extended contracts with existing customers such as Centrica and
the Post Office in fixed line voice services. In 2006, management
anticipates Carrier Services will continue to exploit its geographical
reach and focus on driving improvements to cash margins.
Outpayments and network costs declined by 8 per cent in 2005
compared with 2004, due to the reduction in mobile termination
rates referred to above and an increased focus on cost savings
through network efficiency and vendor renegotiation programmes.
While staff and other costs declined by approximately 4 per cent
in 2005 compared with 2004, staff costs increased in the second 
half of 2005 as a result of the transfer of costs relating to 
Cable & Wireless Group IT staff to the UK’s operating cost base.
The reduction in the non-exceptional depreciation charge from 
£68 million in 2004 to £60 million in 2005 is primarily attributable
to the lower fixed asset base following the impairment of assets
in 2004.
The loss of £8 million arising on joint ventures and associates was
primarily due to the impairment of a sub-sea cable held by one of
the UK’s joint ventures.
The UK reported a total operating profit of £16 million in 2005
compared with operating losses of £234 million in 2004.This was
primarily due to a reduction in the total amount of exceptional
charges from £266 million in 2004 to £66 million in 2005 together
with the benefit of cost initiatives as set out above.The exceptional
charges in 2005 relate to the costs of the ongoing restructuring of
the UK business.This restructuring will continue through 2006.
This section provides a discussion of Cable & Wireless’ results 
by division.
United Kingdom
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover 1,602 1,661 1,684
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(1,066) (1,158) (1,110)
Staff costs (248) (254) (292)
Other (138) (148) (166)
(1,452) (1,560) (1,568)
Depreciation before exceptional items (60) (68) (413)
Amortisation before exceptional items – – (62)
Joint ventures and associates (8) (1) –
Total operating profit/(loss) 
before exceptional items 82 32 (359)
Exceptional operating items
– depreciation – (119) (1,302)
– amortisation – – (2,194)
– other costs (66) (147) (74)
T otal operating profit/(loss) 16 (234) (3,929)
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
T otal operating profit before exceptional items was £82 million in
2005 compared to £32 million in 2004.This improvement was
primarily due to increased focus on cost savings during 2005. In
addition, total operating profit before exceptional items was positively
impacted by an £8 million depreciation benefit from the impairment
taken in prior years.
Turnover at £1,602 million decreased by £59 million, or 
4 per cent, in 2005 compared with 2004. Growth in Enterprise
turnover was more than offset by declines in Carrier Services 
and Business turnover.
Enterprise turnover increased by 5 per cent to £475 million in
2005 as a result of the continued expansion of sales to key
financial services customers. Against this, Business turnover
declined to £394 million, a decrease of 11 per cent, compared
with 2004 reflecting the high price erosion and churn levels
experienced in this customer segment. Notwithstanding the
66/67 2005 Annual Report Performance
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
The UK reported a total operating profit before exceptional items
of £32 million in 2004 compared with losses of £359 million in
2003.This improvement was primarily driven by the decrease in
non-exceptional depreciation and amortisation charges in 2004
compared with 2003 (attributable to the reduced asset base
following exceptional impairment charges in 2003) and the
reduction in staff costs in 2004 compared with 2003 following the
reduction in headcount year-on-year.
Turnover at £1,661 million in 2004 was broadly in line with 2003.
Turnover in the six months to 31 March 2004 was £836 million,
1 per cent higher than in the first half of 2004.
A £79 million decline in Business turnover was partly offset by
improvements in Carrier Services and Enterprise segments 
(£39 million and £17 million respectively).
The decline in UK Business turnover reflected the continued impact
of customer churn and tariff erosion. However, action taken in the
year, including increased investment in the sales acquisition team and
the launch of new simplified products, stopped the downward trend
of the last two years with second half 2004 Business turnover
broadly in line with the first half.
Carrier Services turnover were £39 million higher in 2004 than 
in 2003.Voice was 5 per cent higher mainly reflecting increases in
mobile transit traffic and sales to 118 (directory enquiry) service
providers.The benefit of these increases was partly reduced by
lower telebusiness and data services.
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional
operating items were £8 million lower at £1,560 million in 2004.
Outpayments and network costs were £48 million higher in 2004
and included £34 million relating to an IBM contract. Staff costs were
£38 million lower in 2004 compared with 2003 mainly due to the
headcount reduction programme. Headcount at 31 March 2004 was
4,398 compared with 5,682 at 31 March 2003. Other costs were 
£18 million lower than in 2003 and included an £8 million reduction
in property costs reflecting the benefits of property rationalisation.
Depreciation and amortisation charges before exceptional items
were £407 million lower in 2004 than 2003, largely due to the lower
asset base following the 2003 impairment charges.
T otal operating losses at £234 million in 2004 were £3,695 million
lower than in 2003, primarily due to a £3,377 million reduction in
the charge for fixed asset and goodwill impairments. Exceptional
operating costs of £147 million in 2004 arose primarily as a
consequence of the UK restructuring and related to property exit
costs and severance payments.
CWAO
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover 16 11 –
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(14) (23) –
Staff costs (4) (4) –
Other (3) ––
(21) (27) –
T otal operating loss before exceptional items (5) (16) –
Exceptional operating items
– other costs 6 ––
T otal operating profit/(loss) 1 (16) –
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Cable & Wireless Americas Operations, Inc (CWAO) started
trading on 1 September 2003.
The US reported a total operating profit before exceptional items
of £1 million in 2005 compared with losses of £16 million in 2004.
The improvement in performance was primarily due to the
successful migration of customers from the former Cable &
Wireless US network (now owned by SAVVIS Communications) 
to CWAO’s purpose built network together with the release of
£6 million of provisions held in respect of costs associated with
the exit of the Group’s domestic US business in 2004.
Turnover in 2005 was £16 million, an increase of 45 per cent at
reported rates (59 per cent at constant currency) compared with
2004.This was driven by a longer trading period in 2005, the
successful migration of customers as noted above and the
acquisition of Enterprise and Carrier customers.
Outpayments and network costs in 2005 declined by 39 per cent
(33 per cent at constant currency) to £14 million compared with
2004.Taking into account the longer period in 2005 this significant
reduction in cost followed the migration of the CWAO network.
Staff costs were stable at reported rates and declined by 9 per cent
at constant currency due to headcount reductions during the year,
offset by the longer trading period. Operating and financial review
Review by division
Year ended 31 March 2004
In line with its strategy to withdraw from its US domestic
operations, Cable & Wireless formalised the ongoing commercial
dealings between its US business (“CWA”) and the rest of the
Cable & Wireless Group in September 2003. Under these
arrangements, each party agreed to provide certain services to the
other, including network capacity, for an interim period.
T o facilitate the separation of CWA from the Group, Cable &
Wireless incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, Cable & Wireless
Americas Operations, Inc. (“CWAO”) to provide ongoing US
connectivity for data and IP services to Cable & Wireless’ multinational
customers based in other regions (primarily those served by the
UK, Europe and Asia operations). In addition, CWAO built a core
network in the US comprising seven nodes in five cities and entered
into access arrangements with third party carriers in order provide
end-to-end services.
CWAO turnover of £11 million was derived from the provision of
services to CWA from October 2003 together with the provision
of services to other Cable & Wireless Group customers.
Outpayments and network costs of £23 million included within
operating costs represent the costs of CWAO’s core network plus
amounts paid to CWA in accordance with the interim service
arrangements described above.
Europe
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover 186 262 304
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(143) (198) (242)
Staff costs (31) (40) (55)
Other (24) (30) (50)
(198) (268) (347)
Depreciation before exceptional items – (1) (28)
Total operating loss before 
exceptional items (12) (7) (71)
Exceptional operating items
– depreciation (5) – (262)
– other costs (33) (7) (36)
T otal operating loss (50) (14) (369)
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
T otal operating losses before exceptional operating items for 2005
were £12 million compared to £7 million in 2004 due primarily to
the decline in turnover, particularly in the Enterprise and Carrier
Services customer segments.
Turnover for the year fell by £76 million to £186 million, a decline of
29 per cent compared with 2004. Enterprise turnover for the year
declined by 45 per cent, or £18 million, to £22 million, reflecting the
loss of a major contract and the full year impact of disposals of
domestic operations in Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy,
Switzerland, France and Germany and the domestic data business in
Russia. Business turnover also declined from £14 million in 2004 to
£9 million in 2005 as a result of the full year impact of the disposals.
Carrier Services turnover at £155 million decreased by £53 million,
or 25 per cent, in 2005 compared with 2004 as a result of
aggressive price competition together with a shift in turnover mix
from high turnover to low turnover destinations. Despite this
decline, Europe has continued to market to new customers,
recently winning a new contract with Belgacom to provide carrier
multi-protocol label switching (“MPLS”) services.
Outpayments and network costs declined by £55 million, or 28 per
cent, to £143 million in 2005 compared with 2004.This reduction in
costs was primarily due to increased focus on cost savings through
network efficiency and vendor renegotiation programmes as well as
the impact of reducing the scale of operations in Europe.
68/69 2005 Annual Report Performance
Asia
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover 39 32 79
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(19) (21) (83)
Staff costs (7) (8) (10)
Other (7) (4) (7)
(33) (33) (100)
Depreciation before exceptional items (1) (1) (3)
Amortisation before exceptional items – – (4)
Total operating profit/(loss) 
before exceptional items 5 (2) (28)
Exceptional operating items
– depreciation – (4) (10)
– other costs (1) (4) (6)
T otal operating profit/(loss) 4 (10) (44)
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Following the disposal of the Group’s Japanese subsidiary, Cable &
Wireless IDC Inc., on 17 February 2005, the Group continues to
conduct business in the Enterprise and Carrier Services segments
in Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan and Singapore, together
referred to as “Asia”.
Asia reported a total operating profit before exceptional items
of £5 million in 2005 against losses of £2 million in 2004.The
improvement in performance was predominantly driven by growth
in turnover together with maintenance of the cost base through
tight cost control.Asia’s total operating loss of £10 million 
in 2004 was after exceptional charges of £8 million in that year.
In 2005 Asia reported a total operating profit of £4 million.
Turnover at £39 million, increased by 22 per cent (34 per cent at
constant currency) compared to 2004.The growth in turnover was
driven by a strong performance in both the Carrier Services and
Enterprise customer segments. Enterprise turnover increased by 
£7 million to £34 million in 2005 due to improved marketing
including the launch of new multi-protocol label switching 
(“MPLS”) and Managed Network Services within the region. Carrier
Services turnover increased by £2 million to £5 million in 2005.The
Business segment was sold as part of Cable & Wireless IDC Inc.,
resulting in a loss of £2 million of turnover year on year.
Staff costs at £31 million fell by £9 million, or 23 per cent compared
with 2004 due to the full year impact of staff reductions achieved in
2005. Headcount in Europe has been reduced by 18 per cent from
1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005.
The fall in other costs in 2005 compared with 2004 reflects the
reduction in the scale of operations in continental Europe.
Europe’s total operating loss increased from £14 million in 2004 to
£50 million in 2005.The exceptional costs of £33 million recorded
in 2005 related to the restructuring of the European operations to
focus on Carrier Services.An exceptional depreciation charge of
£5 million was recognised as a consequence of the restructuring.
A headcount reduction of 46 per cent was announced in November
2004 and is scheduled to be completed by March 2006. Further
reductions planned through 2006 are expected to lower costs in
Europe by an annualised £15 million by end of 2006.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
T otal operating losses before operating exceptional items were 
£64 million lower in 2004 at £7 million: a £27 million reduction in
the non-exceptional depreciation charge reflecting the prior year
asset impairments, together with a £20 million reduction in other
costs, more than offset a £42 million reduction in turnover.
Turnover in continental Europe in 2004 was £42 million, or 14 per
cent, lower than in 2003.A £21 million increase in Enterprise
turnover, reflecting the roll out of major contracts, was more than
offset by declines in Carrier Services and Business as a result of
increased competition and the disposal of domestic operations in
Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland, France and
Germany and the domestic data business in Russia.
Continental Europe’s operating costs before depreciation,
amortisation and exceptional operating items were £79 million or
23 per cent lower in 2004 than 2003.At constant currency rates,
there was an underlying reduction of 29 per cent. Cost savings were
achieved as a result of a reduction in employee numbers, property
disposals and network rationalisation as well as the exit from
domestic operations as described above. Headcount in continental
Europe was 519 at 31 March 2004 compared with 1,136 at 
31 March 2003.
T otal operating losses at £14 million in 2004 were £355 million lower
than in 2003 of which £262 million reflected exceptional asset
impairments in 2003 that were not repeated in 2004. Operating and financial review
Review by division
Outpayments and network costs declined by 10 per cent 
(1 per cent at constant currency) from 2005 compared with 2004
due to cost reduction initiatives.These initiatives also enabled a
reduction in staff costs which declined by 13 per cent (4 per cent
at constant currency) year on year.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
T otal operating losses before exceptional items for Asia were
£2 million in 2004 compared with £28 million in 2003, a reduction
of £26 million.The reduction was primarily due to the termination
of the provision of local services in Hong Kong and the benefit of a
reduction in headcount in 2004 compared with 2003.These factors
together with the reduction in exceptional operating costs in 2004
compared with 2003 contributed to the reduction in total operating
losses from £44 million in 2003 to £10 million in 2004.
Turnover fell from £79 million in 2003 to £32 million in 2004, a
reduction of £47 million.The decline in turnover was primarily due
to the termination of the provision of local services in Hong Kong
and pricing pressures on globally managed contracts.
The migration of legacy accounts noted above also drove the fall
in outpayments and network costs in 2004 compared with 2003
together with the benefit of a 28 per cent reduction in headcount
from 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2004, lower property costs and a
reduction in the bad debt charge.
Caribbean
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover 550 633 756
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(183) (203) (240)
Staff costs (92) (97) (120)
Other (113) (142) (107)
(388) (442) (467)
Depreciation before exceptional items (58) (76) (74)
Amortisation before exceptional items – – (1)
Joint ventures and associates 19 30 33
Total operating profit before 
exceptional items 123 145 247
Exceptional operating items
– depreciation (3) (197) –
– amortisation – (10) –
– other costs (18) (38) (19)
T otal operating profit/(loss) 102 (100) 228
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
T otal operating profit before exceptional items declined from £145
million in 2004 to £123 million in 2005, a reduction of £22 million.
In particular, the Caribbean’s performance was adversely affected by
Hurricane Ivan with total operating profit before exceptional items
being adversely impacted in the year by approximately £11 million.
In addition,TSTT, a joint venture in Trinidad and T obago, recorded a
redundancy provision in the second half of 2005.The Group’s share
of this charge was £11 million, further explaining the decline in the
Caribbean’s total operating profit before exceptional items in 2005
compared with 2004.
The Caribbean’s turnover decreased to £550 million, a decrease 
of £83 million, or 13 per cent, in 2005 compared with 2004.At
constant currency, the Caribbean’s turnover decreased by 3 per cent
in 2005 compared with 2004. International voice turnover fell by
£37 million, or 23 per cent (15 per cent at constant currency) 
to £123 million in 2005.This reflects the ongoing pressure on
international settlement rates across all Caribbean markets and,
specifically, a full year’s competition in Cayman, rate reductions in the
East Caribbean as well as the regulatory reductions in international
settlement rates implemented in Jamaica in June 2004.The Group
expects continued pressure on international settlement rates as
competition and the number of liberalised markets increase.
70/71 2005 Annual Report Performance
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
Reported total operating profit before exceptional items in 2004
was £145 million, £102 million or 41 per cent lower than in 2003.
Many of the Caribbean businesses operate in territories that have
currencies linked directly or indirectly to the US dollar. Consequently,
a 9 per cent strengthening of sterling against the US dollar and a 
31 per cent strengthening against the Jamaica dollar had a significant
impact on the reported results of the Caribbean.At constant
currency, total operating profit before exceptional items in 2004
was 32 per cent lower than in 2003.
Turnover in 2004 was £633 million, 16 per cent lower than 2003 at
reported rates and 1 per cent lower at constant currency.
International turnover declined by 26 per cent at constant currency
reflecting increased competition following the liberalisation of the
international fixed line market in Jamaica on 1 March 2003 and 
pre-emptive tariff reductions in other markets. Domestic turnover
increased by 5 per cent at constant currency reflecting the impact
of rate rebalancing and increased volumes of interconnect traffic
driven by increasing numbers of competitors in the market. Mobile
turnover increased by 19 per cent at constant currency due to
increased customer numbers, supported by the launch of GSM
services in all major regions.The mobile customer base at 
31 March 2004 was 1,141,000 compared to 943,000 at 31 March
2003. Data and IP continued to deliver strong growth with turnover
rising by 17 per cent at constant currency.
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional
operating items at £442 million in 2004, were £25 million, or 
5 per cent, lower than in 2003.At constant currency rates there 
was an underlying increase of 12 per cent compared with 2003.
Outpayments and network costs increased by 2 per cent at
constant currency rates reflecting increased mobile handset subsidy
costs as a result of intensified competition and the launch of GSM
services in major regions.
Staff costs were £23 million lower in 2004 compared with 2003.
At constant currency rates, staff costs were 6 per cent lower than
2003 reflecting the reduction in headcount to 4,254 from 5,073 in
the prior year.
The Caribbean recorded a total operating loss of £100 million 
in 2004 compared with a profit of £228 million in 2003. Exceptional
items of £245 million were charged in 2004 comprising a £197
million impairment charge, primarily due to the write-off of TDMA
assets following the accelerated GSM roll-out in the region, and
£38 million of restructuring costs.
Domestic voice turnover declined by £26 million to £178 million, a
fall of 13 per cent (3 per cent at constant currency) compared to
2004 due to rate reductions in the East Caribbean as well as fixed
to mobile substitution across the Caribbean. Patterns in more
competitively mature markets indicate that fixed to mobile
substitution is likely to continue.
Mobile turnover at £136 million increased by 6 per cent at constant
currency (a 5 per cent decline at reported rates) compared with
2004.The East and North Caribbean delivered the strongest
performances reflecting growth in GSM customer numbers and
increases in international call turnover. Enhanced roaming capabilities
and partnerships have also driven strong growth in roaming
turnover across the Caribbean. Data and IP turnover at £71 million
increased by 1 per cent (13 per cent at constant currency) in 2005
compared with 2004, due to ongoing growth in dial-up and ADSL
customers partially offset by the impact of Hurricane Ivan.Against
this, other turnover declined to £42 million in 2005 compared with
£56 million in 2004.
T otal operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and
exceptional operating items were £388 million in 2005, a decline of
12 per cent (2 per cent at constant currency) compared with 2004.
In line with the National Telcos broader objectives, the Group is
working to continue to reduce operating costs going forward.
Outpayments and network costs were stable against 2004 at
constant currency compared to a 3 per cent decline in turnover
year on year, at constant currency, primarily reflecting increasingly
aggressive international competition.
Staff costs at £92 million in 2005 decreased by 5 per cent at
reported rates compared with 2004.At constant currency staff
costs increased by 5 per cent in 2005 compared with 2004.This
reflects efforts to increase the skill base of employees, together with
wage inflation in Jamaica.
Other operating costs at £113 million fell by 20 per cent (12 per
cent at constant currency) in 2005 compared with 2004.Adjusting
for one-off charges in 2004, other operating costs were broadly flat
at constant currency in 2005 compared with 2004.
Non-exceptional depreciation fell from £76 million in 2004 to
£58 million in 2005, a decrease of £18 million, or 24 per cent.
This reduction is attributable to the lower fixed asset base
following the impairment of assets in 2004.
T otal operating profit was £102 million in 2005 compared with
losses of £100 million in 2004.The improvement was primarily 
due to a £204 million reduction in the charge for exceptional fixed
asset and goodwill impairments in 2005 compared with 2004.
The exceptional operating costs of £18 million in 2005 related to
restoration of damage caused by Hurricane Ivan. In addition,
exceptional asset write-downs of £3 million were recorded in
respect of assets damaged by the hurricane. 72/ 2005 Annual Report
Operating and financial review
Review by division
Panama
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover 257 265 279
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(90) (74) (69)
Staff costs (23) (27) (33)
Other (38) (55) (41)
(151) (156) (143)
Depreciation before exceptional items (31) (39) (45)
Total operating profit before 
exceptional items 75 70 91
Exceptional operating items
– depreciation – (65) –
– other costs – (8) (14)
T otal operating profit/(loss) 75 (3) 77
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Panama reported a total operating profit before exceptional items
of £75 million in 2005 compared with £70 million in 2004.
Turnover at £257 million decreased by £8 million, or 3 per cent, in
2005 compared with 2004.At constant currency, turnover increased
by 6 per cent in 2005 compared with 2004.This overall increase
represents growth in Panama’s mobile and data and IP turnover
during the year.
Domestic turnover fell by £22 million, or 16 per cent to £117
million and international turnover fell by £5 million, or 22 per cent
to £18 million in 2005 compared with 2004.This was due to
increasing competition following the liberalisation of international
and domestic voice services from 2 January 2003. In addition,
domestic voice turnover was adversely affected by fixed to mobile
substitution, which particularly impacted payphone turnover.
The decline in international and domestic turnover was offset by
continued strong growth in mobile turnover which increased by 
£20 million, or 35 per cent (48 per cent at constant currency) to
£77 million in 2005 reflecting strong growth in GSM mobile subscribers
and an increase in the mobile market penetration in Panama.
Data and IP turnover rose by 13 per cent at constant currency 
(3 per cent increase at reported rates) to £30 million in 2005 due
to the completion of a number of major corporate projects now
generating turnover and continued strong growth in internet
turnover, particularly in ADSL service.
Operating costs before depreciation and exceptional items were
£151 million, in 2005, a decrease of 3 per cent compared with
2004.At constant currency operating costs increased by 6 per cent
in 2005 compared with 2004.
Outpayments and network costs increased by 22 per cent compared
with 2004, reflecting changes in the sales mix as higher margin voice
turnover was substituted for lower margin mobile and data and IP
turnover. Further, competition has driven an increase in outpayments
as more traffic now terminates on third party networks.
Staff costs fell by 15 per cent to £23 million in 2005 reflecting the
impact of a 3 per cent reduction in headcount in 2005 compared
with 2004 together with a reduction in temporary payroll.
Other costs at £38 million in 2005 decreased by £17 million, or 
31 per cent compared with 2004.This reduction in costs is primarily
due to cost reduction initiatives and the effect of a one-off charge
for legal costs in 2004 associated with the settlement of legal
proceedings in that year.
Non-exceptional depreciation fell by 21 per cent to £31 million
in 2005 compared with 2004 due to the reduction in the fixed 
asset base following the impairment of assets in 2004. Nevertheless,
there was an increase of 10 per cent at constant currency in the
second half of 2005 as a result of new investments in GSM and
ADSL networks.
T otal operating profits of £75 million were reported in 2005 against
losses of £3 million in 2004.The 2004 exceptional losses were after
including exceptional charges of £73 million.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
T otal operating profit before exceptional items at £70 million 
in 2004 was £21 million, or 23 per cent, lower than in 2003.
At constant currency rates, there was an underlying reduction 
of 16 per cent.
T urnover fell by 5 per cent in the year to £265 million but, at constant
currency rates, rose by 4 per cent. Strong growth in mobile, reflecting
the introduction of GSM, and data and IP turnover was only partly
offset by lower international and domestic turnover due to increased
competition following the liberalisation of these markets from 
January 2003.
72/73 2005 Annual Report Operating costs before depreciation and exceptional items in 2004
were £13 million, or 9 per cent, higher than in 2003.There was 
an underlying increase of 19 per cent at constant currency rates.
Outpayments and network costs increased by 17 per cent at
constant currency rates reflecting changes in the sales mix and
a consequent increase in mobile subscriber acquisition costs, and
higher outpayments as more traffic terminated on third party
networks following the introduction of competition. Staff costs fell 
as headcount was reduced from 2,218 to 1,881. Other costs in
2004 included a one-off £9 million cost associated with the
settlement of a lawsuit.
Panama reported a total operating loss of £3 million in 2004
compared with a profit of £77 million in the prior year, mainly due to 
a £65 million exceptional impairment of fixed assets in 2004, together
with an £8 million exceptional charge relating to staff rationalisation.
These charges were required to write down assets and reduce staff
costs to mitigate the absence of universal service law protection
in Panama.
Macau
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover 117 128 146
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(48) (51) (57)
Staff costs (11) (12) (15)
Other (8) (7) (14)
(67) (70) (86)
Depreciation before exceptional items (15) (18) (18)
Total operating profit 
before exceptional items 35 40 42
Exceptional items
– depreciation – (2) –
T otal operating profit 35 38 42
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
T otal operating profit before exceptional items at £35 million
decreased by £5 million, or 13 per cent, at reported rates in 2005
compared with 2004. At constant currency, total operating profit
declined by 4 per cent year on year.
Turnover decreased by £11 million, or 9 per cent, to £117 million
in 2005.At constant currency turnover was flat year on year.
Operating costs before depreciation and exceptional items at
£67 million, decreased by 4 per cent in 2005 compared with 2004.
At constant currency operating costs before depreciation and
exceptional items increased by 5 per cent compared with 2004.
In 2005, outpayments and network costs rose by 3 per cent at
constant currency due to an increase in cost of sales relating to
enterprise solutions and mobile handsets sales. Staff costs were
broadly consistent at constant currency. Other costs increased 
by 25 per cent at constant currency from 2004 due to higher
marketing costs and repairs and maintenance.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
T otal operating profit before exceptional items in Macau fell by
5 per cent from £42 million in 2003 to £40 million in 2004.
Turnover declined by 12 per cent or 4 per cent at constant
currency rates reflecting increased competition.
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional
items were £16 million lower in 2004 or 11 per cent at constant
currency rates.This reduction included the benefit of lower
marketing costs, reduced headcount, and general tightening of other
operating expenses.
Performance Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
The total operating profit before exceptional items for the Rest of
the World was £67 million in 2004 compared with £89 million 
in 2003.
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional
items increased by 13 per cent from £79 million in 2003 to
£89 million in 2004, including an increase in licence fee payments and
administrative costs.The income from joint ventures and associates
fell by 59 per cent from £29 million to £12 million due to increased
competition and the impairment in carrying value of associates.
74/75 2005 Annual Report
Rest of the World
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover 167 161 159
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(39) (40) (35)
Staff costs (27) (27) (28)
Other (19) (22) (16)
(85) (89) (79)
Depreciation before exceptional items (18) (20) (22)
Amortisation before exceptional items 2 32
Joint ventures and associates 28 12 29
Total operating profit 
before exceptional items 94 67 89
Exceptional operating items (1) (1) (1)
T otal operating profit 93 66 88
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
Rest of the World comprises Cable & Wireless’ businesses in
Guernsey, Bahrain and the Maldives, together with smaller
operations in the Seychelles, Bermuda, Sakhalin in Russia,
Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands, Fiji,Ascension, St Helena,Vanuatu 
and Solomon Islands. Guernsey and the Maldives account for 
60 per cent of the Rest of the World turnover.
Rest of the World reported a total operating profit before
exceptional items of £94 million in 2005 compared with £67 million
in 2004, an increase of £27 million, or 40 per cent.The increase was
primarily due to a strong performance from Batelco, in Bahrain, an
associate of the Group together with growth in turnover in the
period.
Turnover increased by £6 million, or 4 per cent (11 per cent at
constant currency), in 2005 compared with 2004.This turnover
growth was due to the ongoing demand for mobile services in
Sakhalin, the Maldives and Guernsey which offset a decline in
international voice turnover.
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional
items at £85 million, decreased by 4 per cent. However, at constant
currency, total operating costs were broadly in line with 2004. Performance
Monaco
2005
£m
Turnover 100
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(55)
Staff costs (13)
Other (5)
(73)
Depreciation before exceptional items (6)
Amortisation before exceptional items (5)
Joint ventures and associates 1
Total operating profit before exceptional items 17
Exceptional operating items –
T otal operating profit 17
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Cable & Wireless acquired a 55 per cent economic interest in
Monaco Telecom on 18 June 2004. Monaco Telecom is the national
telecom operator in Monaco and reported a total operating profit
before exceptional items of £17 million.
Monaco Telecom’s turnover for the nine months to 31 March 2005
of £100 million was derived from the provision of domestic fixed
line, mobile and cable TV services together with the provision of
mobile services in Afghanistan and Kosovo, as well as satellite and
call centre services.
International and domestic voice turnover of £17 million were
affected by fixed to mobile substitution within the Monaco Telecom
customer base, as well as the reduction in internet dial-up as
customers migrated from this service offering to the company’s
ADSL offering (Data and IP turnover was £8 million). Mobile
turnover at £19 million was driven by an increase in both prepaid
and postpaid subscribers.Additionally, turnover of £56 million 
was earned from Monaco Telecom’s managed service contracts 
in Afghanistan and Kosovo together with satellite and call centre
activities.
The outpayments and network costs of £55 million represent the
costs of Monaco Telecom’s domestic and international network
including payments to other operators for interconnect and 
roaming charges.
The staff and other costs of £18 million represent the salary costs
of the employee base, as well as general administrative costs.
Depreciation of £6 million relates to the domestic and international
networks of Monaco.
The amortisation charge of £5 million relates to the goodwill and
other intangibles recorded on the acquisition of Monaco Telecom.
Bulldog
2005
£m
Turnover 11
Costs
Outpayments and network costs
1
(13)
Staff costs (12)
Other (14)
(39)
Depreciation before exceptional items (2)
Amortisation before exceptional items (4)
Joint ventures and associates –
Total operating loss before exceptional items (34)
Exceptional operating items –
T otal operating loss (34)
1
Outpayments and network costs include customer acquisition costs and the cost of
goods sold.
Cable & Wireless acquired Bulldog Communications on 
28 May 2004.
Turnover for the ten months to 31 March 2005 was £11 million,
reflecting strong demand in the SoHo/Consumer (small office or
home office) and customer market for the high speed broadband
services offered by Bulldog. In particular, Bulldog has seen high
demand for its Inter@ctive and Super@ctive products both of which
provide 4 Mbps broadband plus national and local phone calls.
Outpayments and network costs of £13 million represent the costs
of Bulldog’s UK broadband network, including payments to Cable &
Wireless UK for the utilisation of its voice and backbone network.
Staff costs of £12 million represent the recruitment and salary
costs of the employee base that has grown significantly since the
company’s acquisition.
Bulldog’s investment in advertising and marketing to increase its
brand awareness, as well as the costs of external expertise engaged
to review and develop Bulldog’s operational processes, are the most
substantial components of the £14 million within other costs.
The depreciation charge of £2 million relates to the capital
investment being made in the expansion of Bulldog’s local loop
unbundled network and associated systems.
The amortisation charge of £4 million relates to the goodwill arising
on the acquisition of Bulldog.
Acquisitions Operating and financial review
Review by division – summary
76/77 2005 Annual Report
T urnover and total operating profit/(loss) before non-operating items, interest and taxation by division
2005 2004 2003
T otal T otal T otal
operating operating operating
T urnover profit/(loss) T urnover profit/(loss) T urnover profit/(loss)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 1,602 16 1,661 (234) 1,684 (3,929)
CWAO 16 1 11 (16) – –
Europe 186 (50) 262 (14) 304 (369)
Asia 39 4 32 (10) 79 (44)
Bulldog 11 (34) – –––
National T elcos
Caribbean 550 102 633 (100) 756 228
Panama 257 75 265 (3) 279 77
Macau 117 35 128 38 146 42
Monaco 100 17 – –––
Rest of the World 167 93 161 66 159 88
Total National Telcos 1,191 322 1,187 1 1,340 435
Other (22) (94) (23) (88) (30) (29)
Continuing operations 3,023 165 3,130 (361) 3,377 (3,936)
Discontinued operations 199 13 541 (179) 1,014 (2,064)
T otal 3,222 178 3,671 (540) 4,391 (6,000)
The table below sets out a summary of the turnover and operating
profit/(loss) before non-operating items, interest and taxation for
continuing and discontinued operations. Performance
In certain circumstances, it has been efficient to use surplus funds to
repurchase bonds.T o date £19.9 million of the £200 million 8.625
per cent bonds due 2019 have been bought back at an average
price of 99.83 pence and £16 million of the £200 million 8.75 per
cent bonds due 2012 have been bought back at an average price 
of 101.625 pence.
During 2005 the Group purchased £80 million of Credit Linked
Notes issued by AA-rated banks and referenced to the Company’s
£200 million bond which matures in 2012.This transaction has a
similar economic effect to repurchasing the bonds for the period of
the investment. Further information on these transactions is given in
Note 20 to the Financial statements.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which restrict 
the ability to repatriate cash to the parent company. £55 million of
cash held in restricted jurisdictions is not included in Cash, current
asset investments and short-term deposits at 31 March 2005 (2004
– £40 million). Included within short-term deposits are £42 million
which is pledged as a cash collateral against bank loans and
guarantees and £30 million held in the Group’s insurance subsidiary
Pender against potential claim settlements.
Funding
At 31 March 2005, Cable & Wireless had gross debt of £824 million
(2004 – £919 million, 2003 – £1,546 million).
The Group’s debt comprises both bank debt and publicly quoted
bonds. Cable & Wireless’ debt has an average maturity of
approximately seven years.
Approximately 75 per cent of the Group’s debt is represented by
public bonds denominated in sterling.Two sterling denominated
bonds of £184 million (after bonds bought back of £16 million) and
£180 million (after bonds bought back of £20 million) mature in
2012 and 2019 respectively. The Group anticipates that the Group’s
£258 million Unsecured Convertible Bonds will be redeemed at
their principal amount in 2010 unless purchased, redeemed or
converted to ordinary shares prior to maturity.
The remainder of the Group’s debt is made up of a loan of
£121 million maturing in 2006, with the balance being mainly
amortising loans.
Cable & Wireless believes that its capital resources are sufficient to
meet its current and planned requirements for at least the next 12
months.The Group’s ability to meet long-term capital requirements
beyond this 12-month period will depend on many factors both
inside and outside of its control. Cable & Wireless cannot be certain
that additional financing, if required, will be available on terms
favourable to the Group, if at all.
Share Buy-Back Programme
During the year, a £250 million share buy-back programme was
initiated. Shares repurchased are held as treasury shares.T o date
60.5 million shares have been bought back at an average price of
124.41 pence (£75 million).
Treasury policy
The Group’s treasury operations are managed on the basis of
objectives, policies and authorities approved by Cable and Wireless
plc’s Board of Directors.
Day-to-day management of treasury activities is delegated to the
Chief Financial Officer and the Group Treasurer, within specified
financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
T o the extent that subsidiary operating companies undertake
treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and
delegated authorities. Material subsidiary positions are approved and
monitored by the Group treasury function.Where appropriate, each
position and transaction is reported to the Board.All subsidiaries are
required to report details of their cash, debt and hedging positions
to Group treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of the treasury function include funding,
investment of cash and the management of interest rate and foreign
currency risk.The majority of the Group’s funding (approximately
89 per cent at 31 March 2005) and cash resources (approximately
86 per cent at 31 March 2005) are managed centrally.
Wherever possible individual companies in the Group are funded in,
and operate in, their functional currency, many of which are linked,
directly or indirectly, to the US dollar.
Cable & Wireless only uses derivatives and financial instruments
including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps,
cross currency swaps and options in the management of its foreign
currency and interest rate exposures in accordance with strategies
agreed from time to time by the Treasury Management Committee
(comprising of the Chief Financial Officer, Group Treasurer and other
senior financial managers as required) and subject to policies
approved by the Board. Derivatives are not used for trading or
speculative purposes and all material derivative transactions and
positions are monitored and reported to the Board on a monthly
basis.The Group does not have material derivative positions
outstanding at 31 March 2005 as detailed in Note 25 to the
Financial Statements.
Liquidity
At 31 March 2005, Cable & Wireless had Cash, Current asset
investments and short-term deposits of £2,166 million (2004 
– £2,367 million).This amount included £14 million (2004 –
£12 million) of treasury instruments and £80 million (2004 –
£50 million) of Credit Linked Notes.
This cash is a significant component of the Group’s overall liquidity
and capital resources.
At 31 March 2005, approximately 86 per cent of the Group’s cash is
held centrally and is predominantly invested in short-term bank
deposits, commercial paper up to one year in maturity and AAA-rated
money market funds.
Liquidity and capital resources Operating and financial review
Liquidity and capital resources
Interest rate management
At 31 March 2005, approximately 82 per cent of Group debt has
been raised at fixed rates of interest with approximately 75 per cent
raised as fixed rate bonds.As at 31 March 2005 the Group did not
have any derivative contracts outstanding in relation to interest rate
exposures arising from its debt (2004 – £10 million).
The Group’s cash resources currently earn interest at floating rates.
In prior years, in a falling interest rate environment, the Group has
actively hedged its return on cash resources with the use of interest
rate swaps and forward rate agreements. No such hedges were 
used during 2005 and as at 31 March 2005 there are no derivative
contracts outstanding in relation to the Group’s investments.
Exchange rate management
As at 31 March 2005 the Group has £23 million (2004 – 
£50 million, 2003 – £12 million) notional value of forward foreign
exchange contracts for the purchase of currencies and £6 million
(2004 – £28 million, 2003 – £nil) notional value of forward foreign
exchange contracts for the sale of currencies.
As at 31 March 2005 the Group has £121 million (2004 – 
£121 million, 2003 – £502 million) notional value of cross 
currency swaps used in the management of its foreign currency
debt obligations.
Borrowing facilities
The Group does not have any significant undrawn committed
facilities as at 31 March 2005.
Credit ratings
The Company’s long-term credit ratings remained below investment
grade during the year. Credit ratings at 3 June 2005 are detailed in
the table below:
Cable and Wireless plc’s debt ratings
Standard & Poor’s BB
Moody’s Ba3
Fitch BB+
Credit ratings below investment grade may limit future access to
the debt capital markets and may increase both the future cost of
funding and impact adversely the terms on which debt may be
available. In addition, cash collateral or guarantees may be required
to support any future credit terms.
The credit ratings do not have any impact on the interest cost of
existing debt.
Other loans and contractual obligations under leases 
Cable & Wireless’ loans and contractual obligations under finance
and operating leases are analysed in Notes 21 and 27 to the
Financial statements.
None of the above funding arrangements and facilities have
covenants that are expected to restrict normal business activities.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
Operating leases
In the normal course of its business, Cable & Wireless and its
subsidiaries enter into operating leases, relating to property, customer
terminating equipment and other operational commitments.
Minimum lease terms range from 1 year to 50 years.The effect such
obligations are expected to have on liquidity and cash flow in future
periods is set out in the contractual obligations table below.
Other commitments and contingent liabilities 
Other commitments and contingent liabilities that have or are
reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the
Group’s financial condition, changes in financial condition, turnover 
or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or
capital resources are set out in Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
Contractual obligations
The following table sets out the Group’s known contractual
obligations as at 31 March 2005:
Payments due by period
Less
than 2-3 4-5 After 
T otal 1 year years years 5 years
£m £m £m £m £m
Long-term debt,
including current 
maturities 823 22 158 13 630
Capital lease obligations 11–––
Operating leases 446 89 121 85 151
Other 49 49–––
T otal 1,319 161 279 98 781
Operating lease commitments represent future minimum rental
payments required under operating leases that have initial or
remaining non cancellable lease terms in excess of one year at 
31 March 2005.
The Group enters into a number of arrangements with other
international carriers relating to the reciprocal transfer of
telecommunications traffic between countries. Under these
arrangements both parties are committed to transferring a minimum
level of International Direct Dial traffic for termination on the other
party’s network.Typically there is no net outflow of cash as a result
of these transactions.These transactions are not included in the
above table.
78/79 2005 Annual Report Performance
In the next three years, Cable & Wireless plans to invest 
£190 million in a UK Next Generation Network (“NGN”), with 
£80 million planned to be spent in 2006. It is expected a large
proportion of the NGN expenditure will replace legacy expenditure
that the Group believes would otherwise have been required to
maintain the efficiency of the current network.As a result, over the
three-year period the Group expects a net increase in capital
expenditure of approximately £35 million associated with NGN.
Capital expenditure on plant, equipment and property totalled 
£344 million in 2005 compared with £342 million in 2004 and 
£810 million in 2003.
All capital expenditure has been funded internally.
2005 2004
£m £m
United Kingdom 138 101
CWAO – –
Europe 2 7
Asia 2 3
Bulldog 27
a
National T elcos
Caribbean 86 134
Panama 41 27
Macau 9 16
Monaco 5
a
Rest of the World 20 18
Total National Telcos 161 195
Other 2 20
Continuing operations 332 326
Discontinued operations 12 16
Group capital expenditure 344 342
a
Acquired in 2005, therefore no 2004 or 2003 capital expenditure.
2003 capital expenditure (as previously reported) was £544 million
in Cable & Wireless Global (United Kingdom, CWAO, Europe 
and Asia), £264 million in Cable & Wireless Regional (Caribbean,
Panama, Macau and Rest of the World) and £2 million in Other.
Contracts placed for ongoing capital expenditure totalled 
£49 million at 31 March 2005.
The UK spent £138 million (2004 – £101 million) on capital
expenditure in 2005 of which £48 million was spent on network,
£39 million was spent on equipment required to connect
customers to the network, £24 million was spent on business
process transformation and £27 million was spent on other related
business projects.
Asia spent £2 million (2004 – £3 million) on capital expenditure
in 2005.
Bulldog spent £27 million on capital expenditure in 2005 on the
expansion of its LLU network across the UK.
National Telcos spent £161 million (2004 – £195 million) on capital
expenditure in 2005. Capital expenditure was primarily related to
expanding and upgrading the existing GSM mobile and IP services.
Capital expenditure Operating and financial review
Cash flow
Summary consolidated cash flow statement
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from 
operating activities 346 73 95
Dividends, return on investments 
and servicing of finance 15 (32) 65
Taxation paid (60) (43) (438)
Capital expenditure (344) (342) (810)
Financial investment 76 301 595
Acquisitions and disposals (35) (118) 110
Equity dividends paid (97) – (119)
Movement in liquid resources 75 932 (1,040)
Net financing repaid (153) (582) (578)
(Decrease)/increase in cash 
in the year (177) 189 (2,120)
Year ended 31 March 2005 compared with year ended 
31 March 2004
The decrease in cash of £177 million in the year is principally
reflective of an equity dividend paid of £97 million, financing
repayments of £153 million and £75 million of cash transferred
from liquid resources.
Other operating and investing activities resulted in a broadly cash
neutral position, including cash inflows from operating activities of 
£346 million, cash inflows from financial investment of £76 million,
cash outflows in respect of capital expenditure £344 million and
taxation paid £60 million.
Operating activities generated £346 million of cash in 2005, an
increase of £273 million against the prior period principally due
to improved performance following the exit of the Group’s US
domestic operations.
Tax paid in 2005 relates in the main to settlement of liabilities in the
Caribbean and other overseas businesses.
Capital expenditure of £344 million in the year was in line with
2004. In 2005, the Group continued to expand and enhance its
mobile networks across the National Telcos in response to
continued growth in customer demand.There has also been a shift
to investment in fixed network, in particular in respect of local loop
unbundling by Bulldog. Further, the Group’s focus on its restructuring
and transformation has driven spend on systems improvements.
The cash inflow of £76 million in respect of financial investments
relates to the disposal of non-core trade investments including the
Group’s 3.4 per cent interest in Intelsat. In 2004 £229 million of
financial investment cash inflows related to the proceeds on disposal
of the Group’s shareholding in PCCW Limited.
The Group reinstated dividends in 2004 and in 2005 paid 
£97 million to its shareholders in respect of the final 2004 dividend
and interim 2005 dividend.
Net financing repaid in 2005 of £153 million included the
repurchase of shares for £74 million together with the repayment
or repurchase of debt of £86 million.
Year ended 31 March 2004 compared with year ended 
31 March 2003
The increase in cash of £189 million in the year principally reflects
the transfer from liquid resources of cash totalling £932 million and
the realisation of financial investments of £301 million, net of finance
repayments of £582 million, capital expenditure of £342 million and
net disposal costs of £118 million.
Operating activities generated £73 million of cash in 2004, a decline
of £22 million against the prior period principally due to a reduction
in working capital.
Tax paid in 2004 relates in the main to settlement of liabilities in the
Caribbean and Rest of the World.
Capital expenditure of £342 million declined by £468 million from
2003.This reflects continued focus on the management of capital
expenditure and its ability to generate a satisfactory return on
investment.
Investment in the year included GSM networks rollout of 
£111 million in the Caribbean and Panama, together with
expenditure on billing systems, network management systems,
customer premises equipment and network terminating equipment.
Financial investment generated net cash of £301 million in 2004
of which £229 million related to the proceeds on disposal of the
Group’s shareholding in PCCW Limited.
Liquid resources decreased by £932 million in 2004. On 1 April
2003 £1.5 billion held in escrow was released into cash.
Net financing repaid in 2004 of £582 million included long-term
debt repayments of £863 million offset by long-term debt issued
of £280 million.
80/81 2005 Annual Report Performance
Property and network infrastructure
As at 31 March 2005, Cable & Wireless and its subsidiaries 
leased or owned some 241 principal properties.The majority 
of these properties are located in the United Kingdom, Panama 
and the Caribbean although the spread of properties extends
across continental Europe,Asia, and islands in the Atlantic and 
Indian Oceans.
In addition to these properties, Cable & Wireless owns or 
leases in excess of 2,000 small technical sites that house equipment
necessary to support its operations. In general, Cable & Wireless’
technical properties enjoy the protection of telecommunications
legislation, which has the aim of ensuring the continuity of 
Cable & Wireless’ networks.
The size of Cable & Wireless’ property portfolio has increased
marginally from the last financial year primarily as a consequence
of the acquisition of additional technical sites in the Caribbean
for the purposes of GSM rollout.Additional properties were 
also incorporated into the portfolio through the acquisition of
Monaco T elecom.
A continuing rationalisation programme is still ongoing generally
focusing on reducing office space to match Cable & Wireless’
reduced headcount and ongoing operational requirements, including
the closure of the Group’s London headquarters and relocation to
Bracknell.Acquisition of both office and technical sites occurs where
required as referred to above.
In the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World,
Cable & Wireless typically operates as the domestic incumbent,
owning and operating the domestic legacy switched voice networks
and associated international interconnect facilities. Cable & Wireless
also has international and domestic network facilities in the United
Kingdom, Europe and the United States.
Cable & Wireless operates significant international submarine 
cable, and satellite systems. Many of Cable & Wireless’ subsidiaries
and associates also own and operate mobile networks. Examples
include Jamaica (GSM and TDMA) and Trinidad and T obago 
(GSM and TDMA) in the Caribbean as well as Panama (GSM and
TDMA), Macau (GSM), Monaco (partly owns and operates GSM,
owns, but does not yet operate, UMTS), the Maldives (GSM) and
Bahrain (GSM).
Cable & Wireless companies operate 20 data centres within its
national and international operations offering a wide selection of
web-based and hosting services. Operating and financial review
Disclosures about market risk
Credit risk
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit
risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a
counterparty failed to perform as contracted.
The counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Group’s
financial instruments are entities rated A1 short-term and/or 
AA- long-term by Standard and Poor’s (or equivalent by Moody’s
and/or Fitch).The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored
on an ongoing basis.The types of instrument used for investment of
funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the
Board with limits on the exposure to any one counterparty.
Interest rate risk 
The Group is exposed to movements of interest rates on its debt,
cash balances and derivative instruments.The treasury function
seeks to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate
exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as
appropriate.There were no derivatives in place as at 31 March 2005
to manage the interest rate exposure on the Group’s investments
or debt.
The Group has net floating rate investments of £2,020 million
(£2,166 million of investments less £146 million of debt) hence,
a 50 basis point decrease in average interest rates to which the
Group is exposed (predominantly sterling) would reduce net
interest income by approximately £10 million, impacting both
earnings and cash flow. By way of illustration, between 31 March
2004 and 31 March 2005 sterling 3 month LIBOR increased from
approximately 4.36 per cent to 4.98 per cent.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact
upon the fair value of the Group’s fixed rate debt. However, no debt
is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in
place until maturity, hence the exposure to fair value loss has not
been modelled.
Exchange rate risk 
Cable & Wireless trades in some 80 countries and much of 
its turnover is from international traffic flows settled in major
currencies, principally US dollars. In addition, many of the currencies
of the countries in which Cable & Wireless operates are linked,
directly or indirectly, to the US dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation
to foreign currency payments, dividend income from foreign
subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net
asset carrying value of foreign investments.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements
in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange
contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce
the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in
the short term.
Where it is deemed appropriate the Group will undertake hedges
to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create
significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group. In addition,
overseas subsidiaries are generally financed in their domestic
currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency
denominated borrowings.
As at 31 March 2005, the Group had in place net forward foreign
exchange contracts amounting to £17 million, being £23 million
bought and £6 million sold in the same currency against sterling.
Consequently, there is no material exposure to movements in
exchange rates on these instruments.
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates
of exchange ruling during the year. Overseas earnings are
predominantly in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
In broad terms, based on the 2005 mix of profits, if the average
sterling : US dollar rate for the year had been 5 cents higher, the
effect would have been to reduce the reported operating profit
before exceptional items by approximately £8 million.The Group
does not undertake profit translation hedging activities.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from
foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of
overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to
match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value 
of foreign investments. Currently there are no external foreign
currency liabilities matched against the carrying value of foreign
investments.
The Group currently does not undertake any hedges of long-term
currency trading flows.
82/83 2005 Annual Report Performance
Five year summary
2005 2004
3
2003
3
2002
3
2001
3
£m £m £m £m £m 
(except share data)
Profit and loss account year ending 31 March
Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
Group turnover 3,222 3,671 4,391 5,748 7,851
Group operating profit/(loss) 138 (581) (6,075) (5,025) (382)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 363 (224) (6,257) (4,549) 3,516
Profit/(loss) after taxation 377 (212) (6,293) (4,860) 2,996
Minority interests (75) (25) (124) (94) (258)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 302 (237) (6,417) (4,954) 2,738
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (EPS) 13.0p (10.2)p (275.4)p (181.2)p 100.3p
Diluted EPS 12.3p (10.2)p (275.4)p (181.2)p 99.2p
Dividends per share
1
3.8p 3.15p 1.6p 16.5p 16.5p
Income from Continuing Operations
4
Group turnover 3,023 3,130 3,377 3,758 3,720
Group operating profit/(loss) 125 (402) (4,011) (2,641) (309)
Group profit before taxation and exceptional items 361 319 96 240 316
Balance sheet data as at 31 March
Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
Current assets
2
3,017 3,280 4,906 7,890 10,480
Total assets 5,000 4,926 7,324 16,074 24,240
Net assets 2,137 1,952 2,482 9,234 16,356
Loans and obligations under finance leases:
– amounts falling due within one year 23 44 825 237 567
– amounts falling due after more than one year 801 875 721 2,022 2,364
Other creditors falling due within one year 1,511 1,624 2,450 3,734 4,069
Creditors and provisions 2,863 2,974 4,842 6,840 7,884
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,818 1,703 2,111 8,835 15,225
Number of shares issued (million of shares) 2,395 2,385 2,383 2,382 2,801
1
Dividends per share are based on interim and final dividends paid per Ordinary Share before deduction of withholding taxes. See “Shareholder Information – Taxation”.
2
Current assets exclude debtors due after more than one year.
3
The balance sheets for 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 have been amended to reflect the change in accounting for ESOPs in light of the adoption of UITF 38 “Accounting for ESOP
trusts”.The profit and loss account in 2003 has also been amended to reverse the £116 million impairment in the ESOP recognised in this year.The adoption of UITF 17
“Employee share schemes” did not have a material impact on the Group’s profit and loss account for the four years ended 31 March 2004.Accordingly, the profit and loss
account has not been amended for the adoption of UITF 17.
4
The Group sold its Japanese operations effective 17 February 2005. Under FRS 3 “Reporting Financial Performance”, these businesses have been classified as discontinued.
Comparatives for the years ended 31 March 2001 to 31 March 2004 have been adjusted accordingly. In the preparation of Cable & Wireless’ consolidated financial
statements a number of estimates and assumptions are made
relating to the reporting of results of operations and financial
condition. Results may differ significantly from those estimates
under different assumptions and conditions. Cable & Wireless
believes that the following discussion addresses its most critical
accounting policies, which are those that are most important to 
the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results.
These particular policies require subjective and complex
judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates 
about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
Valuation of tangible fixed assets and intangible assets
(excluding goodwill)
Under UK GAAP , Cable & Wireless assesses the impairment of fixed
assets and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not
be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that are considered important which could trigger an
impairment review include the following:
– significant under-performance relative to expected historical or
projected future operating results;
– significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy for its
overall business;
– significant changes in technology and regulatory environments;
– significant negative industry or economic trends; and
– significant decline in its stock price for a sustained period and its
market capitalisation relative to net book value.
Cable & Wireless determines any impairment by comparing the
carrying values of each of Cable & Wireless’ income-generating units
to their recoverable amounts (the higher of net realisable value and
the present value of the future cash flows obtainable as a result of
an asset’s continued use). During 2005, Cable & Wireless impaired
tangible fixed assets by £8 million (2004 – £526 million, 2003 –
£2,381 million).The impairment represented the amount by which
the carrying value exceeded the present value of the estimated
future cash flows.
Future cash flows were determined with reference to 
Cable & Wireless’ projections using discount rates from 8 per cent
to 40 per cent which represent the estimated weighted average
cost of capital for the respective businesses.
Valuation of assets for purchase accounting
Cable & Wireless allocates the cost of acquired companies to
tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities acquired by
reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition.
The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.Any value assigned
to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active
market, independent appraisal, or estimated by our management
Operating and financial review
Critical accounting policies
84/85 2005 Annual Report
based on cash flow projections which include estimates and
judgment regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of
the products and technology acquired. In the latter situation, where
appropriate, third party valuation specialists are involved.
Accounting for valuation and recovery of goodwill 
Goodwill usually arises in business combinations as noted above.
Under UK GAAP , the useful life assigned to goodwill is an estimate
that is based on the judgment of management at the time of
acquisition. Goodwill is then amortised on a straight-line basis
over its useful life.
As noted above Cable & Wireless reviews, on a regular basis, the
performance of its income generating units. Under UK GAAP ,
goodwill is allocated to the relevant income generating unit and
assessed for impairment in the manner described under “Valuation
of tangible fixed assets and intangible assets (excluding goodwill)”.
Depreciation and amortisation of fixed assets
Cable & Wireless assigns useful lives to fixed assets based on
periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use for those
assets for example, related to fixed assets purchased for specific
customer contracts. Changes in circumstances such as technological
advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of
the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives differing
from initial estimates.Where Cable & Wireless determines that 
the useful life of property and equipment should be shortened,
Cable & Wireless depreciates the net book value in excess of the
residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby
increasing depreciation expense.Any change in asset lives would
be reported in Cable & Wireless’ financial statements when the
change in estimate is determined.
Revenue recognition
Revenue, which excludes value added tax or other sales taxes,
represents the amount receivable in respect of telecommunications
services provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals
basis to match revenue with provision of service. Revenue is
recognised monthly as services are provided. Revenue in respect of
services invoiced in advance is deferred and recognised on provision
of the service. Revenue in respect of unbilled services is accrued.
Management’s judgement is required in assessing the application
of the principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group
revenues, including the presentation of turnover as principal or as
agent in respect of income received from transmission of content
provided by third parties.
Interconnection with other operators
In Cable & Wireless’ normal course of business it interconnects 
its networks with other telecommunications operators. In certain
instances it uses estimates to determine the amount of income
receivable from or payments to these other operators.The prices
at which these services are charged are sometimes regulated and
may be subject to retrospective adjustment. Estimates are used in
assessing the likely effect of these adjustments.These interconnect Performance
transactions are distinguished from capacity sales which represent
sales of Indefeasible Rights of Use (“IRUs”). IRUs give the purchaser
the right to use a cable fibre or wavelength for a specified period 
of time.
Provision for bad and doubtful debts
The provision for bad and doubtful debts reflects management’s
estimate of losses arising from the failure or inability of 
Cable & Wireless’ customers to make required payments.The
provision is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer
credit worthiness and Cable & Wireless’ historical write-off
experience. Changes to the provision may be required if the
financial condition of Cable & Wireless’ customers was to improve
or deteriorate.An improvement in financial condition may result in
lower actual write-offs. Historically, changes to the estimate of losses
have not been material to the Group’s financial position and results.
T axation
Cable & Wireless’ tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum 
of the total current and deferred tax charges.The calculation of
Cable & Wireless’ total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of
estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax
treatment cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution
has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate,
through a formal legal process.The final resolution of some of 
these items may give rise to material profit and loss and/or cash
flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of 
Cable & Wireless and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the
administrative and legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions
in which Cable & Wireless operates. Issues can, and therefore often
do, take many years to resolve. Payments in respect of tax liabilities
for an accounting period result from payments on account and 
on the final resolution of open items.As a result there can be
substantial differences between the tax charge in the profit and loss
account and tax payments.
Recognition of deferred tax assets
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it
is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits 
will be available in the future, against which the reversal of timing
differences can be deducted. Recognition therefore involves
judgement regarding the future financial performance of the
particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset
has been recognised.
Non-discounting of deferred tax assets and liabilities
UK GAAP permits calculating deferred taxation assets or liabilities
on an undiscounted basis. It is Cable & Wireless’ accounting policy
to measure deferred taxation on an undiscounted basis.
Exceptional items
Under UK GAAP , the Company classified the following income/
(costs) as exceptional items:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Exceptional operating costs (145) (244) (442)
Exceptional depreciation (8) (526) (2,381)
Exceptional amortisation – (10) (2,725)
Exceptional profits less (losses) on
sale or termination of operations 116 250 (147)
Exceptional amounts 
written off investments – – (274)
Exceptional profits on disposal 
of fixed assets 23 28 62
Exceptional tax credit 85 ––
Judgement is required to classify such items as exceptional items.
The Company is guided by FRS 3 “Reporting Financial Performance”
which provides that material items which derive from events or
transactions that fall within the ordinary activities are disclosed as
exceptional items by virtue of their size or incidence such that the
financial statements give a true and fair view.
Exceptional operating costs
In the year ended 31 March 2005 exceptional items included 
in other operating costs related principally to redundancy and
reorganisation costs incurred.These provisions are based on various
assumptions, including future severance costs, sublease or disposal
costs and contractual termination costs. Such estimates are
judgemental and may change based on actual experience.
Liabilities
The Company complies with FRS 12 “Provisions, contingent liabilities
and contingent assets”.A provision is recognised when there is a
constructive obligation in respect of a past event. Provisions and
liabilities are recognised in respect of tax, pensions, transactions and
restructurings. Management’s judgement is required to quantify 
such amounts.
Pensions
The regular cost of providing benefits under defined benefit
schemes is charged to operating profit over the expected remaining
service lives of the members of the schemes so as to achieve a
constant percentage of pensionable pay.Variations from the regular
cost arising from periodic actuarial valuations of the principal defined
benefit schemes are allocated to operating profit over the expected
remaining service lives of the members. 86/87 2005 Annual Report
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will
depend on an assessment of such factors as:
– the life expectancy of the members;
– the length of service;
– the rate of salary progression;
– the rate of return earned on assets in the future; and
– the rate used to discount future pension liabilities.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in Note 8 
to the Financial statements and are estimates chosen from a range
of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be
borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates
in this regard used by other FTSE 100 companies. Changes to these
assumptions could materially impact the size of the defined benefit
schemes deficits of £185 million, calculated under FRS 17,
“Retirement Benefits”, disclosed in Note 8.
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
EU regulated companies are required to file consolidated financial
statements that have been prepared in accordance with IFRS for
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Accordingly, IFRS will apply for the first time to Cable & Wireless’
consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 March
2006. Consequently, all the Group’s public reporting in respect of
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2005 will be
prepared in accordance with IFRS.
As reported last year, the Group has had in place a project to
convert the Group’s financial statements together with the related
underlying processes and systems to IFRS.The restatement of key
financial information for the years ended 31 March 2004 and 2005
to IFRS is well under way. Unaudited IFRS financial information for
the year ended 31 March 2004 was released on 31 March 2005
and is available on the Company’s website. Full 2005 IFRS information
will be released before the Group’s interim announcement in
November 2005.
The SEC has issued an accommodation for foreign private issuers
preparing their first set of financial statements under IFRS which
allows issuers to file two rather than three years of information.
Cable & Wireless expects to take advantage of the accommodation
and hence the Group’s date of transition to IFRS will be 1 April
2004.As noted above, the Group previously issued unaudited
information to investors outlining the impact of the change to
international standards on the financial statements for the year
ended 31 March 2004; this assumed a transition date of 1 April
2003.The change in transition date to 1 April 2004 will have 
no effect on the net income from continuing activities reported
under IFRS for the year ended 31 March 2005 or on net assets 
as at that date.
Operating and financial review
Critical accounting policies Performance
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures
Investors should consider non-GAAP financial measures in addition
to, and not as a substitute for or as superior to, financial measures
presented in accordance with GAAP .
Continuing operations – Profit/(loss) before taxation and
exceptional items
Cable & Wireless uses ‘Continuing operations – Profit/(loss) before
taxation and exceptional items’, a non-UK GAAP financial measure,
as one of the key performance indicators for evaluating the
underlying trading performance of the Group. Profit before taxation
2005 2004 2003
Discon- T otal Discon- T otal Discon- T otal
Continuing tinued Group Continuing tinued Group Continuing tinued Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
before taxation and exceptional items 361 16 377 319 (41) 278 (178) (446) (624)
Less: Net interest and other similar
income (39) 1 (38) (21) 8 (13) (111) 9 (102)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 
before interest, taxation and 
exceptional items 322 17 339 298 (33) 265 (289) (437) (726)
Exceptional operating costs (144) (1) (145) (219) (25) (244) (151) (291) (442)
Exceptional depreciation (8) – (8) (404) (122) (526) (1,574) (807) (2,381)
Exceptional amortisation – – – (10) – (10) (2,196) (529) (2,725)
Exceptional profits less (losses) on 
sale and termination of operations (14) 130 116 2 248 250 – (147) (147)
Exceptional profits less (losses) on
disposal of fixed assets 7 16 23 12 16 28 62 – 62
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities
before interest and taxation 163 162 325 (321) 84 (237) (4,148) (2,211) (6,359)
Net interest and other similar
income/(charges) 39 (1) 38 21 (8) 13 111 (9) 102
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities
before taxation 202 161 363 (300) 76 (224) (4,037) (2,220) (6,257)
and exceptional items is also taken into account in assessing
incentive payments. The Group believes that ‘Continuing operations 
– Profit/(loss) before taxation and exceptional items’ provides an
important measure of the underlying trading performance of the
Group because it excludes income and charges that relate to events
that are not expected to recur.
The table below sets out a reconciliation of ‘Continuing operations –
Profit/(loss) before taxation and exceptional items’ to ‘T otal Group –
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation’. 88/89 2005 Annual Report
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and
exceptional items
As noted earlier, the Group presents ‘Operating costs before
depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items’. This is a non-UK
GAAP financial measure that is used by management as a key
performance measure. Cable & Wireless believes it appropriate 
to show operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation
because these items are non-cash in nature.The Group also
considers it appropriate to show operating costs before exceptional
items because these amounts relate to events that are not expected
Year ended 31 March 2005
National T otal
UK CWAO Europe Asia Bulldog T elcos Other Discontinued Group
Total operating costs before depreciation,
amortisation and exceptional items 1,452 21 198 33 39 764 40 183 2,730
Exceptional items 66 (6) 38 1 – 22 31 1 153
Depreciation 60 – – 1 2 128 1 2 194
Amortisation – – –– 4 3 ––7
T otal operating costs 1,578 15 236 35 45 917 72 186 3,084
Year ended 31 March 2004
National T otal
UK CWAO Europe Asia T elcos Other Discontinued Group
Total operating costs before depreciation,
amortisation and exceptional items 1,560 27 268 33 757 32 546 3,223
Exceptional items 266 – 7 8 321 31 147 780
Depreciation 68 – 1 1 153 2 27 252
Amortisation – – – – (3) – – (3)
T otal operating costs 1,894 27 276 42 1,228 65 720 4,252
Year ended 31 March 2003
National T otal
UK CWAO Europe Asia T elcos Other Discontinued Group
Total operating costs before depreciation,
amortisation and exceptional items 1,568 – 347 100 775 6 1,261 4,057
Exceptional items 3,570 – 298 16 34 3 1,627 5,548
Depreciation 413 – 28 3 159 3 129 735
Amortisation 62 – – 4 (1) – 61 126
T otal operating costs 5,613 – 673 123 967 12 3,078 10,466
to recur.This presentation is also consistent with the way that
the Group’s financial performance is measured by management 
and Cable & Wireless believes this presentation allows a more
meaningful comparison to be made of the trading results of the
Group for the three years presented.
The reconciliation of the non-UK GAAP financial measure of
‘Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional
items’ to the GAAP financial measure of ‘T otal operating costs’,
by major geography, is set out below:
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures Performance
Operating and financial review
Risk factors
3.T echnological changes in communication and information
technology may render the Group’s products and services
obsolete or non-competitive resulting in an adverse impact 
on financial results.
The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant
changes in technology.The development of new technologies could
render its current services obsolete and non-competitive and
require the Group to write-down further the book values of
investments it has made in existing technologies.
The Group’s business plan contemplates the introduction of 
services using new technologies and it may have to make substantial
additional investments in new technologies in order to remain
competitive. In particular, Cable & Wireless is investing in a
broadband access network through Bulldog and a Next Generation
Network in the UK, and has also invested in a GSM mobile network
in the National Telcos. Such new technologies that the Group
chooses to invest in may not prove to be successful, and the cost
of implementation for emerging and future technologies could be
significant and constitute a negative return on the investment.
In addition, Cable & Wireless may not receive the necessary licences
to provide services based on new technologies in jurisdictions in
which it operates. It may also be forced to change its product and
service offerings or pay higher costs if the third-party technology
that it employs changes or if the price of such technology increases.
As a result, the Group could lose customers, fail to attract new
customers or incur substantial costs to maintain its customer base.
4. Network and critical IT system failures may expose the Group
to potential liability or loss of customers.
The Group’s operations are dependent upon networks which 
may or may not be controlled by Cable & Wireless. In addition,
the Group is dependent on a number of critical IT systems to be
able to conduct its business and process financial information.
Catastrophic network failure, a major network interruption or an IT
system failure may occur as a result of natural disasters, a loss of a
major element of the network, security breaches, terrorist action or
computer viruses. Such catastrophic failures or interruptions could
result in the loss of customers as well as exposure to potential
claims from customers based on the loss of service.A failure or
interruption could also require expensive repairs or modifications
to the Group’s assets and infrastructure.
Regulatory risk
5. Unforeseen changes in regulation and government policy in 
the countries in which Cable & Wireless operates may result 
in planned business objectives not being met.
The Group operates in some highly regulated markets, and its
flexibility to manage its business can be constrained by regulation
in these markets.
The Group’s ability to provide telecommunications services
depends, in most countries, on receiving and maintaining
government licences and authorisations.
In addition to the other information contained in this Annual
Report, investors in Cable & Wireless should consider carefully the
risks described below.The Group’s financial condition or results of
operations could be materially adversely affected should any of
these risks arise.
Risks specific to Cable & Wireless’ business
1.The restructuring of the Group may not result in an
improvement to performance and financial position.
In June 2003 Cable & Wireless announced that it was undertaking,
over a three year period, a restructuring of its businesses to improve
its position in a rapidly changing market place. Cable & Wireless’
restructuring plans continue to be implemented and developed.
In November 2004, a Group re-organisation was announced, which
is intended to result in £35 million annualised cost savings by
March 2006, with a planned headcount reduction of 600 in the
European business and Corporate Office being key elements of this
reorganisation. It is also planned to reduce headcount in the UK sales
channels by 480 over the same period. Delays in implementation
may lead to management not being able to concentrate on
developing their businesses with certainty, or to pursue
opportunities in their respective marketplaces; in addition, forecast
cost savings may not be achieved in full and costs incurred in
connection with restructuring efforts may be higher than estimated.
In April 2005, Cable &Wireless announced the investment of
£190 million, over the next three years, on a Next Generation
Network (“NGN”) in the UK. NGN is designed to, among other
things, protect margins in the UK. However, NGN may fail to achieve
the cost savings expected, costs incurred may be higher than
expected and the efforts may fail to attract and keep new customers.
2.Transformation initiatives by the Group may not be 
successfully implemented.
The Group has been in rapid transition in the past few years,
acquiring and disposing of a number of businesses, as well as
adapting to a changing telecommunications business environment,
and implementing a number of reorganisation initiatives as a result.
In June 2003 Cable & Wireless announced its intention, over time,
to expand its investment in national telecommunications operations,
such as the Group’s investment in June 2004 in Monaco Telecom.
This may include acquiring further entities and businesses.
The Group has in the past dedicated, and expects in the future to
dedicate, significant resources to integrate any businesses that it has
or will acquire and to effect any rationalisation of its operations.
Implementation of both these elements is complex, time-consuming
and expensive, and without proper planning and execution, could
significantly disrupt the Group’s business.
In addition, the acquisition of Bulldog is an important step in
advancing the Group’s access strategy.We believe LLU strengthens
the Group’s presence in the access network market by enabling
Bulldog to take control of the “last mile” copper link to the
customer’s home or office. Our initiatives with Bulldog and LLU
could fail and our investment in LLU may not achieve the expected
return on investment or access to new markets. Operating and financial review
Risk factors
90/91 2005 Annual Report
Compliance with these licences and applicable local laws requires
that Group companies obtain consents or approvals from regulatory
authorities for certain activities.
Furthermore, regulatory regimes in some countries in which the
Group operates are less well established than in other countries
where competition in the telecommunications sector has been
established for longer.As a result, the Group’s business in these
countries could be subject to unexpected political, economic or
legal developments that impact telecommunications regulations and
lead to the Group being unable to acquire or retain the regulatory
approvals necessary to its business. Failure to acquire and retain such
consents and approvals or in other ways to comply with regulatory
requirements could have a material adverse effect on its results or
operations either in that jurisdiction or in aggregate.
Future regulation may materially impact the Group, for example by
resulting in changes to the terms of interconnection agreements
with other network operators and other similar agreements;
imposing market-access barriers; setting price caps or other forms
of price regulation; imposing limitations or investment obligations on
construction of new facilities and restrictions on repatriation of cash.
The number of regulatory measures may also significantly increase,
or become significantly more onerous where jurisdictions in which
the Group operates reform their telecommunications and related
laws and regulations. Complying with new or more onerous
regulations and restrictions may be costly for the Group, and may
have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial results.
In the UK, the LLU initiative through Bulldog is an important step
in advancing the Group’s access strategy. Ofcom’s commitment 
to ensuring “equality of access” is key to Bulldog’s success in LLU.
However, there is no guarantee Ofcom will have the power to
make the required changes to the regulatory or competitive
framework to be able to deliver the competitive environment
necessary, and therefore Bulldog may not reach the financial success
it expects from LLU.
6. Exposure to other telecommunications operators and the
behaviour of other market participants may have a detrimental
effect on the Group’s operations.
The Group’s operations are, in part, dependent upon access to
networks that it does not own or entirely control. In these cases,
Cable & Wireless’ operations depend on network operators to
provide interconnection services for the origination, carriage and/or
termination of some of its telecommunications services.
The Group has experienced interconnection capacity shortages in
the past, and it may do so again if it is unable to obtain and maintain
the necessary interconnection and other transmission services in a
timely fashion and on acceptable commercial terms in each country
in which it intends to introduce or continue to offer its
telecommunications services.
The Group may also be subject to the constraints, including financial
constraints, of the relevant network operator, which may be unable
to provide any or all of the capacity that the Group requests. If it
cannot obtain the capacity it requires to adequately serve all of its
existing customers or to connect all of its potential new customers,
the Group may lose them to its competitors.All of this could have a
material adverse effect on the Group’s financial results.
7.The Group may lose revenue if unlicensed operators are able to
gain access to the Group’s network.
In certain markets where the Group operates, unlicensed operators
may seek to gain access to the Group’s network unlawfully without
paying for such access and/or usage.The Group has processes in
place to identify and prevent such occurrences, but actions available
to it may be limited by local regulation.T o the extent that the
Group’s efforts to prevent the unlawful conduct are not wholly
successful, it may lose revenue and the Group’s financial
performance may be adversely impacted.
Risks specific to the telecommunications industry
8.The Group’s operations could suffer from adverse effects of
competition and price pressures on the demand for products 
and services.
The Group faces competition and downward pressure on prices 
in many areas and markets of its business.The Group’s competitors
may be able to expand their network infrastructures and service
offerings more quickly than the Group.The Group also believes 
the sector may experience consolidation in the near future, which
could result, amongst other things, in competitors with greater 
scale that would make it more difficult for Cable & Wireless to
compete effectively.
As the markets for some of the Group’s services expand in 
certain locations, additional competition may emerge and existing
competitors may commit more resources to the markets in which 
it participates. For example, governments in various countries in
which the Group provides telecommunications services, in some
cases on an exclusive basis and in others where it until recently
provided services on an exclusive basis, have begun liberalising the
telecommunications industry by introducing regulated competitive
markets for some products and services in place of exclusive
licences.The Group is not able to predict accurately the extent to
which it will lose market share to some of the competitors entering
the market as a result of this transformation and its operating results
and revenues may be adversely affected.
9. Continued overcapacity and other factors could lead to lower
prices for the Group’s products and services.
Many of the markets in which Cable & Wireless operates are
experiencing considerable levels of overcapacity. Coupled with low
levels of demand growth this has contributed to a severe price
decline in these markets.This continuing trend could compel the
Group to lower prices to prevent erosion of its market share or
to continue attracting new customers.
If the current overcapacity situation is not resolved or worsens,
prices may continue to decline in the affected regions and such
price decline could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s
financial results. Performance
The significant key risks identified are as follows:
– failure of reinsurance (including reinsurances secured via the
Mutual post-April 2003);
– deterioration in known claims; and
– notification of new claims under long tail “losses occurring”
liability policies.
Certain of Pender’s re-insurers have instituted proceedings 
seeking a declaration that they are entitled to avoid some of their
re-insurance obligations.
If any of these risks materialise Pender may be subject to 
significant liabilities which its assets may not be sufficient to meet.
Moreover, there can be no assurance that these arrangements will
not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
Cable & Wireless Group.
The suit commenced by Cable and Wireless plc and Pender on 
30 March 2004, against five companies and six individuals (five of
whom were former Cable & Wireless employees) has now been
widened to cover seven corporate defendants and nine individuals.
Three of these defendants have lodged a counter-claim against the
Company.The Cable & Wireless Board continues to believe that the
circumstances giving rise to this suit have not had nor will have a
material adverse effect on the Cable & Wireless Group.
12.The ongoing US Securities Act Class action might adversely
impact the Group’s financial condition.
The class action detailed in “Operations and financial review – Legal
proceedings” on page 93 was filed against the Company in the
United States. If the settlement agreement for which all parties are
seeking the Court’s approval does not reach the stage of receiving
final Court approval for any reason, the plaintiffs may seek to appeal
the initial decision of the District Court.
In addition, Cable & Wireless is from time to time involved in other
material litigation, which if decided adversely to the Group could,
individually or in the aggregate, adversely impact its financial
condition or reputation.
13.The Group’s withdrawal from the US domestic market may
result in unforeseen claims against Cable & Wireless.
Details of the Group’s withdrawal from the US domestic market
through a Chapter 11 bankruptcy process of its US subsidiaries 
are set out in the Business overview – Acquisitions and disposals
on page 23.
Although the Plan of Liquidation is ongoing and, as part of that plan,
Cable and Wireless has taken measures to reduce its exposure to
third party claims (by means of measures including the reduction of
its claims against CWA in exchange for releases from any liability
from CWA; and the assignment of a portion of the distributions, to
10. Mobile communications devices may pose health risks.
Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from
mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities may pose
various health risks, including cancer, and may interfere with various
electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers.
Research and studies into the health risks posed by mobile telephone
handsets and transmission facilities are ongoing. Cable & Wireless
provides mobile services principally in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau
and Monaco and also provides national and international network
capacity to mobile operators. Cable & Wireless continues to monitor
scientific and medical research and studies, media, legal, regulatory
and other developments, as well as the public perception of risk
arising from the use of mobile telephone handsets. Scientific research
on mobile telephone handsets and health has been reviewed by 
a number of independent expert scientific panels. None of these
panels has concluded that the use of mobile telephone handsets 
is harmful to health.
Nonetheless, increased speculation regarding health risks associated
with mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities or any
subsequent substantiation of such risks could have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s business including through:
– a reduction in the number of actual and potential customers;
– reduced usage per customer;
– exposure to potential litigation or other liability;
– regulatory intervention and new legislation; or 
– exposure to adverse publicity and damage to reputation.
Legal and Other
11.The historic activities of the Group’s insurance subsidiary may
result in material claims.
Pender Insurance Limited (“Pender”) is the company’s Isle of Man
domiciled captive insurance company. Since its establishment in 1990
it has underwritten global insurances for both Cable & Wireless, and
in later years, third party companies. It ceased to underwrite any
new business from April 2003.
The insurances provided included property damage, business
interruption, natural catastrophe, general liability, professional
indemnity and directors’ and officers’ liability.
Pender purchased reinsurance for many of the risks it underwrote,
including, from 2003, reinsurance via a telecommunications insurance
industry mutual (“the Mutual”). Pender remains liable for all policies
it underwrote in the first instance notwithstanding the reinsurances.
Pender has an independent board of directors and is managed 
by Thomas Miller Risk Management (Isle of Man). Pender’s risk
exposures are identified and regularly monitored by the directors. 92/93 2005 Annual Report
which it would otherwise have been entitled, to individual unsecured
creditors in exchange for individual releases for claims against the
Company), there is no guarantee that Cable and Wireless plc will
not be the target of claims from third parties who believe they
might have contractual or other rights enforceable directly against
the Company. In addition, despite the existence of contractual rights
in its favour from SAVVIS in relation to the guarantees and letters of
credit in favour of CWA landlords (as described in the Business
overview), Cable and Wireless plc is subject to the risk that SAVVIS
is unable to meet its contractual obligations to reimburse it for
payments made under those guarantees and letters of credit.
14. Changes in the pension regulatory framework and volatility in
the financial markets may require the Group to provide further
cash funding to its pension funds.
Cable & Wireless currently maintains a number of defined benefit
plans, which cover various categories of employees and retirees.
The Group’s obligations to make contributions to fund benefit
obligations under these plans are based on actuarial valuations,
which themselves are based on certain assumptions about the 
long-term operation of the plans, including employee turnover and
retirement rates, the performance of the financial markets, interest
rates and expected longevity/mortality. If the actual operation of the
plans differs from the assumptions, additional contributions may be
required.The equity markets can be, and recently have been, volatile,
and therefore the estimate of future contribution requirements can
change significantly in a short period of time. Similarly, changes in
interest rates may also impact funding requirements. In the UK,
which has the most significant defined benefit scheme, changes to
the regulatory environment, and the introduction of the Pension 
Act 2004 may also lead to an increasingly conservative actuarial
valuation approach and investment strategy. If the Group is required
to make significant contributions to fund the defined benefit plans,
the financial position could be materially and adversely affected and
the cash flow available for other uses may be significantly reduced.
15. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates in the countries
where Cable & Wireless operates may adversely affect the
Group’s reported results and financial condition.
A significant percentage of Cable & Wireless’ business is conducted
outside the United Kingdom.The Group is thus exposed to
movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency
receipts and payments, dividend and other income from foreign
subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net
asset carrying value of foreign investments.
The Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange 
rates on a net basis, and where appropriate, uses forward foreign
exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments
to reduce the exposure.
T o the extent that this hedging activity does not cover the 
exposure, then the Group’s results of operations, cash generation
and financial condition may be negatively impacted by currency
exchange rate movements.
Operating and financial review
Risk factors Performance
settlement.The Court of Appeals accordingly referred the case back
to the District Court on 21 March 2005, for consideration of the
settlement agreement.The District Court granted preliminary
approval of the settlement by order dated 13 May 2005.The
settlement is currently the subject of a formal notice period that will
expire on 22 July 2005.Assuming the conditions of the agreement
are met, the final approval of the Court to the settlement is
expected shortly after the end of the notice period.
Claim against the Minister of Finance and 
Economy, Panama
On 16 December 2002, a complaint was filed by two Panamanian
lawyers exercising a public action at the Third Chamber of the
Supreme Court of Justice of Panama questioning the law governing
and rules of Public Bid No. 06 96 won by INTEL, S.A. (now 
Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A.). Complaints filed at the Third
Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice must be filed against 
the public officer who enacted the relevant regulation or act.This
complaint was filed against the Minister of Finance and Economy in
Panama specifically alleging that the Operating Agreement executed
between Cable and Wireless (CALA Management Services) Limited
and INTEL, S.A. (now Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A.) as part of the
privatisation agreements was null and void ab initio, on the grounds
that it had not been published in the Official Gazette in Panama.
The Operating Agreement enables Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A.
to use the technical and management know-how of Cable and
Wireless (CALA Management Services) Limited to fulfil more
effectively its obligations under the concession granted to it by 
the Government of Panama to install, operate and exploit
telecommunication services in Panama. Cable & Wireless Panama,
S.A., due to its close interest in the outcome of the complaint,
requested recognition by the Court and permission to participate
in the proceedings.The Court agreed to this.
On 21 March 2003, the Court permitted the claim to proceed.
Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. filed an appeal against the admission
of the claim to proceed, however the Court confirmed its decision
to permit the claim to proceed on 17 March 2004.
As required by Panamanian law, the Administrations General
Attorney has provided an opinion to the Court in defence of the
law or regulation, which is the subject of the complaint.The
Administrations General Attorney has opined that the Operating
Agreement complied with all the requirements established by the
law and by the rules of Public Bid No. 06 96 and was countersigned
by the General Comptroller acting with due authorisation.
On 1 April 2005, Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. tendered its
response to the claim and submitted evidence for consideration 
by the Court.Admission of evidence before the Court is currently
pending.The plaintiff has requested that the effect of the Operating
Agreement be suspended temporarily – an issue which the Court
rejected on 10 March 2005.
Class action litigation against Cable and Wireless plc
Between December 2002 and February 2003, ten shareholder class
action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for 
the Eastern District of Virginia naming Cable and Wireless plc and
several of its officers and directors as defendants.
In March 2003, the Court consolidated all the cases into one action,
styled as In re Cable and Wireless plc Securities Litigation, Civil
Action No. 02-1860-A.
In May 2003, the lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint that
alleged violations of certain sections of the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder.A central
allegation was that the defendants made false and misleading
statements about the Company’s financial condition by failing to
disclose on a timely basis the existence of a tax indemnity and a
ratings trigger to place money in escrow until any liability which
the Company may have had under the tax indemnity was finally
determined.The indemnity and ratings trigger appeared in an
agreement reached in 1999 between the Company and Deutsche
Telekom for the sale of the Company’s interest in the mobile
telephone company that operated under the name One2One.
In addition to the allegations relating to the tax indemnity, the
consolidated complaint also alleged that the defendants made false
and misleading statements by: (1) failing to disclose certain lease
liability commitments and (2) improperly recognising revenue
received from sales of capacity to other carriers.
The plaintiffs sought unspecified money damages in their complaints.
The Company and the individual defendants filed motions to dismiss
the class action complaint, which were heard on 31 October 2003.
In March 2004 the Court issued orders granting the Company’s 
and the individual defendants’ motions to dismiss the complaint 
(but denying the defendants’ motion to dismiss the claims of foreign
(non-US) purchasers for lack of subject matter jurisdiction). On
4 May 2004 and 5 June 2004, the Court issued memoranda opinions
with regard to its previous orders. On 15 June 2004, the Court
entered judgement for the Company and the individual defendants
consistent with its March 2004 orders and memoranda opinions.
On 16 April 2004, plaintiffs filed an appeal of the District Court’s
decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. On 
3 May 2004, defendants filed a notice of cross-appeal with respect
to the District Court’s order denying their motion to dismiss the
claims of foreign (non-US) purchasers for lack of subject matter
jurisdiction.While the case was pending on appeal, on 7 January
2005, the parties reached a preliminary agreement to settle the
complaint on the basis of the defendants making a payment of
US$7 million (£3.7 million) to the plaintiff class (with the support of
the Company’s insurers) in full and final settlement of the complaint.
On 1 March 2005, the parties filed a stipulation with the Court of
Appeals requesting that the Court of Appeals remand the case to
the District Court for the limited purpose of considering the parties’
Operating and financial review
Legal proceedings 94/95 2005 Annual Report
Arbitration between PT Cable, Inc., Cable and Wireless
plc, Cable & Wireless IDC, Inc. and others
PT Cable, Inc., (“PT Cable”) the US end owner of NPC Cable System
(spanning from the United States to Japan), initiated an ICC arbitration
proceeding against Cable and Wireless plc, Japan T elecom IDC, Inc.
(“IDC”) and other users of capacity on that system for unpaid
operations and maintenance fees with respect to the US end.
Cable & Wireless and all 14 other US end owners counter-claimed
against PT Cable for overcharging operation and maintenance fees.
PT Cable then cross-claimed against Cable & Wireless and IDC in
their capacity as maintenance authorities and alleges that Cable &
Wireless and IDC should be liable to contribute to any damages 
the Arbitrator may award against PT Cable.
Potential exposure of PT Cable is between US$13 million 
(£6.9 million) and US$33 million (£17.6 million). PT Cable’s counter-
claim against Cable & Wireless and IDC is for an unquantified
proportion of that amount.
PT Cable failed to pay its arbitration filing fees and earlier this year
was placed into Chapter 7 liquidation proceedings.The arbitration
is therefore currently stayed.
On 28 January 2005,AT&T Corp and Alascom, Inc. (“Claimants”)
filed a Request for Arbitration before the ICC against Cable and
Wireless plc and IDC (“Respondents”) relating to the Respondents’
alleged duties as Founding Signatories and Maintenance Authorities
under the Construction and Maintenance Agreement for the NPC.
The Claimants allege breach of contract, fraud, breaches of fiduciary
duty and similar claims against the Respondents in connection with
alleged overcharging of operations and maintenance fees by PT
Cable.The complaint is for unquantified damages.The Company’s
US Counsel has advised that, in their opinion, all of the Claimants’
claims are weak.The Company has filed its Answer to the Request
for Arbitration and arbitrators are currently being selected.
As far as quantum of damages is concerned,AT&T’s claim is
duplicative of the counter-claim by PT Cable in the first arbitration
above (save that AT&T has claimed punitive damages).
Therefore Cable & Wireless believes its exposure remains within
the parameters of the estimate set out above.
Cable & Wireless will continue to vigorously defend its position in
each of the arbitration proceedings brought against it.
Operating and financial review
Legal proceedings
The proceedings are ongoing, pending submission of evidence.
Panamanian counsel considers this claim to be without merit and
none of Cable and Wireless plc, Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. or
Cable and Wireless (CALA Management Services) Limited is 
party to the complaint. If the complaint were to be successful, the
concession under which Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. operates
would not be affected. However the Operating Agreement could
be declared null and void and then the complainants could file a
complaint against Cable and Wireless (CALA Management Services)
Limited requiring the return of all management fees collected under
the agreement since its execution on 20 May 1997.This would
amount to approximately £60 million. In the event that this
complaint should be successful, Cable & Wireless and its subsidiaries
intend to vigorously pursue any legal recourse available to them.
T elecarrier Inc. vs. Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A.
On 5 May 2004,Telecarrier Inc. lodged a claim in the Sixth Circuit
Civil Court of Panama alleging non-compliance by Cable & Wireless
Panama, S.A. (“Cable & Wireless Panama”) with the Interconnection
Agreement between the parties in connection with the invoicing
and collection process.Telecarrier Inc. requested the Court to order
the continued provision of a pre-determined billing and charging
process and to prevent Cable & Wireless Panama from using an
alternative process.They also claimed US$18 million (£9.6 million)
damages and costs.
On 9 September 2004, Cable & Wireless Panama submitted a
defence to the claim and on 30 December 2004, the parties
presented a petition for suspension of the process for a period of
45 days to allow them to negotiate with each other. In a resolution
dated 30 December 2004, the Court admitted the petition and
negotiations with the plaintiff were initiated. Suspension of the
process has subsequently been extended before the Court while
negotiations continue.
In a separate action, on 25 August 2004, Cable & Wireless Panama
lodged a claim against Telecarrier Inc. in the Seventeenth Circuit
Civil Court of Panama claiming unjustified enrichment by Telecarrier
Inc. through the use of Cable & Wireless Panama’s fixed telephone
network to allow the rerouting of traffic for internet public use.
Cable & Wireless Panama is claiming US$14 million (£7.5 million).
The claim was admitted by the Court on 2 September 2004.
On 23 December 2004, the parties agreed to suspend the process
for a period of 30 days to allow for a period of negotiation – a
move endorsed by the Court on 23 December 2004. Suspension
of the process has subsequently been extended before the Court
while negotiations continue. Performance
Pender Insurance Limited
Australia-Japan Cable Limited (“AJC”), a policyholder of Pender
Insurance Limited (“Pender”) has brought proceedings in London
against Pender and Cable & Wireless.AJC claims that it is entitled to
insurance cover for loss of revenue following damage caused to an
undersea cable by a cargo vessel. It also claims that, if it does not
have such cover, Pender or Cable & Wireless is liable for its losses
because of representations made to AJC that it was entitled to 
such insurance cover.The claim is for US$92 million (£49 million).
Pender and Cable & Wireless have been advised by legal council
that the claim is unmeritorious and accordingly are defending it
vigorously. Certain of Pender’s re-insurers of the AJC risk have
instituted proceedings seeking a declaration that they are entitled
to avoid their obligations. Pender is also vigorously defending 
these proceedings.
On 3 June 2005, QBE International Insurance Limited (“QBE”)
issued Pender with a request for arbitration on account of insurance
premium payments of £36 million allegedly outstanding. Pender has
received advice that this claim is substantially without merit and
intends to defend it vigorously.
Pender has also been advised that, in the unlikely event of QBE
recovering any funds as a result of this claim, it would be
contractually obliged to pass such funds (less a small fee) under
retrocession arrangements to Messenger Insurance PCC Limited
(“Messenger”), one of the defendants to the proceedings brought
by Pender and Cable and Wireless plc described on page 91. Pender
has been advised that, given the strength of its misfeasance claims
against Messenger, it would have a strong chance of recovering any
such sums paid by QBE to Messenger arising out of the subject
matter of the arbitration request.
Other litigation
From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject 
to legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, investigations or reviews.
Other than the above, there are no pending claims, proceedings,
investigations or reviews against the Company or any of its
subsidiaries, which the Company believes will, if determined
adversely to the Group, have a material adverse effect on the
Group’s liquidity or operations. 96/97 2005 Annual Report
Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Cable and Wireless plc
We have audited the financial statements on pages 97 to 144.
We have also audited the information in the Directors’
remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose.T o the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the Directors’ remuneration report.As described on page 54, this
includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting
standards. Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, are
established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices
Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by
our profession’s ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985.We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
Directors’ report is not consistent with the financial statements, if
the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have
not received all the information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’
remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement on 
pages 34 to 40 reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the
Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.We are not required to
consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report,
including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited
part of the Directors’ remuneration report, and consider whether it
is consistent with the audited financial statements.We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial
statements.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by 
the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 2005 and 
of the profit of the Group for the year then ended; and
– the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
3 June 2005 Performance
Consolidated profit
and loss accounts
For the year ended 31 March
2005 2004 2003
Note £m £m £m
Turnover of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates 3 3,409 3,868 4,651
Share of turnover of – joint ventures 17 (127) (136) (195)
– associates 17 (60) (61) (65)
Group turnover* 3, 4 3,222 3,671 4,391
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items 5 (2,730) (3,223) (4,057)
Exceptional operating costs 5, 10 (145) (244) (442)
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (2,875) (3,467) (4,499)
Depreciation before exceptional items 5, 16 (194) (252) (735)
Exceptional depreciation 5, 10, 16 (8) (526) (2,381)
Depreciation (202) (778) (3,116)
Amortisation before exceptional items 5, 15 (7) 3 (126)
Exceptional amortisation 5, 10 – (10) (2,725)
Amortisation (7) (7) (2,851)
Total operating costs 5 (3,084) (4,252) (10,466)
Group operating profit/(loss)* 138 (581) (6,075)
Share of operating profits in joint ventures 17 16 23 53
Share of operating profits in associates 17 24 18 22
Total operating profit/(loss) 178 (540) (6,000)
Profits less (losses) on sale and termination of operations before exceptional items 3 ––
Exceptional items 10 116 250 (147)
Profits less (losses) on sale and termination of operations 119 250 (147)
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets before exceptional items 9 5 25 –
Exceptional items 10 23 28 62
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets 28 53 62
Exceptional amounts written off investments 10 – – (274)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest 325 (237) (6,359)
Net interest and other similar income/(charges)
– Group 11 38 13 103
– Joint ventures and associates 17 – – (1)
Total net interest and other similar income 38 13 102
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 363 (224) (6,257)
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 12 14 12 (36)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities after taxation 377 (212) (6,293)
Equity minority interests (75) (25) (124)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 302 (237) (6,417)
Dividends 13 (87) (73) (37)
Profit/(loss) for the year retained 24 215 (310) (6,454)
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 14 13.0p (10.2)p (275.4)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 14 12.3p (10.2)p (275.4)p
Dividends per Ordinary Share 3.8p 3.15p 1.6p
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial statements.
* Refer to page 98 for continuing operations analysis and page 99 for discontinued operations analysis. 98/99 2005 Annual Report
Consolidated profit and loss accounts:
Continuing operations
For the year ended 31 March 
2005
Continuing Continuing 2004 2003
Continuing operations operations Continuing Continuing
operations Acquisitions T otal operations operations
Note £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates 3 3,099 111 3,210 3,327 3,637
Share of turnover of – joint ventures 17 (127) – (127) (136) (195)
– associates 17 (60) – (60) (61) (65)
Group turnover 3, 4 2,912 111 3,023 3,130 3,377
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items 5 (2,435) (112) (2,547) (2,677) (2,796)
Exceptional operating costs 5, 10 (144) – (144) (219) (151)
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (2,579) (112) (2,691) (2,896) (2,947)
Depreciation before exceptional items 5,16 (184) (8) (192) (225) (606)
Exceptional depreciation 5, 10, 16 (8) – (8) (404) (1,574)
Depreciation (192) (8) (200) (629) (2,180)
Amortisation before exceptional items 5, 15 2 (9) (7) 3 (65)
Exceptional amortisation 5, 10 ––– (10) (2,196)
Amortisation 2 (9) (7) (7) (2,261)
Total operating costs 5 (2,769) (129) (2,898) (3,532) (7,388)
Group operating profit/(loss) 143 (18) 125 (402) (4,011)
Share of operating profits in joint ventures 17 15 1 16 23 53
Share of operating profits in associates 17 24 – 24 18 22
Total operating profit/(loss) 182 (17) 165 (361) (3,936)
Exceptional profits less (losses) on sale and termination of operations 10 (14) – (14) 2–
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets before exceptional items 9 5–5 26 –
Exceptional items 10 7–7 12 62
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets 12 – 12 38 62
Exceptional amounts written off investments 10 ––– – (274)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest 180 (17) 163 (321) (4,148)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial statements. Performance
Consolidated profit and loss accounts:
Discontinued operations
For the year ended 31 March 
2005 2004 2003
Discontinued Discontinued Discontinued
operations operations operations
Note £m £m £m
Turnover of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates 3 199 541 1,014
Share of turnover of – joint ventures 17 – ––
– associates 17 – ––
Group turnover 3, 4 199 541 1,014
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items 5 (183) (546) (1,261)
Exceptional operating costs 5, 10 (1) (25) (291)
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (184) (571) (1,552)
Depreciation before exceptional items 5, 16 (2) (27) (129)
Exceptional depreciation 5, 10, 16 – (122) (807)
Depreciation (2) (149) (936)
Amortisation before exceptional items 5, 15 – – (61)
Exceptional amortisation 5, 10 – – (529)
Amortisation – – (590)
Total operating costs 5 (186) (720) (3,078)
Group operating profit/(loss) 13 (179) (2,064)
Share of operating profits in joint ventures 17 – ––
Total operating profit/(loss) 13 (179) (2,064)
Profits less (losses) on sale and termination of operations before exceptional items 3 ––
Exceptional items 10 130 248 (147)
Profits less (losses) on sale and termination of operations 133 248 (147)
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets before exceptional items 9 – (1) –
Exceptional items 10 16 16 –
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets 16 15 –
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest 162 84 (2,211)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial statements. 100/101 2005 Annual Report
Consolidated balance sheets
At 31 March 
2005 2004
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 15 91 (9)
Tangible assets 16 1,379 1,214
Interest in net assets of joint ventures* 17 128 132
Investments in associates 17 80 75
Loans to joint ventures and associates 17 1 1
Other investments 17 20 58
Total fixed asset investments 229 266
1,699 1,471
Current assets
Stocks 18 35 38
Debtors – due within one year 19 816 875
– due after more than one year 19 284 175
1,100 1,050
Current asset investments and short-term deposits 20 2,031 2,229
Cash at bank and in hand 135 138
3,301 3 ,455
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 21 (1,534) (1,668)
Net current assets 1,767 1,787
Total assets less current liabilities 3,466 3,258
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Convertible debt 21 (252) (252)
Other creditors 21 (549) (623)
(801) (875)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (528) (431)
(1,329) (1,306)
Net assets 2,137 1,952
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 599 596
Share premium account 24 8 2
Special reserve 24 1,736 1,745
Capital redemption reserve 24 105 105
Profit and loss account 24 (630) (745)
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,818 1,703
Equity minority interests 319 249
Capital employed 2,137 1,952
* Interests in net assets of joint ventures include the Group’s share of gross assets of joint ventures of £189 million (2004 – £190 million) and the Group’s
share of gross liabilities of joint ventures of £61 million (2004 – £58 million) – see Note 17
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial statements.
The Financial statements on pages 97 to 144 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 June 2005 and signed on its behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne Charles Herlinger
Chairman Chief Financial Officer Performance
Company balance sheets
At 31 March
2005 2004
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 16 11 11
Investments in subsidiaries 17 20,412 19,700
Investments in associates 17 19 21
Loans to joint ventures and associates 17 1 1
Other investments 17 – 28
Total fixed asset investments 20,432 19,750
20,443 19,761
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 19 148 123
– due after more than one year 19 142 102
290 225
Current asset investments and short-term deposits 20 1,819 2,133
Cash at bank and in hand 11 35
2,120 2,393
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 21 (332) (515)
Net current assets 1,788 1,878
Total assets less current liabilities 22,231 21,639
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Convertible debt 21 (252) (252)
Other creditors 21 (18,686) (18,106)
(18,938) (18,358)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (184) (174)
(19,122) (18,532)
Net assets 3,109 3,107
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 599 596
Share premium account 24 8 2
Special reserve 24 1,736 1,745
Capital redemption reserve 24 105 105
Profit and loss account 24 661 659
Equity shareholders’ funds 3,109 3,107
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial statements.
The Financial statements on pages 97 to 144 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 June 2005 and signed on its behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne Charles Herlinger
Chairman Chief Financial Officer 102/103 2005 Annual Report
Consolidated cash flow statements
For the year ended 31 March
2005 2004 2003
Note £m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 28 346 73 95
Dividends from joint ventures and associates
Dividends from joint ventures 11 12 13
Dividends from associates 14 13 15
25 25 28
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest and similar income received 89 103 197
Interest paid (68) (89) (88)
Net interest element of finance lease rentals paid – (1) (2)
Dividends paid to minority interests (35) (75) (70)
Income received from other investments 4 5–
(10) (57) 37
Taxation (60) (43) (438)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (344) (342) (810)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 9 38 15
Purchase of current asset investments (1) (1) (3)
Purchase of investments – (4) (38)
Sale of current asset investments – 229 600
Sale of investments 68 39 11
Investment in joint venture – –10
(268) (41) (215)
Acquisitions and disposals
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 96 (120) 14
Purchase of shareholdings in subsidiary undertakings (131) (5) 2
Receipts from sale of associates 7 794
Purchase of associate undertakings (7) ––
(35) (118) 110
Equity dividends paid to shareholders (97) – (119)
Management of liquid resources
Movement in liquid resources (net) 30 75 932 (1,040)
Financing
Purchase of own shares (74) ––
Issue of ordinary share capital 6 21
Capital element of finance lease rental repayments – (1) (18)
Other long term debt issued 1 280 88
Long term debt repaid (86) (863) (649)
(153) (582) (578)
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year 29 (177) 189 (2,120)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial statements. Performance
Consolidated statements of 
total recognised gains and losses
For the year ended 31 March
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 302 (237) (6,417)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments and related borrowings (37) (97) (240)
Total gains/(losses) relating to the period 265 (334) (6,657)
Prior year adjustment (Note 24) 119
Total losses recognised since last annual report 384
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial statements. 104/105 2005 Annual Report
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 302 (237) (6,417)
Dividends – interim (27) – (37)
– final (60) (73) –
Profit/(loss) for the year carried forward 215 (310) (6,454)
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year (37) (97) (240)
New share capital issued 9 21
Purchase of own shares (Note 23) (75) ––
Own shares purchased and held in ESOP trust – (4) (38)
Own shares released on vesting of share awards 3 17
Net increase/(decrease) in equity shareholders’ funds 115 (408) (6,724)
Opening equity shareholders’ funds (prior year adjusted – Note 24) 1,703 2,111 8,835
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 1,818 1,703 2,111
Reconciliation of movements in
consolidated equity shareholders’ funds
For the year ended 31 March
Reconciliation of movements in equity
shareholders’ funds for the Company
For the year ended 31 March
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 152 585 (7,523)
Dividends – interim (27) – (37)
– final (60) (73) –
Profit/(loss) for the year carried forward 65 512 (7,560)
Other recognised gains relating to the year – –17
Revaluation – (1,020) 223
New share capital issued 9 21
Purchase of own shares (Note 23) (75) ––
Own shares purchased and held in ESOP trust – (4) (38)
Own shares released on vesting of share awards 3 17
Net decrease in equity shareholders’ funds 2 (509) (7,350)
Opening equity shareholders’ funds (prior year adjusted – Note 24) 3,107 3,616 10,966
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 3,109 3,107 3,616
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial statements. Performance
Statement of accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the provisions of the Companies Act, and on the
historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of investments in subsidiaries in the Company’s accounts.
The consolidated profit and loss accounts on pages 97 and 99 comply with UK GAAP and UK Companies Act requirements and the directors believe
they are in the most appropriate format for shareholders to understand the results of our business. Depreciation and amortisation (including
exceptional amounts) are presented on the face of the profit and loss accounts because these items are non-cash income. Exceptional operating costs
are also presented on the face of the profit and loss accounts because these amounts relate to events that are not expected to recur. This presentation is
also consistent with the way that the financial performance is measured by management and Cable & Wireless believes this presentation allows a more
meaningful comparison to be made of the trading results of the Group for the three years presented.
Use of estimates
The preparation of Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18,“Accounting policies” requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the change has
a material impact on the reported results for the period.
New accounting standards
The following new accounting standards were adopted during the year:
The Group has adopted Urgent Issues Task Force (UITF) 38,“Accounting for ESOP trusts” and UITF 17 (revised),“Employee share schemes” in these
Financial Statements.This has resulted in the adoption of a revised accounting policy for employee share awards in the year. Details of the effect of prior
year adjustments are given in Note 24.
The adoption of UITF 38 resulted in a decrease to shareholders’ funds representing the reclassification of shares by the ESOP trust held from fixed
asset investments to the profit and loss reserve.
Under the revised UITF 17 accounting policy, the estimated cost of share awards is charged to the profit and loss account over the period from the
grant date to the date of expected vesting (where there are no performance conditions) or the performance period where relevant.The accrued
employee entitlement is recorded as a credit within shareholders’ funds.The estimated cost of awards is based upon the market value of the shares at
the grant date or the difference between the exercise price and the market price at the date of granting the award, adjusted to reflect the impact of
performance conditions where applicable.
Where shares are satisfied by on-market purchases the cost of acquiring the shares is deducted from shareholders’ funds.The difference between the
consideration paid for the shares and the cost of the awards is transferred to retained earnings when the shares vest unconditionally.
In prior years the estimated cost of share awards was initially charged to profit and recorded as a provision using the market value of shares at the
grant date.Where awards were satisfied by on-market purchases, the cost was subsequently adjusted to the actual consideration for shares purchased.
The Group has elected not to early adopt FRS 20,“Share based payment” for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Basis of consolidation
The Group Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and all its subsidiaries and include the Group’s share of the
results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.The accounts of principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are made up to 31 March.
In the year ended 31 March 2004 Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. (together with certain of their affiliates), were
deconsolidated on 8 December 2003 (the date on which these companies filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the US Bankruptcy Code).
Where subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates have been acquired during the year, goodwill, being the difference between the fair value of consideration
given and the fair values attributed to the separable net assets acquired, is capitalised on the balance sheet and amortised through the profit and loss account.
Foreign currencies
Average rates of exchange ruling during the year are used to translate the profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at year end rates and any exchange differences arising are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
The net investments in the Group’s overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into sterling at year end rates of exchange.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of opening net investments at rates ruling at the beginning and end of the year, together with the
differences between profit and loss accounts translated at average rates and year end rates, are dealt with as movements in Group reserves. 106/107 2005 Annual Report
Statement of accounting policies
Where net investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency borrowings, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such
borrowings are also recorded as movements on Group reserves and any excess taken to the profit and loss account.
All other exchange differences are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.The cost of fixed assets includes directly attributable labour and overhead costs. Interest that is directly
attributable and incurred up to the time that separately identifiable major capital projects are ready for service is also capitalised as part of the cost of assets.
Where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to dismantle and remove its assets and restore the relevant sites, a provision is made for the
estimated costs of the asset retirement obligation.The present value of the asset retirement obligation is capitalised as part of the initial cost of the asset.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or projects under construction. On other tangible fixed assets, depreciation is provided on the difference
between the cost of tangible fixed assets and the estimated residual value, in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for use. Assets lives are:
Lives
Cables up to 20 years
Network equipment 3 to 25 years
Ducting 40 years
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold land and buildings up to 40 years or 
term of lease if less
Profits and losses on disposals of tangible fixed assets are determined by reference to sale proceeds and net book values.
Intangible fixed assets
From 1 April 1998 intangible fixed assets acquired have been recorded at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life, not
exceeding 20 years. Intangible fixed assets primarily comprise goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses.
Goodwill arising on acquisition prior to 1 April 1998 was eliminated directly against reserves.This goodwill has been written off as a matter of
accounting policy.The profit or loss on the disposal of all or part of a previously acquired business is calculated after taking account of the gross amount
of any goodwill previously eliminated directly against reserves.
Asset impairment
Intangible and tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the fixed
asset may not be recoverable.Where an impairment indicator is identified, the carrying value of the income generating unit is compared with its
recoverable amount.Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value an impairment is recognised.
Fixed asset investments
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for in the Group accounts under the gross equity and equity methods of accounting respectively.
Other fixed asset investments in the Group accounts are stated at cost less amounts written off in respect of any impairments.
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the Company balance sheet at valuation.
Current asset investments
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Tax
The charge for tax is based on the result for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain
items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the extent
that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future
reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted. Performance
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have arisen but not
reversed at the balance sheet date.
Stocks
Stocks of equipment, held for use in the maintenance and expansion of the Group’s telecommunications systems, are stated at cost, including
appropriate allocation of labour and overheads, less provision for deterioration and obsolescence. Stocks held for resale are stated at the lower of cost
and net realisable value.
Discontinued operations
The Group complies with FRS 3 “Reporting financial performance”, in determining the classification of operations as discontinued or continuing.
Group turnover
Group turnover, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of telecommunications
services and equipment provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis. It includes sales to joint ventures and associated companies
but does not include sales by joint ventures and associated companies or sales between Group companies.
Turnover from voice, data and IP services is recognised as the services are provided. In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred
until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to telecommunications operators of national and international networks are recognised as services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.Turnover generated through the provision of these services is accounted for
gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile turnover comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, the provision of other mobile
telecommunications services, including data services and information provision and turnover from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content on its network originated by third-party providers.The Group assesses whether revenue
should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following indicators:
– whether the Group holds itself out as an agent;
– establishment of the price;
– provision of customer remedies;
– performance of part of the service; and
– assumption of credit risk.
Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle. Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the
invoiced amount, or from pre-paid customers through the sale of pre-paid top-up cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the
service. Unbilled turnover resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is
accrued. Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
Turnover from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple turnover-generating activities (generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service) is
allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the fair value of the components.Turnover from the sale of the
telecom equipment and services is recognised on the basis set out above.
Sales of network capacity to third parties pursuant to IRUs are accounted for as sales and recognised at the time of delivery and acceptance where:
– the purchaser’s right of use is exclusive and irrecoverable;
– the asset is specific and separable;
– the term of the contract is for the major part of the asset’s useful economic life;
– the attributable costs of carrying value can be measured reliably;
– no significant risks are retained by the Group; and 
– the asset is identified as held for sale and categorised to stock.
Turnover arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service 
is provided.
Pensions
The regular cost of providing benefits under defined benefit schemes is charged to operating profit over the expected remaining service lives of the 108/109 2005 Annual Report
Statement of accounting policies
members of the schemes so as to achieve a constant percentage of pensionable pay.Variations from the regular cost arising from periodic actuarial
valuations of the principal defined benefit schemes are allocated to operating profit over the expected remaining service lives of the members.
The cost of providing benefits under defined contribution schemes is charged as it becomes payable.
The Group has applied the transitional arrangements of FRS 17 “Retirement benefits” and appropriate additional disclosures have been included in Note 8.
Leased assets
Where assets are financed by leasing agreements that give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased
outright.The amount capitalised is the present value of the minimum lease payments payable during the lease term.The corresponding lease
commitments are shown as obligations to the lessor. Lease payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method.
Depreciation on the relevant assets and interest are charged to the profit and loss account. All other leases are operating leases and the rentals are
charged to operating profit on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Debt issue costs
The costs of issue of capital instruments are charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the instrument. Debt issued is initially recorded net
of these issue costs.
Debtors
Debtors are stated at the invoiced amount less provisions for accounts that are estimated by management to be doubtful. Provisions are maintained in
respect of bad and doubtful debts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments. Estimates are based on the
ageing of the debt balances and historical experience.
Derivatives
Swaps and forward rate agreements
The net interest paid or received under any interest rate and cross currency swaps and forward rate agreements (“FRAs”) is recorded on an accruals
basis and included within net interest in the profit and loss account.
The notional amounts of interest rate swaps and FRAs are not recorded on the balance sheet. Cross currency swaps are used to hedge the initial draw
down and final repayment of certain foreign currency denominated debt, and the related foreign currency interest flows.
Forward exchange contracts
Forward exchange contracts are carried on the balance sheet at the difference between the amounts of the payable and receivable currency revalued
at the closing exchange rate.The interest differential, being the difference between the contract rate and the spot rate on the date of entering into the
forward exchange contract, is charged to the profit and loss account as interest over the life of the contract.
Exchange gains and losses
Exchange gains and losses on revaluation and maturity of any forward exchange contracts and cross currency swaps are treated according to the
underlying exposure they hedge:
– for any contracts that hedge firm third party commitments the exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same
period as the underlying transaction;
– for any contracts over underlying currency assets or liabilities the exchange gains and losses are offset against the equal and opposite exchange gains
or losses arising on the retranslation of the underlying assets or liabilities;
– for any contracts taken out to hedge overseas equity investments the exchange gains and losses are taken to reserves to offset against the exchange
differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets of the investments on consolidation; and
– for any contracts that hedge general trading flows the exchange gains or losses are taken to the profit and loss account in the period in which 
they arise.
Where the underlying exposure changes, or ceases to exist, the contract would be terminated and the exchange gain or loss arising taken to the profit
and loss account.
Liquid resources
Liquid resources comprise current asset investments and short term deposits, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash at or close to
their carrying value.
Employee Share Option Plan Trust (ESOP)
The financial statements of the Group include the assets and related liabilities of the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust. Under the
requirements of UITF 38 “Accounting for ESOP trusts” are stated at cost and deducted from equity shareholders’ funds. Performance
Notes to the financial statements
1 Company’s profit and loss account
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 from presenting its own profit and loss account.
The profit for the year of the Company amounted to £152 million (2004 – £585 million, 2003 – loss of £7,523 million).
2 Historical cost profits and losses
There is no difference between the Group results as reported and on the historical cost basis. Accordingly no additional note of historical cost profits
and losses has been prepared.
3 T urnover
The Group’s operations are all considered to fall into one class of business, namely telecommunications.
4 Segmental information
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company. During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group was organised into the following
segments, namely the United Kingdom, CWAO, Europe (excluding Monaco), Asia, Bulldog (acquired during the year) and the National Telcos. Historically
the results of Japan and Asia were reported as a separate segment. Following the disposal of Japan during the year, Asia is now reported as a separate
segment.The results for Japan have been included in discontinued operations for all three years presented.
United Kingdom, CWAO, Europe and Asia, provide communications solutions to business and wholesale customers offering IP , data and voice products.
Bulldog provides broadband and voice services to consumers and small businesses in the UK.The National Telcos companies that are located in the
Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco (acquired in the year), the Middle East, South East Asia and in the Pacific, Indian and Atlantic Oceans provide a full
range of telecommunications services to both consumer and business customers, including fixed and mobile voice, data and IP .
Other and eliminations includes unallocated corporate expenses, inter-segment eliminations recorded on consolidation and net operating assets that 
are not allocated to segments.Turnover is reported in the geography in which the services are delivered.The segmental information below has been
presented on that basis and comparative information has been amended accordingly.The accounting policies adopted by each of the segments are
described in the “Statement of Accounting Policies”.
Details of Group turnover, contributions to profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest and taxation, net operating assets/(liabilities) by
geographical region are as follows:
T urnover
2005 2004 2003
Geographical area £m £m £m
United Kingdom 1,602 1,661 1,684
CWAO 16 11 –
Europe 186 262 304
Asia 39 32 79
Bulldog 11 ––
National T elcos
– Caribbean 550 633 756
– Panama 257 265 279
– Macau 117 128 146
– Monaco 100 ––
– Rest of the World 167 161 159
Total National Telcos 1,191 1,187 1,340
Inter-segment turnover (22) (23) (30)
Continuing operations 3,023 3,130 3,377
Discontinued operations 199 541 1,014
Group turnover 3,222 3,671 4,391
The Group turnover figure disclosed represents turnover of the Company and its subsidiaries allocated to the location to which telecommunications
services were delivered. International telecommunications traffic which the Group may be responsible for carrying on part of its route would not
necessarily originate in that location.The Group does not have access to information on the original source or ultimate destination of international
telecommunications traffic. Notes to the financial statements
110/111 2005 Annual Report
Discontinued operations comprise sales in Japan £199 million (2004 – Japan £254 million, United States £242 million and Yemen £45 million, 2003 –
Japan £300 million, United States £644 million and Yemen £70 million).
There were no capacity sales recorded within turnover in 2005, 2004 and 2003.
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest
2005 2004 2003
Profit/(loss) Profit/(loss) Profit/(loss)
on ordinary on ordinary on ordinary 
operating operating operating
activities Profit/(loss) activities Profit/(loss) activities Profit/(loss)
before on ordinary before on ordinary before on ordinary
exceptional activities exceptional activities exceptional activities
items and Exceptional before items and Exceptional before items and Exceptional before
interest items interest interest items interest interest items interest
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Geographical area
United Kingdom 92 (66) 26 33 (256) (223) (359) (3,570) (3,929)
CWAO (8) 6 (2) (16) – (16) – – –
Europe (12) (38) (50) (4) (2) (6) (71) (298) (369)
Asia 5 (1) 4 4 (8) (4) (28) (16) (44)
Bulldog (34) – (34) ––––––
National T elcos
– Caribbean 108 (24) 84 115 (243) (128) 214 (19) 195
– Panama 71 – 71 70 (73) (3) 91 (14) 77
– Macau 37 – 37 40 (2) 38 42 – 42
– Monaco 16 – 16 ––––––
– Rest of the World 66 (1) 65 55 (1) 54 60 (1) 59
Total National Telcos 298 (25) 273 280 (319) (39) 407 (34) 373
Other and eliminations (59) (35) (94) (40) (34) (74) (39) (269) (308)
Joint ventures and associates 40 – 40 41 –417554 129
Continuing operations 322 (159) 163 298 (619) (321) (15) (4,133) (4,148)
Discontinued operations 17 145 162 (33) 117 84 (437) (1,774) (2,211)
339 (14) 325 265 (502) (237) (452) (5,907) (6,359)
Discontinued operations include the profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest of Japan £71 million, United States £66 million, Other £22 million
and Yemen £3 million (2004 – Japan £(127) million, United States £144 million, Other £57 million and Yemen £10 million, 2003 – Japan £(222) million,
United States £(2,091) million, Other £84 million and Yemen £18 million.
The exceptional items are described fully in Note 10. Segmental information in respect of the Group’s investments in joint ventures and associates is given
in Note 17.
Financing is dealt with at a Group level and therefore net interest and other similar income/(charges) has not been allocated to a geographic region. Performance
Net operating assets/(liabilities)
2005 2004
£m £m
Geographical area
United Kingdom (33) (176)
CWAO (7) (33)
Europe (70) (57)
Asia 13 12
Bulldog 49 –
National T elcos
– Caribbean 372 370
– Panama 252 287
– Macau 40 48
– Monaco 72 –
– Rest of the World 97 88
Total National Telcos 833 793
Continuing operations 785 539
Discontinued operations – 20
Net operating assets 785 559
Other and eliminations 1,352 1,393
Net assets 2,137 1,952
Other and eliminations comprise assets and liabilities that cannot practicably be divided between the segments.The assets and liabilities are:
2005 2004
£m £m
Tangible assets (including projects under construction) 247 194
Fixed asset investments 229 266
Debtors 215 203
Current asset investments and short-term deposits 2,031 2,229
Cash at bank and in hand 5 35
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (335) (448)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (801) (875)
Provisions (239) (211)
1,352 1,393
5 Operating costs
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities is stated after charging/(crediting):
Discontinued
operations Operating
Continuing operations before exceptional
before exceptional exceptional items
items items (Note 10) 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Acquisitions
Outpayments to other telecommunications 
administrations and carriers 1,054 53 93 – 1,200
Other network costs 199 14 14 8 235
Cost of sales relating to equipment sales and rentals 25915– 265
Employee costs 467 25 26 70 588
Pension costs 35–1– 36
Property rentals, taxes and utility costs 70 2 15 56 143
Depreciation and impairment of owned tangible fixed assets 184 8 2 8 202
Amortisation and impairment of capitalised goodwill (2) 9 – – 7
Operating lease rentals:
– network, plant and equipment 69–2– 71
– other 401–– 41
Other operating costs 242 16 27 11 296
2,617 129 185 153 3,084 Notes to the financial statements
112/113 2005 Annual Report
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities is stated after charging/(crediting):
Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
operations operations Operating operations operations Operating
before before exceptional before before exceptional
exceptional exceptional items exceptional exceptional items
items items (Note 10) 2004 items items (Note 10) 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Outpayments to other telecommunications 
administrations and carriers 1,100 157 – 1,257 1,161 514 – 1,675
Other network costs 335 21 – 356 275 7 – 282
Cost of sales relating to equipment sales and rentals 232 1 13 246 276 18 – 294
Employee costs 482 135 110 727 549 303 90 942
Pension costs 43 4 3 50 42 21 – 63
Property rentals, taxes and utility costs 53 38 92 183 83 103 211 397
Depreciation and impairment of owned tangible fixed assets 225 27 526 778 607 118 2,381 3,106
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets held under finance 
leases (plant and equipment) –––– (1) 11 – 10
Amortisation and impairment of capitalised goodwill (3) – 10 7 65 61 2,725 2,851
Operating lease rentals:
– network, plant and equipment 83 87 – 170 85 94 – 179
– other 59 34 – 93 52 43 28 123
Other operating costs 290 69 26 385 273 158 113 544
2,899 573 780 4,252 3,467 1,451 5,548 10,466
The remuneration of the auditors and their associates in respect of audit services provided to the Group during the year was £3.2 million, including
£0.3 million relating to 2004 (2004 – £3.2 million, 2003 – £4.9 million), and includes £0.8 million (2004 – £0.8 million, 2003 – £1.1 million) for the
Company. Regulatory reporting fees principally related to compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the review of interim financial
statements.The remuneration of the auditors and their associates in respect of non-audit services to the Company and its UK subsidiaries during the
year was £0.9 million (2004 – £1.6 million, 2003 – £3.6 million) and to overseas subsidiaries £0.6 million (2004 – £1.5 million, 2003 – 
£1.4 million) as summarised below:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Audit services
– Statutory audit services 3.2 3.2 4.9
– Audit-related regulatory reporting 1.4 0.4 –
4.6 3.6 4.9
Further assurance services 0.2 0.8 1.3
Tax services – Compliance 1.0 1.0 1.1
Tax services – Advisory services 0.2 1.2 1.4
Other services 0.1 0.1 1.2
6.1 6.7 9.9
These services are subject to the Company’s policy for approving audit and non-audit services as set out on pages 38 to 39. Performance
6 Employees
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year was:
2005 2004 2003
Number Number Number
United Kingdom 4,485 4,991 6,147
CWAO 44 34 –
Europe 474 576 1,002
Asia 221 239 236
Bulldog (pro-rated) 223 ––
National T elcos
– Caribbean 4,149 4,363 5,198
– Panama 1,894 1,983 2,717
– Macau 908 922 947
– Monaco (pro-rated) 434 ––
– Rest of the World 1,426 1,426 1,073
Total National Telcos 8,811 8,694 9,935
Other 329 237 377
Continuing operations 14,587 14,771 17,697
Discontinued operations (pro-rated) 647 2,659 5,694
15,234 17,430 23,391
At the beginning of 2005, an IT contract was insourced, increasing the headcount within Other.Towards the end of 2005, this group was transferred to
the UK.The movement of these personnel to and from Other during the year has led to the overall increase in the average number of employees
within Other 2005 compared with 2004.
The aggregate remuneration and associated costs of Group employees, including amounts capitalised, were:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Salaries and wages 505 675 895
Social security costs 44 61 71
Pension costs
– Principal schemes (Note 8) 23 24 31
– Other costs including defined contribution schemes 13 26 32
585 786 1,029
7 Directors’ remuneration and shareholdings
Information covering Directors’ remuneration (including pension entitlements), interest in shares and interests in share options (including in each case
those arising under the Share Option Plan, Restricted Shares and Performance Share Plan) is included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages
41 to 53.
8 Pensions
Defined benefit schemes
The Company and its principal subsidiaries operate pension and other retirement schemes that cover the majority of employees of the Group.These
schemes include both the defined benefit type, whereby retirement benefits are based on the employee’s final remuneration and length of service, and
defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
With the exception of the unfunded, unapproved retirement benefit schemes, the remaining schemes are funded through separate trustee administered
schemes. Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the
schemes at regular intervals, usually triennially.
An actuarial valuation of the principal United Kingdom defined benefit pension scheme (“the Scheme”) was prepared at 31 March 2002 for the
purpose of UK Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 “Accounting for pension costs” (“SSAP 24”).
The valuation of the Scheme disclosed a shortfall in the market value of the Scheme’s assets compared with the accrued liabilities.This was principally due
to the fall in the Scheme’s asset values following the fall in global equity markets between 1 April 1999 and 31 March 2002.Thus, with agreement from
the actuary, the Company increased its contributions to the Scheme to 20 per cent of salary with effect from 1 April 2002, and made a contribution to Notes to the financial statements
114/115 2005 Annual Report
the Scheme of £47 million in December 2002 in respect of the shortfall.The latest actuarial valuation of the UK defined benefit scheme is in progress,
based on the position at 31 March 2005.The Group contributed £100 million in February 2005 to the UK fund in anticipation of this valuation.
The Scheme was valued using the projected unit method and the principal assumptions were that future investment returns on existing assets would,
on average, be 3.2 per cent a year above the level of price inflation, that the return on new investments would be 3.9 per cent a year above price
inflation, that general salary growth would be 1.7 per cent a year above price inflation, and that inflation related pension increases would generally be in
line with price inflation.The market value of the Scheme’s investments at the valuation date was £1,401 million.The Scheme also holds some insurance
policies, which had an assessed value of £11 million.The total value of the assets was 97 per cent of the value of the aggregate benefits that had
accrued to members of the Scheme, allowing for expected future earnings increases in the case of employees.
The assumptions used for calculating the pension cost for accounting purposes differ from the funding assumptions in that the assumed return on
existing assets is 3.3 per cent a year above price inflation. In the Financial Statements, the deficit in the Scheme is spread over the remaining service lives
of the employed members. Under those assumptions as at 31 March 2002, the total value of the investments was 99 per cent of the value of the
aggregate benefits that had accrued to members of the Scheme.
The principal pension costs as shown in Note 6 comprise:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Regular costs 17 17 22
Variation from regular costs (including interest) 6 79
23 24 31
Pension schemes other than the Scheme are accounted for on the basis of local custom and practice. Pension prepayments relating to the Scheme of
£202 million (2004 – £102 million, 2003 – £112 million) are included in other prepayments and accrued income (Note 19). Provisions for obligations
to pay terminal gratuities on retirement to staff who are not members of the pension and retirement schemes are included in provisions for pensions
(Note 22).
Defined contribution schemes
The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes was £13 million (2004 – £26 million, 2003 – £19 million).
Disclosures in respect of FRS 17 – “Retirement benefits”
The above figures have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of SSAP 24. FRS 17 has been published in the United Kingdom, however, its
full introduction has been deferred.The accounting requirements of FRS 17 are broadly as follows:
– pension scheme assets are valued at market values at the balance sheet date;
– pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on high quality (AA) corporate
bonds of equivalent term and currency to the liability;
– for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 the pension scheme surplus (to the extent it is considered recoverable) or deficit will be
recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet; and
– the movement in the scheme surplus/deficit will be split between operating charges, financing items and, in the statement of total recognised gains
and losses, actuarial gains and losses.
The transitional disclosures in respect of FRS 17 are set out below: Performance
Qualified independent actuaries,Watson Wyatt LLP , updated the actuarial valuations of the major defined benefit schemes operated by the Group to 
31 March 2005.The main financial assumptions in accordance with FRS 17 are as follows:
At 31 March 2005 At 31 March 2004 At 31 March 2003
Rest of Rest of Rest of
UK Group UK Group UK Group
%%%%%%
Inflation assumption 2.7 3.9 2.8 3.8 2.5 4.3
Rate of increase in salaries 3.2 5.9 4.6 5.4 4.3 5.6
Pension increases 2.7-3.0 2.9 2.8-3.0 3.5 2.5-3.0 3.6
Discount rate 5.4 7.2 5.5 6.4 5.5 6.9
Long term expected rate of return on:
Equities 8.0 8.3 8.0 9.0 8.5 9.1
Bonds 4.9 6.2 5.0 6.6 5.0 7.1
Property 6.5 5.2 ––––
Other 4.0 4.6 4.0 4.8 4.0 4.8
The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne
out in practice.The assumptions shown above for the Rest of Group represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual funds.
The UK defined benefit scheme is closed to new entrants and under the projected unit method for closed schemes the current service cost will
increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities in respect of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group are as follows:
At 31 March 2005 At 31 March 2004 At 31 March 2003
Rest of Rest of Rest of
UK Group UK Group UK Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 879 75 965 84 855 61
Bonds 539 52 353 56 246 56
Property 94 24 ––––
Other 103 65 90 52 53 36
Total fair value of scheme assets 1,615 216 1,408 192 1,154 153
Present value of funded scheme liabilities (1,775) (172) (1,744) (213) (1,630) (207)
(Deficit)/surplus in funded defined benefit schemes (160) 44 (336) (21) (476) (54)
Unrecognisable surplus in funded defined benefit schemes – (34) ––––
Deficit in unfunded schemes (20) (15) (20) (26) (18) (30)
Total deficit in defined benefit schemes (180) (5) (356) (47) (494) (84)
Deferred tax liability – (3) ––––
Net liability (180) (8) (356) (47) (494) (84)
At 31 March 2005, the pension deficit calculated under FRS 17 for the funded defined benefit pension schemes was £160 million in respect of the
principal UK scheme (2004 – £336 million, 2003 – £476 million) and a surplus/(deficit) of £10 million in respect of the Rest of the Group (2004 –
£(21) million, 2003 – £(54) million).The deficit in unfunded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2005 was £35 million in respect of the Group 
(2004 – £46 million, 2003 – £48 million), including £20 million in respect of the UK (2004 – £20 million, 2003 – £18 million), and £15 million in respect
of the Rest of the Group (2004 – £26 million, 2003 – £30 million).
A deferred tax liability of £3 million would be recognised at 31 March 2005 if the pension deficit of the Rest of the Group was reflected in the Financial
statements. Notes to the financial statements
116/117 2005 Annual Report
If the above amounts were recognised in the Financial Statements, the Group’s shareholders’ funds at 31 March 2005, 31 March 2004 and 31 March
2003 would be as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Shareholders’ funds as presented 1,818 1,703 2,111
Less: SSAP 24 net assets (176) (52) (71)
Shareholders’ funds excluding SSAP 24 net assets 1,642 1,651 2,040
FRS 17 retirement benefits net liability (188) (403) (578)
Shareholders’ funds including FRS 17 retirement benefits net liability 1,454 1,248 1,462
Under the transitional requirements of FRS 17, the following disclosures are given to show the impact on the profit and loss account and statement of
total recognised gains and losses if FRS 17 had been adopted in full.These amounts have not been included in the profit and loss account or the
statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Analysis of amounts that would be charged to operating profit for the years ended 31 March 2005, 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003 in respect 
of defined benefit schemes is as follows:
2005 2004 2003
Rest of Rest of Rest of
UK Group T otal UK Group T otal UK Group T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 21 6 27 24 10 34 27 17 44
Past service cost – – – –55–––
Total charged to operating profit 21 6 27 24 15 39 27 17 44
Analysis of other amounts that would be charged to the profit and loss account for the years ended 31 March 2005, 31 March 2004, and 
31 March 2003 is as follows:
2005 2004 2003
Rest of Rest of Rest of
UK Group T otal UK Group T otal UK Group T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Loss/(gain) on curtailment 1 (2) (1) 1 (4) (3) – (3) (3)
Analysis of amounts that would be charged/(credited) to other finance income for the years ended 31 March 2005, 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003
is as follows:
2005 2004 2003
Rest of Rest of Rest of
UK Group T otal UK Group T otal UK Group T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 95 12 107 90 15 105 84 14 98
Expected return on pension scheme assets (97) (16) (113) (86) (11) (97) (102) (12) (114)
Net return (2) (4) (6) 4 4 8 (18) 2 (16) Performance
Analysis of amounts that would be recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses for the years ended 31 March 2005, 31 March 2004
and 31 March 2003 is as follows:
2005 2004 2003
Rest of Rest of Rest of
UK Group T otal UK Group T otal UK Group T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return on 
pension scheme assets 45 12 57 192 41 233 (380) (16) (396)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities 35 9 44 47 (8) 39 (18) (12) (30)
Changes in the assumptions underlying the 
present value of the scheme liabilities (1) 35 34 (91) (3) (94) (111) (7) (118)
Gain arising from divestiture – 10 10 ––––––
Change in unrecognisable surplus – (35) (35) ––––––
Total actuarial gain/(loss) recognised
in the statement of total recognised
gains and losses 79 31 110 148 30 178 (509) (35) (544)
History of experience gains and losses for the years ended 31 March 2005, 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003 is as follows:
2005
UK Rest of Group Total
£m % £m % £m %
Difference between expected and actual 
return on scheme assets 45 3 12 6 57 3
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities 35295 44 3
Total actuarial gain recognised 
in the statement of total recognised 
gains and losses 79 43111 110 6
2004 2003
UK Rest of Group Total UK Rest of Group Total
£m % £m % £m % £m % £m % £m %
Difference between expected and actual 
return on scheme assets 192 14 41 21 233 15 (380) (33) (16) (10) (396) (30)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities 47 3 (8) (3) 39 2 (18) (1) (12) (5) (30) (1)
Total actuarial gain/(loss) recognised 
in the statement of total recognised 
gains and losses 148 8 30 12 178 9 (509) (31) (35) (15) (544) (29)
Analysis of movement in the balance sheet deficit as at 31 March 2005, 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003 is as follows:
2005 2004 2003
Rest of Rest of Rest of
UK Group T otal UK Group T otal UK Group T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deficit at beginning of the year (356) (47) (403) (494) (84) (578) (48) (28) (76)
Contributions made 117 11 128 19 19 38 72 15 87
Current service costs (21) (6) (27) (24) (10) (34) (27) (17) (44)
Past service costs – – – – (5) (5) – – –
Curtailment (loss)/gain (1) 2 1 (1) 43–33
Other finance (charge)/income 2 4 6 (4) (4) (8) 18 (2) 16
Actuarial gain/(loss) 79 31 110 148 30 178 (509) (35) (544)
Other movements – – – – (6) (6) – (26) (26)
Exchange gain – – – –99–66
Tax charge – (3) (3) ––––––
Deficit at end of the year (180) (8) (188) (356) (47) (403) (494) (84) (578)
Other movements consist of acquisitions and certain immaterial overseas schemes, which had not previously been included. Notes to the financial statements
118/119 2005 Annual Report
9 Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets before exceptional items amount to £5 million (2004 – £25 million, 2003 – £nil).The tax charge
attributable is £nil (2004 – £nil, 2003 – £nil) and the minority interest is £1 million (2004 – £nil, 2003 – £nil).
10 Exceptional items
Exceptional items before exceptional tax credit (see Note 12), in 2005, 2004 and 2003 comprise:
2005 2004
Exceptional Minority Exceptional Minority
items Taxation interest T otal items Taxation interest T otal
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Operating items
Other operating costs (i), (v) (145) 4 3 (138) (244) 9 9 (226)
Fixed asset impairment and amounts
written off (ii), (vi) (8) – – (8) (526) 64 41 (421)
Goodwill impairment charge (vi)––– – (10) – – (10)
(153) 4 3 (146) (780) 73 50 (657)
Non operating items
Profits less (losses) on sale and termination 
of operations (iii), (vii) 116 – – 116 250 – – 250
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets (iv), (viii) 23 – – 23 28–– 28
(14) 4 3 (7) (502) 73 50 (379)
2003
Exceptional Minority
items Taxation interest T otal
Note £m £m £m £m
Operating items
Other operating costs (ix) (442) 10 11 (421)
Fixed asset impairment and amounts written off (x) (2,381) 48 – (2,333)
Goodwill impairment charge (x) (2,725) – – (2,725)
(5,548) 58 11 (5,479)
Non operating items
Profits less (losses) on sale and termination of operations (xi) (147) – – (147)
Profits less (losses) on disposal of fixed assets (xii) 62 – (33) 29
Investments amounts written of (xiii) (274) – – (274)
(5,907) 58 (22) (5,871)
Year ended 31 March 2005
(i) Exceptional items included in other operating costs principally relate to the cost of restructuring Group businesses.These costs include £68 million
in respect of redundancy costs in continuing businesses (United Kingdom £29 million, Europe £29 million, Asia £1 million, Other £9 million) and
£54 million in respect of property costs (United Kingdom £23 million, Europe £10 million and Other £21 million).
Other exceptional operating costs include the net of provision releases of £15 million, charges of £11 million relating to onerous network costs in
the UK business and other restructuring charges in the UK business of £8 million.
Hurricane Ivan and Asian tsunami adversely impacted the Group’s operations in the Caribbean and Maldives, respectively. Exceptional restoration
costs of £19 million were incurred in rectifying damage caused to the network and other assets of these operations, comprising network related
costs £12 million, employee costs £2 million, property £2 million and other £3 million.
(ii) In addition to the exceptional restoration charges noted above, an impairment charge of £3 million was recognised relating to fixed assets that
were damaged by the hurricane and tsunami.
As a consequence of the restructuring in the Group’s European operations an impairment charge of £5 million was recognised in respect of 
fixed assets.This charge has been determined in accordance with FRS 11 “Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill” as part of a Group-wide
impairment review, which involved, amongst other factors, using discount rates of 8 to 40 per cent depending on the cost of capital of the
respective businesses. Performance
(iii) On 17 February 2005, the Group disposed of its Japanese operations, Cable & Wireless IDC, Inc. A gain of £42 million was recorded on disposal 
of this business within discontinued operations. An exceptional credit of £66 million was recorded in respect of US domestic operations that were
discontinued in the year ended 31 March 2004, principally comprising cash refunded to the Group as part of the Chapter 11 process. In addition a
net gain of £8 million was recorded in respect of the sale or termination of Group operations, being the net of previously accrued costs no longer
required (£42 million) partially offset by additional charges in the year (£34 million).
(iv) The gain on the disposal of fixed assets comprises £16 million relating to the disposal of a trade investment by Cable & Wireless, IDC Inc. prior to
its disposal by the Group, £10 million relating to the release of costs accrued on the disposal of investments in previous years no longer required
offset by a £3 million write-off of assets physically destroyed by Hurricane Ivan.
Year ended 31 March 2004
(v) Exceptional items included in other operating costs principally relate to the cost of restructuring Group businesses.These costs include £93 million
in respect of redundancy costs in continuing businesses (United Kingdom £48 million, Panama £7 million, Caribbean £25 million, Japan £5 million,
Other £8 million), £92 million in respect of property costs principally relating to the United Kingdom and £24 million of other costs of
restructuring incurred by the UK and European businesses.
Other exceptional costs include £13 million of customer acquisition costs no longer recoverable in light of circumstances that have given rise to
certain fixed asset impairments.
Exceptional costs of restructuring the discontinued US business prior to its disposal totalled £22 million principally relating to employee costs.
(vi) The Group carried out a review to determine whether there has been an impairment of its fixed assets and goodwill.The carrying values of fixed
assets of each of the Group’s income generating units have been compared with their recoverable amounts, represented by their value in use to
the Group.The charge has been determined in accordance with FRS 11 “Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill” which involved, amongst other
factors, using discount rates of between 10.5 and 20 per cent depending on the cost of capital of the respective businesses.
The result of this assessment was a charge of £10 million in respect of goodwill in Jamaica and £526 million in respect of depreciation of 
fixed assets throughout the Group.Tax credits of £64 million are available on the National Telecommunications companies’ depreciation
impairment charges.
The depreciation impairment charge arose in the United Kingdom (£119 million), Japan (£126 million), Caribbean (£197 million), Panama
(£65 million) and Macau and the Rest of the World (£19 million).
(vii) On 8 December 2003 the Group’s US business filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the US Bankruptcy Code.The effect of the 
filing for Chapter 11 together with the sale agreement with Gores was that the Group’s ability to control Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and 
Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. and their subsidiaries (“CW America”) was severely restricted. Accordingly, the Group has deconsolidated
Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. and their subsidiaries from 8 December 2003.
The gain on the exit of the US business of £191 million reflects the deconsolidation of third party net liabilities net of costs of exit.
In addition, £57 million of accrued costs relating to disposals in previous years, principally the disposal of the consumer operations of 
Cable & Wireless Communications plc on 30 May 2000, have been released.
A £2 million gain arose on the disposal of certain European businesses after taking account of the release of provisions relating to these businesses.
(viii)The gain on the disposal of fixed assets comprises £16 million relating to the disposal of certain properties in the United States as part of the
restructuring of the US business prior to deconsolidation, and £12 million principally comprising disposal of properties in the United Kingdom and
the Caribbean as part of restructuring.
Year ended 31 March 2003
(ix) The Group announced a restructuring in the United Kingdom, United States, Japan/Asia and Europe on 13 November 2002. Exceptional costs in
the period of £248 million associated with this restructuring include £182 million in respect of property costs, £52 million in respect of redundancy
costs and £14 million of other costs.
Other exceptional costs relate to integration costs of Digital Island and the business activities of Exodus of £31 million, redundancy costs of 
£38 million principally in the Caribbean, Panama and Macau, £44 million of provisions in respect of rentals on vacant properties and £81 million in
respect of onerous network contracts and distressed carrier asset write offs. Notes to the financial statements
120/121 2005 Annual Report
(x) The Group carried out a review to determine whether there had been an impairment of its fixed assets and goodwill.The carrying values of fixed
assets and goodwill of each of the Group’s income generating units was compared to their recoverable amounts, represented by their value in use
to the Group.The charge was determined in accordance with FRS 11 which involved, amongst other factors, using a growth rate of 2.5 per cent
after five years (based on a nominal increase in GDP for the countries in which the Group operates) and a discount rate of 14 per cent.The
resulting charge was £12 million in respect of goodwill and £1,479 million in respect of fixed assets.This charge was in addition to the charge of
£2,713 million in respect of goodwill and £787 million in respect of fixed assets recognised at the half year. Exceptional depreciation also includes
the write off of redundant fixed assets of £58 million.Tax credits of £48 million were available on £191 million of the impairment charge, which was
disclosed in the 2002 Group Financial Statements.
(xi) The Group has exited its US retail voice business, as announced on 15 May 2002.The exceptional costs associated with this amount to 
£288 million and include exit costs of £200 million, redundant fixed asset write downs of £57 million included in the exceptional depreciation
charge and other write downs of £31 million. In addition, £84 million of accrued costs relating to disposals in previous years, principally the disposal
of the consumer operations of Cable & Wireless Communications plc on 30 May 2000, have been released.
(xii) The profit of £62 million on disposal of fixed assets principally comprises a £54 million gain on the sale of part of the Group’s interest in
MobileOne (Asia) Pte Ltd.
(xiii)The current asset investments principally relating to PCCW Limited have been written down by £274 million to market value at 31 March 2003.
11 Net interest and other similar income/(charges)
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Interest receivable and similar income
Deposits and short-term loan interest and similar income 103 108 198
Exchange losses on retranslation of foreign currency denominated loans and deposits – (5) (9)
Dividends from fixed asset investments 4 ––
107 103 189
Interest payable and other similar charges
Finance charges on leases – (1) (3)
Bank loans and overdrafts (9) (21) (23)
Other loans (61) (63) (62)
Unwinding of discount in provisions (1) (8) (3)
(71) (93) (91)
Less: Interest capitalised 2 35
(69) (90) (86)
Net interest and other similar income 38 13 103
Tax relief of £nil is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2005 (2004 – £nil, 2003 – £nil). Interest has been capitalised at a rate of
6 per cent (2004 – 6 per cent, 2003 – 6 per cent). Performance
12 Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities
The charge for tax, based on the Group profit/(loss) for the year, comprises:
2005 2004 2003
Taxation
before
exceptional Exceptional
tax credit tax credit Total
United Kingdom £m £m £m £m £m
Corporate tax at 30% (2004 – 30%, 2003 – 30%)
Current 4–4 28 39
Double taxation relief (4) – (4) (28) (39)
Deferred ––– –1
Adjustments in respect of prior years
– current ––– (64) (54)
– deferred ––– – (7)
––– (64) (60)
Overseas
Current 51 – 51 42 65
Deferred 8–8 (60) 26
Adjustments in respect of prior years
– current (11) (85) (96) 63 43
– deferred 16 – 16 (3) (51)
64 (85) (21) 42 83
Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures 7–7 10 13
7–7 10 13
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 71 (85) (14) (12) 36
The Group’s effective tax rate varies from the statutory tax rate as a result of the following factors:
2005 2004 2003
Taxation
before
exceptional Exceptional
tax credit tax credit Total
%%%%%
UK corporation tax rate 30.0 – 30.0 30.0 30.0
Income/expenses not taxable/allowable – permanent 18.1 – 18.1 (16.9) (12.9)
Income/expenses not taxable/allowable – timing (26.3) – (26.3) (25.2) (17.4)
Tax losses not utilised 1.9 – 1.9 (27.6) (6.6)
Tax rate differences (5.6) – (5.6) 13.1 5.7
Utilisation of tax losses brought forward (2.3) – (2.3) 3.5 –
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods (2.9) (23.4) (26.3) 0.4 0.2
Effective current tax rate on ordinary activities 12.9 (23.4) (10.5) (22.7) (1.0)
The exceptional tax credit of £85 million relates to the settlement and clarification of various long-standing overseas tax items at less than their
expected cost.
13 Dividends
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Interim paid 27 –37
Final proposed 60 73 –
87 73 37
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust. During the year 14,076 of
shareholders owning 105,537,992 of shares elected to take all or part of their dividends in shares (see Note 23). Notes to the financial statements
122/123 2005 Annual Report
14 Earnings/(loss) per share
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of
Ordinary Shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust and Treasury shares (Note 24) which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per Ordinary Share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive
potential Ordinary Shares.The Group has two classes of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: certain of the share options granted to employees and the
shares issuable on conversion of the Group’s convertible debt.
The table below sets out the reconciliation of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year attributable to shareholders 302 (237) (6,417)
Effect of diluted securities
Interest saved 8 ––
Adjusted profit/(loss) (diluted EPS) 310 (237) (6,417)
Basic weighted average number of shares 2,322,458,697 2,327,738,940 2,329,814,506
Effect of diluted securities 
Share options 27,511,135 ––
Convertible loan note 177,733,748 ––
Diluted weighted average number of shares 2,527,703,580 2,327,738,940 2,329,814,506
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 13.0p (10.2)p (275.4)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 12.3p (10.2)p (275.4)p
Basic and diluted loss per Ordinary Share are equal in periods where there is no impact of dilution on the loss for the financial year nor the weighted
average number of shares.
15 Intangible fixed assets
Licences
Negative Positive and other
goodwill goodwill intangibles T otal
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 (14) 3,889 9 3,884
Acquisitions –9112 103
Disposals – (276) – (276)
Exchange adjustments –4– 4
At 31 March 2005 (14) 3,708 21 3,715
Amortisation
At 1 April 2004 5 (3,889) (9) (3,893)
Disposals – 276 – 276
Credit/(charge) for the year – amortisation 2 (7) (2) (7)
At 31 March 2005 7 (3,620) (11) (3,624)
Net book value
At 31 March 2005 (7) 88 10 91
At 31 March 2004 (9) – – (9)
Negative goodwill is being amortised on a straight-line basis over five years.The goodwill arising on the acquisitions of Monaco Telecom and Bulldog
(see Note 31) is being amortised on a straight-line basis over 18.6 and 5 years, respectively.These periods are the periods over which the Directors
estimate that the values of the underlying businesses acquired are expected to exceed the value of the underlying assets.
Other intangible assets include intellectual property and international managed service contracts recognised in respect of the acquisition of XM Mobile
B.V., and Monaco Telecom, respectively.These are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives (between 1 and 5 years).
Disposals relate to goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Cable & Wireless IDC Inc.This goodwill was fully impaired through the profit and loss
account in prior years. Performance
16 T angible fixed assets
Group Company
Projects Projects
Land and Plant and under Land and Plant and under
buildings equipment construction T otal buildings equipment construction T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 593 7,803 455 8,851 276 4 82
Additions 2 108 288 398 –2– 2
Acquisitions – 33 – 33 ––– –
Disposals (55) (583) (13) (651) ––– –
Transfers 4 410 (414) – – 1 (1) –
Exchange and other adjustments (7) (44) (7) (58) ––– –
At 31 March 2005 537 7,727 309 8,573 2 79 3 84
Depreciation
At 1 April 2004 383 7,100 154 7,637 170 – 71
Charge for the year 13 181 – 194 –2– 2
Impairment – exceptional depreciation – 6 2 8 ––– –
Disposals (26) (563) (12) (601) ––– –
Transfers – 144 (144) – ––– –
Exchange and other adjustments (2) (42) – (44) ––– –
At 31 March 2005 368 6,826 – 7,194 1 72 – 73
Net book value
At 31 March 2005 169 901 309 1,379173 11
At 31 March 2004 210 703 301 1,214164 11
Included in the cost of plant and equipment is £6 million (2004 – £48 million) relating to assets held under finance leases. Accumulated depreciation on
these assets is £1 million (2004 – £46 million).
Included within additions is interest and own work capitalised of £2 million (2004 – £3 million) and £43 million (2004 – £42 million) respectively.
The cumulative amount of interest capitalised in the total cost above is £43 million (2004 – £41 million).
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Land and buildings at net book value
Freeholds 120 175 1 1
Long leaseholds 2 2 – –
Short leaseholds 47 33 – –
169 210 1 1 Notes to the financial statements
124/125 2005 Annual Report
17 Fixed asset investments
Group Company
Joint Joint
ventures and Other ventures and Subsidiary Other
associates investments T otal associates undertakings investments T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost/valuation
At 1 April 2004 – see Note 24 71 80 151 26 16,272 28 16,326
Additions 14 4 18 ––– –
Disposals – (41) (41) (2) – (28) (30)
Revaluation – – – ––– –
Exchange adjustments (1) (1) (2) ––– –
At 31 March 2005 84 42 126 24 16,272 – 16,296
Loans
At 1 April 2004 1 – 1 1 12,707 – 12,708
Additions – – – – 790 – 790
Loans repaid and transferred – – – – (40) – (40)
At 31 March 2005 1 – 1 1 13,457 – 13,458
Provisions and amounts written off
At 1 April 2004 (40) (22) (62) (5) (9,279) – (9,284)
(Increase)/decrease in year (6) 4 (2) – (38) – (38)
Disposals –(4) (4) ––– –
At 31 March 2005 (46) (22) (68) (5) (9,317) – (9,322)
Share of post acquisition reserves
At 1 April 2004 176 – 176 ––– –
Share of retained profit 8 – 8 ––– –
Disposals (9) – (9) ––– –
Exchange adjustments (5) – (5) ––– –
At 31 March 2005 170 – 170 ––––
Net book value 
At 31 March 2005 209 20 229 20 20,412 – 20,432
At 31 March 2004 208 58 266 22 19,700 28 19,750
A list of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates is given in Note 34.
Group Company
Joint ventures Other Joint ventures Other
and associates investments and associates investments
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Investments at net book value
Listed shares 86 77 15 19 17 17 – –
Unlisted shares 122 130 5 39 2 4 – 28
Loans 1 1 – – 1 1 – –
209 208 20 58 20 22 – 28
In accordance with UITF 38, the Group and Company’s investment in its own shares through the ESOP trust has been reclassified to the profit and loss
reserve (see Note 24 for more details).
The market value of the Group’s holdings in listed shares was £386 million (2004 – £193 million) for joint ventures and associates and £77 million
(2004 – £55 million) for other investments.The market value of the Company’s holdings in listed shares of joint ventures and associates was 
£386 million (2004 – £193 million). Performance
Reconciliation of Group share of profits less (losses) of joint ventures and associates with post acquisition retained reserves
Joint Joint Joint
ventures Associates 2005 ventures Associates 2004 ventures Associates 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Share of turnover 127 60 187 136 61 197 195 65 260
Operating costs (111) (36) (147) (113) (43) (156) (142) (43) (185)
Operating profits less (losses) 16 24 40 23 18 41 53 22 75
Net interest (1) 1 – – – – (2) 1 (1)
Share of profits less (losses) before tax 15 25 40 23 18 41 51 23 74
Taxation charge (7) – (7) (10) – (10) (13) – (13)
Dividends paid to Group companies (11) (14) (25) (12) (13) (25) (13) (15) (28)
Share of retained profits (3) 11 8 156 25 8 33
Segmental analysis of Group share of turnover and operating profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associates
Turnover Operating profit/(loss)
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom – 66 (8) (1) –
Caribbean 107 108 111 19 30 33
Monaco 1 –– 1 ––
Other – –52 – –13
Rest of the World 79 83 91 28 12 29
187 197 260 40 41 75
Group share of net assets of joint ventures and associates
Joint Joint
ventures Associates 2005 ventures Associates 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets 140 51 191 152 55 207
Current assets 49 49 98 38 39 77
Group share of gross assets 189 100 289 190 94 284
Current borrowings (8) – (8) (7) – (7)
Other current liabilities (36) (18) (54) (24) (18) (42)
Long-term borrowings (12) – (12) (16) (1) (17)
Other long-term liabilities (5) (2) (7) (11) – (11)
Group share of gross liabilities (61) (20) (81) (58) (19) (77)
Share of net assets 128 80 208 132 75 207
Segmental analysis of the Group share of net assets of joint ventures and associates
Joint Joint
ventures Associates 2005 ventures Associates 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Caribbean 119 – 119 115 – 115
Monaco 1– 1 –––
Rest of the World 8 80 88 17 75 92
128 80 208 132 75 207
18 Stocks
Stocks comprise network equipment and mobile handsets held for resale. Notes to the financial statements
126/127 2005 Annual Report
19 Debtors
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors 565 591 2 2
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 93 72
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 4 5 5 5
Other taxation and social security 2 7 – –
Other debtors 138 149 19 36
Prepayments and accrued income 107 119 29 8
Lease payments receivable – 4 – –
816 875 148 123
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Deferred taxation 25 28 – –
Other taxation and social security 14 17 – –
Other debtors 20 22 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 224 103 142 102
Lease payments receivable 1 5 – –
284 175 142 102
Total debtors 1,100 1,050 290 225
20 Current asset investments and short-term deposits
Current asset investments and short-term deposits are £2,031 million (2004 – £2,229 million) (Company £1,819 million, 2004 – £2,133 million),
including £14 million (2004 – £12 million) of gilts (Company – £12 million, 2004 – £12 million), and £80 million of Credit Linked Notes (2004 – 
£50 million), (Company – £80 million, 2004 – £50 million). See Note 25 for details of restrictions on short-term deposits.
The £80 million of Credit Linked Notes were issued by two AA-rated banks, and are referenced to the Company’s £200 million bond, which matures in
2012.These transactions have a similar economic effect to repurchasing the bonds for the period of the investment. In return for the Company
receiving interest on the Credit Linked Notes at rates in excess of LIBOR, the final redemption to be received by the Company would be less than face
value if a “credit event” as defined in the terms of the note occurs in respect of Cable and Wireless plc.
Reflecting the terms of the underlying bond, credit events in the notes are as follows:
– bankruptcy;
– failure to make any payment due under any of its debt obligations, after expiration of any grace period and subject to a threshold of £25 million; and
– restructuring of any of its debt subject to a threshold of £25 million.
If a credit event should take place, the counterparties to the Credit Linked Notes are entitled to deliver to Cable and Wireless plc its own bonds or
debt obligations with a face value equivalent to that of the Credit Linked Notes, or a cash amount equal to the market value thereof. Performance
21 Creditors
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Amounts falling due within one year £m £m £m £m
Loans and obligations under finance leases
Bank loans and overdrafts – 1 – –
Current instalments due on loans 22 40 – –
Obligations under finance leases 1 3 – –
23 44 – –
Other creditors
Payments received on account 4 6 – –
Trade creditors 435 465 3 –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 31 61
Dividends payable 60 73 60 73
Other taxation and social security 198 302 119 205
Other creditors 172 154 75 66
Accruals and deferred income 642 624 44 110
1,511 1,624 332 515
Total creditors falling due within one year 1,534 1,668 332 515
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Amounts falling due after more than one year £m £m £m £m
Other loans
Sterling repayable at various dates up to 2019 485 520 304 320
US dollars repayable at various dates up to 2038 84 125 – –
Other currencies repayable at various dates up to 2017 1 13 – –
4 per cent convertible unsecured bond due 2010 252 252 252 252
822 910 556 572
Less: current instalments due (22) (40) – –
800 870 556 572
Obligations under finance leases 1 5 – –
Total other loans and obligations under finance leases 801 875 556 572
Other creditors
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 18,382 17,786
– – 18,382 17,786
Total creditors falling due after more than one year 801 875 18,938 18,358
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group.
On 16 July 2003 £257,714,000 4 per cent convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par. Subject to Cable & Wireless’ right to make a cash alternative
election, each bond entitles the holder to: i) convert the conversion amount of such bond into fully paid Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each at the rate
of 457.930 Ordinary Shares for each £1,000 held at an initial conversion price of £1.45 per Ordinary Share; and ii) to have redeemed the cash settled
amount of such bond in accordance with the terms and conditions (representing 231.724 Ordinary Shares for each £1,000 held at the initial conversion
price of £1.45 per Ordinary Share), at any time prior to 9 July 2010. Full conversion of the bonds would result in an additional 177,733,748 shares
being issued.
After 16 July 2007, if Cable & Wireless’ share price exceeds an amount calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions for a specified number
of days, Cable & Wireless has the right to give not less than 30 days and not more than 90 days’ notice that it will redeem all unconverted bonds still
outstanding on a given date at par plus accrued interest. If the bonds have not been converted, purchased and cancelled or redeemed by 16 July 2010,
they will be redeemed at par on that date. Notes to the financial statements
128/129 2005 Annual Report
The finance cost charged in the profit and loss account comprises the aggregate of the coupon and the proportion of issue costs that relate to the
financial year.
During the year, Cable & Wireless repurchased £19.9 million of the £200 million 8.625 per cent bonds due 2019 at an average price of 99.83 and 
£16 million of the £200 million 8.75 per cent bonds due 2012 at an average price of 101.625 (2004 – £nil).
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Payment profile of total other loans and obligations under finance leases
In more than one year but not more than two years 143 31 121 –
In more than two years but not more than five years 29 169 – 121
In more than five years 629 675 435 451
801 875 556 572
Interest is payable on loans and obligations falling due after more than five years at rates of between 4 per cent and 8.75 per cent.
Any borrowing, the liability of which is swapped into another currency, is accounted for as a liability in the swap currency and not in the original
currency of denomination.
Borrowings totalling £nil are secured on assets of the Group (2004 – £9 million).
22 Provisions for liabilities and charges
At Acquisitions, At
1 April Amounts disposals Foreign 31 March
2004 Additions Releases used and transfers exchange 2005
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group
Deferred taxation (i) 25 21––– (3) 43
Pensions (ii) 50 4 (10) (1) (9) – 34
Redundancy (iii) 27 68 (6) (30) – – 59
Property (iv) 151 54 (20) (66) – – 119
Network (v) 127 28 (25) (19) – 1 112
Other (vi) 51 78 7 – 25 – 161
431 253 (54) (116) 16 (2) 528
At At
1 April Amounts 31 March
2004 Additions Releases used Transfers 2005
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Company
Deferred taxation (i) 1–––– 1
Pensions (ii) 40 3 (10) – – 33
Redundancy (iii) 8 9 (8) – – 9
Property (iv) 45 17 (27) (4) – 31
Network (v) 49 – – (39) – 10
Other (vi) 31 35 – 9 25 100
174 64 (45) (34) 25 184
(i) Deferred taxation
The movement in the Group deferred tax balance from £25 million to £43 million during the year includes £21 million charged in the profit and loss
account (Company – £nil) and £(3) million relating to foreign exchange (Company – £nil).The deferred tax balance relates to capital allowances in
excess of depreciation of £42 million (Company – £1 million) and other timing differences of £1 million (Company – £nil).
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more
likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. Due to the availability of losses and
other reliefs, and the reinvestment of earnings, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. Performance
As at 31 March 2005, the Group had unrecognised deferred tax timing differences in the UK relating to surplus capital allowances of £1.8 billion 
(2004 – £1.8 billion) and other timing differences of £0.2 billion (2004 – £0.1 billion).These tax attributes will be available for offset against future 
UK taxable profits. Additionally, at 31 March 2005, the Group had tax losses to carry forward of approximately £12.1 billion (2004 – £10.6 billion).
These principally arise in overseas holding companies where the opportunity to realise benefit from these losses is considered remote.
Included in debtors falling due after more than one year (Note 19) are deferred tax debtors of £25 million of which £20 million (2004 – £28 million)
relates to surplus capital allowances and £5 million (2004 – £nil) relates to other timing differences.The movement in the deferred tax debtor includes 
£3 million debited to the profit and loss account.
(ii) Pensions
The Group operates various unfunded pension plans. Provision is made for the expected cost of meeting the associated liabilities. In view of their long-
term nature, the timing of utilisation of these provisions is uncertain. Included within this provision is an amount of £12.5 million (2004 – £12.1 million)
to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
(iii) Redundancy
Provision has been made for the cost of redundancies announced during the year, which are expected to be utilised within 12 months.
(iv) Property
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represents the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties
being sub-let.The provision is expected to be utilised over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
(v) Network
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.The provision is expected to be
utilised over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
(vi) Other
Group Other provisions include amounts relating to the disposal of the US discontinued businesses, which are expected to be utilised within 12 months
and amounts relating to claims against the Group’s insurance subsidiary, and amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals of Group companies and
investments.The insurance and disposal cost provisions are expected to be utilised over a period extending beyond 12 months. Amounts totalling 
£25 million have been reclassified from other creditors during the period.
23 Called up share capital
2005 2004
Authorised £m £m
3,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25p each
(2004 – 3,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25p each) 875 875
Allotted, called up and fully paid
2,394,822,240 Ordinary Shares of 25p each 599 596
(2004 – 2,385,467,990 Ordinary Shares of 25p each)
Purchases and allotments of Ordinary Shares of 25p each were made during the year in respect of the following:
Gross
consideration
Number of received
shares allotted £
C&W Revenue Approved Share Option Scheme Nil Nil
C&W Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1,499,690 678,675
C&W Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 408,757 305,970
C&W Share Option Plan (Approved) 28,929 29,999
C&W Share Option Plan (Unapproved) 4,391,571 4,558,778
Scrip dividends 3,025,303
a
T otal 9,354,250 5,573,422
a
Scrip dividends with a cash equivalent value of £3,368,237 were issued during the year.This represents a non-cash transaction. Notes to the financial statements
130/131 2005 Annual Report
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was £2.3 million (2004 – £0.6 million).The Company repurchased 60,500,000 shares,
representing 2.53 per cent of issued share capital at 31 March 2005, during the year for consideration of £75 million. None of these shares were cancelled
as at 31 March 2005.The nominal value and market value of Treasury shares held at 31 March 2005 was £15 million and £78.2 million, respectively.
At 31 March 2005 outstanding options granted under share option schemes to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were as follows:
Number of shares Price Remaining period
C&W Senior Employees’ Share Option Scheme (SESOS) 298,416 704.60-716.30p 2005
137,877 810.70-982.00p 2005-2006
3,756,840 885.70-1279.60p 2005-2007
667,671 470.60-798.05p 2005-2008
C&W Savings Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE) 1,275 427.84p 2005
39,898 533.68-558.64p 2005-2006
41,779 625.36-687.68p 2005-2007
26,345 76.76-985.92p 2005-2008
226,962 274.64-357.92p 2005-2009
667,551 158.36p 2005-2010
16,908,113 36.96p 2006-2010
5,407,632 89.00p 2006-2011
1,214,334 107.56p 2007-2011
1,720,945 102.60p 2007-2012*
C&W Revenue Approved Share Option Scheme (RESOS) 236,997 413.70p 2005
192,569 420.50p 2005-2006
438,781 548.50-553.30p 2005-2007
105,204 704.60p 2005-2008
24,229 810.70-982.00p 2005-2009
3,346,197 907.80-1279.60p 2005-2010
191,954 470.60-760.90p 2005-2011
C&W Share Option Plan (Approved and Unapproved) 24,931,204 333.60-372.19p 2005-2008
12,266,453 163.25-262.00p 2005-2009
947,500 103.70-112.85p 2005-2010
26,553,342 103.70-135.70p 2006-2010
449,000 108.00p 2005-2011*
1,503,818 128.70-143.25p 2007-2011
19,530,366 108.00-119.10p 2007-2011*
1,476,682 129.15p 2008-2012*
C&W Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme (GSAYE) 790,879 274.64-687.68p 2005
4,950,761 36.96-893.76p 2005-2006
2,443,273 89.00-687.68p 2006-2007
2,356,155 36.96-158.36p 2007-2008
5,203 102.60p 2007-2009
646,358 89.00-107.56p 2008-2009
1,237,915 91.60p 2008-2010*
6,839 89.00p 2010-2011
* Granted during the year ended 31 March 2005. Performance
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust 
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (“the Trust”) is a discretionary trust, which has been funded by loans from the 
Company to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc.The Trust holds 54,759,057 shares (2004 – 56,120,783 shares) with a cost of £149 million 
(2004 – £152 million) and a market value of £71 million (2004 – £73 million) on 31 March 2005.The Trust used funds provided by Cable and 
Wireless plc to meet the Group’s obligations under the senior executive share option scheme. Share options are granted to employees at the 
discretion of Cable and Wireless plc and shares are awarded to employees by the trust in accordance with the wishes of Cable and Wireless plc.
The costs of running the Trust are included in the profit and loss account as they accrue.The Trustees of the plan may notionally allocate Ordinary
Shares in the Company annually to Executive Directors or other senior executives and other key staff. Shares are held in trust until such time as they
may be transferred to employees in accordance with the terms of the Performance Share Plan, the Restricted Share Plan, the Deferred Short Term
Incentive Plan, details of which are given in the Directors’ remuneration report, and the Share Option Plan, details of which are given below.The shares
will be provided from existing Ordinary Shares in issue acquired by the Trustees.The expected cost of all these shares is charged to the profit and 
loss account over the life of the relevant scheme. Surplus shares may be held to satisfy future awards.The Trust has waived its rights to dividends. At 
31 March 2005, there were 3,214,187 shares under contingent awards in relation to the Performance Share Plan, 3,914,279 shares under restricted
share awards in relation to the Restricted Share Plan, 1,110,739 shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan, 719,932 shares under the Deferred Short Term
Incentive Plan, 35,000 shares under the Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, and 28,465,851 shares under options in relation to the Share Option Plan.
Cable & Wireless Savings Related Share Option Scheme and Cable & Wireless Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Under the Cable & Wireless Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE scheme”), UK employees can enter a savings contract with a bank to save
regular monthly sums of between £5 and £250 for a period of either three or five years. At the end of the savings contract, the participant receives
interest from the bank on their savings.The savings and the interest may then be used to exercise an option over Ordinary Shares of the Company,
which are issued at a discount of 20 per cent to the market value of the Company’s Ordinary Shares at the date of grant.The Company has extended
the SAYE scheme to its overseas employees by the Cable & Wireless Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“GSAYE scheme”).The GSAYE
scheme is offered in various of the Group’s territories (excluding the United Kingdom) and it operates along similar lines to the SAYE scheme with 
local variances to accommodate local legal and tax considerations.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption contained in UITF Abstract 17 – ‘Employee share schemes’ not to recognise a charge to the profit
and loss account in respect of its Inland Revenue approved SAYE scheme.
Cable & Wireless Revenue Approved Share Option Scheme and Cable & Wireless Senior Employees’ Share Option Scheme
Prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless granted share options under the Cable & Wireless Senior Employees’ Share Option Scheme (“SESOS”) and the
Cable & Wireless Revenue Approved Share Option Scheme (“RESOS”). Options awarded under these plans between June 1999 and July 2001 are
subject to performance conditions based on Cable & Wireless’Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index,
underpinned by real growth in EBITDA and turnover. For full vesting, Cable & Wireless’TSR must achieve at least upper quartile level against the FTSE
100 between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. Half vesting applies for TSR at the median level, with a sliding scale between median
and upper quartile. If the performance conditions are not met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse. As at the date of this
report, no such options have achieved their performance conditions.
Options granted under RESOS and SESOS before June 1999 became exercisable if growth in the Company’s published earnings per share (excluding
exceptional items) measured over any period of three consecutive financial years, commencing not earlier than the financial year in which the option
was granted, exceeded by not less than 6 per cent the percentage growth of the Retail Price Index over the same three-year period. All such options
became exercisable in full. No further grants will be made under the RESOS and SESOS plans.
Cable & Wireless Share Option Plan 
The Share Option Plan is the principal vehicle for long-term retention and incentivisation for the Executive Directors, other executives and key staff.
The level of any award is determined by the Remuneration Committee each year by reference to total remuneration within a market peer group,
subject to an overriding annual limit of six times salary for the Chief Executive Officer and four times salary for other Executive Directors.
The vesting of share options awarded to the Executive Directors and to all employees outside the United States is subject to relative TSR performance
conditions. Full vesting occurs only if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile between the third and fifth
anniversaries of the date of grant.Where TSR performance meets the median, 50 per cent of the initial award vests. A sliding scale operates between
median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median. If performance conditions have not been met by the fifth
anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse.With effect from May 2004 the re-testing of performance conditions for share options granted from
that date have ceased. If performance conditions for such options have not been met by the third anniversary of the date of grant the option lapses.
Performance conditions are applied in determining the level of awards to employees in the United States, but do not normally apply to the vesting of
such awards. In addition, 25 per cent of awards to employees in the United States vest on the first anniversary of the date of the grant with a further
25 per cent on each subsequent anniversary.These terms reflect normal practice in the United States. Notes to the financial statements
132/133 2005 Annual Report
Cable & Wireless Share Purchase Plan
The Company also offers its employees who are chargeable to income tax, under Section 15 Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, the Cable &
Wireless Share Purchase Plan (“the Plan”) which is a Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan. Under the Plan, employees can contribute up to a value
of £1,500 or 10 per cent of salary each tax year, (whichever is the lower) to buy partnership shares in the Company. Shares are held in a UK resident
trust and can be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but there may be Pay As You Earn taxation and National Insurance contributions payable in such
events if the shares have not been held in the trust for five years. Dividends on the partnership shares are reinvested in additional Dividend Shares.
Stock Appreciation Rights
Stock Appreciation Rights mirror the benefits of the three other elements of the Incentive Plan but are used in countries where it is more tax effective
not to use actual shares or share options, or where the use of shares or share options is prohibited or made difficult by local legislation.
24 Reserves
Group
Capital Profit and
Share Special redemption loss
premium reserve reserve account
£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 2 1,745 105 (704)
Prior year adjustment:
– UITF 38 – – – (41)
At 1 April 2004 2 1,745 105 (745)
Issued in year 6–––
Transfer – (9) – 9
Own shares purchased and held in ESOP trust –––3
Purchase of own shares – – – (75)
Exchange adjustments – – – (37)
Profit for the year retained ––– 215
At 31 March 2005 8 1,736 105 (630)
Company
Capital Profit and
Share Special redemption loss
premium reserve reserve account
£m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 2 1,745 105 700
Prior year adjustment:
– UITF 38 – – – (41)
At 1 April 2004 2 1,745 105 659
Issued in year 6–––
Transfer – (9) – 9
Own shares purchased and held in ESOP trust –––3
Purchase of own shares – – – (75)
Profit for the year retained ––– 65
At 31 March 2005 8 1,736 105 661
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of share premium account approved by the Company at the 2003 Annual General Meeting and
confirmed by the Court in February 2004. It will be reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share
premium account of the Company after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a
capitalisation of distributable reserves.The special reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the Company until any debt or claim against the
Company outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
Exchange adjustments in the Group are net of exchange losses of £1 million (2004 – £nil, 2003 – £20 million) on foreign currency borrowings.
The cumulative amount of goodwill charged to reserves in prior years as a result of acquisitions, net of goodwill written back through the profit and
loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses, amounted to £398 million (2004 – £398 million, 2003 – £398 million). Of this amount 
£21 million (2004 – £21 million, 2003 – £21 million) related to joint ventures and associates.
All shares in the ESOP trust are held to satisfy the Group’s obligation in respect of share options granted. Performance
The consideration paid to purchase shares held in the ESOP trust or for the repurchase of shares held in Treasury are deducted from the profit and
loss reserve.
Prior year adjustments
The adoption of UITF 38 has resulted in a change in the presentation of shares in the ESOP trust controlled by the Company as a deduction in arriving
at shareholders’ funds and has led to a decrease in shareholders’ funds.
Group
Opening equity shareholders’ funds were originally £1,744 million before deducting a prior year adjustment of £41 million (2003 – £2,149 million
before deductions of £38 million) relating to a change in accounting policy for employee share awards. A corresponding adjustment was made to other
investments “Own shares held”.
Company
Opening equity shareholders’ funds were originally £3,148 million before deducting a prior year adjustment of £41 million (2003 – £3,654 million
before deductions of £38 million) relating to a change in accounting policy for employee share awards. A corresponding adjustment was made to other
investments “Own shares held”.
The prior year adjustment in the Statement of total recognised gains and losses reflects the reversal of the previous impairment charge of 
£116 million and the change in basis on which charges in the profit and loss account are determined (£3 million).The profit and loss account for the
year ended 31 March 2003 has been amended accordingly.
The adoption of UITF 17 did not have a material impact on the Group or Company’s profit and loss accounts. Accordingly, no adjustments have 
been made.
25 Financial instruments
An outline of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the Group in relation to financial instruments is set out under “Liquidity and Capital
Resources” and “Disclosures about Market Risk” within the Operating and Financial Review.
For the purpose of the disclosures that follow in this note, short term debtors and creditors that arise directly from the Group’s operations have been
excluded from financial assets and liabilities as permitted under FRS 13 “Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures” except for currency risk
disclosures.The disclosures therefore focus on those financial instruments which play a significant medium to long-term role in the financial risk profile 
of the Group. An analysis of the carrying value of all financial assets and liabilities is given in the fair value table on page 135.
Interest rate management
The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the Group at 31 March 2005, after taking account of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest
rate swaps, is set out in the table below:
Floating Non-interest Floating Non-interest
rate Fixed rate bearing 2005 rate Fixed rate bearing 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Currency
Sterling 121 617 – 738 121 653 – 774
US$ 25 60 – 85 46 81 – 127
Yen ––– – –15 – 15
Other – 1 – 1 21–3
146 678 – 824 169 750 – 919
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest at rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from one week to six
months by reference to LIBOR for sterling and US dollar borrowings. Notes to the financial statements
134/135 2005 Annual Report
The weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate financial liabilities of the Group at 31 March 2005, together with the periods for which the rates
were fixed, are set out in the table below:
2005 2004
Weighted Weighted
average average
Weighted period for Weighted period for
average which rate average which rate
interest rate is fixed interest rate is fixed
% Months % Months
Currency
Sterling 6.8 102 6.9 116
US$ 5.4 73 5.4 76
Yen –– 3.5 80
Other 10.0 22 10.0 34
6.7 98 6.7 111
The interest and other similar income rate profile of the financial assets of the Group at 31 March 2005, after taking account of interest rate swaps,
is set out in the table below:
Non-interest Non-interest
Floating rate bearing 2005 Floating rate bearing 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Currency
Sterling 1,861 – 1,861 2,178 31 2,209
US$ 168 1 169 136 6 142
Euro 87 – 87 10 – 10
Yen –– – 819
HK$ 115 16 21719
Other 49 4 53 33 3 36
2,166 20 2,186 2,367 58 2,425
The floating rate financial assets principally comprise cash and short term deposits. Of the total, approximately 86 per cent (at 31 March 2005) is held
by the Group’s central treasury operations, primarily as sterling and US dollar cash deposits with short-term maturities based on LIBOR and maturities
ranging between one and 12 months.
At 31 March 2005, the Group does not have any significant financial assets upon which fixed income was earned during that year.The non-interest
bearing financial assets are held in the form of shares.
Exchange risk management
The following table shows the Group’s currency exposures at 31 March 2005 on currency transactions that give rise to the net currency gains and
losses recognised in the profit and loss account. Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated 
in the functional currency of the operating company involved.
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) in £m
2005 2004
Functional currency of the US$ Sterling Euro Other T otal US$ Sterling Euro Other T otal
operating company
Sterling 33 – (2) (5) 26 24–2– 26
Yen –––– – (2) – – – (2)
HK$ –––2 2 3––14
Euro 5––– 5 2 (1) – – 1
Other 6641 17 8 9 (2) – 15
4462 (2) 50 358–1 44
The amounts shown in the table above take into account the effect of any cross currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and other derivatives
entered into to manage these currency exposures. Performance
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profiles of the Group’s financial liabilities, as listed in the fair value table below are disclosed in Note 21.
Borrowing facilities
The Group does not have any undrawn committed facilities as at 31 March 2005 (2004 – £nil).
Fair value
The estimated fair values of the Group’s financial instruments are summarised below:
2005 2004
Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated
amount fair value amount fair value
£m £m £m £m
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations
Trade investments 20 83 58 111
Cash 135 135 138 138
Current asset investments and short-term deposits 2,031 2,031 2,229 2,229
Loans and obligations under finance leases due within one year (23) (23) (44) (44)
Convertible bonds (252) (277) (252) (300)
Other loans and obligations under finance leases due after more than one year (549) (582) (623) (656)
Other creditors falling due after more than one year –– ––
Derivative financial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency exposure
Forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps – assets –– ––
– (liabilities) –– ––
Cross currency swaps – assets –– ––
– (liabilities) (15) (15) (18) (18)
Trade investments
Trade investments above are detailed in Note 17.The fair value is based on year end quoted prices for listed investments and estimates of likely sales
proceeds for other investments.
Cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits and short-term borrowings
The carrying value approximates to fair value either because of the short maturity of the instruments or because the interest rate on investments is
reset after periods not greater than six months.
Current asset investments and short-term deposits
Included within short-term deposits are £42 million which is pledged as a cash collateral against bank loans and guarantees, and £30 million held in the
Group’s insurance subsidiary Pender against potential claim settlements, which, as a result, is not readily available for the general purposes of the Group.
Current asset investments
The fair value is based on market value or estimates of likely sales proceeds.
Convertible bonds and other long term debt 
The fair value is based on quoted market prices or, where these are not available, on the quoted market prices of comparable debt issued by 
other companies.
Forward rate agreements, interest rate and cross currency swaps 
The fair value of forward rate agreements, interest rate and cross currency swaps is the estimated amount which the Group would expect to pay or
receive were it to terminate the swaps at the balance sheet date.This takes into consideration current interest rates, current exchange rates and the
current creditworthiness of the counterparties.The nominal value of swaps at 31 March 2005 was £121 million (2004 – £131 million). Notes to the financial statements
136/137 2005 Annual Report
Forward exchange contracts
The value of these contracts is the estimated amount which the Group would expect to pay or receive on the termination of the contracts.This takes
into consideration current interest rates and current exchange rates. At 31 March 2005 the Group had £29 million of such contracts outstanding 
(2004 – £78 million).
Hedges
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised. Unrecognised gains 
and losses on instruments used for hedging (excluding hedges that have been accounted for by adjusting the carrying value of a fixed asset recognised
on the balance sheet), and on the underlying asset or liability, are as follows:
2005 2004
Net gains/ Net gains/
Gains (Losses) (losses) Gains (Losses) (losses)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges
At 1 April –– – 3 (4) (1)
Recognised during the year – – – (3) 4 1
At 31 March –– – –––
26 Commitments and contingent liabilities
Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial year, for which no provision has been made, are as follows:
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Contracted 49 34 – –
In addition to the capital commitments above the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Group’s
business.The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs. In the event of default of another party, the Group may be
liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities at the end of the financial year for which no disclosure has been made elsewhere in the Financial Statements are as follows:
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Trading guarantees 178 142 170 142
Other guarantees – 14 347 353
178 156 517 495
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds or contracts issued in the normal course of business guaranteeing the Group will meet 
its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.The guarantees also enable the customer to obtain
repayment of any advance payment in the event of the relevant subsidiary failing to carry out its contractual obligations in full. Some of these
guarantees are uncapped. Performance
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation 
of materials.The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees in respect of the financial obligations of subsidiary undertakings principally in respect of leases, borrowings and
letters of credit.
Pender Insurance Limited (Pender), the Group’s Isle of Man insurance subsidiary, has written policies in favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially
significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and
disputes with reinsurers. Legal proceedings have been initiated against Pender and the Company in respect of certain insurance claims (see Note 33).
The Group is subject to contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, third party insurance claims and obligations arising from past corporate transactions.
The ultimate outcome of these matters is subject to many uncertainties, including future events and the uncertainties inherent in litigation.The Group
has made provision in its financial statements for such matters.
Other matters
The Company has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years as is considered
standard practice in such agreements. Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped
indemnities have been given.
See Note 34 for details of the Monaco Telecom put and call options.
In relation to the sale of CWC ConsumerCo in May 2000, the Company gave a number of standard warranties and indemnities.There is no time limit
or cap that applies generally.
The Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements. Some of these arrangements
do not contain liability caps.
27 Leases
Group operating lease commitments payable in the following year, analysed according to the period in which each lease expires are as set out below:
Land and buildings Other assets
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Expiring within one year 9 9 15 37
Expiring in years two to five 21 25 21 19
Expiring thereafter 32 35 7 7
62 69 43 63
In addition, a provision totalling £17 million has been made for amounts guaranteed in respect of operating leases of the former US operation. Included
within land and buildings annual rentals included above is £7.4 million (2004 – £2.2 million) that has been provided in respect of vacant properties. Notes to the financial statements
138/139 2005 Annual Report
28 Reconciliation of Group operating profit/(loss) to net cash inflow from operating activities
2005 2004 2003
For the year ended 31 March £m £m £m
Group operating profit/(loss) 138 (581) (6,075)
Add back non-cash items:
Depreciation and amortisation (before exceptional items) 201 249 861
Exceptional non-cash items 8 574 5,446
Other non-cash items 3 –27
Decrease in stocks 3 11 33
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (9) 508 882
(Decrease) in creditors (92) (565) (893)
Fundamental reorganisation costs – – (89)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 94 (123) (97)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 346 73 95
29 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds
2005 2004 2003
For the year ended 31 March £m £m £m
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (177) 189 (2,120)
Cash outflow resulting from decrease in debt and lease financing 85 582 581
Cash (inflow)/outflow resulting from (decrease)/increase in liquid resources (75) (932) 1,040
Decrease in net funds resulting from cash flows (167) (161) (499)
Borrowings of businesses acquired and disposed 10 ––
Liquid resources of businesses acquired and disposed 55 (19) –
Translation and other differences (6) 887
Movement in net funds in the year (108) (172) (412)
Net funds at 1 April 1,436 1,608 2,020
Net funds at 31 March 1,328 1,436 1,608
30 Analysis of changes in net funds
Acquisitions At
At 1 April and Exchange 31 March
2004 Cash flow disposals movements 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 138 (1) – (2) 135
Short-term deposits repayable on demand 361 (177) – – 184
Bank overdrafts (1) 1 – – –
498 (177) – (2) 319
Liquid resources * 1,856 (75) 55 (3) 1,833
Debt due within 1 year (43) 21 – (1) (23)
Debt due after 1 year (875) 64 10 – (801)
Total debt (918) 85 10 (1) (824)
Total net funds 1,436 (167) 65 (6) 1,328
* Included in current asset investments and short-term deposits is £14 million (2004: £12 million) of government gilts and similar investments not considered as liquid resources under FRS 1(revised). Performance
31 Acquisitions and disposals
The Group purchased three companies during the year for a total consideration of £131 million of which £108 million (€162 million) was in respect 
of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom S.A.M. (“Monaco Telecom”) on 18 June 2004. All of these purchases have been accounted for as acquisitions.
(a) Acquisition of Monaco Telecom
On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless purchased a 55 per cent economic stake in Monaco Telecom for a total consideration of £108 million (€162 million).
Alignment of
Book accounting Fair
value policy Revaluations value
£m £m £m £m
Intangible fixed assets 8–19
Tangible fixed assets 25–3 28
Investments 2––2
Stock 1––1
Debtors 802– 82
Short-term deposits 55–– 55
Cash 2––2
Creditors (78) (2) – (80)
Provisions (36) 30 (17) (23)
T otal 59 30 (13) 76
Minority interests (34)
Share of net assets acquired 42
Goodwill 70
Consideration 112
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash 108
Acquisition costs 4
The fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities have been determined on a provisional basis. Monaco Telecom prepares its financial statements in
accordance with Monegasque GAAP . Adjustments have been made to align the acquisition balance sheet to UK GAAP . The fair value adjustments
include the valuation of intangible assets identified on acquisitions (see Note 15), tangible fixed assets and of certain onerous network obligations.
In its last audited financial year to 31 December 2003, Monaco Telecom made a profit after tax and minority interests of £12 million. From that date to
the date of acquisition Monaco Telecom made a profit after tax and minority interests of £7 million.
Since its acquisition, Monaco Telecom contributed £13 million to the Group’s net operating cash flows, £1 million outflow for return on investment and
servicing of finance, £5 million outflow for capital expenditure and £1 million inflow for financing, £10 million outflow for liquid resources and a decrease
in cash of £2 million. Notes to the financial statements
140/141 2005 Annual Report
(b) Other acquisitions
£m
Book value of net assets/(liabilities) (including £1 million of cash) –
Fair value adjustments 4
Net assets acquired 4
Goodwill 21
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash 21
Accrued purchase consideration 2
Acquisition costs 2
Bulldog and XM Mobile B.V. were acquired on 28 May and 9 September 2004, respectively.
Cable & Wireless paid £1.5 million in respect of the acquisition of XM Mobile B.V. A further £2 million of purchase consideration has been accrued.This
is contingent on certain operational and financial conditions being met through 31 December 2007.
(c) Disposal of Cable & Wireless IDC Inc (“Japan”)
£m
Tangible fixed assets 42
Net current liabilities (16)
Net cash/(debt) 14
Other long-term creditors (21)
Minority interest (2)
Cost of exit/transaction costs 3
Total cost of disposal 20
Profit on disposal (see Note 10(iii)) 42
Cash consideration 62
Japan contributed £2 million to net operating cash inflow, £1 million outflow in respect of returns on investments and servicing of finance, £17 million 
in respect of sale of investments and £12 million for capital expenditure. Japan contributed £28 million profit after taxation and minority interests from
1 April 2004 up to the date of its disposal.
32 Related party transactions
Transactions with joint ventures and associates
Details of significant joint ventures and associates are disclosed in Note 34 ‘Subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates’ at 31 March 2005.
All transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless
products and services, network and access charges.
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates are disclosed in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement. Segmental analysis of joint venture and
associates is set out in Note 17 ‘Fixed asset investments’. Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates and from joint ventures and associates are
disclosed in Note 17 ‘Fixed asset investments’, Note 19 ‘Debtors’ and Note 21 ‘Creditors’, respectively.
Cable & Wireless has an interest-free loan of £1 million to Quantum Communications Limited, an associate of the Group. Performance
Transactions with Directors
There were a number of transactions during the year between the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, which are eliminated on consolidation and
therefore not disclosed.
There were no material transactions with Directors, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings disclosed in the Directors’
remuneration report on pages 41 to 53.
33 Legal proceedings
Class action litigation against Cable and Wireless plc
Between December 2002 and February 2003, ten shareholder class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia naming Cable and Wireless plc and several of its officers and directors as defendants.
In March 2003, the Court consolidated all the cases into one action, styled as In re Cable and Wireless plc Securities Litigation, Civil Action 
No. 02-1860-A.
In May 2003, the lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint that alleged violations of certain sections of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and
the rules promulgated thereunder. A central allegation was that the defendants made false and misleading statements about the Company’s financial
condition by failing to disclose on a timely basis the existence of a tax indemnity and a ratings trigger to place money in escrow until any liability which
the Company may have had under the tax indemnity was finally determined.The indemnity and ratings trigger appeared in an agreement reached in
1999 between the Company and Deutsche Telekom for the sale of the Company’s interest in the mobile telephone company that operated under the
name One2One.
In addition to the allegations relating to the tax indemnity, the consolidated complaint also alleged that the defendants made false and misleading
statements by: (1) failing to disclose certain lease liability commitments and (2) improperly recognising revenue received from sales of capacity to 
other carriers.
The plaintiffs sought unspecified money damages in their complaints.
The Company and the individual defendants filed motions to dismiss the class action complaint, which were heard on 31 October 2003. In March 2004
the Court issued orders granting the Company’s and the individual defendants’ motions to dismiss the complaint (but denying the defendants’ motion 
to dismiss the claims of foreign (non-US) purchasers for lack of subject matter jurisdiction). On 4 May 2004 and 5 June 2004, the Court issued
memoranda opinions with regard to its previous orders. On 15 June 2004, the Court entered judgement for the Company and the individual
defendants consistent with its March 2004 orders and memoranda opinions.
On 16 April 2004, plaintiffs filed an appeal of the District Court’s decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. On 3 May 2004,
defendants filed a notice of cross-appeal with respect to the District Court’s order denying their motion to dismiss the claims of foreign (non-US)
purchasers for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.While the case was pending on appeal, on 7 January 2005, the parties reached a preliminary
agreement to settle the complaint on the basis of the defendants making a payment of US$7 million (£3.7 million) to the plaintiff class (with the
support of the Company’s insurers) in full and final settlement of the complaint.
On 1 March 2005, the parties filed a stipulation with the Court of Appeals requesting that the Court of Appeals remand the case to the District Court
for the limited purpose of considering the parties’ settlement.The Court of Appeals accordingly referred the case back to the District Court on
21 March 2005, for consideration of the settlement agreement.The District Court granted preliminary approval of the settlement by order dated
13 May 2005.The settlement is currently the subject of a formal notice period that will expire on 22 July 2005. Assuming the conditions of the
agreement are met, the final approval of the Court to the settlement is expected shortly after the end of the notice period. 142/143 2005 Annual Report
Claim against the Minister of Finance and Economy, Panama
On 16 December 2002, a complaint was filed by two Panamanian lawyers exercising a public action at the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court of
Justice of Panama questioning the law governing and rules of Public Bid No. 06 96 won by INTEL, S.A. (now Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A.). Complaints
filed at the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice must be filed against the public officer who enacted the relevant regulation or act.This
complaint was filed against the Minister of Finance and Economy in Panama specifically alleging that the Operating Agreement executed between Cable
and Wireless (CALA Management Services) Limited and INTEL, S.A. (now Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A.) as part of the privatisation agreements was
null and void ab initio, on the grounds that it had not been published in the Official Gazette in Panama.
The Operating Agreement enables Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. to use the technical and management know-how of Cable and Wireless (CALA
Management Services) Limited to fulfil more effectively its obligations under the concession granted to it by the Government of Panama to install,
operate and exploit telecommunication services in Panama. Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A., due to its close interest in the outcome of the complaint,
requested recognition by the Court and permission to participate in the proceedings.The Court agreed to this.
On 21 March 2003, the Court permitted the claim to proceed. Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. filed an appeal against the admission of the claim to
proceed, however the Court confirmed its decision to permit the claim to proceed on 17 March 2004.
As required by Panamanian law, the Administrations General Attorney has provided an opinion to the Court in defence of the law or regulation, which
is the subject of the complaint.The Administrations General Attorney has opined that the Operating Agreement complied with all the requirements
established by the law and by the rules of Public Bid No. 06 96 and was countersigned by the General Comptroller acting with due authorisation.
On 1 April 2005, Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. tendered its response to the claim and submitted evidence for consideration by the Court. Admission
of evidence before the Court is currently pending.The plaintiff has requested that the effect of the Operating Agreement be suspended temporarily – 
an issue which the Court rejected on 10 March 2005.
The proceedings are ongoing, pending submission of evidence.
Panamanian counsel considers this claim to be without merit and none of Cable and Wireless plc, Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A. or Cable and Wireless
(CALA Management Services) Limited is party to the complaint. If the complaint were to be successful, the concession under which Cable & Wireless
Panama, S.A. operates would not be affected. However the Operating Agreement could be declared null and void and then the complainants could 
file a complaint against Cable and Wireless (CALA Management Services) Limited requiring the return of all management fees collected under the
agreement since its execution on 20 May 1997.This would amount to approximately £60 million. In the event that this complaint should be successful,
Cable & Wireless and its subsidiaries intend to vigorously pursue any legal recourse available to them.
Telecarrier Inc. vs. Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A.
On 5 May 2004,Telecarrier Inc. lodged a claim in the Sixth Circuit Civil Court of Panama alleging non-compliance by Cable & Wireless Panama S.A.
(“Cable & Wireless Panama”) with the Interconnection Agreement between the parties in connection with the invoicing and collection process.
Telecarrier Inc. requested the Court to order the continued provision of a pre-determined billing and charging process and to prevent Cable & Wireless
Panama from using an alternative process.They also claimed US$18 million (£9.6 million) damages and costs.
On 9 September 2004, Cable & Wireless Panama submitted a defence to the claim and on 30 December 2004, the parties presented a petition for
suspension of the process for a period of 45 days to allow them to negotiate with each other. In a resolution dated 30 December 2004, the Court
admitted the petition and negotiations with the plaintiff were initiated. Suspension of the process has subsequently been extended before the Court
while negotiations continue.
In a separate action, on 25 August 2004, Cable & Wireless Panama lodged a claim against Telecarrier Inc. in the Seventeenth Circuit Civil Court of
Panama claiming unjustified enrichment by Telecarrier Inc. through the use of Cable & Wireless Panama’s fixed telephone network to allow the rerouting
of traffic for internet public use. Cable & Wireless Panama is claiming US$14 million (£7.5 million).
The claim was admitted by the Court on 2 September 2004. On 23 December 2004, the parties agreed to suspend the process for a period of
30 days to allow for a period of negotiation – a move endorsed by the Court on 23 December 2004. Suspension of the process has subsequently
been extended before the Court while negotiations continue.
Notes to the financial statements Performance
Arbitration between PT Cable, Inc., Cable and Wireless plc, Cable & Wireless IDC, Inc. and others
PT Cable, Inc., (“PT Cable”) the US end owner of NPC Cable System (spanning from the United States to Japan), initiated an ICC arbitration
proceeding against Cable and Wireless plc, Japan Telecom IDC, Inc. (“IDC”) and other users of capacity on that system for unpaid operations and
maintenance fees with respect to the US end. Cable & Wireless and all 14 other US end owners counter-claimed against PT Cable for overcharging
operation and maintenance fees. PT Cable then cross-claimed against Cable & Wireless and IDC in their capacity as maintenance authorities and alleged
that Cable & Wireless and IDC should be liable to contribute to any damages the Arbitrator may award against PT Cable.
Potential exposure of PT Cable is between US$13 million (£6.9 million) and US$33 million (£17.6 million). PT Cable’s counter-claim against 
Cable & Wireless and IDC is for an unquantified proportion of that amount.
PT Cable failed to pay its arbitration filing fees and earlier this year was placed into Chapter 7 liquidation proceedings.The arbitration is therefore
currently stayed.
On 28 January 2005, AT&T Corp and Alascom, Inc. (“Claimants”) filed a Request for Arbitration before the ICC against Cable and Wireless plc and
IDC (“Respondents”) relating to the Respondents’ alleged duties as Founding Signatories and Maintenance Authorities under the Construction &
Maintenance Agreement for the NPC.The Claimants allege breach of contract, fraud, breaches of fiduciary duty and similar claims against the
Respondents in connection with alleged overcharging of operations and maintenance fees by PT Cable.The complaint is for unquantified damages.
The Company’s US Counsel has advised that, in their opinion, all of the Claimants’ claims are weak.The Company has filed its Answer to the Request
for Arbitration and arbitrators are currently being selected.
As far as quantum of damages is concerned, AT&T’s claim is duplicative of the counter-claim by PT Cable in the first arbitration above (save that AT&T
has claimed punitive damages).Therefore Cable & Wireless believes its exposure remains within the parameters of the estimate set out above.
Cable & Wireless will continue to vigorously defend its position in each of the arbitration proceedings brought against it.
Pender Insurance Limited
Australia-Japan Cable Limited (“AJC”), a policyholder of Pender Insurance Limited (“Pender”) has brought proceedings in London against Pender and
Cable & Wireless. AJC claims that it is entitled to insurance cover for loss of revenue following damage caused to an undersea cable by a cargo vessel.
It also claims that, if it does not have such cover, Pender or Cable & Wireless is liable for its losses because of representations made to AJC that it was
entitled to such insurance cover.The claim is for US$92 million (£49 million). Pender and Cable & Wireless have been advised by legal counsel that the
claim is unmeritorious and accordingly are defending it vigorously. Certain of Pender’s re-insurers of the AJC risk have instituted proceedings seeking a
declaration that they are entitled to avoid their obligations. Pender is also vigorously defending these proceedings.
On 3 June 2005, QBE International Insurance Limited (“QBE”) issued Pender with a request for arbitration on account of insurance premium payments
of £36 million allegedly outstanding. Pender has received advice that this claim is substantially without merit and intends to defend it vigorously.
Pender has also been advised that, in the unlikely event of QBE recovering any funds as a result of this claim, it would be contractually obliged to pass
such funds (less a small fee) under retrocession arrangements to Messenger Insurance PCC Limited (“Messenger”), one of the defendants to the
proceedings brought by Pender and Cable and Wireless plc described on page 91. Pender has been advised that, given the strength of its misfeasance
claims against Messenger, it would have a strong chance of recovering any such sums paid by QBE to Messenger arising out of the subject matter of the
arbitration request.
Other litigation
From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, investigations or reviews. Other than the
above, there are no pending claims, proceedings, investigations or reviews against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, which the Company believes
will, if determined adversely to the Group, have a material adverse effect on the Group’s liquidity or operations. 34 Subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates at 31 March 2005
Ownership
Issued
Share
Local Capital Via Class of Country of Area of
Subsidiaries currency (million) Direct subsidiaries shares incorporation operation
Cable & Wireless UK £ 3,033 – 100% Ordinary England UK
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited J$ 16,817 – 82% Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica
Cable and Wireless (Cayman Cayman Cayman
Islands) Limited Cay$ – – 100% Ordinary Islands Islands
Cable & Wireless Panama, S.A.ª Balboa 316 – 49% Ordinary Panama Panama
Companhia de Telecomunicacoes de Macau and
Macau, S.A.R.L.
b
Pataca 150 – 51% Ordinary Macau China
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Limited B$ – – 81% Ordinary Barbados Barbados
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Limited £ 5 – 100% Ordinary England Caribbean
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Limited
bc
Rufiya 190 – 45% Ordinary Maldives Maldives
Monaco T elecom S.A.M.
de(1)
Euro 2 – 49% Ordinary Monaco Monaco
Bulldog Communications Limited £ 2 – 100% Ordinary England UK
Joint ventures
Telecommunications Services Trinidad Trinidad
of T rinidad and T obago and and
Limited
d
T$ 283 – 49% Ordinary T obago T obago
Associates
Bahrain T elecommunications Company B.S.C.
b
Dinar 100 20% – Ordinary Bahrain Bahrain
Notes
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the
opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the Group’s Financial Statements.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England
and Wales.
a The Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement.
b This company had a financial year end of 31 December 2004 due to the requirements of the shareholders’ agreement.
c The Group regards this company as a subsidiary undertaking because it exercises dominant influence.
d This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG International member firms.
e The Group holds an economic interest of 55 per cent in Monaco Telecom S.A.M.
(1)
On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55 per cent of Monaco Telecom S.A.M. (“Monaco Telecom”), a Monaco-based telecommunication service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of six per cent of the shares of Monaco Telecom to Compagnie Monegasque de Banque S.A.M. (“CMB”), an unrelated
third party. Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In addition, the six per cent interest is subject to certain put and call options that,
together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the Principality of Monaco which contains, among other provisions, a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality
(subject to certain limited exceptions) selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality has a put option entitling it to put its 45 per cent shareholding in Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008.The exercise price under the put option 
is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
144/145 2005 Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements Shareholder information 
146 Trading market
147 Dividends
148 Glossary of terms
152 Shareholder information
Reference Shareholder information
T rading market
The principal trading market for the Ordinary Shares is the London Stock
Exchange on which 7,876,497,948 Ordinary Shares were traded during
the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005.As at 31 March 2005, the
Company had a market capitalisation of approximately £3.1 billion.
The table below sets forth, for the fiscal quarters indicated, the high and
low middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares on the London
Stock Exchange as reported on its Daily Official List.
Pence Per
Ordinary Share
High Low
Year ended 31 March 2001 1,325.0 430.0
Year ended 31 March 2002 531.5 207.0
Year ended 31 March 2003 223.0 41.0
Year ended 31 March 2004 153.5 71.0
Year ended 31 March 2005 133.5 96.5
Year ended 31 March 2004
First quarter 115.5 71.0
Second quarter 127.0 109.0
Third quarter 140.8 114.8
Fourth quarter 153.5 122.3
Year ended 31 March 2005
First quarter 133.5 115.8
Second quarter 125.3 96.5
Third quarter 119.8 97.8
Fourth quarter 113.3 112.8
Pence Per
Ordinary Share
High Low
December 2004 119.3 113.0
January 2005 123.5 112.3
February 2005 133.3 123.3
March 2005 133.0 124.5
April 2005 132.0 118.0
May 2005 136.5 120.8
Distribution and classification of ordinary shareholdings
Number of % Number of %
At 31 March 2005 Accounts of total Shares of total
Up to 1,000 shares 89,623 67.54 39,868,798 1.66
1,001 – 10,000 40,607 30.6 97,655,684 4.08
10,001 – 100,000 1,752 1.32 45,755,428 1.91
100,001 – 1,000,000 461 0.35 173,313,984 7.24
1,000,001 and over 253 0.19 2,038,228,346 85.11
T otal 132,696 100 2,394,822,240 100
Individuals 121,065 91.25 143,309,998 5.98
Corporate bodies 1,614 1.22 153,969,659 6.43
Banks/nominee companies 9,982 7.53 2,089,646,923 87.26
Insurance companies/ 
pension funds 35 0 7,895,660 0.33
T otal 132,696 100 2,394,822,240 100
At 3 June 2005, the Company had 129,317 shareholders of record.
146/147 2005 Annual Report Reference
Dividends
The table below sets out the sterling amounts of interim, final and total
gross dividends paid per Ordinary Share.
There are currently no UK governmental restrictions on dividend
payments to non-UK shareholders applicable to the Company.
Pence per Ordinary Share
Year ended 31 March Interim Special Final Total
2001 4.95 – 11.55 16.50
2002 1.50 11.50
a
3.50 16.50
2003 1.60 – – 1.60
2004 1.05
b
– 2.10
b
3.15
2005 1.16 – 2.64 3.80
a
Paid at the same time as the interim dividend.
b
Paid together as a full year dividend.
The Board has not adopted a formal dividend policy. However the 
Group has achieved a consistent period of stability and the Board
regards progressive dividends as an appropriate method to return cash 
to shareholders, reflecting earnings progress to date and confidence in
the future of the Group’s business. 148/149 2005 Annual Report
Glossary of terms
T erms used in this Brief description of meaning
Annual Report
Access/internet access Broadband or dial-up connections which allow customers to access the internet from their own premises.
Accounts Financial statements.
ADSL A Digital Subscriber Line technology that supports faster transfer when receiving data (the downstream rate) and
slower transfer when sending data (the upstream rate).
Alternative network model “AltNet” refers to a model used by network operators that relies on use of the incumbent’s network supported by
the AltNet’s own network interconnecting with it.
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode. A legacy data product which allows broadband transmission with an additional layer of
intelligence and functionality beyond leased lines.
Backbone A high-capacity network linking networks of lower capacity, such as LANs.
Bandwidth The information-carrying capacity of a network.
Broadband Short for “Broad Bandwidth”, broadband transmits data at higher rates of speed (bits per second) than dial-up and is
often associated with high speed services for internet access, such as DSL.
Bundling Offering multiple telecommunication products, services or features together as a ‘bundled’ package instead of as
separate items. For example voice, data transfer and internet access provided in a single contract.
“Business” segment The UK business segment which focuses on small to medium sized enterprises.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
Capacity sales Sales of transmission capability on a network primarily to high-usage business and wholesale customers.
Carrier services A business segment dealing with other telecommunications companies around the world.
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or a digital mobile technology which uses the full available radio spectrum to transmit
mobile voice and data.
Chapter 11 Restructuring under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code.
Company Cable and Wireless plc.
Connectivity Providing customers with access to the internet.
Constant currency Constant currency movement is calculated by retranslating prior year local currency amounts at current year average
rates and comparing against current year local currency at the current year average rate.This measure eliminates the
impact of foreign exchange movements year on year.
Content The information contained within a message that is transported by a telecommunication service provider.
Data services Services to transmit data over fixed-line, IP or mobile platforms using leased lines, Frame Relay, ATM or IP-based
products such as IP-VPN.
Data service provider Business that provides data or data services to customers.Typically have high demand for large capacity 
transport services.
Dial-up Access to the internet using an ordinary telephone line (also known as Narrowband).
Digital Sound, text or video coded into binary form, a series of 1s and 0s, to enable more effective transmission. Reference
DSL Digital Subscriber Line or technology that allows the delivery of broadband to customers over ordinary copper
telephone lines by digitising and compressing the transmissions.
Encryption The translation of data into a secret code to provide data security.The data cannot be read without a key or
passcode to decrypt the data.
“Enterprise” segment A business segment dealing with large national and multinational customers in the UK and globally.
Exchange A building, usually owned by the incumbent service provider, where network equipment, such as switches or DSL,
are housed.
Fibre optic The use of glass fibres to transmit digital information through laser light pulses. Fibre optic lines offer more flexibility
and capacity than copper telephone lines offer.
Frame relay A legacy data product which allows broadband data transmission with an additional layer of intelligence and
functionality beyond leased lines.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Policies.
Group Cable and Wireless plc and its subsidiaries.
GSM Global System for Mobile communications or a digital mobile platform which allows the transmission of voice and
data and global roaming.
Hosting Service that provides a facility or location for customers to set up servers or equipment or house websites.
Incumbent Sole telecommunication provider in a one provider market, or the original telecommunication provider in a
competitive market.
Interconnect Connection arrangements between carriers.
Interests in associates and 
joint ventures Securities of equity investees.
International direct dial International calls which are dialed and connected directly, without going through an operator.
Internet The system comprising all networks interconnected using IP .The internet supports access to databases, websites,
email, and file downloading worldwide.
IP Internet Protocol or set of rules that govern how interconnected devices communicate.
IP-VPN An internet-based network used to provide companies with an internal communications system linking employees in
different offices worldwide.
IRU Indefeasible Rights of Use or the right to use a cable fibre or wavelength exclusively for a fixed period of time.
ISP Internet Service Provider or a business that provides internet access to users. It may also provide additional services
such as web-hosting.
LAN Local Area Network or a network that covers only short distances (usually less than 1 km) and is normally confined
to one building or site.
Leased line A legacy data service that delivers data from point-to-point on a dedicated line.
Legacy platform The existing communications and transmission infrastructure that underpins the majority of telecom operator
networks usually comprising of copper wire or fibre networks.
Liberalised markets/liberalisation Markets that were previously restricted that are now open to competition.
Local loop Telecommunications connection from the local exchange to the customer premises. Glossary of terms
150/151 2005 Annual Report
LLU Local Loop Unbundling is the process of installing DSL equipment in rented space within an incumbent operator’s
local exchange.
Managed firewall Service where customer firewalls are managed by Cable & Wireless. A firewall is a system of hardware and software
designed to prevent unauthorised access to a private network.
MMS Mobile Messaging Services or method of transmitting data, video or text over mobile networks and between 
mobile handsets.
Mobile services Delivery of voice and data services to mobile handsets through wireless technologies.
Mobile transit traffic Telecommunication traffic across the network between mobile operators who do not have a direct connection with
each other.
MPLS Multi-Protocol Label Switching supports the separation and management of different types of IP traffic based on
priority and service plan.
National T elcos Collectively, the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Rest of the World.
Network costs Network costs include the purchase of bandwidth, operating and maintenance of equipment, operation of 
software and cables, wayleaves, customer acquisition costs, cost of goods sold, licences and associated royalties
payable to government.
Next Generation Network IP-based network being developed by Cable & Wireless over the three years to fiscal year ending 2008.
Network terminating equipment Telecommunication network elements that originate and/or terminate line signals.
Nodes Connecting points on a network.
Ofcom The Office of Communications in the United Kingdom: the independent regulatory body set up under the
Communications Act 2003 which has responsibility for the enforcement and monitoring, and where appropriate
initiating modification, of telecommunications licences in the United Kingdom.
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company (Common stock with a par value of 25p).
Outpayments Payments to other network operators to carry traffic on behalf of Cable & Wireless’ customers.
Principal operations The United Kingdom, the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco.
Proposed dividend Dividend declared by directors but not yet approved by shareholders.
Resellers Businesses that provide communication services to consumers by buying capacity from network operators and selling
it on.
Reserves Shareholders’ equity other than paid-up capital.
Share capital Ordinary Shares or capital stock issued and fully paid.
SMS Short Messaging Service permits the transmission of text messages to and from mobile handsets.
SoHo Small office Home office.
Switched voice Abbreviation for telecommunication services provided over the Public Switched Telephone Network, which refers to the
international telephone system based on copper wires carrying analog voice data.
TDMA Time Division Multiple Access or digital mobile technology which assigns a specific radio frequency to each user to
deliver mobile voice and data.
Telebusiness Telebusiness is any type of telecommunication service provided to businesses to enable them to transact with their
customers over the telephone. Reference
Traditional services Voice and data services delivered over fixed-line or switched networks.
Transit A term to describe moving data from a source point to a destination point using various network elements.
UK United Kingdom.
United Kingdom Geographic operations which include both the UK Group and Bulldog Communications.
VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol or an IP voice service that provides enhanced functionality, such as the delivery of voice,
video and data, with the reliability and features associated with switched voice networks.
VPN Virtual Private Network or a corporate network provided to a customer by a telecommunications operator using
elements of a switched network.To the customer it offers all the features of a private network, such as direct dialling
between offices in different countries.
Wavelengths A measurement of capacity on a network.
Web hosting Service providing facilities to hold customer websites. Shareholder information
152 2005 Annual Report
Registrar
The Company’s share register is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
All queries about your shareholding should be addressed to:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Telephone 0870 600 3975 (UK shareholders)
+44 1903 502541 (Overseas shareholders)
Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their own
shareholding by viewing ‘Shareview’ (www.shareview.co.uk). Shareholders
registered with Shareview can elect to receive shareholder
communications in electronic form.
Scrip Dividend Scheme
A scrip dividend alternative will be available for the final dividend payable
on 11 August 2005. Full details on the scrip dividend can be found in the
Scrip Dividend brochure which is available from the Company’s Registrar
at the address above, from the Company Secretary or from the
Company’s website (www.cw.com).
Financial Calendar
Ex-dividend date 6 July 2005
Record date 8 July 2005
Last date for election to join scrip dividend 14 July 2005
AGM 22 July 2005
Payment of final dividend 11 August 2005
Announcement of interim results 2006 8 November 2005
ShareGift
If you have a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic
to sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to the charity
ShareGift (registered charity 1052686), which collects unwanted shares
until there are enough to sell and uses the proceeds to support other
UK charities.The relevant share transfer forms may be obtained from the
Registrars, the Company Secretary’s Office or the Investor Relations
section of the Company’s website. Further information is available from
the Company’s website (www.cw.com) or from ShareGift on +44 (0)20
7337 0501 (www.ShareGift.org).
Company Secretary and Registered Office
Mr Andrew S Garard is the Company Secretary.
The Company’s Registered Office and address for correspondence is:
Lakeside House
Cain Road
Bracknell
Berkshire
RG12 1XL
Tel: +44 (0)1908 845 000
Investor Relations
Enquiries may be directed to:
Director, Investor Relations
Lakeside House
Cain Road
Bracknell
Berkshire
RG12 1XL
or email: investor-relations.c&wplc@cw.com
Electronic communication
As an alternative to receiving documents through the post,
Cable & Wireless offers shareholders the option to elect to receive
communications from the Company electronically.To make use 
of this facility, please register at www.shareview.com following the 
on-screen instructions.
Documents on display
Shareholders can view the Register of Interests of Directors (and their
families) in the share capital of the Company, together with service
contracts of Executive Directors and letters of appointment of 
Non-executive Directors at the Company’s registered office.
Shareholders may also obtain copies of the Company’s Memorandum
and Articles of Association and view the existing rules and proposed
changes to the Incentive Plan 2001 and Deferred Short Term Incentive
Plan at the Company’s registered office.  Airlines Accountants Banks Ban
Building societies Car manufactu
Executives Families Food produc
Hospitals Hotels Housewives In
Logistics businesses Media Oil co
Retailers Schools Shipping comp
integrators Teachers Telecoms ca
Cable and Wireless plc
Lakeside House,
Cain Road, Bracknell,
Berkshire RG12 1XL
Telephone 01908 845000
International +44 1908 845000
www.cw.com k managers Brewers Broadcasters
ers Designers Distributors
ers Governmentdepartments
vestors Lawyers Local authorities
mpanies Police forces Railways
anies Supermarkets Systems
rriers Tourist resorts Utilities
Choose Wisely
2005 Annual review and 
summary ﬁnancial statement IFC2/5 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
1 Performance highlights
2 Group overview
4 Chairman’s statement
6 Chief Executive’s review
14 Community and environment
16 Operating and ﬁnancial review
21 Summary ﬁnancial statements
21 Statement of the Independent Auditor
22 Consolidated proﬁt and loss accounts
23 Consolidated proﬁt and loss accounts:
continuing operations 
24 Consolidated proﬁt and loss accounts:
discontinued operations 
25 Summary consolidated balance sheets
25 Summary consolidated cash ﬂow statements
26 Summary remuneration report
28 Board of Directors
30 Summary Directors’ report
30 Corporate governance
31 Shareholder information Cable & Wireless completed the second year of its turnaround programme
with a robust ﬁnancial performance and further progress in reshaping the
Group. Key developments included:
– Restructuring of UK operations around customer segments
– Acquisition of Bulldog Communications and a controlling interest in
Monaco T elecom
– Expansion of National Telcos’ broadband and mobile activities
– Completion of US exit for £220m and withdrawal from Japanese 
domestic market 
– Launch of £250m share buyback 
We achieved further cost savings in the traditional legacy voice and data
sectors. Led by a strengthened management team, we accelerated
investment to position the Group for proﬁtable growth in new services.
Shortly after the year end, we announced a three-year plan to develop 
an IP-based Next Generation Network in the UK and conﬁrmed that
Bulldog had completed the ﬁrst phase of its local loop unbundling
programme ahead of schedule. In National Telcos, we have continued to
invest in our broadband and mobile infrastructure.
Solid progress
Proﬁt before tax and exceptionals 
(continuing operations)
– up 13% to £361m 
Earnings per share (total Group)
– 13 pence per share 
Full year dividend 
– up 21% to 3.8 pence 
Performance highlights
2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 1 Cable & Wireless is the leading telecoms operator in the majority of
countries in which it operates. It is the second largest ﬁxed network
telecoms operator in the UK.
Its principal operations are in the UK, the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and
Monaco. It provides voice, data, broadband, IP (Internet Protocol) and
mobile services to business and residential customers, ﬁxed and mobile
telecoms carriers, mobile operators and content, application and internet
providers.
Its extensive international network conveys trafﬁc between these operations
and provides a platform from which to offer telecommunication services to
other carriers.
About us
2/3 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Group overview Our businesses
National T elcos
In 34 countries, Cable & Wireless is typically the leading
telecom operator and, in most cases, owns and operates 
the domestic ﬁxed line network and associated international
interconnect facilities. Its ﬁxed and mobile voice, data,
broadband and IP services serve corporate and residential
customers.Almost all the Group’s markets are fully or
partially liberalised.As competition has intensiﬁed, the Group
has been transformed. Cable & Wireless is vigorously taking
on its new rivals by investing in innovation, managing and
reducing costs and marketing aggressively.
UK Retail: Enterprise and Business
Cable & Wireless is the UK’s largest non-incumbent ﬁxed 
line telecommunications provider. It offers a full range of
services to businesses, from international and domestic voice,
data and IP services, to complex web hosting solutions and
professional services.The UK Retail business has been
successfully restructured around customer-focused segments.
Enterprise comprises businesses and institutions with the
biggest telecoms spend, while Business covers small and
medium-sized companies. In a mature market, increasing
demand for broadband and IP is replacing declining revenues
from traditional voice and data.The Group aims to be the
partner of choice for companies moving from legacy systems
to IP-based technology.
Carrier Services
This division sells carrier capacity and interconnect services 
to other telecoms and mobile operators, and generates
around 45% of Cable & Wireless’ UK revenues.Although this
market is highly competitive and suffers from over-capacity, our
Carrier Services division has been able to exploit the rapid
growth in demand for mobile services, broadband and IP . Its
main customers are large telecoms companies providing long
distance international voice services; national mobile operators
buying international voice and transport services; and regional
and domestic operators, including resellers and Internet
Service Providers. Carrier Services also provides carrier pre-
select services to UK providers, such as Tesco and the Post
Ofﬁce, who resell telecoms services under their own brands.
Bulldog
Bulldog is targeting the UK residential and small ofﬁce market
with its dual super-fast 8Mbps broadband and telephone service
provided through local loop unbundling.This gives Cable &
Wireless an increasingly strong position in the valuable access
network through control of the “last mile” copper link into 
the customer’s home or ofﬁce.The Group’s new end-to-end
infrastructure offers customers real choice in broadband and
telephony. In May 2005, Bulldog met its initial target to unbundle
400 exchanges seven months ahead of target and is now available
to 30% of UK households.
National T elcos
– leading telco businesses in 34 countries 
in which we operate 
UK Retail
– UK’s largest non-incumbent ﬁxed line
telecommunications provider
Carrier Services
– a top ﬁve carrier worldwide for 
voice trafﬁc
Bulldog
– UK’s leading local loop unbundler 4/5 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Chairman’s statement
Reshaping
our business
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
The past 12 months have been a time of transition as
Cable & Wireless entered a new phase in the three-year
programme to revive the Group. By the end of the 
year, the Chief Executive and his new team were no 
longer preoccupied with the Group’s past, and had 
turned conﬁdently to face the future.
A year of transition
Over the past year, management has delivered on the
promises it made in June 2003.We completed our exit 
from the US market at considerably lower cost than originally
expected.This allowed the Chief Executive to concentrate on
the restructuring of our UK business and on deﬁning a path
to a sustainable position in this market.An enormous amount
of work has gone into improving operations and tightening
cost controls in the legacy businesses. Customer focus has
been central to our new structures.
We are also seeing some excellent groundwork in 
network development.A prime example is our investment 
in Bulldog, the UK broadband operator we acquired last 
May. Bulldog gives us network access across the “last mile”
to the customer, enabling us to offer an end-to-end service
in competition with BT. Building our customer base in this
way is an important goal as we embark upon investment 
of £190m over three years in our UK IP-based Next
Generation Network.This new technology offers network
economies that will beneﬁt our customers and improve 
our margins. In this context, we welcome Ofcom’s vision 
of a UK telecommunications market based on realistic and
sustainable competition among players willing to invest in
future technological strength.
Our ﬁnancial disciplines and continued cost-reduction have
created a stable framework so that Cable & Wireless can
move forward. Since November, a corporate reorganisation has refocused our activities on the key customer segments at
the heart of our business.We are now well-placed to exploit
rising global demand for broadband, IP and mobile services
across the whole market, from large multinational corporations
to residential users.
Outside the UK, our National Telcos have become more
aggressive in dealing with competition. Co-operation and
communication have also improved between our operations,
so that these businesses can beneﬁt from each other’s
experiences of the rapidly liberalising telecom landscape.
We are successfully capitalising on the controlling stake in
Monaco Telecom we acquired a year ago, and will take
opportunities to expand our footprint into new geographies
as appropriate.
The exit from the US and disposal of our Japanese business
kept our cash intact, which allowed us, in November 2004,
to launch a £250m share buyback.As at March 2005 we 
had bought back 60.5m shares, at an average price of 124.4p.
Results and dividend
The 2004/05 ﬁnancial performance demonstrates our
progress. Proﬁt before tax and exceptionals for the continuing
operations, for the year ended 31 March 2005, was £361m.
Revenue from continuing operations at £3,023m, was stable
at constant currency compared to 2003/04.
The Board has recommended a full year dividend of 3.8p
per share, after paying 1.16p per share at the interim stage.
This represents a 21% increase in the total dividend,
indicating our conﬁdence in the Group.
The Board
The Board was strengthened during the year. In July, George
Battersby joined the executive team as Group Human
Resources Director and in December, Harris Jones was
appointed as Executive Director International Business.
We also appointed three new Non-executive Directors,
Kate Nealon,Agn` es T ouraine and Clive Butler.Their combined
experience has signiﬁcantly broadened the skills of our 
Board as we undertake the next stage of the Group’s
transformation. Kevin Loosemore resigned from the Board
on 1 December 2004 and left Cable & Wireless at the 
end of the ﬁnancial year, we would like to thank him for 
his contribution. Dr Janet Morgan retired from the Board 
in July 2004 having served 16 years during which time her
contribution has been considerable. I am pleased to report 
that Cable & Wireless continues to operate governance 
to high standards.
Our team
Cost-cutting and corporate reorganisation has inevitably 
been unsettling for staff, and I want to thank our management
and employees for meeting the challenges so far with resilience
and determination.Their contribution has enabled us to
strengthen our business for the future.
Looking ahead
Our markets continue to suffer from excess capacity and
severe price competition. Performance improvement will
come from efﬁciencies and cost-cutting, and a shift in our
sales mix towards broadband, IP and mobile.We are in a
unique position to help our customers embrace these new
technologies and I look forward with conﬁdence to the 
year ahead.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
– Turnaround programme on track
– Revenue from continuing operations 
stable at constant currency
– Launch of £250m share buyback programme
– Initiated £190m investment in Next
Generation Networks
– Targeted National Telco investment 
in broadband, IP and mobile 6/7 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Chief Executive’s review
Focusing on margin
and investing in
proﬁtable growth 
Francesco Caio
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
We have deﬁned a clear path for our business based
around key trends in customer demand and the rapid 
shift in technology. It is key to our success both to 
manage margins in traditional services and to be able 
to invest for proﬁtable growth in new services.
In 2004/05 we made solid progress in strengthening 
Cable & Wireless’ competitive position:
– We have focused the Group on markets where we 
have a relevant presence and can develop and retain a
sustainable position.
– We completed the US exit and the sale of our domestic
business in Japan.
– We committed to invest £190m over three years 
in a UK Next Generation Network to increase
competitiveness and enhance ﬁnancial performance.
– We focused National Telcos to compete in the growth
areas of mobile and broadband and continue to
reduce costs.
– We reshaped our UK business into four customer-
focused segments, Enterprise, Business, Carrier Services
and Bulldog, each led by experienced telecom professionals.
– In May 2005 we completed the ﬁrst phase of Bulldog’s
unbundling programme to cover 30% of UK households,
just a year after its acquisition.
We streamlined central management and relocated our 
head ofﬁce to Bracknell, reﬂecting our reduced cost base and
a culture where the centre drives performance across the
Group.Worldwide we are a leaner organisation, in line with
our aim to be the lowest cost provider in all our markets.
Proﬁt drivers for infrastucture-based telcos
– Scale
– Access network
– Business and residential customers
– Branded franchise: innovation, marketing,
distribution, customer care
Managing 
margins in legacy
Investing for growth
in new services
NGN Industry context
The telecoms industry is experiencing profound structural
changes.There are common challenges and opportunities
across the Group that have shaped our strategic priorities.
Revenues from traditional services continue to decline, so
we must protect margins by further forcing down costs. At
the same time, we are pursuing growth. As new broadband,
IPand mobile services replace legacy services we are investing
to win customers in these highly competitive growth areas.
UK Group
Our UK operations are focused around the customer
segments of Enterprise, Business and Carrier Services.At
present, 67% of our revenues in the UK are generated by
switched voice services, however, we have adopted targeted
strategies for each customer segment as they migrate to
new technologies.These customers are also supported by
our operations in Europe,Asia, and the US.
Enterprise
Enterprise provides integrated telecommunication services 
to large corporations and central government departments.
The convergence of voice, data and internet access on 
IP-based services is reshaping the way many businesses
operate. Migrating to IP offers lower costs and more
sophisticated services, such as video-streaming, multi-party
conferencing, and remote access into corporate IT systems.
Enterprise won a number of new contracts with major
customers.Although our current revenue is still generated
primarily by traditional services – which are subject to
continued decline – we have made solid gains in winning 
IP business, which now accounts for 13% of Enterprise
turnover.
Cable & Wireless has the network and the capabilities to
support our biggest customers as they make the transition
to new generation, IP-based technologies.
Business
Business addresses a market that includes a wide range of
customers. In the last year we have focused on the top end
of the segment and saw new business wins with Damovo,
easyJet, Lothian Health Board and Littlewoods. Overall,
however, revenue was reduced by severe competition.
Pressure on revenues in legacy services has been higher 
than in Enterprise reﬂecting the fact that, as many customers
only buy switched voice, they have higher price sensitivity
and propensity to switch.
Take-up of IP is growing among our small business
customers.We are developing a new portfolio of packaged
and bundled products such as Straight Talk and Intelligent
Voice.The services, including IP , are being designed for ease
of implementation and use.
Norwich Union
Norwich Union, the UK’s largest
insurer, needs to be ready to deal
with its customers day and night.
A 99% increase in network
availability from Cable & Wireless 
is helping them do just that. 8/9 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Carrier Services
Cable & Wireless has worldwide coverage across 
200 countries and is one of the world’s largest carriers of
international voice and data. Carrier Services generates 
45% of UK revenue and operates in a highly competitive
market that continues to suffer from over-capacity and
declining margins, although these have been partially offset 
by increased volumes. Our innovative customer solutions
have won notable contracts. We now enable the Post 
Ofﬁce to provide a ﬁxed line phone service, and won an
international termination deal with Skype, the Voice over IP
(VoIP) operator for which we now transport around 100
million minutes a year. This year we will expand our services
to international customers by offering wholesale VoIP . By
taking a Group-wide view of network assets, Carrier Services
aims to improve utilisation of our international network.
We continue to develop new services for mobile carriers
and launched MMX, a platform to exchange pictures and
multimedia messages, developed with Vodafone.We operate
one of the largest Global 3G roaming exchanges and support
email roaming for a third of the world’s mobile networks.
We also launched our Global Carrier multi-protocol label
switching (MPLS) service, which can transmit any type of
trafﬁc in IP format, including time-sensitive and business-
critical information and we have already signed up eight
signiﬁcant carriers.
Turnover declined following a fall in mobile termination rates,
imposed on all carriers in the UK by Ofcom, but had no
impact on proﬁts. In Europe we downsized and refocused 
on the demands of a customer base of fewer, larger clients.
Services to other providers
Tesco, the Post Ofﬁce and Centrica have
teamed up with Cable & Wireless to offer
ﬁxed line phone services under their own
brands. Supported by Cable & Wireless
infrastructure and operations they offer
residential phone customers new choice 
and value and provide new competition 
for BT in the residential market. Investing in
broadband
400 exchanges
May 2005
available to
30%
of UK households
these advantages to differentiate our business from our
competitors.
Our unbundling programme has made rapid progress.
We reached our initial target of 400 exchanges in May 2005,
seven months ahead of the original timetable.The Bulldog
team, under its new Chief Executive, is now progressing with
plans to extend its UK coverage and intends to unbundle 
an additional 200 exchanges by March 2006 and a further
200 exchanges in the ﬁrst half of 2006/07 bringing the total 
number of exchanges unbundled to 800.This will increase
planned investment and start-up losses in 2005/06.
Bulldog’s dual super-fast 4Mbps broadband and voice
telephony offer attracted early customer enthusiasm in the
residential and SoHo markets and we quickly followed this
with the release of 8Mbps across all 400 exchanges.As the
roll-out progresses we have supported it with a broader
commercial marketing programme. With the largest non-
incumbent telecom network in the UK, our new end-to-end
infrastructure has offered customers a real choice of total
ﬁxed voice and broadband provider for the ﬁrst time.
Bulldog has similar characteristics to a start-up in the early
days of mobile: it is marketing led, innovative, and offers
customers a fast, convenient, good value service. For clarity
of management and transparency, we are therefore reporting
the results of Bulldog separately in our segmental analysis.
Bulldog
The acquisition in May 2004 of Bulldog, the broadband
operator, was an important step in advancing our UK access
strategy. Local loop unbundling (LLU) strengthens our presence
in the valuable access network, while Bulldog’s appeal to the
residential and small/home ofﬁce market (the so-called SoHos)
broadens our UK customer base.This additional trafﬁc
increases use of the existing core network and can, in future,
migrate very simply to our Next Generation Network.
Through LLU, Bulldog puts its own equipment inside BT’s
local exchanges to take control of the “last mile” copper 
link (the local loop) into the customer’s home or ofﬁce.
Access to this last mile improves our end-to-end control of
the network resulting in lower outpayments to BT and, hence,
higher gross margins. It also allows us to innovate, differentiate
and control the end-to-end quality of our services to business
and residential customers.
LLU enables Cable & Wireless to redeﬁne its position in the
telecom industry away from the alternative network model.
We have the capability, the core network, and the funding
to exploit unbundling. LLU enables us to make the most of
available
to 10/11 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Next Generation Networks and Operations 
In all our markets, we are an infrastructure-based competitor.
Control of our own network is a key source of competitive
advantage through which we can provide high-quality, cost-
effective innovative services.The creation last year of an
integrated management structure for network systems and
operations has enabled us to enhance quality of service, and
identify investment priorities, reduce hand-offs and target
cost reductions.
We have carried out a review of our existing UK network,
and launched a programme to address operating costs,
interconnection costs and loading.The ﬁrst phase of this
programme will cut costs by £50m in 2005/06 enabling
us to mitigate to some extent the continuing effects of
price pressure.
The network review also demonstrated the signiﬁcant
beneﬁts of moving to an IP-based Next Generation
Network architecture, and the associated IT systems and
processes. In April we announced investment of £190m 
over three years to transform our core UK network into 
a single integrated IP platform, carrying voice, data and
internet services.
This decision was driven by the shift in demand in all
customer segments towards IP-based products, and the rapid
advance in IP technologies.The development of new services
will be supported by Bulldog’s expanding broadband access
network, which will feed trafﬁc into the IP core.We expect
our new IP architecture to be in place by the end of 2007/08.
A large proportion of the anticipated £190m capital
expenditure on our Next Generation Network will replace
expenditure that would otherwise have been needed to
maintain our legacy system, leaving a net increase in planned
investment over the three years of £35m.
Over the next three years UK voice and data trafﬁc will
continue to migrate to IP . Cable & Wireless has the scale to
lead this transformation. Our infrastructure size, combined
with the efﬁciency of putting all trafﬁc onto a single IP-based
core network, will deliver signiﬁcant economies. Our Next
Generation Network will offer customers greater
functionality and customised solutions, at an attractive price.
The beneﬁt for Cable & Wireless will be lower operating
and maintenance costs, and a more ﬂexible network that can
accommodate signiﬁcant growth in trafﬁc at a much lower
capital cost, offering the potential to achieve a higher margin.
Next Generation Network to support
customer demand
– Investment of £190m over three years
– Transforms core network to a single
integrated IP platform
– Less complexity, greater scalability,
accommodates trafﬁc growth
– Lower capital cost
– Permanently lower operating and
maintenance costs. Ofcom
The regulatory framework is fundamental to our business
and our investment decisions.The strategic review by
Ofcom, the telecom and media regulator, provides an
opportunity to create a more transparent and effective
regulatory regime in areas where BT still controls access
to customers.The promised level playing ﬁeld must become
a reality. Establishing the appropriate structure and processes
to obtain equality of access to BT’s local loop assets will
enable the market to take thelead in setting prices for
products and services where there is already competition.
We are encouraged by Ofcom’s emphasis on
infrastructure-based competition.We are also pleased 
that the regulator has adopted the principle of equivalence
as the tool to deliver parity in the market. Successfully
implemented, this would require BT to offer regulated
products to competitors at exactly the same price and
quality of service as it does to BT’s own businesses.There
should be no discrimination between non-BT customers
and BT’s own operations when purchasing products such
as wholesale broadband capacity and call origination.
Our recent experience has shown considerable room 
for improvement in, for example, BT’s co-operation over
local loop unbundling.
It is critical that equivalence is designed into BT’s planned
21st Century Network so that new barriers to entry are
not created by BT’s migration to next generation systems.
Fair infrastucture-based competition must be at the heart
of the UK telecoms market if customers are to beneﬁt
from the variety of services that new technologies can
offer and the UK is to recapture its pre-eminent position
as a business location.
“The principles to 
guide our actions are:
to promote 
competition at the
deepest levels of
infrastructure where 
it will be effective 
and sustainable.”
Ofcom Strategic Review of T elecommunications
Phase 2 consultation 12/13 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
National T elcos
Cable & Wireless is the market leader in integrated ﬁxed,
broadband and mobile services in 34 countries. Our National
Telcos have delivered solid results in the context of an
increasingly liberalised environment.As at 31 March 2005
88% of our National Telco revenues were generated by
companies operating in liberalised markets although not all
of these are yet fully competitive. Revenues increased by 10%
due to good performances in Panama and Rest of the World,
and the acquisition of Monaco Telecom. Mobile revenues
grew by 26% and data and IP revenues grew by 13% year on
year. (All revenue changes are expressed at constant currency.)
Our new leadership team aims to take advantage of the
National Telcos’ breadth of operations.We believe that 
this increased cross-business co-operation, and sharing of
knowledge and expertise across our geographies, will continue
to sharpen performance.
Our National Telcos’ markets are at different stages of
liberalisation. Each has its own customer proﬁle, but the
competitive challenges they face are similar, and so must 
be the response:
– Reducing the costs of legacy services, where margins are
under pressure.
– Investing further in the key growth services of broadband,
IP and mobile.
– Developing sales and marketing skills to stay ahead of the
competition.
Concentrating 
on performance
Barbados bmobile
Network coverage, new store formats and
the bmobile brand contributed to Cable &
Wireless Barbados’ success in mobile.
Fixed line pre-pay 
Tele Pre-Pago in Panama offers customers 
a popular ﬁxed line pre-paid proposition
enabling them to plan their spending. In broadband and IP we are leaders in most of our markets
and are investing to meet growing demands. Many of the
countries in which we operate still have relatively low take-
up of broadband and IP services, and we are well positioned 
to offer services that assist customers in the transition.
We have started to invest in IP backbones in countries
where trafﬁc volumes justify the expenditure, including 
in the Caribbean where hurricane damage has accelerated
infrastructure replacement. Upgrades are under way in
Monaco, Macau, the Cayman Islands and Grenada.
Across all of the National Telcos, we have established tight
ﬁnancial discipline and control over investment.This has
sharpened our focus on initiatives that produce results.We
intend to expand broadband and mobile services and this
strategy will determine our investment decisions.
The future
Over the last two years we have created a more focused
and streamlined platform, better equipped to face the
challenges and opportunities of the rapidly transforming
telecommunications industry.
Our markets will remain very challenging, but I believe that
we can build on our early achievements. In the UK, our
reorganisation will sharpen our customer focus and
strengthen our competitive position.The investment in
Bulldog and our Next Generation Network will further
distinguish us from other UK operators. In our overseas
businesses, we will strive to maintain proﬁtable market
leadership.
Francesco Caio
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Focusing on key markets, reducing cost and
accelerating investment in growth services
Cable & Wireless has made solid progress in
strengthening its competitive position. We focused on
markets where we can have a relevant and sustainable
position. We have reshaped our UK business; refocused
Europe on Carrier Services; committed investment of
£190m over three years to UK NGN; acquired and
developed Bulldog; and focused on mobile and
broadband in National Telcos. 14/15 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Community and environment
After School ICT Academy 
Bracknell’s popular Cable & Wireless 
After School ICT Academy is based at 
the Group’s head ofﬁce. It helps 11-14 
year olds to develop conﬁdence in the 
use of technologies and gain new skills.
Cable & Wireless staff are volunteer
mentors to the scheme.
Making a 
positive
contribution
Group’s environmental impact.The board also has a Code 
of Ethics speciﬁcally applicable to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
and senior ﬁnancial ofﬁcers. Employees are encouraged to
report any breach of the codes and can do so conﬁdentially
and anonymously. Both codes, together with full details 
of all Group corporate governance issues, are available at
www.cw.com
Community investment
The Group’s community investments are run in partnership
with voluntary and community-based organisations,
governments and charities, and are directed by the Group
Community Investment Committee. Cable & Wireless has
also established charitable foundations in Panama, Jamaica
and the Seychelles. In 2004/05, Cable & Wireless’ total
community contribution was £7.7m, of which £6.4m was 
cash charitable contributions. Of the total, £1.7m was spent
in the UK.The investment programme focuses on three 
main areas:Addressing the “digital divide”; Promoting safety
and security in the use of the internet and information and
communication technologies (ICT); and Encouraging positive
use of ICT.
Addressing the Digital Divide
Cable & Wireless projects enable those from underprivileged
communities to beneﬁt from ICT. Typical activities are: the
popular Cable & Wireless After School ICT Academy, based
at the group’s head ofﬁce in Bracknell, which helps 11 to 14
year olds to gain new technology skills;The Cable & Wireless
Panama Foundation, which works with the Ministry of
Education to provide PCs and internet connectivity for
20,000 pupils in 14 schools across the country.
Using the internet safely 
Cable & Wireless collaborates with its partners to protect
Cable & Wireless is committed to effective management 
of social, ethical and environmental matters.The Board
manages and monitors corporate responsibility through 
the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, chaired 
by the Executive Deputy Chairman, Lord Robertson of
Port Ellen.
The Cable & Wireless Code of Business Principles provides
standards and guidelines for business conduct across the
Group, with guidance on subjects such as corporate
governance, employee relations and management of the £7.7m
Group-wide cash and in-kind 
charitable contributions.
children from unsuitable content and to raise understanding
of internet safety. In one venture, the Cable & Wireless
Childnet Academy 2005, run with the Childnet International
internet charity, organised an international web development
competition for young people which attracted entries from
49 countries.The winning websites can be seen at
www.childnetacademy.org
Disaster response
In September 2004, Cable & Wireless donated US$1m 
after Hurricane Ivan in the Caribbean to fund relief and
reconstruction in Cayman, Grenada and Jamaica.The group
also provided emergency humanitarian supplies, telecoms
equipment and expert help.Another US$1m donation was
made towards the reconstruction of the Maldives following
the Tsunami in December 2004.Again this was in addition 
to support from company engineers in restoring
communications to the devastated islands.
Employment, Health and Safety
The Group’s employment philosophy is to foster diversity in
the workforce.The company aims to ensure that no employee,
job applicant, customer or supplier is discriminated against.
Cable & Wireless’ employment policies comply with local
requirements and meet group standards for occupational
health, safety, and environment (OHSE), business ethics,
diversity, disability, performance management, and employee
relations. Full details are on the website at www.cw.com
Cable & Wireless has a comprehensive OHSE programme
to minimise risks.The Group has identiﬁed key performance
targets covering OHSE, Energy & Transport, Ozone Depletion
and Contamination.The most recent targets and performance
reports are on the website and updated information will be
available from July 2005.
Cable & Wireless complied with an improvement notice
served in October 2004 relating to the use of an extractor
in a UK ofﬁce building.An internal investigation was
conducted, and all recommendations implemented. In
January 2005, an oil spill occurred at a Cable & Wireless
technical site in the UK.The company co-operated fully 
with the Environment Agency in the clean-up operation.
An internal investigation into the incident was conducted 
and recommendations are being implemented.
Responsible procurement
Cable & Wireless encourages suppliers to respect the
Group’s business principles.The Group’s Responsible
Procurement Policy has been piloted from April 2005,
and suppliers and contractors will be requested to comply
through amended contract terms.The Cable & Wireless
Supplier Related Ethics Policy will be rolled out during
2005/06 and sets guidelines to ensure that all dealings 
with suppliers are ethical.
Mobile phone safety
Cable & Wireless monitors and manages issues relating 
to concerns about possible adverse effects to human 
health from mobile phone use.The Group tracks scientiﬁc
and medical research, media, legal, regulatory and other
developments, as well as the public perception of risk.
Stakeholder dialogue and external ratings
Cable & Wireless conducts regular dialogue with stakeholders.
The Group remains a constituent member of the FTSE4Good
Index.The group’s performance during 2004/05 led to an
improvement in its corporate responsibility rating by two 
of Europe’s leading agencies,Vigeo and Core Ratings.
Cable & Wireless also scored 84.5% in the Business in the
Environment 2004 Index of Corporate Environmental
Engagement, compared with an average score of 79%. 16/17 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Operating and ﬁnancial review
The solid performance that the Chairman and CEO 
have already described is evidenced in particular by:
– Continuing operations operating proﬁt improved 
by 38% at constant currency to £284m (before
exceptionals, joint ventures (JVs), associates and
amortisation), reﬂecting good performance in the
established UK business and the contribution of 
Monaco T elecom.
– Free cash ﬂow from continuing operations increased 
by 31%, at constant currency, compared with the
previous year.Adjusting for the investment in Bulldog,
free cash ﬂow in other continuing operations increased
by more than 80% compared with 2003/04.
– UK operations increased its operating proﬁt before
exceptionals by £50m, primarily through continued 
cost reductions.
– National T elcos reported stable margins with growth in
operating proﬁt before exceptionals and revenue, on
a constant currency basis.This was achieved through
focusing on mobile and broadband revenues, while
maximising the contribution of Monaco T elecom which
was acquired in the year.
Charles Herlinger 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
3,023
3,130
2004/05
2003/04
Revenues – continuing operations (£m)
284
228
2004/05
2003/04
1. Excludes JVs & associates and amortisation of goodwill. 
All figures shown are before exceptional items.
Operating profit
1
– continuing operations (£m)
144
127
2004/05
2003/04
Free cash flow = Operating profit plus depreciation less cash 
capital expenditure.
Free cash flow – continuing operations (£m) Continuing operations
– summary proﬁt and loss 2004/05 2003/04
£m £m
(except per share data)
Revenue 3,023 3,130
Operating proﬁt* 284 228
Proﬁt before tax 
and exceptionals 361 319
Exceptionals (159) (619)
Tax (inc exceptional items) 14 16
Proﬁt after tax and exceptionals 216 (284)
Basic earnings per share 9.3p 8.0p
Free cash ﬂow 144 127
* Excludes exceptionals, JVs & associates and amortisation of goodwill.
Continuing revenue remained ﬂat against the prior year at
constant currency, but declined by 3.4% at reported rates.
Strong revenue performances in Panama and Rest of World,
and the inclusion of Monaco T elecom results for the ﬁrst time
were offset by declines in Europe, the UK and the Caribbean.
The main drivers of the 38% constant currency improvement
in continuing operating proﬁt, before exceptionals, JVs and
associates and amortisation, were the cost saving initiatives
taken in the UK and the consolidation of Monaco Telecom.
In addition, the depreciation charge declined by £19m at
constant currency, in large part due to the impairments in
the prior years.
T otal Group summary proﬁt and loss
2004/05 2003/04
£m £m
(except per share data)
Revenue 3,222 3,671
Operating proﬁt* 298 196
Proﬁt before tax 
and exceptionals 377 278
Exceptionals (14) (502)
Tax 14 12
Proﬁt/(loss) after tax 377 (212)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 13.0p (10.2)p
Free cash ﬂow* 148 106
* Excludes exceptionals, JVs & associates and amortisation of goodwill.
T otal Group results include the results of both continuing 
and discontinued operations. In 2005, discontinued operations
comprised the results of our Japanese business that we exited
in February 2005. In 2004, discontinued operations included
Japan, the US and Y emen.
T otal Group exceptionals
Dis-
Continuing continued 2004/05
£m £m £m
Restructuring (140)(1)(141)
Hurricane Ivan/Asian tsunami (19) – (19)
Impairment (8) – (8)
Provision release 15 – 15
Sale or termination of operations (14) 130 116
Disposal of ﬁxed assets 7 16 23
T otal exceptional items
before taxation (159) 145 (14)
T axation 89 – 89
T otal exceptional items
after taxation (70) 145 75
The exceptional restructuring costs of £141m includes charges
in respect of redundancy (£68m), property and network
related costs (£65m) and other costs (£8m).The costs
predominantly relate to the Group’s restructuring activities 
in the UK, Europe and at Corporate head ofﬁce.
Hurricane Ivan and the Asian Tsunami adversely impacted the
Group's operations in the Caribbean and Maldives, respectively.
Exceptional restoration costs of £19m were incurred to 
31 March 2005 in rectifying damage caused to the network
and other assets of these operations.
The exceptional credit on the sale or termination of
operations predominantly relates to a gain of £42m realised
on the disposal of the Group’s Japanese business and an
exceptional credit of £66m in respect of the US domestic
operations that were discontinued in 2004.
Provisions relating to onerous contracts totalling £15m
(United Kingdom £3m, Europe £6m, CWAO £6m) were
released in the year.
The exceptional tax amount includes an £85m exceptional 
tax credit relating to the settlement of various longstanding
overseas tax items at less than their expected cost. 18/19 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Continuing operations
– Capex 2004/05 2003/04
£m £m
Network build 109 62
Service delivery/Product portfolio 78 67
Mobile 76 119
IT/Other 69 78
Cash Capex 332 326
Capital expenditure in 2004/05 reﬂected increased investment
in customer service delivery (including network build and local
loop unbundling) offset by the near completion of the initial
rollout of GSM networks in the National T elcos.At constant
currency, Capex has increased by 8% year on year.
T otal Group summarised cash ﬂow
2004/05 2003/04
£m £m
Net cash inﬂow from 
operating activities 346 73
Dividends, return on investments 
and servicing of ﬁnance 15 (32)
Taxation paid (60) (43)
Capital expenditure (344) (342)
Financial investment 76 301
Acquisitions and disposals (35) (118)
Equity dividends paid (97) –
Net cash ﬂow before ﬁnancing and
management of liquid resources (99) (161)
Movement in liquid resources 75 932
Net ﬁnancing repaid (153) (582)
(Decrease)/increase in cash 
in the year (177) 189
The decrease in cash of £177m in the year is principally
reﬂected by dividends paid of £97m, ﬁnancing repayments
of £153m and cash of £75m transferred from liquid
resources.
Other operating and investing activities result in a broadly
cash neutral movement, including cash inﬂows from
operating activities of £346m, cash inﬂows from ﬁnancial
investment of £76m, cash outﬂows in respect of capital
expenditure £344m and taxation paid £60m.
Review of performance – UK
Y ear ended 31 March 2004/05 2003/04
£m £m
Enterprise 475 453
Business 394 445
Carrier services 733 763
T otal revenue 1,602 1,661
Operating costs (1,452) (1,560)
Depreciation (60) (68)
Operating proﬁt* 90 33
JVs & associates (8) (1)
Cash Capex (138) (101)
Free cash ﬂow 12 –
* Excludes exceptionals, JVs & associates and amortisation of goodwill.
All ﬁgures shown are before exceptionals.
In the UK, turnover at £1,602m decreased by £59m, or 4%,
in 2005 compared with 2004. Enterprise turnover for the 
full year increased by 5% to £475m in 2004/05 as a result 
of the continued expansion of sales to key ﬁnancial services
customers and ongoing network expansion across the UK.
Against this, Business turnover declined by 11% to £394m,
compared with 2003/04 reﬂecting the higher levels of price
erosion and churn experienced in this segment.
Carrier Services turnover also declined from £763m in
2003/04 to £733m in 2004/05.This reduction was largely 
due to the regulated reduction in mobile termination rates 
in the UK from September 2004.
The overall reduction in operating costs was driven by 
a decrease in outpayments and network related costs,
principally driven by the reduction in mobile termination rates
in the UK and an increased focus on cost savings through
network efﬁciency and vendor re-negotiation programmes. The loss of £8m arising on JVs and associates was primarily
due to the impairment of a sub-sea cable held by one of the
UK’s joint ventures.
As expected, Capex was weighted heavily towards the
second half of the year and primarily related to customer
service delivery and network build.
Review of performance – Bulldog
Y ear ended 31 March 2004/05
£m
Revenue 11
Operating costs (39)
Depreciation (2)
Operating loss* (30)
JVs & associates –
Cash Capex (27)
Free cash ﬂow (55)
* Excludes amortisation.
Cable & Wireless acquired Bulldog on 28 May 2004.
T urnover for the ten months to 31 March 2005 was £11m,
reﬂecting strong demand in the SoHo (small ofﬁce or home
ofﬁce) and consumer market for the high speed broadband
services offered by Bulldog. In particular, Bulldog has seen
high demand for its Inter@ctive and Super@ctive products
both of which provide 4 Mbps broadband plus national and
local phonecalls.
Operating costs comprise outpayments and network costs 
of £13m representing the costs of Bulldog’s UK broadband
network, staff costs of £12m and other costs of £14m.
During the year, Bulldog invested £27m of Capex in 
the initial build out of its broadband network infrastructure.
This investment was driven by unbundling local exchanges.
Review of performance – Caribbean
Y ear ended 31 March 
2004/05 2003/04
£m £m
Revenue 550 633
Constant currency change % (3)
Operating costs (388) (442)
Depreciation (58) (76)
Operating proﬁt* 104 115
Constant currency change % –
Underlying operating proﬁt margin % 18.9 18.2
Reported operating proﬁt margin % 20.5 21.2
JVs & associates 19 30
Cash Capex (86) (134)
Free cash ﬂow 76 57
* Excludes JVs & associates and amortisation of goodwill.
All ﬁgures shown are before exceptionals.
We have focused on competing effectively on the growth
areas of mobile and data resulting in a strong performance 
in these segments that largely offset the decline in
international services.T otal revenue in the Caribbean fell 
by 3% at constant currency due to increased competition 
in international services.
At constant currency, mobile revenue grew 6% year on 
year as the recent initiatives we have taken gained traction.
Our investment in broadband technologies in the region 
is also reﬂected in the 13% year on year growth in data 
& IP revenues.
Underlying operating proﬁt margin continues to be the best
indicator of performance for the Caribbean.Whilst reported
operating proﬁt margin appears to have stabilised, adjusting
for the adverse impact of Hurricane Ivan in the current year
and certain one-off costs in the prior year, the underlying
result shows that margins remain under pressure as
competition continues to increase throughout the region.
Hurricane Ivan adversely impacted results in the Caribbean.
The business interruption following Hurricane Ivan resulted 
in a reduction in operating proﬁt before exceptionals of
approximately £11m. 20/21 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
The proﬁt from JVs and associates reﬂects our interest in
T elecommunications Services of  Trinidad and T obago Limited
(TSTT).TSTT recorded a redundancy provision in the second
half of 2005.The Group’s share of this charge was £11m,
explaining the overall decline in JVs and associates year on year.
Capex declined year on year as the Group neared the
completion of its initial GSM roll out across the region.
Review of performance – National T elcos 
(excluding Caribbean) 
Y ear ended 31 March 2004/05 2003/04
£m £m
Revenue 641 554
Constant currency % 26 –
Operating cost (376) (315)
Constant currency % (30) –
Depreciation (70) (77)
Operating proﬁt* 195 162
Constant currency % 31 –
Underlying operating proﬁt margin % 30.4 29.2
Reported operating proﬁt margin % 30.9 31.3
Cash Capex (75) (61)
Free cash ﬂow (FCF) 190 178
FCF % operating proﬁt 97.4 109.9
* Excludes JVs & associates and amortisation of goodwill.
All ﬁgures shown are before exceptionals.
Performance in the other National Telcos – Panama, Macau,
Monaco Telecom and Rest of the World
1
– was strong
despite ongoing competition.
Revenues increased 16% year on year due to a 31% 
increase in mobile revenues in Panama and the Maldives and,
additionally, the contribution from Monaco T elecom.
The improvement in operating proﬁt year on year was a
result of a strong performance in Rest of the World; the
inclusion of Monaco, which has performed well since
acquisition; and a reduced depreciation charge this year,
following the asset impairments last year.
Monaco Telecom contributed turnover of £100m and
operating proﬁt before exceptionals of £17m since its
acquisition in June 2004.
T o maintain this strong performance, we are working to
increase cross-business cooperation, sharing knowledge 
and expertise across geographies as well as developing 
pan-regional initiatives to reduce cost.
The increase of Capex in other National Telcos year on 
year was primarily in Panama and also due to increasing 
the capacity of our GSM network as subscriber 
numbers increase.
1
“Rest of the World” comprises the results of the Group’s operations
in the Islands of the Atlantic, Paciﬁc and Indian Oceans, the Middle
East and Guernsey. This Summary Financial Statement is a summary of information
contained in the Group’s Annual Report and Accounts on 
which the Group’s auditor expressed an unqualiﬁed opinion.
The auditor’s report did not include any statement under
Sections 237(2) or 237(3) of the Companies Act 1985.
This Summary Financial Statement does not contain sufﬁcient
information to allow as full an understanding of the results of
the Group and state of affairs of the Company or of the Group 
or of their policies and arrangements concerning Directors’
remuneration, as would be provided by the full Annual Report
and Accounts. For further information the full Annual Accounts,
the Auditors’ Report on those accounts and the Directors’
Report should be consulted. Requests to receive, free of 
charge, copies of the full 2004/05 Annual Report and Accounts 
(and elections to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts 
in place of the Summary Financial Statement for all future years)
should be sent to the the Company’s Registrar whose address 
is shown on page 31.
Information relating to a review of the activities of the Company
and its subsidiaries and future developments in the business is
given in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review
and the Operating and Financial Review on pages 4 to 5, 6 to 13
and 16 to 20 respectively.The Directors of Cable and Wireless
plc who served during the year and their remuneration for the
year to 31 March 2005 (or, where relevant, part thereof) are
shown on page 26.
Summary ﬁnancial statements Statement of the Independent
Auditor to the Members of
Cable and Wireless plc
Pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985
We have examined the Summary Financial Statement set out 
on pages 21 to 30.
This statement is made solely to the Companys’ members, as 
a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act
1985. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Companys’ members those matters we are required to
state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and
the Company’s members as a body, for our work, for this
statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law. Our
responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency
of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Review
with the full Annual Accounts and Directors’ Report and the
Directors’ Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the
relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act
1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual
Review and consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999/6
“The auditor’s statement on the summary ﬁnancial statement”
issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United
Kingdom. Our report on the Group’s full Annual Accounts
describes the basis of our audit opinion on those accounts.
Opinion
In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent
with the full Annual Accounts, the Directors’ Report and the
Directors’ Remuneration Report of Cable and Wireless plc for 
the year ended 31 March 2005 and complies with the applicable
requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and
the regulations made thereunder.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
3 June 2005 22/23 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Consolidated proﬁt and loss accounts
For the year ended 31 March 2005
2005 2004
£m £m
Turnover of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates 3,409 3,868
Share of turnover of – joint ventures (127) (136)
Share of turnover of – associates (60) (61)
Group turnover 3,222 3,671
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items (2,730) (3,223)
Exceptional operating costs (145) (244)
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (2,875) (3,467)
Depreciation before exceptional items (194) (252)
Exceptional depreciation (8) (526)
Depreciation (202) (778)
Amortisation before exceptional items (7) 3
Exceptional amortisation – (10)
Amortisation (7) (7)
Total operating costs (3,084) (4,252)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 138 (581)
Share of operating proﬁts in joint ventures 16 23
Share of operating proﬁts in associates 24 18
Total operating proﬁt/(loss) 178 (540)
Proﬁts less (losses) on sale and termination of operations before exceptional items 3 –
Exceptional proﬁts less (losses) on sale and termination of operations 116 250
Proﬁts less (losses) on sale and termination of operations 119 250
Proﬁts less (losses) on disposal of ﬁxed assets before exceptional items 5 25
Exceptional items 23 28
Proﬁts less (losses) on disposal of ﬁxed assets 28 53
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest 325 (237)
Net interest and other similar income/(charges)
– Group 38 13
– Joint ventures and associates – –
Total net interest and other similar income/(charges) 38 13
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 363 (224)
Tax on loss on ordinary activities 14 12
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities after taxation 377 (212)
Equity minority interests (75) (25)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the ﬁnancial year 302 (237)
Dividends (87) (73)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year retained 215 (310)
Basic earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 13.0p (10.2)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 12.3p (10.2)p
Dividends per Ordinary Share 3.8p 3.15p Consolidated proﬁt and loss accounts: continuing operations 
For the year ended 31 March 2005
2005 2004
Continuing Continuing
operations operations
£m £m
Turnover of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates 3,210 3,327
Share of turnover of – joint ventures (127) (136)
Share of turnover of – associates (60) (61)
Group turnover 3,023 3,130
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items (2,547) (2,677)
Exceptional operating costs (144) (219)
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (2,691) (2,896)
Depreciation before exceptional items (192) (225)
Exceptional depreciation (8) (404)
Depreciation (200) (629)
Amortisation before exceptional items (7) 3
Exceptional amortisation – (10)
Amortisation (7) (7)
Total operating costs (2,898) (3,532)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 125 (402)
Share of operating proﬁts in joint ventures 16 23
Share of operating proﬁts in associates 24 18
Total operating proﬁt/(loss) 165 (361)
Exceptional proﬁts less (losses) on sale and termination of operations (14) 2
Proﬁts less (losses) on disposal of ﬁxed assets before exceptional items 5 26
Exceptional items 7 12
Proﬁts less (losses) on disposal of ﬁxed assets 12 38
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest 163 (321) 24/25 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Consolidated proﬁt and loss accounts: discontinued operations 
For the year ended 31 March 2005
2005 2004
Discontinued Discontinued
operations operations
£m £m
Turnover of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates 199 541
Share of turnover of – joint ventures – –
Share of turnover of – associates – –
Group turnover 199 541
Operating costs before depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items (183) (546)
Exceptional operating costs (1) (25)
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (184) (571)
Depreciation before exceptional items (2) (27)
Exceptional depreciation – (122)
Depreciation (2) (149)
Amortisation before exceptional items – –
Exceptional amortisation – –
Amortisation – –
Total operating costs (186) (720)
Total operating proﬁt/(loss) 13 (179)
Proﬁt less (losses) on sale and termination of operations before exceptional items 3 –
Exceptional proﬁts less (losses) on sale and termination of operations 130 248
Proﬁt less (losses) on sale and termination of operations 133 248
Proﬁts less (losses) on disposal of ﬁxed assets before exceptional items – (1)
Exceptional items 16 16
Proﬁts less (losses) on disposal of ﬁxed assets 16 15
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before interest 162 84 Summary consolidated balance sheet
At 31 March 2005
2005 2004
£m £m
Fixed assets 1,699 1,471
Current assets 3,301 3,455
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (1,534) (1,668)
Net current assets 1,767 1,787
Total assets less current liabilities 3,466 3,258
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (801) (875)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (528) (431)
Net assets 2,137 1,952
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,818 1,703
Equity minority interests 319 249
Capital and reserves 2,137 1,952
The summary ﬁnancial statements on pages 22 to 25 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 June 2005 and 
signed on its behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne, Chairman
Charles Herlinger, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Summary consolidated cash ﬂow statements
For the year ended 31 March 2005
2005 2004
£m £m
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 346 73
Dividends from joint ventures 11 12
Dividends from associates 14 13
25 25
Returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance (10) (57)
Taxation (60) (43)
Capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment (268) (41)
Acquisitions and disposals (35) (118)
Equity dividends paid (97) –
Management of liquid resources 75 932
Net ﬁnancing (153) (582)
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (177) 189 26/27 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Summary remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration
Employer Employer
Compensation Pension pension pension
Salary Otherfor losscash contribution contribution
and fees Bonuses beneﬁts of ofﬁce allowance T otal 2005 T otal 2004 2005 2004
Name of Director £££££ £ £ £ £
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 386,000 – 10,520 – – 396,520 394,949 – –
Current Executive Directors
Francesco Caio 700,000 854,000 195,907 – 175,000 1,924,907 2,188,278 – 116,666
Harris Jones (from 1 December 2004) 170,454 197,137 55,956 – 42,614 466,161 – – –
Charles Herlinger 400,000 320,000 408,487 – 56,000 1,184,487 278,112 44,012 14,666
George Battersby (from 27 July 2004) 238,636 283,500 11,070 – 31,023 564,229 – 32,136 –
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen 204,167 202,500 14,934 – – 421,601 64,800 – –
Robert Rowley 250,000 202,500 184 – – 452,684 958,673 – –
Current Non-executive Directors
Bernard Gray 75,000 – 1,204 – – 76,204 58,098 – –
Graham Howe 65,000 – – – 65,000 43,674 – –
Kate Nealon 13,412 – – – 13,412 – – –
Anthony Rice 90,000 – – – 90,000 76,250 – –
Kasper Rorsted 65,000 – 1,824 – – 66,824 43,674 – –
Agn` es T ouraine 13,412 – – – 13,412 – – –
Former Directors
Kevin Loosemoore 326,667 367,500 34,741 612,500 77,681 1,419,089 1,238,424 4,000 6,000
(until 1 December 2004) 
Dr. Janet Morgan (until 22 July 2004) 20,189 – 134 – – 20,323 51,365 –
T otals 3,017,937 2,427,137 734,961 612,500 382,318 7,174,853 5,396,297 80,148 137,332
Notes
1. The aggregate emoluments of the Directors, which exclude compensation for loss of ofﬁce, were £6,562,353 (2004 – £6,319,991).
2. No Directors had any gains on the exercise of share options in the years ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2004.
3. Four Directors (one of whom has since left the Company) accrued beneﬁts under the deﬁned contribution pension scheme 
in the year ended 31 March 2005 (2004 – four).
4. Restricted Share awards worth £638,190 vested to Kevin Loosemore on 31 March 2005. Remuneration philosophy
Cable & Wireless is an international company, operating in 
some 80 countries around the world.Attracting, retaining and
motivating high-quality people is key to the Group’s success.
Remuneration arrangements are designed to enable the 
Group to maintain a competitive position in each country in a
cost-effective way and are reviewed annually against best practice.
The Group’s remuneration philosophy for Directors is based
upon creating a strong link between performance and reward,
underpinned by the following guiding principles:
– total reward levels should reﬂect the markets in which the
Group competes;
– ﬁxed salaries and beneﬁts should be set with reference to
the mid-market level compared with similar types of company;
– the majority of total remuneration should only be 
receivable as a result of the Group achieving demanding
performance targets;
– an appropriate mix of short and long-term incentives should
be set so that Directors are incentivised to maximise
performance over both the short and medium term; and
– the remuneration structure for Directors should be cascaded
down to other senior executives in a consistent manner.
Elements of remuneration
Executive Directors’ remuneration consists of salary, pension and
other beneﬁts, annual bonus and long-term incentives. In 2005/06,
Directors’ salaries, pensions and annual bonus potential will be
frozen at 2004/05 levels and long-term incentives will be
restructured to more closely reﬂect best practice and to increase
the emphasis on rewarding sustained Group performance.
Performance graph
The graph below shows the change in value of a hypothetical
£100 holding in the Company’s Ordinary Shares over ﬁve years
relative to a broad equity market index.The FTSE 100 index was
considered by the Committee to be the most relevant index for
this purpose as the Company is a constituent of the index and a
ﬁve-year history is available.
T otal shareholder return
Value (£)
£120
£100
£80
£60
£40
£20
£0
31 Mar 00 31 Mar 01 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 05
C & W      
FTSE 100
Source: Thomson Financial
This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2005, of £100 
invested in Cable & Wireless on 31 March 2000 compared with 
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The other 
points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends. 28/29 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Board of Directors
Directors
1. Richard Lapthorne 
N
(62)
Non-executive Chairman;
Chairman, Nominations Committee 
Richard Lapthorne was appointed Chairman in January 2003.
He is a Non-executive Chairman of Morse PLC,Avecia plc,
Arlington Securities Ltd and the New Look Group. He is a Non-
executive Director of Oasis International Leasing in Abu Dhabi
and Vice Chairman of JP Morgan Investment Bank. Mr Lapthorne
joined the Board of Amersham International plc in 1988 as a
Non-executive Director and was Chairman from 1999 until May
2003. He was Finance Director of British Aerospace plc from July
1992 and Vice Chairman from April 1998 until he retired in
September 1999 having previously been Finance Director of
Courtaulds plc from 1986 to 1992. Richard Lapthorne was
awarded the CBE for services to the British aerospace industry
in 1997.
2. Francesco Caio 
N
(47)
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Francesco Caio was appointed Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in 
April 2003. Prior to his appointment Francesco Caio founded
Netscalibur Italia, the European business telecommunications 
and internet service provider in 2000, having previously been
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Merloni Elettrodomestici from 1997
to 2000. In 1996 he was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Olivetti
having previously headed its telecommunications and multimedia
divisions. He led the creation and launch of Omnitel Pronto,
Italy’s second largest mobile phone company before its
acquisition by Vodafone, and was its ﬁrst Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
from 1994 to 1996. He has also worked with McKinsey in
London. He is a Non-executive Director of Netscalibur Italia
SpA and a former Non-executive Director of Equant from 1998
to 2000, of Merloni Elettrodomestici from 2000 to 2004 and of
Motorola from 2000 to 2003.
3.The Right Honourable Lord Robertson of 
Port Ellen KT , GCMG (59)
Executive Deputy Chairman
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen was appointed Executive Deputy
Chairman in February 2004. He was Secretary General of
NATO and Chairman of the North Atlantic Council from
October 1999 to December 2003, Secretary of State for
Defence from 1997 to 1999 and Member of Parliament for
Hamilton and Hamilton South from 1978 to 1999. He is a Non-
executive Director of the Weir Group PLC and Smiths Group
PLC, Strategic Advisor to the Royal Bank of Canada, Europe and
a member of the Advisory Board of Engleﬁeld Capital.
4. Robert (Rob) Rowley (55)
Executive Deputy Chairman
Rob Rowley was appointed a Non-executive Director 
in September 2002 and became Chairman of the Audit
Committee on 1 January 2003. Following a restructuring of the
Board, he relinquished chairmanship of the Audit Committee
and was appointed as Executive Deputy Chairman on 
21 January 2003. He is a Non-executive Director of Prudential
plc, where he is also Chairman of the Audit Committee,Taylor
Nelson Sofres plc and Liberty International plc. He was on 
the Board of Reuters Group Plc from 1990, serving as Finance
Director from 1990 until 2000, then as Chief Executive of
Reuterspace until he retired in 2001.
5. George Battersby (58)
Executive Director, Human Resources
George Battersby was appointed as Executive Director of
Human Resources in July 2004. He has held senior human
resources positions in a number of FTSE 100 companies over
the past 20 years. Prior to joining Cable & Wireless he was
Group Human Resources Director and a member of the Board
of Amersham International plc. He is a Non-executive Director
of SHL Group plc, a leading international HR consultancy, where
he is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Senior
Independent Director.
6. Charles Herlinger (49)
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Charles Herlinger was appointed Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in
December 2003. Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, he worked
for Siemens AG, most recently as Corporate Vice President 
and Group Controller. He joined the Siemens Group in 1987
and was Director of the Overseas Mergers and Acquisitions
Group between 1990 and 1993, Controller of Siemens
Corporation from 1993 to 1995 and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and
Executive Vice President Siemens Energy and Automation from
1995 to 1998. From 1985 to 1987 he was Assistant Controller
of L’Oréal in the United States. He qualiﬁed as a chartered
accountant in the United Kingdom and as a certiﬁed public
accountant in the United States with KPMG, for whom he
worked from 1977 to 1985. Left to right:
1 234567
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
7. Harris Jones (43)
Executive Director, International Business
Harris Jones was appointed as Executive Director of
International Business in December 2004. He has international
experience in the telecoms industry as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
of T -Mobile UK after its acquisition by Deutsche Telekom 
and, previously, as a senior executive with Omnipoint
Communications and Sprint Spectrum. He is a Non-executive
Director of Caracal, Inc.
Non-executive Directors
8. Bernard Gray 
A N R
(44)
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Bernard Gray was appointed a Non-executive Director in
January 2003. He is Chief Executive of CMP Information, the 
UK publishing and events division of United Business Media 
and United Advertising Publications (UBM). Previous roles have
included Special Adviser to the Secretary of State for Defence
from 1997 to 1999 during the UK’s Strategic Defence Review
and almost ten years with the Financial Times Group, including
two years on the Lex column. He began his career in capital
markets in London and New Y ork.
9. Graham Howe 
A N R
(44)
Senior Independent Director
Graham Howe was appointed a Non-executive Director in 
May 2003. Until 30 April 2003 he was Deputy Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer of Orange S.A., having
joined them in 1992 as a founding Director. His previous
experience includes senior positions at Hutchison Telecom, First
Paciﬁc Company and T ouche Ross Management Consultants.
10. Kate Nealon 
A R
(52)
Kate Nealon was appointed a Non-executive Director on 
18 January 2005. She is a US-qualiﬁed lawyer and has practised
international banking and regulatory law in New Y ork. She was
Group Head of Legal and Compliance for Standard Chartered
plc until 2004 and is currently Non-executive Director of HBOS
plc, Monitor (the independent regulator of the NHS Foundation
trusts) and a senior associate of the Judge Institute of
Management at Cambridge University.
11. Anthony (T ony) Rice 
A N
(52)
Chairman,Audit Committee
T ony Rice was appointed a Non-executive Director and
Chairman of the Audit Committee in January 2003. He was a
member of the Remuneration Committee until 1 May 2005.
He has been Chief Executive of Tunstall Holdings Ltd since 
2002. Prior to this role his career was largely spent with British
Aerospace plc where he was variously Group Treasurer, Group
Managing Director Commercial Aircraft and was involved in 
the ﬁnancing and ﬂotation of Orange SA.
12. Kasper Rorsted 
A
(43)
Chairman, Community Investment Committee
Kasper Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive Director in May
2003. He was a member of the Remuneration and Nominations
Committees until 22 February 2005. He is Executive Vice
President at Henkel KGaA having previously been Senior Vice
President and General Manager, EMEA for Hewlett Packard
following its merger with Compaq. He held various other senior
management positions with Compaq since 1995 and has
previous experience with Oracle, Digital and Ericsson.
13. Agnès T ouraine 
A
(50)
Agnès T ouraine was appointed a Non-executive Director on 
18 January 2005. Based in France,Agnès is Managing Partner of
Act III Consultants, a Board member of Fondation de France and
a Non-executive Director of Lastminute.com. She was previously
Chairman and CEO of Vivendi Universal Publishing and held
various senior executive positions with Lagardere Group. She
began her career with McKinsey in Paris.
14. Clive Butler 
A R
(59)
Clive Butler was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 May
2005. He was Corporate Development Director at Unilever
until May 2005 and had served on the main Board since 1992.
During that period he also undertook the roles of Personnel
Director and Category Director for Unilever’s Home and
Personal Care division. He was a Non-executive Director of the
Lloyds TSB group from 1996 until 2003 following the acquisition
by Lloyds Bank of the TSB group, where he had been a Non-
executive Director since 1993. He joined Unilever in 1970 
and has worked with the company ever since, in a variety of
marketing and general management roles, including positions 
in the USA, Zimbabwe and The Philippines.
Dr Janet Morgan
Retired 22 July 2004.
Kevin Loosemore
Resigned 1 December 2004.
Andrew Garard
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
Andrew Garard was appointed Company Secretary in 
May 2004.
A
Denotes membership of Audit Committee
N
Denotes membership of Nominations Committee
R
Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee 30/31 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Summary Directors’ report
This is a summary of the Directors’ Report contained in the
Cable and Wireless plc Annual Report and Accounts for the
year ended 31 March 2005. For more detailed information,
shareholders may obtain a copy of the full Annual Report 
from the Registrars at the address on page 31 or from the
Company’s website.
Directors
Details of the current Board members are shown on pages 28
and 29. Dr Janet Morgan retired from the Board at the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held on 22 July 2004
and Kevin Loosemore resigned from the Board on 1 December
2004.Additions to the Board during the year and up to the date
of this report are: George Battersby (appointed 27 July 2004),
Harris Jones (appointed 1 December 2004), Kate Nealon and
Agnès T ouraine (appointed 18 January 2005) and Clive Butler
(appointed 1 May 2005).
Committees
The Company has three standing committees: the Audit
Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Remumeration
Committee.A summary of the Remuneration Report can be
found on pages 26 and 27 of this Annual Review. Further information
on the standing committees and the full Remuneration Report are
contained within the full Annual Report.The composition and
terms of reference of the standing committees are published on
the Company’s website.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend for 2005 of 2.64p 
per Ordinary Share which, subject to approval by shareholders 
at the 2005 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), will be paid on 
11 August 2005 to shareholders on the register at 8 July 2005.
The total dividend for the year is 3.8p per Ordinary Share.
The Company will offer a Scrip Dividend alternative for the ﬁnal
dividend payable on 11 August 2005. Full details are contained in
the Scrip Dividend brochure which can be obtained from the
Company’s Registrar, from the Company Secretary or from the
Company’s website.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) will be held
at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre in London on 
22 July 2005. Special business to be considered at the AGM 
will cover amendments to the rules of the Incentive Plan 
and Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan, a share buy back
authority, an increase in the cap on total fees to Directors and
amendments to the Articles of Association. Full details and an
explanation of all the resolutions proposed are set out in the
Chairman’s Letter and Notice of AGM.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and 
also has a secondary listing on the New Y ork Stock Exchange.
As such, it is required to comply with the listing rules of the
United Kingdom Listing Authority (“UKLA”) and with many of
the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Sarbanes-Oxley”)
as well as the New Y ork Stock Exchange’s corporate 
governance rules.
The Financial Services Authority requires UK listed companies 
to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions set
out in section 1 of the UKLA’s Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (Combined Code) and, where the provisions have
not been complied with, to provide an explanation. Companies
are also required to explain how they have applied the principles
set out in the Combined Code.
The Board conﬁrms that the Company was fully compliant 
with all the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code
throughout the period except as detailed in the Corporate
Governance: Directors’ Report section of the Company’s full
Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The Board
The Board ﬁrmly believes in good corporate governance 
and particularly that strong governance controls improve the
performance of the business and enhance shareholder value.
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for 
the Board as well as setting out the roles of the Chairman and
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer.These are available from the Company’s
website (www.cw.com) or from the Company Secretary at the
address given on page 32.
The Board is chaired by Richard Lapthorne and Francesco Caio
is the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Rob Rowley and Lord Robertson
of Port Ellen are both Executive Deputy Chairmen. Charles
Herlinger is Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, George Battersby is Group
Human Resources Director and Harris Jones is Executive
Director of International Business. During the year to 31 March
2005, there were seven independent Non-executive Directors,
namely: Bernard Gray, Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan (retired
22 July 2004), Kate Nealon (appointed 18 January 2005),
T ony Rice, Kasper Rorsted and Agnès T ouraine (appointed 
18 January 2005). Clive Butler was appointed as an additional
Non-executive Director on 1 May 2005.The Senior Independent
Director is Graham Howe who is available to shareholders
should they have concerns which contact through the normal
channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer or Chief Financial
Ofﬁcer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is
inappropriate.
Corporate governance Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
The Board has adopted a process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the signiﬁcant risks faced by the Group in accordance
with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on Internal Control.
The Board considers that the Group’s system of internal 
control is appropriately designed to manage, rather than
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and
provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.The concept of reasonable assurance
recognises that the cost of a control procedure should not
exceed the expected beneﬁts. Reviews of the Group’s systems
of internal control are undertaken to improve them as
necessary, taking into account emerging best practice. During 
the year and up to the date of this report procedures were in
place throughout the Group to ensure compliance with the
report of the Turnbull Committee.
At the end of the ﬁnancial year, the ﬁnance and general
management of operating units are required to sign a letter of
representation to conﬁrm that their ﬁnancial reporting is based
on sound data, that they are fully aware of their responsibility
to operate internal control systems and that their results are
properly stated in accordance with Group and statutory
requirements.Additionally, a structure has been developed to
assess the Group’s corporate social responsibility including social,
environmental and ethical matters.These procedures reﬂect the
Group’s commitment to ensuring it has policies in place that
ensure high standards of integrity and transparency throughout
its operations.
Going concern
After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group and Company have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the Financial Statements on pages 22 to 25.
Registrar
The Company’s share register is administered by Lloyds TSB
Registrars.All queries about your shareholding should be
addressed to:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel 0870 600 3975 (UK shareholders)
+44 1903 502541 (Overseas shareholders)
Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their 
own shareholding by viewing ‘Shareview’ (www.shareview.co.uk).
Electronic communication
As an alternative to receiving documents through the post,
Cable & Wireless offers shareholders the option to elect to
receive communications from the Company electronically.
T o make use of this facility, please register at www.shareview.com
following the on-screen instructions.
Scrip dividend scheme
A scrip dividend alternative will be available for the ﬁnal dividend
payable on 1l August 2005. Full details on the scrip dividend 
are available in the Scrip Dividend brochure which can be
obtained from the Company’s Registrar at the address above,
from the Company Secretary or from the Company’s
website (www.cw.com).
Shareholder information 32 2005 Annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement 
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date
6 July 2005
Record date
8 July 2005
Last date for election to join scrip dividend
14 July 2005
AGM
22 July 2005
Payment of ﬁnal dividend
11 August 2005
Announcement of interim results 2006
8 November 2005
Company Secretary and registered ofﬁce
Mr Andrew S Garard is the Company Secretary.The Company’s
registered ofﬁce and address for correspondence is:
Lakeside House
Cain Road
Bracknell
Berkshire RG12 1XL
Tel +44 (0)1908 845 000
ShareGift
If you have a small number of shares whose value makes it
uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating
them to the charity ShareGift (registered charity 1052686),
which collects unwanted shares until there are enough to sell
and uses the proceeds to support other UK charities.The
relevant share transfer forms may be obtained from the
Registrars, the Company Secretary’s Ofﬁce or the Investor
Relations section of the Company’s website. Further information
is available from the Company’s website (www.cw.com) or 
from ShareGift on +44 (0)20 7337 0501 (www.ShareGift.org).
Documents on display
Shareholders can view the Register of Interests of Directors 
(and their families) in the share capital of the Company, together
with service contracts of Executive Directors and letters of
appointment of Non-executive Directors at the Company’s
registered ofﬁce.
Shareholders may also obtain a copy of the Company’s
Memorandum and Articles of Association or view the existing
rules and proposed changes to the Incentive Plan 2001 
and Deferred Short Term Incentive Plan at the Company’s
registered ofﬁce.
Investor relations
Enquiries may be directed to:
Director, Investor Relations
Lakeside House
Cain Road
Bracknell
Berkshire RG12 1XL
Or email: investor-relations.c&wplc@cw.com Designed and produced by Paufﬂey Ltd  www.paufﬂey.com
Printed by Royle Corporate Print
Board photography by Dean Belcher Cable and Wireless plc
Lakeside House,
Cain Road, Bracknell,
Berkshire RG12 1XL
Telephone 01908 845000
International +44 1908 845000
www.cw.com
Airlines Accountants Banks Bank
Building societies Car manufacture
Executives Families Food produce
Hospitals Hotels Housewives Inv
Logistics businesses Media Oil com
Retailers Schools Shipping compa
integrators Teachers Telecoms ca
