 2005/06 Annual report
Cable & Wireless   2005/06 Annual report
OUR
BUSINESS:
WHERE ITIS
ANDWHERE 
IT WILLBE Designed and produced by Pauffley Ltd  www.pauffley.com
Printed by Royle Corporate Print
The paper used for the cover of this Annual report is produced from pulp sourced from well managed forests and is made without the use 
of elemental chlorine (ECF).The text paper contains 25% de-inked post-consumer fibre, 50% pre-consumer fibre and 25% fibre produced in
accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council.
The printer and the manufacturing mills are environmentally accredited ISO 14001. Contents
Introduction and overview
2 About us and highlights
3 Chairman’s statement
5 Group Managing Director, Central
and Finance Director’s review
7 Summary Group performance
Section 1: International business
10 Group Managing Director, International’s review
12 Overview
14 Performance
Section 2: UK business
18 Group Managing Director, UK’s review
20 Overview
23 Performance
Section 3: Group matters
30 Non-operating performance
32 Exceptional items
34 Cash and liquid resources
36 Acquisitions, disposals and other corporate
changes
37 Capital structure
38 Pensions
39 Risk factors
Section 4: Board and governance
42 Board of Directors
44 Directors’ report
48 Corporate governance report
53 Report of the Audit committee
55 Directors’ remuneration report
66 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Section 5: Consolidated financial
statements
68 Independent auditor’s report
69 Consolidated income statement
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71 Consolidated statement of recognised income
and expenses
72 Consolidated cash flow statement
73 Notes to the financial statements
Section 6: Individual financial
statements of Cable and Wireless plc
144 Independent auditor’s report
145 Balance sheet
146 Reconciliation of movements in equity
shareholders’ funds for the Company
147 Notes to the financial statements
Section 7: Shareholder information
166 Shareholder information
168 Glossary of terms Definitions
This report (‘Annual report’) comprises the annual report of Cable and Wireless plc prepared in accordance with United
Kingdom Registration and Listing Rules requirements. The Annual review for the year ended 31 March 2006 is published 
as a separate document.
Unless otherwise stated in this Annual report, the terms ‘Cable & Wireless’, the ‘Group’,‘it’,‘we’,‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to 
Cable and Wireless plc and its subsidiaries, collectively. The term ‘Company’ refers to Cable and Wireless plc.
Cable & Wireless prepares its financial information in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards applicable
for use in the EU. Unless otherwise indicated, any reference in this report to financial statements is to the consolidated
financial statements of Cable & Wireless on pages 69 to 141 of this report.
References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references to the Company’s financial year ending
31 March of that year. In this report, financial and statistical information is, unless otherwise indicated, stated on the 
basis of the Company’s financial year.
Information has been updated to the most practical date prior to the approval date of the document on 31 May 2006.
This document includes terms which may be specific to the industry, the Group or accounting practice. A glossary of
terms is included on pages 168 to 170 to explain and define such terms, as appropriate.
References to year-on-year comparisons are stated in constant currency terms.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual report contains forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as
assumptions about future events. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate
only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate,
intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, would, could or other words of similar meaning. Undue reliance should not 
be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and
uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and Cable & Wireless’ plans and
objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in 
forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described 
in the forward-looking statements are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory
forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
A summary of some of the potential risks faced by Cable & Wireless is set out on pages 39 to 40.
Cable & Wireless undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement contained within this Annual
report, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Addressees of the Annual report
This Annual report is addressed solely to the members of Cable and Wireless plc as a body, to assist them in assessing 
the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed. Neither the Company nor its
Directors accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual report (beyond the responsibilities arising from the
production of this Annual report under the requirements of the Companies Act 1985) or any responsibility to update any
statements in this Annual report. 2005/06 Annual report 1
Introduction
Introduction
and overview
2 About us and highlights
3 Chairman’s statement
5 Group Managing Director, Central
and Finance Director’s review
7 Summary Group performance Introduction and overview
About us and highlights
2 2005/06 Annual report
Cable & Wireless is one of the world’s leading international communications groups.
It operates through two standalone businesses – International and UK.
The International business operates telecommunications companies in 33 countries offering
mobile, broadband, domestic and international fixed line services to residential and business
customers, with principal operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the
Channel Islands.
The UK business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms
services across the UK, US, continental Europe and Asia, and broadband services in the UK
through Bulldog.
The highlights of last year for Cable & Wireless were:
– Acquisition in the UK of Energis, the number three in our market
– Creation of two discrete and self-contained businesses – International and UK
– Strategic repositioning complete. Improving delivery and execution for our customers 
is the future priority
– Solid growth in revenue, operating profit and cash flow in the International business
– UK defined benefit pension scheme fully funded on an ongoing basis after a top-up
payment of £98 million
– Increase in the full year dividend, up 18% to 4.5 pence per share Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
2005/06 Annual report 3
Introduction
The last year has been one of change and of progress.
We have taken significant steps to redefine and continue the
turnaround of Cable & Wireless – the most important of these being:
– the acquisition in the UK of the number three in this market,
Energis – more on this later; and
– the new structure that we have put in place, separating 
Cable & Wireless into two discrete and self-contained businesses,
International and UK.
Our new structure is designed to maximise shareholder value. With
dedicated management focus to tackle and capitalise on the differing
financial, operational and regulatory characteristics in each of our
businesses, both the International and UK businesses are now
responsible for their overall financial performance and return on
capital employed, and are rewarded in proportion to the
shareholder value created by that business.
Also in line with our move to create two distinct businesses, we
have redefined the role and scope of our Group corporate centre,
which will give rise to £20 million of annual savings.
This new structure marks the next phase for Cable & Wireless with
the job of the last three years complete. During that time, we have:
– removed risks to the Group’s financial security with exits from
unsustainable markets;
– successfully rebalanced the International business towards the
growth areas of broadband and mobile, whilst absorbing the
impact of liberalisation that we face in a number of our key
markets; and
– put in place in the UK the strategic tools to reposition and
stabilise our business.
With our strategic repositioning complete, our priorities for 
the next three years are clear – delivery and execution.
Our commitment is to deliver for our customers and for 
our shareholders.
International
In the International business, where we are the leading player in
virtually all of the 33 countries in which we operate, we are very
conscious of the responsibilities that our position demands.
We have made good progress in, and are committed to, increasing
mobile and broadband coverage, and rolling out new technologies
and compelling services for customers. We continue to play an active
role in the communities and environments in which we operate.
All this is borne out by our solid customer acquisition and retention
rates – achieved in the face of stiff and growing competition.
UK
Our UK business is undergoing a transformation.
The acquisition of Energis in November 2005 saw us buying scale,
a strong customer base of large corporate and public sector 
– Acquisition in the UK of Energis
– Creation of two self-contained businesses,
International and UK
– Strategic repositioning complete
– Future priorities – delivery and execution
for our customers and shareholders
– 18% increase in the full year dividend to
4.5 pence per share Introduction and overview
Chairman’s statement
4 2005/06 Annual report
customers and solid management capabilities. With the strategic
asset that our local loop unbundling capability (via Bulldog) gives us,
we now have all the tools in place to be a real alternative to BT for
our customers.
Prior to the acquisition of Energis, we stated that our intention was
for the UK to become a business with £2 billion of revenues and
double digit operating margin. These same targets have been
committed to by our new UK management team which has every
confidence in delivering them.
Our ambition for this business is to serve the largest users of
telecoms in the UK and globally with IP-based services – and to be
famous for delivering a great service experience to our customers.
Inevitably as we effect major change to this organisation, individual
lives are directly affected and I would like to thank those employees
who have left the business, as well as those who continue with us
on our journey.
Board structure
Our move to split the businesses has resulted also in a new board
structure for Cable & Wireless. We have created two new
operating boards, one each for International and the UK, which
report to the main Group board. These new boards benefit from
operationally strong and experienced executive management 
teams – and we have consequently slimmed down the main board.
In particular, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen has stepped down from
the main board to concentrate on his role as Non-executive
Chairman of the International business, with a particular focus on
our relationships with local governments and regulators. I would like
to thank all the Directors who are stepping down from the main
Group board – my thanks go to them for the work that they have
done in getting our business to where it is today. It is their efforts
that have, in no small part, succeeded in preparing Cable & Wireless
for the next phase of its reinvention.
Dividend
I am pleased to announce a final dividend, to be paid in August,
subject to shareholder approval, of 3.1 pence per share. The total
dividend of 4.5 pence per share represents an 18% increase over
the previous year. The rise in the dividend reflects the increased
visibility of the future prospects for the Group, which the move to
the execution phase of our turnaround gives us.
The future
The environments in which we operate continue to be 
remarkably challenging – in most cases suffering from price cutting
and stiff competition, particularly as we move towards technology
convergence.
The move to all IP-based services will exacerbate these
characteristics as players struggle to win and maintain market share.
With our focus on delivering a superior level of service to our
customers, we are now well placed to capitalise on this and give 
our customers a new and superior experience of buying
telecommunications services.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our employees for
their hard work, focus and determination to deliver for customers
regardless of the challenging environment in which we must
operate. They are the ones that bring our ambitions to life and they
are the ones that customers identify with. As such, I am confident
that, together, we can build our future success.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman T ony Rice
Group Managing
Director, Central and
Finance Director
Group financial results
Our financial performance for the year is set out on page 7 and is
discussed in more detail in the International, UK and Group matters
sections that follow on pages 9, 17 and 29 respectively.
Cash position at year end
Despite our acquisition of Energis and continued investment in local
loop unbundling through our Bulldog business, we continue to have
a strong cash position with a Group cash and cash equivalents
balance at year end of £1,127 million and net cash of £343 million.
Corporate structure
We announced, in January 2006, a restructure of the Group 
into two self-contained operational units – International and 
UK (including our consumer broadband and telephony business,
Bulldog).
As a result, the central functions of Cable & Wireless have been
reshaped to ensure the continuation of proper governance and
control at our corporate centre, although they no longer provide
shared services for the two businesses.
Overall headcount in the centre is being reduced by 100, of which
65 people are moving into the International and UK units as a result
of moving shared services into the businesses. We expect this
headcount reduction and other Central savings to reduce costs by 
a net £20 million in 2006/07. Central costs will be reduced by 
£27 million, with the International business absorbing £7 million.
We will continue to comply with the high standards of corporate
governance followed by all companies listed on the London Stock
Exchange in line with the UK’s Combined Code and UK Listing
Authority’s rules. As part of this, our Internal Audit function
continues to be a part of the Central team.
The Central team will act as a portfolio manager to the businesses,
supporting, encouraging and driving the creation of shareholder
value through a suite of financial measures and appropriate
incentivisation. Each business is responsible for its overall financial
performance and return on capital employed. This is designed to
give them the right balance of autonomy and accountability to drive
shareholder value.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Remuneration Committee has
approved a new management incentive scheme for executives. The
new scheme ensures that the remuneration of individuals is fully
aligned with the goals of their business and in proportion to the
future shareholder value created by that business. Details are set
out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 55 to 65.
Pension schemes
We provide pension schemes in most of the countries in which we
operate and remain committed to supporting these. The principal
defined benefit scheme is the funded scheme covering UK
employees. During the year we have continued to work with the
Trustees of this scheme to ensure that the fund remains
appropriately funded, taking into account the latest views on the life
expectancy of the scheme members and other relevant actuarial
assumptions. Following the latest triennial funding valuation as at 
– Revenue of £3,230 million, an increase of
9% on last year (at constant currency)
– Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortisation (‘EBITDA’) and
exceptional items of £411 million
– Group cash balance of £1,127 million
– UK defined benefit pension scheme 
fully funded
– Final dividend of 3.1 pence, payable in
August 2006
Group Managing Director, Central 
and Finance Director’s review
2005/06 Annual report 5
Introduction Introduction and overview
Group Managing Director, Central 
and Finance Director’s review
6 2005/06 Annual report
31 March 2005, completed in March 2006, we agreed a revised
funding programme which included an immediate contribution of
£98 million, paid on 31 March 2006. Following this payment, the
scheme is fully funded on an ongoing basis, based on the 2005
funding valuation.
Share repurchase programme
In November 2004, we announced a £250 million share repurchase
programme. By 31 March 2005, we had completed repurchases
totalling £75 million as part of this programme. During the year, we
repurchased a further 14.45 million shares at an aggregate cost of
£17 million.
Following the acquisition of Energis and the top-up of our pension
scheme, we have decided not to continue this share repurchase
programme in order to maintain a strong balance sheet and provide
financial flexibility for investment in the business. In parallel, we
propose to reward shareholders with a progressive dividend policy
– hence the 18% increase in the full year dividend for the 
2005/06 year.
Significant acquisitions and disposals
Over the year, we have made a number of acquisitions and
disposals. The most significant acquisition was of Energis, for net
consideration of £608 million in November 2005. The acquisition
has strengthened our management capability, increased our scale
and reach in the UK and enhanced earnings from the outset. Since
acquisition, Energis has performed in line with our expectations,
generating revenues of £266 million and EBITDA of £35 million.
We announced in February that we are exploring options for the
potential disposal of our 20% shareholding in the Bahrain-based
telecoms company, Batelco.
T ermination of US registration and SEC reporting
We have previously maintained an American Depositary Receipt
(‘ADR’) programme and listing on the New Y ork Stock Exchange
for US investors. Given the very small percentage of shares that
were held and traded through the ADR programme, we concluded
that the additional cost of its administration outweighed its potential
benefits. We therefore closed the programme in December 2005.
For the same reasons, we are in the process of deregistering our
securities with the SEC which we expect to complete in June 2006.
This will ultimately remove our US reporting obligations.
T ony Rice
Group Managing Director, Central and Finance Director Summary Group performance
will not therefore be directly comparable to information shown in
the 2004/05 Annual report (which was prepared under UK GAAP).
As previously announced, the principal areas of impact for the
Group were: the deconsolidation of the Group’s Maldives business
and pension and share-based payment accounting. Reconciliations
between UK GAAP and IFRS are shown in note 42 to the
consolidated financial statements on pages 131 to 135.
Our performance for the year ended 31 March 2006 is set 
out below.
We have successfully completed our transition to International
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) and consequently the 2005/06
numbers have been prepared on this basis. 2004/05 comparative
numbers have been restated throughout this Annual report and 
Group performance
2005/06 2004/05
Pre-exceptional Exceptional
1
T otal Pre-exceptional Exceptional
1
T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 3,230 – 3,230 2,948 – 2,948
Outpayments and network costs (1,914) (1) (1,915) (1,631) (8) (1,639)
Staff costs (527) (34) (561) (527) (70) (597)
Other costs (378) 14 (364) (366) (65) (431)
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation
2
(2,819) (21) (2,840) (2,524) (143) (2,667)
EBITDA
3
411 (21) 390 424 (143) 281
Depreciation and software amortisation (263) (232) (495) (185) (8) (193)
Group operating profit/(loss) before amortisation of 
acquired intangibles 148 (253) (105) 239 (151) 88
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (11) (5) (16) (5) – (5)
Group operating profit/(loss) 137 (258) (121) 234 (151) 83
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and associates 52 2 54 48 – 48
Total operating profit/(loss) 189 (256) (67) 282 (151) 131
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 281 83 5 (8) (3)
Net interest and other income
4
18 78 96 39 – 39
Profit before income tax 209 (97) 112 326 (159) 167
Income tax (expense)/credit (29) 2 (27) (64) 89 25
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 180 (95) 85 262 (70) 192
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 288 90 22 140 162
Profit/(loss) for the year 182 (7) 175 284 70 354
Attributable to equity holders of the Company 120 (41) 79 221 73 294
Attributable to minority interests 62 34 96 63 (3) 60
Profit/(loss) for the year 182 (7) 175 284 70 354
The income statement of the Group, which is prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards applicable for use in the EU, and from which the information
above is extracted, is included in the consolidated financial statements on page 69.
1
Exceptional items are income or expenditure items considered to be exceptional by virtue of their size, nature or incidence. Examples of such items in the current or previous
year include restructuring and impairment charges, releases of certain provisions and profits and losses on disposal of non-current assets.
2
Includes operational releases.
3
EBITDA (Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) is calculated as Group operating profit plus depreciation and amortisation.
4
Includes interest income, interest expense and other income.
2005/06 Annual report 7
Introduction
The increase in Group revenue principally reflects the integration of
Energis from 11 November 2005 and a solid performance in the
International business, where growth in mobile and broadband
revenues has more than offset the downward pressure on
traditional fixed line services. In the UK, both Services and Carrier
revenues continue to be affected by churn and price erosion, driven
in part by the trend from legacy to IP services.
The main increases in operating costs relate to the consolidation of
Energis, outpayments associated with a higher volume of 
lower-margin carrier business in the UK, the increase in mobile
customers with the associated customer acquisition costs in the
International business and the investment in Bulldog as we drive
customer growth. These increases have been partly offset by
restructuring and other cost control activities, particularly in the UK
where we have made a gross reduction of 1,474 in the headcount
of the combined Cable & Wireless UK and Energis businesses. In
addition, UK operating costs have benefited from the impact of
operational releases. These releases reflect the nature of telecoms
services and largely relate to accruals made in previous years for Introduction and overview
Summary Group performance
liabilities with customers, suppliers, interconnect providers and other
third parties. Whilst individually not material, an increased focus on
settling outstanding issues in the year has resulted in an overall
increased benefit to UK operating costs in 2005/06.
These trends in revenues and operating costs result in marginally
lower EBITDA compared with last year.
Depreciation and amortisation has increased significantly year-on-
year reflecting a natural rise from historically low levels following the
fixed asset impairments between 2002 and 2004, the consolidation
of Energis investment in mobile and broadband rollout in the
International business and the investment in local loop and backhaul
infrastructure in Bulldog. The main contributors to our share of 
post-tax profit of joint ventures and associates are the International
business’ investments in Bahrain, the Maldives and Trinidad & T obago.
Net interest and other income, before exceptionals, has declined
largely as a result of the lower gross cash balance. Additionally, in
converting to reporting under IFRS, the adoption of IAS 32 and 
IAS 39, from 1 April 2005, resulted in an additional, non-cash 
interest charge of £9 million in respect of the revised treatment 
of our convertible bond.
Exceptional items are discussed in detail on page 32.
8 2005/06 Annual report
Discussion relating to the individual businesses can be found in the
business performance sections of this Annual report. International
business performance is discussed on pages 14 to 16, UK business
performance on pages 23 to 25 and Bulldog business performance
is discussed on pages 26 and 27.
EBITDA loss has reduced by £20 million primarily to previous
central reorganisations resulting in lower staff costs and headcount
and reduced spending on corporate projects.
Further discussion on the consolidated Group performance can be
found on pages 30 to 40 of this document.
Group pre-exceptional income statement segmented by business
2005/06 2004/05
Group Group
International UK Bulldog Other
1
total International UK Bulldog Other
1
total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 1,212 2,028 33 (43) 3,230 1,124 1,835 11 (22) 2,948
Outpayments and network costs (466) (1,421) (66) 39 (1,914) (401) (1,238) (13) 21 (1,631)
Staff costs (163) (290) (28) (46) (527) (158) (291) (12) (66) (527)
Other costs (166) (168) (44) – (378) (178) (171) (14) (3) (366)
Operating costs before 
depreciation and amortisation
2
(795) (1,879) (138) (7) (2,819) (737) (1,700) (39) (48) (2,524)
EBITDA
3
417 149 (105) (50) 411 387 135 (28) (70) 424
Depreciation and software amortisation
4
(136) (118) (15) 6 (263) (121) (61) (2) (1) (185)
Operating profit/(loss) before 
amortisation of acquired intangibles 281 31 (120) (44) 148 266 74 (30) (71) 239
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (6) (5) – – (11) (5) – – – (5)
Group operating profit/(loss) 275 26 (120) (44) 137 261 74 (30) (71) 234
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 
and associates 58 (6) – – 52 56 (8) – – 48
Total operating profit/(loss) 333 20 (120) (44) 189 317 66 (30) (71) 282
Headcount
4
8,150 5,614 651 156 14,571 8,077 5,528 505 326 14,436
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing
5
363 (889) (163) 40 (649)
1
Other includes Central costs and eliminations.
2
Includes operational releases.
3
EBITDA (Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) is calculated as Group operating profit plus depreciation and amortisation.
4
Full-time equivalents at 31 March.
5
Segmental cash flow information is derived from management reporting systems. 2005/06 Annual report 9
International business
International
business
10 Group Managing Director,
International’s review
12 Overview
14 Performance Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
Harris Jones
Group Managing
Director, International
International business
Group Managing Director, International’s review
– A solid set of results for International
– Revenue up by 6%
– EBITDA up by 6%
– Mobile customers increased by 22%
– Broadband customers increased by 97%
– Net cash inflow before financing of 
£363 million
I am pleased to report a solid set of financial results for 
Cable & Wireless International for the year ending 31 March 2006.
Our unrelenting focus on our mobile and broadband growth
prospects, supported by tight management of our operating costs,
have contributed to these results.
We are the pre-eminent integrated telecoms provider for small to
medium sized economies and both the first choice for customers
and a key partner for governments in virtually all of our 33 markets
around the world.
Following progressive liberalisation over the past five years, 93% of
our revenues are generated in competitive environments, dispelling
any myth that our businesses are monopolies in under-developed
telecoms markets. With each year, our appetite for competition
grows and we continue to invest in technology, our brand and our
people in order to increase our market share.
Over the last year, our overall revenues increased by 6% (at
constant currency) to £1,212 million with strong year-on-year
growth in mobile revenues (up 17%) and broadband revenues 
(up 72%).
In mobile, we are the market leader in 18 out of 22 of our mobile
markets and in the past year, despite increasing competition, we
have seen our customer base increase by 22%.
I am particularly pleased to report that we are seeing dramatic
improvements in our mobile market share in Jamaica – after it fell
following the introduction of competition in 2002. With new
mobile competition in many of our markets, we are robust in our
defence of market share and have seen particularly strong mobile
performance in the Maldives, St. Kitts and Guernsey.
In broadband, we have seen a 72% increase in revenue and 97%
increase in customer base and, in several markets, penetration
statistics exceed those of the UK. We are the market leader in all
the 21 markets where we offer broadband. We continue actively to
drive down prices and increase speeds in all of our markets and
believe that broadband is critical to our customer relationships 
and success.
Like nearly all global telecoms operators, we face challenges in our
fixed line business where voice margins are under pressure from
mobile substitution. International fixed line prices continue to fall
and we anticipate that this decline will continue with VoIP becoming
more commonplace – our own VoIP product introductions have
been well received.
Our focus on controlling staff and other costs resulted in a
reduction of 4%. This occurred against a backdrop of a blended
inflation rate of 4%.
EBITDA increased year-on-year by 6% to £417 million, equivalent to
an EBITDA margin of 34%. Operating profit, including our share of
profits from associate and joint venture companies, increased by 3%
to £333 million.
10 2005/06 Annual report Over the last year, we have repositioned the International business
to ensure we are best placed to deliver an unrivalled customer
experience and help governments deliver their economic
development agendas. We continue to manage the portfolio’s
profitability to generate cash and deliver value for our shareholders.
I am delighted that Lord Robertson of Port Ellen has taken the
position of Non-executive Chairman of Cable & Wireless International,
bringing with him a wealth of experience and a deep understanding 
of international affairs. T ogether Lord Robertson and I have increased
management capability by developing a strong operating board for
Cable & Wireless International and appointing a number of new CEOs
and CFOs across the business in the past year.
We are leveraging the opportunities that our global scale presents:
we have a common billing infrastructure in place across 21 of our
markets (with more to follow) which is enabling us to converge our
mobile, fixed and broadband propositions; internal benchmarking is
in place across our networks, IT and finance functions so that we
can accelerate the transfer of best practice around our portfolio.
This visibility provides our leadership with an accurate view of our
performance trends and gives me confidence in our future.
We continue to grow mobile and broadband share by making sure
that the customer is at the heart of every decision we make. By
managing costs and generating cash, we are developing a platform
from which to expand our business footprint.
This year has seen a number of steps towards inorganic growth.
In the Seychelles, we have acquired the country’s largest internet
service provider – enabling us to offer an integrated service to
customers there – and in Jersey, we are preparing to launch a new
mobile service to compete with the incumbent Jersey Telecom.
I am personally looking forward to playing the role of challenger!
These are exciting times for Cable & Wireless International.
In October, we celebrate the 25th anniversary of CTM (our
business in Macau) and we are proud to be sponsoring the 
ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 in the Caribbean.
Our position as the only full-service telecoms provider in the
majority of our markets means that we are well placed to capitalise
on the acceleration towards integrated communication solutions.
I believe that the technology pendulum is swinging our way and 
we intend to make the most of it.
Harris Jones
Group Managing Director, International
2005/06 Annual report 11
International business International business
Overview
Where we are
Our International business operates telecommunications companies
in 33 countries, offering mobile, broadband, domestic and
international fixed line services to residential and business
customers. Our principal operations are in the Caribbean, Panama,
Macau, Monaco and the Channel Islands.
Our ownership of these companies is varied – some are wholly
owned and others are partly owned with the public, the local
government or other corporate partners. Our 33 businesses
comprise 24 subsidiaries and 9 joint ventures and associates.
In virtually all our markets, we are the leading and incumbent
telecommunications provider – 93% of our revenues are generated
in markets open to competition.
Due to the diversity of our markets in terms of size, geography or
culture, we treat each business individually by tailoring our services
to the relevant market – but with the benefit of our scale and a
global network.
Across our markets, we face broadly the same issues. New
technologies are driving down the price of existing offerings. At the
same time, liberalisation has seen new entrants seeking to challenge
our position and driving price erosion as they compete aggressively.
Additionally, we are dealing with continuing developments in
regulatory and government policy.
We are meeting the challenge of increased competition head on 
by ensuring that we provide the best possible quality, value and
innovative services to our customers. This means that we must
respond to other operators and, with new technologies being
introduced all the time, continuously improve to stay ahead.
Where we want to be
Our ambition is to be the first choice for customers and the first
choice partner for governments in delivering their economic
development agenda.
We will do this by investing in technology, our brands and 
our people.
Key to achieving this is growing our mobile and broadband offering
whilst sustaining our fixed line revenues and ensuring we deliver the
excellent levels of service our customers desire and deserve – it is
what will lead customers to choose us and remain with us and it
goes much deeper than simply having competitive pricing plans 
in place.
So what does this mean in practice?
Firstly, we recognise that it is important to get the basics right so we
are improving the quality and speed of all of our services – as well
as the reliability and performance of our networks.
Secondly, we are providing our customers with quick and easy ways
to access our services by developing new distribution channels and
self-provisioning packages for broadband and increasing the
availability of online bill payment.
The ability to anticipate and respond to our customers’ needs
enables us to compete more effectively. We believe that the future
of our telecoms services is in offering integrated communications
solutions – and that our fixed line infrastructure is a vital component
of this.
We are already developing business VoIP solutions and looking 
to package our fixed services with our mobile and broadband
propositions where appropriate. The development of value-added
propositions and download and content strategies for both mobile
and broadband should ensure that our services stay apace with
customer trends.
Driving complexity out of our operations is a priority. For example,
we are looking to streamline our business processes and systems
and continue to identify consolidation opportunities in the areas of
purchasing, supply chain, IT and networks. This will reduce our costs
and allow us to redirect our resources to deliver for our customers.
Our capital expenditure aligns with our strategic objectives of
growth in mobile and broadband and focuses on target initiatives
that generate the maximum return on our investment. We seek 
to ensure quality and reliability of service in all of our markets by
investing in the maintenance and upgrades of our networks. Key
initiatives over the previous financial year have been significant
investment in Panama’s mobile network and roll-out of the
broadband network in Jamaica. In addition, we've continued to
maintain and improve our fixed network infrastructure. We will
continue to invest in all of our platforms in order to underpin our
growth aspirations.
All this is brought to life by our people. T o deliver the experience
our customers deserve, we have to have the right people in the
right jobs. This means recruitment, development programmes and
succession planning to ensure that we are well placed to deliver.
Products and services
Our products and services span domestic and international voice
and data (fixed line) services, mobile and broadband.
In this increasingly competitive environment, developing brands that
have local resonance is key to our commercial strategy. Alongside
our Cable & Wireless brand, we have a mix of local brands such 
as CTM in Macau, Monaco Telecom, Dhiraagu in the Maldives and
bMobile across the Caribbean for our mobile proposition.
Mobile
We provide mobile services in 22 markets – and continue to invest
significantly. Our mobile data services include high-speed data, email,
internet, picture messaging and other business and consumer
content directly to mobile devices. We are testing enhanced
services like TV and video streaming via mobile handsets in Macau
and Monaco.
Broadband
Our investment in broadband infrastructure and marketing is
meeting the growing demand for our services. Improving access 
via a range of distribution channels, as well as continually upgrading
our network to increase speeds and enhance our services have all
12 2005/06 Annual report Our work in our local communities
We recognise the positive role we can play in promoting economic
and social development in our local communities. Accordingly, the
ways in which we do business, develop our people, treat the
environment and interact with these communities are important 
to our continued development.
Community investment
With a particular emphasis on working with the younger generation,
we have established a number of charitable foundations, for example,
in Jamaica, Panama and the Seychelles. T otal charitable donations
made by Cable &Wireless International during the year were 
£2.3 million.
The digital divide
We’re committed to assisting governments in their development
programmes by providing internet access for public services like
schools, universities and hospitals – as well as working to provide
residential access to all sections of the population.
In Macau, our ‘i.Campus’ Student Broadband Award provides free
broadband services to selected primary and secondary students.
Meanwhile, in Grenada, we partner with the Grenada Rural
Enterprise Project to give broadband access to, and improve
computer literacy in, communities around the island.
Community involvement
We were delighted to win a Social Responsibility Award in Panama
for our work with the University of Panama. Meanwhile, on the
back of our sponsorship of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2007, and
as part of our ongoing commitment to Caribbean grass-roots
cricket, we have donated over 20 moveable pitches to local
organisations across the region to make cricket more accessible,
nurture talent and help to build excitement in the months leading
to the World Cup.
Healthy communities
In the Seychelles, we provided the local charity CARE with the
funding to provide educational material to schools on the dangers
of taking heroin. In Jamaica, we made contributions to a number 
of local charities including the Jamaica Cancer Society, the Dare to
Care Children's Home and St.Aloysius Primary School.
contributed to this. The growth of VoIP services led us to launch
our own product in the Cayman Islands, and, following its success,
we have started to roll this out in our other markets.
Traditional fixed line
Our fixed networks carry voice and data services and also provide
broadband connectivity. We continue to invest in the maintenance
and improvement of our fixed network infrastructure and develop
appealing propositions for our customers, such as the launch of 
new pre-pay fixed line services.
Regulatory environment
In recent years, virtually all our markets have been opened up to
competition. Typically, this has resulted in significant reductions of
international prices, partially offset by rebalancing in favour of
domestic call prices. Intensifying competition has normally followed
the initial market liberalisation, resulting in further pressure on prices.
Generally, we have also seen growth in mobile and broadband
services following liberalisation.
2005/06 Annual report 13
International business International business
Performance
International business income statement
2005/06 2004/05 Change as Constant
reported
1
currency
change
2
£m £m % %
International voice 188 205 (8) (10)
Domestic voice 338 338 – (1)
Mobile 360 302 19 17
Broadband and dial-up internet 66 49 35 34
Data 104 99 52
Enterprise and other 156 131 19 18
Total revenue 1,212 1,124 86
Outpayments and network 
costs (466) (401) (16) (14)
Staff costs (163) (158) (3) (2)
Other costs (166) (178) 78
Operating costs before 
depreciation and amortisation (795) (737) (8) (6)
EBITDA
3
417 387 86
Depreciation and software 
amortisation (136) (121) (12) (11)
Group operating profit 
before exceptional items
and amortisation of
acquired intangibles 281 266 64
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (6) (5) (20) (20)
Group operating profit
before exceptional items 275 261 54
Share of post-tax profit of 
joint ventures and associates 58 56 41
Total operating profit before 
exceptional items 333 317 53
Exceptional items (18) (22) 18 n/m
4
Total operating profit 315 295 7 n/m
4
Capital expenditure 142 171 17 18
Headcount (number)
5
8,150 8,077 (1) n/m
4
For reporting purposes, we divide the business into the following regions: the Caribbean,
Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World. Rest of the World comprises operations
in the Channel Islands, the Middle East, and the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans.
1
Positive percentages represent improvement.
2
Constant currency growth rate based on the restatement of prior period comparatives
at current period’s reported average exchange rates. Positive percentages represent
improvement.
3
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional
items.
4
n/m – not meaningful.
5
Full time equivalents at 31 March.
Revenue
T otal revenue increased by 6% year-on-year as our strong
performance in the growth areas of mobile and broadband more
than offset declines in fixed line revenues.
Fixed line
Increasing competition, particularly in Barbados following
liberalisation of the market in February 2005, was the main driver 
of the 10% decline in international voice revenues year-on-year.
Fixed to mobile substitution also played a part across the whole 
of the Caribbean. The Rest of the World businesses also faced
increasingly competitive markets and regulatory pricing pressure.
Mobile
The 17% year-on-year revenue growth is due to strong customer
demand, driven by our compelling propositions and brand
development. We continue to invest in mobile networks and
services in the 22 markets where we have a mobile presence.
Broadband and dial-up internet
The growth in demand for broadband services has resulted in a
97% increase in our customer base and a 72% year-on-year growth
in revenue, to £57 million. This growth has more than offset the
47% decline in dial-up internet revenue as customers migrate to
higher speed services.
Data
Data revenue comprises internet hosting, leased circuits and legacy
data services. The 2% growth year-on-year is primarily driven by
increased demand from business customers for direct internet
access.
Enterprise and other
Enterprise and other revenue comprises enterprise solutions for
corporate customers; international management contracts (such 
as the services provided by Monaco Telecom to its associate in
Afghanistan), directory services and equipment rentals.
The 18% increase year-on-year is principally due to a full year’s
consolidation of Monaco Telecom in 2005/06 and growth in
enterprise solutions in Macau.
Operating costs
Outpayments and network costs, which include cost of sales and
some fixed network costs, increased by 14% year-on-year, reflecting
the acquisition costs associated with the growth of our mobile and
broadband customer bases. Despite these increased customer
acquisition costs, our efforts to drive efficiencies have controlled 
our underlying operating cost base to maintain EBITDA margins
above 34%.
Staff costs increased 2% year-on-year, primarily due to the impact 
of consolidating a full year of Monaco Telecom. The 1% increase 
in headcount reflected small increases in Caribbean, Panama 
and Monaco, partly offset by a decrease in the Rest of the 
World businesses.
Other costs, largely comprising property costs and professional fees,
have been reduced by 8% as a result of the continued focus on cost
control. Progress in negotiating supplier disputes in Monaco allowed
us to release an accrual of £7 million.
These results are in spite of a blended inflation rate across our
business of 4%.
14 2005/06 Annual report Reconciliation of International business EBITDA to
net cash flow before financing
1
2005/06
£m
EBITDA
2
417
Exceptional items (20)
EBITDA less exceptionals 397
Pension payments, net movement in working capital,
provisions and intercompany 16
Cash generated from continuing operating activities 413
Income taxes paid (46)
Interest received 7
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 31
Purchase of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (170)
Acquisitions and disposals 96
Other investment income 6
Cash generated from discontinued operating and 
investing activities 26
Net cash inflow before financing activities 363
1
Segmental cash flow information is derived from management reporting systems.
2
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and exceptional
items.
Our net movement in pensions, working capital, provisions and 
intercompany balances is small, and offsets exceptional items, which
principally represent the costs of our restructuring activities.
Our cash capital expenditure of £170 million, principally on mobile
and broadband, represents the main utilisation of cash generated
from operating activities. Tax paid of £46 million is offset by interest
received, dividend income and other investment income.
We generated £363 million of net cash flow before financing,
including over £110 million of cash proceeds from the disposal 
of our stake in MobileOne and our Sakhalin business. £43 million 
of the disposal proceeds are attributable to minority interests.
In 2005/06 we remitted to Central £148 million, reflecting 92% of
our share of cash generated by subsidiaries (excluding the share
attributable to minority interests), together with £31 million of
dividends received from joint ventures and associates. In 2006/07
cash remittance will remain an area of focus and we expect to raise
the proportion of operating cash flows of subsidiaries remitted to
Central, to 100%.
Depreciation and capital expenditure
The 11% rise in depreciation and amortisation reflects our
investment over recent years in mobile and broadband to support
growing customer demand for these services.
Capital expenditure as a percentage of revenue has decreased from
15% in 2004/05 to 12% in 2005/06. We have focused on high
return investments, such as our mobile networks in Jamaica and
Panama and the rollout of the broadband infrastructure in Jamaica.
We also invested in the launch of mobile services in the Falkland
Islands, enhanced our coverage in the Seychelles and are rolling out
a new network to prepare for the launch of our mobile services in
Jersey. In addition we continued to invest in our fixed networks.
Capital expenditure in 2004/05 was higher than usual principally due
to our major mobile technology upgrade from TDMA to GSM.
Joint ventures and associates
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Joint ventures
Dhiraagu (Maldives) 14 15
TSTT (Trinidad and Tobago) 12 14
Roshan (Afghanistan) 5 1
Other 3 –
Associates
Batelco (Bahrain) 26 26
Share of post-tax profit including exceptionals 60
1
56
1
Includes £2 million exceptional credit in Dhiraagu.
The main contributors are Batelco, Dhiraagu and TSTT. Declines 
in the profitability of these were offset by growth in Monaco
Telecom’s investment in its associate, Roshan, which operates in 
the rapidly developing Afghanistani mobile market.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items in 2005/06 principally represent restructuring
activities around the business. The main exceptional items in
2004/05 related to the impact of Hurricane Ivan.
Acquisitions and disposals
During the year we acquired an internet services provider in the
Seychelles for £1.9 million. We sold our operations in Sakhalin for
£23 million, realising a profit of £17 million and our 12% investment
in MobileOne, a Singaporean mobile operator, for proceeds of 
£87 million, realising a profit of £70 million. Refer to page 36 for
further details.
On 22 February 2006, we announced that we were exploring
options for the potential disposal of our 20% holding in our Bahrain
associate, Batelco.
2005/06 Annual report 15
International business International business
Performance
International business key performance indicators
31 March 2006
‘000
Mobile customers 2,746
Broadband customers 275
Fixed line connections 1,497
All numbers sourced from billing systems in each individual business unit, rolled up to
total International business number.
We had over 2.7 million mobile customers at the year end, an
increase of 22% over last year, with increased penetration across 
our business. As anticipated, our TDMA customer base continued
to decline, but was more than offset by 56% year-on-year growth 
in our GSM customer base, to over 1.9 million customers at 
31 March 2006.
Our investment in broadband infrastructure and marketing is
meeting the growing demand for these services, resulting in a 97%
increase in customer numbers year-on-year.
The number of fixed line connections has increased slightly year-on-
year. Increasing connections in Panama and modest growth across
the business have offset the trend for fixed to mobile substitution.
16 2005/06 Annual report 2005/06 Annual report 17
UK business
UK business
18 Group Managing Director, 
UK’s review
20 Overview
23 Performance John Pluthero
Group Managing
Director, UK
UK business
Group Managing Director, UK’s review
– Acquisition of Energis completed on
11 November 2005
– Integration of Cable & Wireless and
Energis completed
– Key operational metrics, including
customer numbers, operating cost run
rate and service improvement in 
line with targets
I began the last financial year running Energis – a business that was
largely through its own turnaround and facing the challenge of how
it could move into the next generation of technologies and services.
I ended the year running the UK business unit of Cable & Wireless 
– a business that has only just started its turnaround but whose
prospects for that future world are as clear and tangible as they 
are exciting.
The acquisition of Energis, completed on 11 November 2005
marked a transition. The work of Richard Lapthorne and Francesco
Caio until then was to systematically remove those obstacles to our
future success like the exit of unsustainable markets and to put in
place the strategic pillars for the future.
Francesco’s handsome legacy for the UK is a business of significant
scale (hence the Energis acquisition), of market leadership in local
loop unbundling (hence Bulldog) and a commitment to Next
Generation Networks (‘NGN’) (£190 million committed in 
April 2005).
These three components combine to provide the tools with which
we can create the first built-for-purpose next generation telecoms
company. That was the vision then – and it’s the vision now.
That vision requires some explaining. For too long now, fixed line
telecoms companies have bellyached about price erosion, over
capacity and escalating costs. The truth is – it’s our own fault. We
have taught customers that price is the only criterion for selection
because service has been poor. Our cost base is high because we
run multiple technology platforms and billing systems, all because
past strategies were too opportunistic and defensive. Those days are
over. With our big building blocks of scale, local loop and NGN, we
can fashion a company that will lead the market in the quality and
breadth of the way it supports its customers as they seek to exploit
the new functionality and economics of the new technologies.
No part of our business will look the same in the future as it does
now. The products and services we provide will change, the way 
we sell them will change, how they are provisioned and supported
will change and our entire support function will morph to
accommodate those changes. We will need new skills and a new
culture. Above all, our financial performance will change.
And so we begin this next phase – to build that company. It is a big
task – full of complexity, interdependence and with many moving
parts. We are, however, well equipped to take on this challenge.
We have great customers, a capable team, the benefit of a full dress
rehearsal in Energis and towering ambition.
Our approach to this task reflects the reality of our business 
and marketplace.
T o begin with, we had to integrate the two businesses, old 
Cable & Wireless and Energis – a programme that is complete.
So now, the full recovery work can really kick in: shedding those
parts of our business which are not part of our future, improving
our service performance and driving out costs. Our final phase is
transformation – taking our leaner, fitter business into the future 
with a new integrated infrastructure and a disciplined approach to
18 2005/06 Annual report making money. All told, our journey will last four to five years. In the
four and a half months since acquisition, we’ve made good progress,
in fact we’re right on plan, already delivering annualised cost savings
in excess of £50 million. In line with our focus on fewer, larger
customers, we have begun reducing our customer base and have
already given notice to over 9,000 customers and we have reduced
headcount of the combined businesses by 1,474. Overall, we
expect to reduce headcount to between 2,500 and 3,500 over the
next three to five years.
We have built a strong management team which is in the process of
developing a customer-centric, execution-obsessed culture across
our business – and importantly, our service is improving – we have
cut delivery times and introduced new service-based products
allowing our customers to choose the level of service to suit. This
approach has helped Royal Bank of Scotland, one of our major
customers, to award us its ‘best technology supplier’ award and our
Irish business to be short-listed for an ICT excellence award for best
telecommunications company.
All of this has a clear output. We will become known for quality
services and employing great people who are obsessive about
customers, developing into the first choice partner for the largest
users of telecoms in the UK and internationally.
Combined, these factors will secure robust, consistent financial
performance that will ultimately result in £2 billion revenues and
double digit operating margin.
John Pluthero
Group Managing Director, UK
2005/06 Annual report 19
UK business UK business
Overview
The UK business serves the largest users of telecoms services
across the UK, continental Europe,Asia and the US – and broadband
services in the UK through Bulldog.
T o date, there has been little overlap between the UK corporate
and Bulldog businesses. However, as we move into 2006/07, we aim
to use the local loop investment in Bulldog to further our corporate
access strategy.
UK corporate business
Where we are
We provide our customers with a rich portfolio of services, but
have a particular focus on helping them successfully manage the
difficult migration from many different legacy telecom platforms to
an all-IP environment.
Despite some recent market consolidation, the UK
telecommunications industry remains highly competitive. The
industry continues to suffer from price erosion – particularly in
voice services which are largely seen as a commodity.
While the market is competitive, spend on telecoms by businesses
in the UK is largely flat year-on-year. This masks a change in the way
this spend is being apportioned. Over the last year, the market has
seen voice spend declining, while data spend has remained static.
Spend on hosting and application services, meanwhile has increased.
Our core customers – Chief Information Officers and IT Directors
within large organisations – are under increasing pressure to achieve
more for less. This is particularly so where IP-based technology is
transforming the consumer marketplace at low cost and is driving a
gradual, but quickening, migration to IP services.
We are also seeing large business customers looking to remove
complexity from their business, enabling more flexibility and agility
when it comes in turn to serving their customers’ needs. Part of
this process has seen them actively reducing the number of
suppliers they engage with, using those supply partners that remain
to provide a range of managed services – where the supplier takes
on responsibility for the effective management of all third party
organisations involved in the provision of services.
This trend for managed services has been prevalent across the
board but is having significant impact in the technology industry,
where traditional relationships were previously based purely on best
price, whereas in future, relationships will be based on best service
and management skills.
This has also driven many customers to procure their total
telephony and communications solutions from System Integrators
(‘SIs’). This provides us with an enormous opportunity as we are
the only telecoms provider with the scale and access to supply 
the SIs with everything they need – without directly competing 
with them.
Where we want to be
We will focus our resources on serving fewer, larger customers with
a wide range of IP-based services tailored to fit their specific
business needs – and delivering them a higher level of service than
they receive from other areas of the telecoms industry.
This points us at a very specific segment of the overall market –
encompassing 3,000 corporates, carriers and public institutions –
where in excess of £7 billion is spent on telecommunications 
each year.
We will invest in the key areas of IP and hosting technology – areas
that allow us to develop new, flexible solutions core to our
customers’ long-term requirements. This will mean a gradual shift in
our revenue mix – taking us from a business dominated by voice
revenues to a business where IP solutions constitute a much larger
portion of our revenue.
By proactively reducing the number of customers we serve, we 
can target our resource and investment to ensure that our core
customers receive a far more personalised service experience –
built to match their specific needs. Our customer research tells us
that this is the area where telecoms providers are at their weakest
and this is the gap we intend to close.
We are investing our resources in delivering a suite of high quality,
bespoke managed IP services – we won’t simply use IP to replicate
our existing products. These managed IP services – such as data
networks, hosting,VoIP and virtual call centres – are increasingly
critical to our customers and allow them to focus on their core
business, serve their customers better and reduce their cost base –
whilst retaining peace of mind that the resilience and security of
their business communications are in safe hands.
So that we stay close to our customers – developing the
understanding and insight that our service promise is founded on 
– we have introduced two distinct go-to-market sales channels,
Services and Carrier.
Our Services team works primarily with large corporates, SIs and
public institutions looking for a provider that can manage all their
telecommunications requirements. These customers typically require
a trusted partner that will deliver resilient and secure, mission-critical
services over the course of contracts spanning many years.
Our Carrier organisation provides for the needs of
telecommunications carriers, service providers and resellers across
more than 140 countries in our key markets of the UK, continental
Europe,Asia and the US.
In line with our strong delivery focus, our people are now measured
against new performance criteria based around customer insight and
the ability to deliver. And we are revamping the way in which we
reward people by recognising excellent service and the ability to
secure longer-term and higher margin business.
Products and services
We have developed a technically advanced portfolio of solutions
based on the needs of our core customers – today and in the
20 2005/06 Annual report market share, rather than to attract new broadband customers. For
the same reason, price pressure will remain a fixture of our market.
Where we want to be
T o date, we have chosen to leverage our investment in LLU through
Bulldog. However, that is only part of the LLU picture for 
Cable & Wireless. Local loop capability is a fundamental part of our
overall UK corporate access strategy and is in line with our move to
Next Generation and IP networks.
We know that excellent service is central to attracting and retaining
customers. We have to get our service right first time, every time –
and we have to do that quickly and efficiently. A lot of this has 
to do with our systems, processes and people. We will continue 
to invest significant time and effort in improving how we serve 
our customers. This includes putting in place systems for online
customer provisioning and problem resolution and the creation of a
customer relationship management system to provide customer
service agents with the right tools to deliver a quick and effective
service to our customers.
Regulatory environment
During the year, Ofcom completed its Strategic Review of the UK
telecommunications market. This resulted in BT giving the regulator
a number of undertakings in lieu of a referral to the Competition
Commission. BT moved the part of its wholesale division that
manages its access network into a new entity, Openreach, with the
aim of dealing with all telecoms operators on the same basis as BT’s
retail divisions. Thus far we have seen little benefit or improved BT
performance from this move.
future. Our suite of solutions is built around the following four areas
of expertise:
Contact centres
Our solutions ensure customers can connect, automate and manage
inbound and outbound customer communications effectively and
efficiently. Intelligent network technology and advanced voice
recognition systems ensure calls are routed directly to suitable
agents, locally or abroad. We also enable customer interaction via
email, internet or telephone – or a combination of all three.
Data and IP
We span all data networking needs from local and wide area
networks to services delivered using IP and Raman ring-based
communications technology and value-added solutions – from best
in class network security to disaster recovery solutions. Resilience
and security are features of all our networking solutions, as is cost,
effective design and speedy implementation.
Hosting and applications
Our integrated hosting, networking, security and archiving solutions
cover a wide range, from internet transactions to complex, just-in-
time, supply management solutions.
Voice
We are the world’s fourth largest carrier of voice services and
provide and develop a comprehensive portfolio of voice over 
IP-based products allowing customers access to new services and
cost models, without the need for costly infrastructure investment.
Bulldog
Through Bulldog, we provide broadband and telephony services to
residential, SoHo and SME customers in the UK. Using local loop
unbundling (‘LLU’), we install our own equipment in BT’s local
exchanges thereby taking control of the local loop between the 
BT exchange and the customer’s home or office.
Where we are
We were the first major company in the UK to engage in full
unbundling of broadband and voice and currently serve just under
120,000 residential and small business customers. Full unbundling
gives us a technological advantage over our competitors as we can
differentiate our service offering, maintain full bandwidth control and
provide for our customers end-to-end – rather than simply reselling
BT’s products.
We offer broadband speeds up to a maximum of 16Mbps. Our
range of packages are designed to suit our customers’ varying needs.
A number of our competitors have announced plans for LLU but,
to date, they have made little progress. We believe we have around
a six to twelve month advantage over them in the rollout of LLU.
In addition, to date, our LLU competitors have largely chosen only
to unbundle the data capability in the exchange and so will remain
dependent on BT to provide voice services to customers.
Competition in consumer broadband services is tough and, as the
migration of customers from narrowband to broadband services
slows, competition is likely to increase as existing players fight to gain
2005/06 Annual report 21
UK business UK business
Overview
Our work in our communities
We recognise the positive role that we can play in promoting
economic and social development in our communities. Accordingly,
the ways in which we do business, develop our employees, treat 
the environment and interact with our communities are important
to us.
Information Communications T echnology 
(‘ICT’) training
We continue to run our highly successful ICT Academy. Based in
our Bracknell headquarters, this after-school club sees us tutoring
local children between the ages of 11 and 14 on the use of
computer technology. We have also just started working with
WebPlay, a UK-based ICT charity, and Bracknell Borough Council to
help children from local schools develop and design a web-based
online tourist guide of the Bracknell area.
Using the internet responsibly
We are fully aware of the positive benefits delivered by having
access to the internet. However, in a small minority of instances,
material is inappropriate.
As a founding member of the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) in
the UK, we work with the relevant authorities to mitigate the risks
presented by minors having access to material designed for over 18s
or illegal content in general. Our Acceptable Use Policy (AUP)
provides details on the types of prohibited activity including spam,
slander, obscenity and child pornography which customers and third
parties must not participate in when using our network. The AUP
can be found at www.cw.com
22 2005/06 Annual report UK corporate business performance
UK corporate business income statement
The following analysis of the UK business’ performance refers only
to the corporate business and so excludes Bulldog. Equivalent
analysis for Bulldog is on pages 26 and 27.
2005/06
1
2004/05 Change as
reported
2
£m £m %
Services 965 935 3
Carrier 1,063 900 18
Total revenue 2,028 1,835 11
Outpayments and network costs (1,421) (1,238) (15)
Staff costs (290) (291) –
Other costs (168) (171) 2
Operating costs before
depreciation and amortisation
3
(1,879) (1,700) (11)
EBITDA
4
149 135 10
Depreciation and software amortisation (118) (61) (93)
Group operating profit before 
amortisation of acquired intangibles 31 74 (58)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (5) – >(100)
Group operating profit 26 74 (65)
Share of post-tax loss of 
joint ventures and associates (6) (8) 25
Total operating profit before 
exceptional items 20 66 (70)
Exceptional items (245) (99) >(100)
Total operating loss (225) (33) >(100)
Capital expenditure 207 155 (34)
Headcount (number)
5
5,614 5,528 (2)
1
Energis included from 11 November 2005.
2
Positive percentages represent improvement.
3
Includes operational releases.
4
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and exceptional
items.
5
Full time equivalents including contractors at 31 March. The opening headcount
position has been restated to include contractors working full-time on capital projects.
Integration, recovery and transformation
Since the acquisition of Energis on 11 November 2005, we have
been working on integrating the two businesses – a programme
that we completed by 31 March 2006. We are now focused on
recovery and transforming the integrated business into one that
provides managed IP services to the largest corporates, carriers 
and public institutions in the UK and across the world.
Energis
The year-on-year comparison of results is impacted by the
consolidation of Energis’ results in 2005/06. The following
commentary on the results, in discussing underlying trends, analyses
the year-on-year changes excluding the impact of consolidating
Energis in 2005/06. Energis contributed £266 million of revenue
and £35 million of EBITDA to the UK results from the date of its
acquisition. Energis’ EBITDA margin for 2005/06 was 13%
compared with the UK EBITDA margin (excluding Energis) of 6%.
Revenue
Services
Excluding the impact of Energis, Services revenues have declined
13% year-on-year. This decline is the product of customer churn
and price erosion and the historically poor service experience.
Additionally, 2004/05 revenues included one-off revenue items that
did not repeat in 2005/06.
Carrier
Excluding the impact of Energis, underlying Carrier revenues have
increased by 8% year-on-year. The increase has been driven by
higher volumes, utilising spare network capacity, offset in part by
continued price pressure and the full impact of the September 2004
reduction in mobile termination rates.
Additionally, revenues have benefited from a number of operational
releases totalling £16 million. The general nature of operational
releases is explained in more detail in the operating costs 
section below.
Operating costs
Excluding the impact of Energis, total operating costs are marginally
lower year-on-year.
During the year, operating costs have benefited from the impact of
operational releases. Operational releases have been an ongoing
feature of the UK business, reflecting the nature of the telecom
services we provide and the environment in which we provide
them. These relate largely to accruals made in previous years for
liabilities with customers, suppliers, interconnect providers and other
third parties. Due to an increased focus on settling these in
2005/06, there has been a benefit to operating costs. Whilst
individually not material, the total impact on operating costs from
operational releases is £60 million.
Staff costs, as a percentage of revenue, have improved from around
16% to 14% as initiatives to control staff costs, such as consolidating
support activities across the UK and continental Europe, offset rising
employment costs.
Other costs have reduced slightly year-on-year. The principal
elements of other costs are property costs, travel costs and
professional fees. The reduction reflects ongoing programmes to
minimise cost in these areas.
Depreciation and capital expenditure
Depreciation has increased significantly year-on-year. This increase
reflects a natural rise from historically low levels following the fixed
asset impairments between 2002 and 2004 and the consolidation 
of Energis.
Capital expenditure has increased year-on-year due to the impact 
of Energis and increased investment in IP products and platforms.
More than half of our capital expenditure in 2005/06 related directly
to customer delivery and next generation implementation.
2005/06 Annual report 23
UK business UK business
UK corporate business performance
24 2005/06 Annual report
Reconciliation of UK corporate business EBITDA
to net cash flow before financing
1
2005/06
£m
EBITDA
2
149
Exceptional items (8)
EBITDA less exceptionals 141
Defined benefit pension scheme cash top-up payment (59)
Defined benefit pension scheme other cash contributions (11)
Net increase in working capital and intercompany (67)
Movement in provisions (91)
Cash generated from continuing operating activities (87)
Purchase of property, plant, equipment and 
intangible assets (221)
Acquisitions and disposals (585)
Cash generated from discontinued operating and 
investing activities 4
Net cash outflow before financing activities (889)
1
Segmental cash flow information is derived from management reporting systems.
2
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and exceptional
items.
The cash outflow during the year principally reflects EBITDA of
£149 million, less the Energis acquisition, capital expenditure, a
pension top-up contribution and working capital movements.
The £8 million of exceptional costs and provision movements of
£91 million include restructuring programme costs relating to the
integration of the UK and Energis businesses. Other headcount,
property and network cost reduction programmes, initiated in
previous years, are also included in these costs.
The pension payment of £59 million reflects a top-up contribution
to the main UK defined benefit scheme. Following this top-up
payment, along with a further £39 million from Central, the 
scheme is fully funded on an ongoing basis based on the 2005
funding valuation.
The net increase in working capital and intercompany includes 
£76 million of operational releases, as described on page 23.
The net outflow of £585 million for acquisitions and disposals
primarily represents the acquisition of Energis for net cash
consideration of £608 million.
Joint ventures and associates
The result represents our share of the post-tax losses of companies
that operate submarine cable systems. The reduction in the loss
compared to the prior year is due to the closure of Gemini in
2004/05 and an impairment of assets in Apollo in 2004/05.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items in 2005/06 are mainly due to a write down of
assets in the UK business (excluding Energis), as discussed on page
32. We expect operating profit in 2006/07 to benefit by around
£70 million from lower depreciation as a result.
In 2004/05, exceptional items primarily arose from restructuring.
Acquisitions and disposals
On 11 November 2005, we acquired Energis for net consideration
of £608 million. In the third year following completion, we will pay 
a contingent consideration of between nil and £80 million, payable
in cash or shares at our option, dependent on the level of 
Cable & Wireless’ share price.
On 29 April 2005, we sold our training centre for £20 million,
resulting in a profit on disposal of £11 million.
On 8 April 2005, we sold our Spanish retail business for £4 million,
resulting in a profit on disposal of £3 million. UK corporate business key performance indicators
31 March 2006
Customer strategy
Number of customers 21,000
Operating model
Reduction in monthly operating cost run rate 
from November 2005 £4.4m
Headcount 5,614
LLU capability
Number of exchanges unbundled 411
The KPIs above are metrics that our management team currently
uses in assessing our progress against our objectives. The KPIs we
use are likely to evolve as we move through our turnaround plan.
Customer strategy
We have reduced the number of customers we serve from 30,000
to 21,000 since November 2005; our aim is to have 18,000
customers by 30 September 2006. A relatively small proportion 
of our revenues currently come from IP products. We envisage 
the future UK business being focused on 3,000 customers, with 
60% of revenues being derived from IP and hosting products.
We have made good progress so far against this objective.
Operating model
Our customer strategy enables us to simplify our business and
therefore operate with a lower cost base. We aim to reduce the
monthly operating cost run rate by £5 million per month from
November 2005 to 30 September 2006. Progress to the end of
March 2006 has already shown a £4.4 million per month reduction.
From an opening position of 5,528, headcount reduced by a net
647 people in the period leading up to the acquisition of Energis.
On 11 November 2005, as part of the acquisition of Energis, a
further 1,560 people joined the business. Since then, as a result of
integrating the UK and Energis, a further 827 people have left the
business, leaving headcount at 5,614 at 31 March 2006. We expect
to reduce headcount to 5,200 by 30 September 2006.
LLU capability
Local loop unbundling is a fundamental part of our UK corporate
access strategy, which we will leverage in the future as part of our
move to Next Generation and IP networks. At 31 March 2006 we
had unbundled 411 exchanges and expect to have 800 unbundled
by 30 September 2006.
2005/06 Annual report 25
UK business UK business
Bulldog performance
26 2005/06 Annual report
Reconciliation of Bulldog EBITDA to net cash flow
before financing
1
2005/06
£m
EBITDA
2
(105)
Net movement in working capital and intercompany 3
Cash utilised from continuing operating activities (102)
Purchase of property, plant, equipment and 
intangible assets (61)
Net cash outflow before financing activities (163)
1
Segmental cash flow information is derived from management reporting systems.
2
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and exceptional
items.
Cash invested in operations amounted to £102 million, comprising
outpayments, network, staff, customer operations and general
administrative costs, supporting rapid customer growth.
Capital expenditure of £61 million was invested in exchanges,
metronodes, backhaul and IT infrastructure as we continued to
expand our LLU footprint.
Bulldog key performance indicators (KPIs)
31 March 2006
Customers
Residential LLU customers 112,000
Business LLU customers 6,000
Total customers 118,000
Number of exchanges unbundled 411
Monthly average revenue per residential customer £36
Customer care
Orders provided on time 88%
Average time from order to delivery 14 days
Fault tickets resolved in less than five days >90%
The KPIs above are benchmarks that our management team uses 
to assess progress against our plans to grow the business and
provide customers with a high level of service. We will continue to
monitor these KPIs and use them to drive continued performance
improvement.
Customers
The increase in the LLU footprint from 252 to 411 exchanges along
with increased marketing and brand awareness and the launch of a
range of innovative products has driven customer growth to
118,000 at 31 March 2006.
Despite strong competition in the consumer broadband market, our
average monthly revenue per customer was £36, comprising line
rental, voice calls and broadband.
We expect to have 800 unbundled exchanges by 
30 September 2006.
Bulldog income statement
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Total revenue 33 11
Outpayments and network costs (66) (13)
Staff costs (28) (12)
Other costs (44) (14)
Operating costs before depreciation
and amortisation (138) (39)
EBITDA
1
(105) (28)
Depreciation and software amortisation (15) (2)
Total operating loss (120) (30)
Capital expenditure 70 40
Headcount (number)
2
651 505
1
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
2
Full time equivalents at 31 March.
Revenue
Revenue growth was driven by increasing the customer base from
almost 10,000 in March 2005 to 118,000 residential and business
customers in March 2006 as the number of unbundled exchanges
increased from 252 to 411. A lesser factor was the consolidation 
of a full year in 2005/06 compared with ten months from the
acquisition of Bulldog in 2004/05.
Operating costs
Outpayments and network costs rose to £66 million largely due 
to the rise in the number of unbundled exchanges and the increase
in customer numbers. The main elements that contribute to
outpayments and network costs are the connection fees and rental
charges payable to Openreach for each customer, the rental of
space for our equipment in each Openreach exchange, the cost of
terminating our customers’ voice calls on third party networks and
the cost of transporting data between the local exchange and its
source or destination.
Staff costs increased to £28 million as overall headcount increased
by 146 in the year. The increase in headcount reflects the growth
phase that the business is in and the steps taken to improve
customer care levels. The increase in cost per employee represents
the higher skill levels of our new employees.
Marketing, customer operations and other general and
administrative expenses account for the majority of other costs.
The increase from the prior year is mainly due to the ‘Open the
gate’ advertising campaign and other brand marketing activities.
Depreciation and capital expenditure
The increase in depreciation has been driven by the capital invested
in expanding our LLU footprint.
Capital expenditure was principally in respect of the unbundling of
an additional 159 exchanges in the year, the provision of backhaul to
those exchanges and investment in provisioning, billing and other
support systems. 2005/06 Annual report 27
UK business
Customer care
As the first full local loop unbundler in the UK we encountered
significant challenges during the year as we grew our customer base.
Our provisioning process has now improved dramatically and we
are provisioning 88% of customers on time compared with 32% 
last year. The average time from order to delivery is now 14 days
compared with 22 days last year. Openreach’s process accounts 
for at least ten of the current 14 days.
During the year, we made a number of changes to our provisioning,
customer care and billing processes. As a result, in October 2005,
Ofcom closed the investigation it had launched earlier in the year
following a number of customer complaints.
Our improvement in provisioning and support services has halved
the level of faults per customer despite the ten-fold increase in
customer numbers. At the same time, we have invested heavily in
our ability to resolve customers’ problems when they do arise and
are now resolving more than 90% of faults within five days of them
being reported. 28 2005/06 Annual report 2005/06 Annual report 29
Group matters
Group matters
30 Non-operating performance
32 Exceptional items
34 Cash and liquid resources
36 Acquisitions, disposals and other
corporate changes
37 Capital structure
38 Pensions
39 Risk factors Group matters
Non-operating performance
30 2005/06 Annual report
Interest expense
The interest expense has increased primarily due to the first time
adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 dealing with financial instruments
applicable in 2005/06. This led to a change in treatment of the
Group’s convertible bond resulting in an additional, non cash,
interest charge of £9 million. Additionally, the Group has increased
finance lease charges in 2005/06 as a result of the £33 million of
finance leases acquired with Energis. These increases have been
partially offset by the full year impact of bond buy backs in 2004/05.
For a more detailed discussion on Group financial instruments and
the impact of the first time adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, please
refer to note 43 of the financial statements.
We discuss movements in our debt financing in the Capital structure
section below on page 37.
Exceptional items are discussed on page 32.
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets
These gains and losses arise on the sale of businesses that do not
meet the definition of discontinued operations, investments and
fixed assets.
In 2004/05, the £5 million gain on disposal of fixed assets primarily
relates to the sale of various small trade investments and associates
including the Group’s 3.4% stake in Intelsat, a UK satellite
communications company, and the Group’s stake in RTC, a 
Bulgarian associate.
Interest income
Interest income has decreased this year compared with last year
due to reduced cash balances during 2005/06.
This decrease in cash is mainly the result of the net cash paid of
£608 million for the acquisition of Energis and funding to invest in
the turnaround of the UK business and the development of our
local loop unbundling capability through Bulldog. The reduction in
interest income from lower average cash balances was partially
offset by higher average interest rates in 2005/06 compared 
with 2004/05.
For a more detailed discussion on the significant movements in our
cash and short-term investment balances, refer to the Cash and
liquid resources section below on pages 34 to 35.
The following discussions deal with the remaining, non-operational areas of the income statement not dealt with in the business
performance sections of International and UK, and which are primarily managed at Group level.
Non-operating items
2005/06 2004/05
Pre-exceptional Exceptional
1
T otal Pre-exceptional Exceptional
1
Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Total operating profit/(loss) 189 (256) (67) 282 (151) 131
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 281 83 5 (8) (3)
Other income 778 85 5– 5
Interest income 80 – 80 102 – 102
Interest expense (69) – (69) (68) – (68)
Profit before income tax 209 (97) 112 326 (159) 167
Income tax (expense)/credit (29) 2 (27) (64) 89 25
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 180 (95) 85 262 (70) 192
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 288 90 22 140 162
Profit/(loss) for the year 182 (7) 175 284 70 354
The income statement for the Group, which is prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards applicable for use in the EU, and from which the information
above is extracted, is included in the consolidated financial statements on page 69.
1
Exceptional items are income or expenditure items considered to be exceptional by virtue of their size, nature or incidence. Examples of such items in the current or previous
year include restructuring and impairment charges, releases of certain provisions and profits and losses on disposal of non-current assets. Earnings per share (basic)
Continuing
before 
exceptionals Exceptionals Reported
pp p
Earnings/(losses) per share from 
continuing operations attributable 
to the equity holders of the 
Company during the year 5.2 (5.6) (0.4)
2004/05 8.6 (2.9) 5.7
Earnings/(losses) per share attributable to 
the equity holders of the Company 
during the year 5.2 (1.7) 3.5
2004/05 9.5 3.2 12.7
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the
Company during the year of 3.5 pence represent a decline of 72%
compared with 2004/05. The main contributors to this decline are
higher depreciation and amortisation, lower net interest income,
significantly higher exceptional charges and a higher tax charge.
Excluding the impact of exceptionals, earnings per share were 
5.2 pence, a decline of 45% compared with the prior year.
Excluding exceptional items and our investment in local loop
unbundling, our underlying earnings per share showed a 
9% increase.
Reconciliations of earnings and shares in issue are set out in note 13
to the consolidated financial statements.
T axation
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
1
202 331
Tax (charge)/credit on ordinary activities (27) 23
Effective tax rate 13.4% (7.1)%
1
Continuing and discontinued activities.
The total tax charge for continuing operations before exceptionals
represents overseas tax and amounts to £29 million. There is no
tax charge or credit in respect of discontinued items in 2005/06.
Including the impact of exceptional items and discontinued activities,
the effective tax rate for 2005/06 was 13.4% compared to a rate in
2004/05 of (7.1)%. The effective tax rates excluding the impact of
exceptional items, discontinued activities and an exceptional tax
credit in 2004/05 were 13.9% for 2005/06 and 19.6% for 2004/05.
The principal reason for the difference in the rates is the mix of
profits and losses and tax rates across the countries in which 
we operate.
We expect the pro-forma effective tax rates of the two business
units to remain at current-year levels for the foreseeable future: nil 
in the UK due to tax losses and unclaimed capital allowances, and 
in the low to mid twenties for the International business.
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations are significant businesses that the Group
has sold (or abandoned) in the current or prior years. The result
shown is the post-tax profit of both the activities prior to sale and
gains and losses on disposal.
The 2005/06 result includes the operating result of the Group’s
Spanish and Sakhalin operations until their sale in April 2005 and July
2005 respectively. The 2004/05 results include the Spanish and
Sakhalin operations together with C&W IDC ( Japan) sold in January
2005. The gains on disposals of these businesses and credit relating
to businesses previously discontinued are treated as exceptional and
are set out on page 32.
More detailed information on discontinued operations is set out in
note 12 to the financial statements.
2005/06 Annual report 31
Group matters Group matters
Exceptional items
In 2005/06 we recognised a net exceptional charge before tax of
£97 million for continuing operations. The main charges are a write
down of assets, restructuring costs offset by profits on the sale of
various investments, insurance proceeds in respect of hurricane
damage and amounts resulting from progress in resolving claims and
other risks in our insurance subsidiary, Pender Insurance Limited
(‘Pender’). The tax credit on these exceptional items amounted to
£2 million.
The £237 million write down of assets in the UK business
(excluding Energis) is primarily due to the change in the UK strategy
to focus on fewer, larger customers – supporting them with the
migration from legacy to IP solutions – and duplication arising from
the combination with Energis. As a result, as part of the year end
review of asset carrying values required under IFRS, assets have
been written down if they are surplus to requirements or obsolete
due to recent changes in technology.
Other includes releases of provisions relating to a joint venture and
to prior period capacity transactions. These are offset by costs
associated with the December 2004 Asian tsunami. The 2004/05
equivalent was releases of onerous contract provisions.
Exceptional gains in the current year include £70 million on the sale
of the Group’s 12% stake in MobileOne, a Singaporean mobile
operator (of which £34 million is attributable to minority interests),
and £11 million on the sale of the Group’s training centre, Coventry
College. There were no significant losses.
32 2005/06 Annual report
Group exceptional items
2005/06 2004/05
International UK Bulldog Central
1
T otal International UK Bulldog Central
1
T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Operating items
Restructuring (13) (8) – (20) (41) (2) (109) – (30) (141)
Hurricane costs (6) – – – (6) (17) – – – (17)
Write down of non-current assets – (237) – – (237) (3) (5) – – (8)
Other (1) – – 27 26 – 15–– 15
Share of post-tax profits of associates and 
joint ventures 2–––2 –––– –
Exceptional items within total operating profit (18) (245) – 7 (256) (22) (99) – (30) (151)
Non-operating items
Profit/(losses) on disposal of non-current assets
and sale and termination of businesses 70 11 – – 81 (3) – – (5) (8)
Hurricane insurance proceeds 6–––6 –––– –
Reversal of unused provisions and settlements 
relating to the Group’s insurance subsidiary – – – 72 72 –––– –
T otal exceptional items before tax 58 (234) – 79 (97) (25) (99) – (35) (159)
Tax provision release ––––– ––– 85 85
Tax on exceptional items 2–––2 4––– 4
T otal exceptional items after tax from
continuing operations 60 (234) – 79 (95) (21) (99) – 50 (70)
Discontinued operations
Operating items
Restructuring prior to disposal ––––– – (2) – – (2)
Exceptional items within total operating profit ––––– – (2) – – (2)
Non-operating items
Gains on sale and termination of operations 173–– 20 – 38 – 66 104
Profits on disposal of fixed assets ––––– – 16–– 16
Reversal of unutilised provisions – – – 68 68 ––– 22 22
T otal exceptional items before tax 17 3 – 68 88 – 52 – 88 140
Tax on exceptional items ––––– –––– –
T otal exceptional items after tax from
discontinued operations 17 3 – 68 88 – 52 – 88 140
Total exceptional items after tax 77 (231) – 147 (7) (21) (47) – 138 70
1
Central includes items in respect of previously discontinued businesses, including the US. The exceptional loss of £8 million in 2004/05 relates to non-current
assets which have now been sold.
Following progress in resolving outstanding claims and other risks 
in Pender, our insurance subsidiary, we recognised income of 
£72 million through the release of unused provision and accruals
and the receipt of cash in respect of legal settlements.
We recognised an exceptional gain of £88 million from discontinued
operations. This gain reflected the sale of the Sakhalin (a profit of
£17 million) and Spanish (a profit of £3 million) businesses during
the year and credits associated with releases of provisions held
against risks arising from the exit from the US business, as claims 
and risks are resolved.
In the year to 31 March 2005 the Group recognised a net
exceptional charge before tax in continuing operations of 
£159 million comprising restructuring expenses, hurricane costs,
impairment, profit on disposal of non-current assets and losses on
the sale and termination of operations. The Group also recognised
an exceptional gain of £140 million from discontinued operations.
Of these, £52 million related to the disposal of C&W IDC (Japan) 
in February 2005 and £88 million to cash received and provisions
released in respect of the exit from the US business.
We also recognised an exceptional tax credit of £85 million as a
result of the settlement and clarification of various long-standing
overseas tax items at less than their expected cost.
2005/06 Annual report 33
Group matters Group matters
Cash and liquid resources
34 2005/06 Annual report
Reconciliation of Group EBITDA to net cash flow
before financing
2005/06 2004/05 Change
£m £m £m
EBITDA
1
411 424 (13)
Exceptional items (21) (143) 122
EBITDA less exceptional items 390 281 109
Share-based payments 14 10 4
Defined benefit pension schemes expense 6 19 (13)
Defined benefit pension schemes
top-up contributions (98) (100) 2
Defined benefit pension schemes
– other cash contributions (17) (27) 10
Changes in working capital (104) 1 (105)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (135) 95 (230)
Cash received in respect of other 
income 44 –44
Cash generated from continuing 
operating activities 100 279 (179)
Income taxes paid (47) (60) 13
Interest received 107 88 19
Dividends from joint ventures and 
associates 34 31 3
Purchase of property, plant,
equipment and intangible assets (434) (321) (113)
Acquisitions and disposals (484) (24) (460)
(Disposal)/acquisition of credit linked notes 40 (30) 70
Other 5 41
Cash generated from discontinued 
operating and investing activities 30 139 (109)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow before 
financing activities (649) 106 (755)
1
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional
items.
The Group net cash outflow of £649 million represents outflows of
£889 million in the UK business and £163 million in Bulldog and
inflows of £363 million in International and £40 million in Central
1
.
Further details in respect of International, the UK and Bulldog are
included on pages 15, 24 and 26 respectively.
Other significant movements between EBITDA and net cash flow
before financing in Central are as follows:
Share-based payments of £14 million reflect the non-cash charge 
in the income statement in respect of share awards under 
current schemes.
Central paid a top-up payment of £39 million to the main UKdefined
benefit pension scheme (in addition to the £59 million paid by the UK
business). Following this year’s top-up payments, the scheme is fully
funded on an ongoing basis, based on the 2005 funding valuation.
Cash payments to the schemes differ from the accounting charge in
the income statement.
During 2005/06, we sold £40 million of Credit Linked Notes
referenced to our 2012 convertible bond in order to improve 
the liquidity of our investments; in the prior year we acquired 
£80 million of these notes and sold £50 million held previously.
Cash interest received in Central was £99 million in the year.
Cash flow summary
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Cash flows generated from continuing operations 100 279
Cash generated from discontinued operations 3 28
Income taxes paid (47) (60)
Cash flows from operating activities 56 247
Cash flows used in investing activities (705) (141)
Cash flows before financing activities (649) 106
Cash flows used in financing activities (257) (344)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (906) (238)
The consolidated cash flow statement for the Group, which is prepared in accordance
with IFRS applicable for use in the EU, and from which the information above is
extracted, is included in the consolidated financial statements on page 72.
Operating cash flows from our continuing business fell by £179
million primarily as a result of investment in local loop unbundling
through Bulldog and support for the UK business. Operating cash
flows from discontinued operations reflect the results of
discontinued activities until their sale as discussed on page 31.
The £13 million reduction in income taxes paid is due principally to
the non-recurrence of the prior-year settlement of various long-
standing overseas tax matters.
Investing cash flows reflect capital expenditure of £434 million as
discussed in the businesses’ performance sections, together with the
acquisition of Energis and offset by interest, dividends and proceeds
from the sale of investments.
The fall in financing cash outflows is largely due to lower purchases
of treasury shares and lower debt repayments. An increase in
dividends paid to minority interests was partially offset by additional
borrowings. Other movements in financing cash flows were
primarily the result of funds lent to subsidiary interests.
Exchange rate changes accounted for £12 million movement in the
cash balance.
1
Allocations based on internal management accounts. 2005/06 Annual report 35
Group matters
Cash and liquidity management
At 31 March 2006, the Company held cash and short-term
investments of £856 million (2005 – £1,816 million). Of the 
£310 million cash held by other Group companies, £221 million 
was attributable to Cable & Wireless, and £89 million attributable 
to minority shareholders. The full analysis of cash and short-term
investments held by the Group is as follows:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Accessible funds held by Cable and 
Wireless plc 823 1,781
Restricted funds held by Cable and 
Wireless plc (cash collateral) 33 35
Gross cash and investments held by 
Cable and Wireless plc 856 1,816
Cable and Wireless plc share of gross cash 
held in subsidiaries 204 145
Minority share of gross cash held in subsidiaries 89 103
Restricted funds held in subsidiaries (Pender 
Insurance and cash collateral) 17 37
T otal gross cash and investments held by 
the Group 1,166 2,101
Credit linked notes (39) (80)
Cash and cash equivalents held by the Group 1,127 2,021
Cash and cash equivalents available to the Group do not include
cash held in subsidiaries where exchange controls or similar
restrictions make it unlikely that cash could be repatriated to the
Company within a year. As at 31 March 2006, £60 million (2005 –
£55 million) held in the Seychelles has been excluded on this basis.
A key objective for Group Treasury is to maximise the proportion
of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents held by the Company, to
ensure that this is available, if required, for liquidity purposes and to
optimise investment returns.
Cash and cash equivalents held by the Company includes 
£33 million of restricted funds in the form of bank deposits pledged
as collateral against contingent liabilities. A further £17 million 
of restricted funds has been secured by the Group’s insurance
subsidiary Pender against potential future claims. These amounts 
are not available for use by the Group in the short-term.
During 2004, Cable and Wireless plc purchased £80 million of
Credit Linked Notes issued by AA-rated banks and referenced to
the Company’s £200 million bond maturing in 2012. This
transaction has a similar economic effect to repurchasing the 2012
bonds. The Company sold £40 million of these notes during
2005/06 in order to improve the liquidity of its investments.
At 31 March 2006, the Company held £40 million (fair value 
of £39 million) of Credit Linked Notes (2005 – £80 million).
Further information on these transactions is given in note 19 
to the financial statements.
Other cash and cash equivalents held by the Company as at 
31 March 2006 are now wholly invested in short-term bank
deposits, with institutions where short-term ratings are A1 or 
better, and AAA-rated money market funds. Group matters
Acquisitions, disposals and 
other corporate changes
36 2005/06 Annual report
Acquisitions
On 11 November 2005, we acquired the Energis business, for 
an initial net cash consideration of £608 million and assumed 
£33 million of finance lease obligations. In the third year following
completion, we have agreed to pay contingent consideration of
between nil and £80 million, payable in cash or shares at our option,
dependent on the level of our share price. For further information
on this transaction refer to note 38 of the financial statements.
Since acquisition Energis has generated revenues of £266 million
and EBITDA of £35 million.
On 31 December 2005 Cable & Wireless (Seychelles) Limited
acquired Atlas (Seychelles) Limited, a Seychellois company providing
Internet services, for consideration of SR19 million (£1.9 million).
Disposals
On 7 April 2005, we completed the disposal of our Spanish retail
business for consideration of €7 million (£4 million), recognising a
profit on disposal of £3 million.
On 13 July 2005, we completed the sale of our Sakhalin fixed and
mobile businesses for a consideration, inclusive of the repayment of a
loan from us of US$2.2 million, of US$44 million (£25 million at the
exchange rate on 12 July 2005). The consideration, excluding loan
repayment, was paid in cash on completion. Our loan was repaid 
on 12 September 2005. The profit on disposal was £17 million.
On 28 October 2005, a 51% owned subsidiary sold its 12.1% stake
in MobileOne Limited (‘M1’). The consideration was S$2.20 per
share, or S$260.8 million in total (£86.6 million at the closing
exchange rate on 27 October 2005), of which we received 
£44 million after deducting the minority interest. The profit 
on disposal was £70 million (£36 million after deducting the
minority interest).
Corporate changes
We have previously maintained an ADR programme and listing on
the New Y ork Stock Exchange for US investors. Given the very
small percentage of shares that were held and traded through the
ADR programme, we concluded that its additional cost of
administration outweighed its potential benefits. We therefore
closed the programme in December 2005. For the same reasons,
we are in the process of deregistering our securities with the SEC
which we expect to complete in June 2006. This will ultimately
remove our US reporting obligations. Capital structure
2005/06 Annual report 37
Group matters
the option of bondholders at a share price of £1.45 (subject to
adjustment for certain corporate actions or a change of control).
Therefore, depending upon the performance of the share price
before maturity, and the choices of bondholders, the convertible
bond may be redeemed by the issue of shares rather than cash.
Given the maturity profile of our debt, and the substantial cash
resources still available to the Company (see the cash section on
page 35), we are satisfied that we can meet our working capital
requirements for at least the next year. Consequently, we have 
no current intention to conduct any major funding activity. Given
our strong cash position, we see no need to maintain committed
facilities and hence we had no significant facilities during the year.
Debt covenants
None of the Company debt contains financial covenants. Some of
the debt held in subsidiaries is subject to financial covenants based
upon the accounts of the relevant subsidiary itself. These covenants
are carefully monitored and we do not expect them to constrain
our operations.
Credit ratings
Cable & Wireless’ long-term credit ratings at 31 March 2006 are:
Standard & Poor’s BB-
Moody’s Ba3
Standard & Poor’s reduced its credit rating from BB to BB- on
1 February 2006 in response to a market update by the Group on
31 January 2006. There has been no change in the Moody’s rating
during the year.
We maintain an ongoing dialogue with the two relevant credit rating
agencies to keep them appraised of our financial performance.
Other loans and contractual obligations 
under leases
Our loans and contractual obligations under finance and operating
leases are analysed in notes 25 and 36 to the financial statements.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
Operating leases
In the normal course of business, we enter into operating leases,
relating to property, customer premises equipment and other
operational commitments. Minimum lease terms range from one
year to 50 years. The effect such obligations are expected to have
on liquidity and cash flow in future periods is set out in the
contractual obligations table in note 36 to the financial statements.
In addition, under certain property operating leases we could be
required to make payments to lessors at the end of the lease to
restore the condition of the properties.
Other commitments and contingent liabilities
Other commitments and contingent liabilities that have, or are
reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our
financial condition, future performance or cash flows are set out in
notes 36, 37 and 40 to the financial statements.
Equity
At 31 March 2006 we had 2,421 million Ordinary Shares of 25
pence in issue (2005 – 2,394 million). Of these 125,940,339 (2005
– 115,259,057) were held as treasury stock by the Company or by
the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust. Using the closing share
price at 31 March 2006, the approximate market capitalisation of
the Group was £2,553 million. Other than issues to satisfy the
vesting of awards under the Company’s share schemes and the
dividend reinvestment plan, which together totalled 26 million shares
(2005 – 9 million shares), there were no other share issues.
Share buy-back programme
In November 2004, we launched a £250 million share buy-back
programme to return surplus cash to shareholders. Shares
repurchased are held as treasury shares. T o date we have bought
back 75 million shares at an average price of £1.23 and at a total
cost of £92 million, of which £17 million was spent during this
financial year. Following the acquisition of Energis and the top-up 
of the UK pension scheme, we have decided to discontinue the
balance of the buy-back programme.
Debt financing
We manage our capital structure to ensure that adequate funding is
in place at all times to support our businesses. We have previously
raised funds through a variety of instruments.
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Loan from the European Investment Bank 
(‘EIB’) straight and convertible bonds 672 737
Loans and borrowings in subsidiary companies 83 85
Obligations under finance leases and other 29 2
Gross debt at 31 March 784 824
1
1
Gross debt at 1 April 2005.
The four main debt instruments still outstanding are three publicly
quoted bonds and a loan from the EIB. These borrowings,
amounting to £672 million at the year end (2005 – £737 million),
have all been either borrowed or guaranteed by the Company.
In addition, there are £83 million of borrowings in subsidiary
companies (2005 – £85 million), of which £42 million has been
guaranteed by the Company.
The Company debt is well spread in terms of maturity, the profile 
of cash redemptions being as follows:
2006 – £121 million 2012 – £184 million
2010 – £258 million 2019 – £180 million
The EIB Loan of £121 million (carrying value £106 million) matures
in September 2006 and we expect to repay this together with a
related currency swap of £15 million from existing cash resources.
Repayment of the 2012 and 2019 bonds is shown net of bonds
repurchased and held as treasury stock.
One of our debt instruments is a £258 million (carrying value of
£202 million) Convertible Bond maturing in 2010. Conversion is at Group matters
Pensions
38 2005/06 Annual report
Group matters
The Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF) had
approximately 15,400 members in its defined benefit section at 
31 March 2006; some 1,200 members remain in active employment,
9,300 members have deferred benefit entitlements and 4,900
members are drawing pension benefits. The defined benefit section
was closed to new members in 1999. A defined contribution
section was added for new employees in the UK in 1997. About
8,600 members participate in the defined contribution section of
which some 2,500 remain in active employment. Nearly 200 
ex-Energis employees joined the defined contribution section 
on 1 April 2006.
The defined benefit scheme is funded with assets held in a separate
trustee-administered fund. It is subject to independent valuations at
least every three years, on the basis of which the scheme actuary
determines the rate of employers’ contributions, which, together
with the specified contributions payable by the employees and
proceeds from the scheme’s assets, are expected to be sufficient 
to fund the benefits payable under the scheme.
The most recent triennial funding valuation of the CWSF was 
made as at 31 March 2005. Discussions with the trustees and the
scheme actuary resulted in us paying a £98 million contribution on 
31 March 2006. As a result of this contribution, the scheme is fully
funded on an ongoing basis, based on the 2005 funding valuation.
Our ordinary contribution rate for 2005/06 including administration
costs and an allowance for the pension protection fund levy, was
22.3% of employees’ pensionable pay or £13 million.
We used the latest generally adopted mortality tables and other
assumptions for the funding valuation, adjusted to reflect the
scheme’s actual experience, and including an allowance for future
improvements in life expectancy. Under these assumptions the
average life expectancy is 26.5 years for a man aged 60 and 28.1
years for a woman aged 60. A one year change in the life
expectancy assumption would have increased or decreased the
scheme liabilities by around £40 million. A 0.25% change in the
assumed rate of return on scheme investments would have
increased or decreased the funding required by around £86 million.
A 0.25% change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have
increased or decreased the funding required by £7 million.
The IAS 19 deficit for the CWSF at 31 March 2006 is £89 million
(31 March 2005 – £176 million). The assumptions used for the IAS
19 calculation are different from those adopted by the trustees and
the scheme actuary to determine the funding position of the
scheme. In particular, IAS 19 requires the fund’s liabilities to be
discounted at an AA corporate bond rate, whereas the funding
valuation discounts the liabilities at a higher expected rate of return
on the scheme assets. We have further unfunded liabilities in the
UK of £22.6 million (31 March 2005 – £20.2 million).
A number of our overseas businesses also operate defined benefit
pension schemes. The aggregate IAS 19 surplus of these schemes is
£10 million at 31 March 2006 (31 March 2005 – deficit £5 million). Risk factors
2005/06 Annual report 39
Group matters
Nonetheless, increased speculation regarding health risks associated
with mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities or any
subsequent substantiation of such risks could have a material
adverse effect on our business.
7.The historical activities of our insurance subsidiary may result in
material claims.
Pender is our Isle of Man domiciled captive insurance company.
Since its establishment in 1990 it underwrote global insurances for
both Cable & Wireless and, in later years, third party companies.
It ceased to underwrite any new business from April 2003.
Pender purchased reinsurance for many of the risks it underwrote,
including, from 2003, reinsurance via a telecommunications insurance
industry mutual (‘the Mutual’). Pender remains liable for all policies
it underwrote in the first instance notwithstanding the reinsurances.
The significant key risks identified are as follows:
– failure of reinsurance (including reinsurances secured via the
Mutual post-April 2003);
– deterioration in known claims; and
– notification of new claims under long tail ‘losses occurring’
liability policies.
If any of these risks materialise Pender may be subject to significant
liabilities which its assets may not be sufficient to meet. Moreover,
there can be no assurance that these arrangements will not have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition.
8. Changes in the pension regulatory framework, volatility in the
financial markets or a weakening of our financial strength may
require us to provide further cash funding to our pension funds.
We currently maintain a number of defined benefit plans in the UK
and overseas, which cover various categories of employees and
retirees. The principal scheme is in the UK. We are obliged to make
contributions to the schemes based on triennial actuarial valuations
which are based on long-term assumptions. In the short-term, the
actual experience of the schemes can vary significantly from the
long-term assumptions and may result in significant additional
contributions. Ongoing changes to the regulatory environment may
also have an impact on funding requirements. A weakening of our
financial strength may lead the Trustees and Actuary to seek further
additional contributions or, in extremis, to determine that it is in the
best interests of the members as a whole to wind up the scheme.
If we are required to make significant contributions to fund the
defined benefit plans, our financial position could be materially and
adversely affected and the cash flow available for other uses may be
significantly reduced.
9. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates in the countries where
we operate may adversely affect our reported results and financial
condition.
A significant percentage of our business is conducted outside the
UK. We are thus exposed to movements in exchange rates in
relation to foreign currency receipts and payments, dividend and
other income from foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign
subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments
particularly in respect of the £/US dollar exchange rate.
We operate in a challenging environment and face a number of
risks. Our financial condition or results of operations could be
materially adversely affected should any of these risks arise.
1.We operate in an industry in which innovation can render our
products and services uncompetitive or obsolete in a short time.
T o mitigate this risk, we invest in new technologies such as the next
generation network in the UK or local loop unbundling through
Bulldog. However, these investments may prove to be unsuccessful
or may themselves be superseded by newer technology.
2. Our operations depend crucially on complex networks and
systems and on the ability to access similar networks belonging 
to others.
Failures in these networks or systems may mean that we cannot
serve our customers, exposing us to potential claims and loss 
of those customers and to costs of repair or modification 
of the systems.
3. Changes in regulation and government policy or lack of
appropriate enforcement of those regulations may result, for
example, in changes to the range or price of services offered or
may introduce competitors into the markets in which we operate.
Our ability to provide telecommunications services depends on
receiving and maintaining government licences and authorisations.
We believe that we have all licences material to the running of our
business. It is possible that from time to time, as further products
and services are deployed or changed, additional licences or
authorisations will be required.
4.We may be required to sell our businesses at below market
value or impair assets if licences and concessions to operate are
withdrawn or not renewed.
A number of our International businesses operate under licences or
concession agreements. These typically set out the basis of renewal
and the terms for transfer of the business should renewal not occur.
The terms of the transfer vary and may not provide for a transfer at
market value.
We expect to renew our licences on normal commercial terms as
they fall due. However, should a licence not be renewed (or be
renewed on unattractive commercial terms) we may be forced to
exit the business on unfavourable terms or to impair some or all of
the assets of that business.
5.We may lose revenue if unlicensed operators are able to gain
access to our network.
In certain markets where we operate, unlicensed operators may
seek to gain access to our network unlawfully without paying for
such access and/or usage. T o the extent that our efforts to prevent
the unlawful conduct are not wholly successful, we may lose
revenue and our financial performance may be adversely impacted.
6. Mobile communications devices may pose health risks.
Scientific research on mobile telephone handsets and transmission
facilities and health has been reviewed by a number of independent
expert scientific panels. None of these panels has concluded that
the use of mobile telephone handsets is harmful to health. Group matters
Risk factors
40 2005/06 Annual report
Group matters
We manage our exposure to movements in exchange rates on a
net basis and, where appropriate, use forward foreign exchange
contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce
the exposure.
T o the extent that this hedging activity does not cover the
exposure, then our results and financial condition may be negatively
impacted by currency exchange rate movements.
10. Our withdrawal from the US domestic market may result in
unforeseen claims against us.
Although we have taken measures to reduce our exposure to third
party claims resulting from our withdrawal from the US domestic
market through a Chapter 11 bankruptcy process, there remains a
risk that we may be subject to claims from certain third party
suppliers against guarantees and letters of credit given by us to the
purchaser of the US business should that purchaser not be able to
honour the related financial commitments.
In addition, there is no guarantee that we will not be the target of
claims from third parties who believe they might have contractual or
other rights enforceable directly against us. 2005/06 Annual report 41
Board and governance
Board and
governance
42 Board of Directors
44 Directors’ report
48 Corporate governance report
53 Report of the Audit committee
55 Directors’ remuneration report
66 Statement of Directors’
responsibilities Board and governance
Board of Directors
As part of the restructuring of Cable & Wireless into two
businesses, International and UK, with separate operating boards
reporting to the main Cable and Wireless plc Board, the
composition of the Board has been reviewed with the objective of
creating a smaller body more aligned with its requirements under
the new organisation. As a result, a number of directors have either
retired or will retire by the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting in July 2006.
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne
N
(63)
Chairman; Chairman, Nominations Committee
Richard Lapthorne was appointed Chairman in January 2003. Prior
to joining Cable & Wireless, from 1999 to May 2003, Richard was
Chairman of Amersham International plc having joined its Board as
a Non-executive Director in 1988. He was Finance Director of
British Aerospace plc from July 1992 and Vice Chairman from 
April 1998 until his retirement in September 1999. Richard is 
Non-executive Chairman of Morse plc and the New Look 
Group and was Chairman of Arlington Securities from May to
December 2005.
Executive Directors
The following are the ongoing Executive Directors of 
the Company:
Anthony (T ony) Rice (54)
Group Managing Director, Central and Finance Director
T ony Rice was appointed a Non-executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee in January 2003 and was a member of the
Nominations Committee. He relinquished these roles on 30 March
2006 when he was appointed Group Managing Director, Central
and Finance Director.
T ony was Chief Executive of Tunstall Holdings Ltd until its
acquisition by Bridgepoint on 13 September 2005 and he continues
as a Non-executive Director of that company. T ony is also a 
Non-executive Director of British Mediterranean Airways Limited
and Help the Aged. Prior to joining Tunstall,T ony was Group
Treasurer and then Group MD, Commercial Aircraft of British
Aerospace plc and was also involved in the financing and flotation
of Orange.
Harris Jones (44)
Group Managing Director, International
Harris Jones was appointed as Group Managing Director,
International and Chief Executive of the International business on 
1 April 2006. Previously he was Executive Director of the
International business from December 2004.
Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, Harris was Chief Executive Officer
of T -Mobile UK following its acquisition by Deutsche Telekom and
has prior experience as a senior executive with Omnipoint
Communications and Sprint Spectrum. Harris is a Non-executive
Director of Caracal, Inc., USA.
John Pluthero (42)
Group Managing Director, UK
John Pluthero was appointed as Group Managing Director, UK 
and Executive Chairman, UK on 1 April 2006. Previously he was
Executive Director of the UK business from November 2005.
From September 2002 until the acquisition by Cable & Wireless,
John was Chief Executive of Energis. Previously, he was founder and
Chief Executive Officer of Freeserve (now Orange), leading it to its
July 1999 flotation on the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
Prior to this, John held various strategy and operations positions
within the Dixons Group including Managing Director of
Mastercare, Quality Director and Business Review Director.
George Battersby (59)
Executive Director, Human Resources
George Battersby was appointed as Executive Director of Human
Resources in July 2004. He has held senior human resources
positions in a number of FTSE 100 companies over the past 20 years
and immediately prior to joining Cable & Wireless was Group Human
Resources Director and a member of the Board of Amersham
International plc. George is a Non-executive Director of SHL Group
plc, a leading international HR consultancy, where he is Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
The following Executive Directors will retire from the Board
between the date of this report and the conclusion of the 
Annual General Meeting in July:
Robert (Rob) Rowley (56)
Executive Deputy Chairman
Rob Rowley was appointed a Non-executive Director in September
2002 and, following a restructuring of the Board, was appointed 
as Executive Deputy Chairman on 21 January 2003. Rob is a 
Non-executive Director of Liberty International plc and was a 
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of
Prudential plc until 18 May 2006. Rob will retire from the Board at
the Annual General Meeting in July.
Charles Herlinger (50)
Chief Financial Officer
Charles Herlinger was appointed Chief Financial Officer in December
2003. From 1987 to 2003 he worked for the Siemens Group, most
recently as Corporate Vice President and Group Controller. Charles
will retire from the Board at the end of May 2006.
The following Executive Directors retired from the Board
immediately following the year end:
Francesco Caio (48)
Francesco Caio was Chief Executive Officer until he retired on
1 April 2006.
The Right Honourable Lord Robertson of 
Port Ellen KT , GCMG (60)
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen was Executive Deputy Chairman
throughout the year ended 31 March 2006. He retired on 1 April
2006 to focus on his role as Chairman of Cable & Wireless’
International business.
42 2005/06 Annual report Agnès T ouraine
A R
(51)
Non-executive Director
Agnès T ouraine was appointed a Non-executive Director in January
2005 and became a member of the Remuneration committee on 
1 April 2006. Based in France,Agnès is Managing Partner of Act III
Consultants having previously been Chairman and CEO of Vivendi
Universal Publishing. She has held various senior executive positions
with the Lagardère Group and began her career with McKinsey.
Agnès is a Board member of Fondation de France and was a 
Non-executive Director of Lastminute.com until its acquisition by
Travelocity in July 2005.
The following Non-executive Directors will retire from the Board
between the date of this report and the conclusion of the Annual
General Meeting in July:
Bernard Gray
A N R
(45)
Non-executive Director
Bernard Gray was appointed a Non-executive Director in January
2003 and was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from
January 2003 to 31 March 2006. Bernard was appointed as Chief
Executive of TSL Education Limited in October 2005 having
formerly been Chief Executive of CMP Information, the UK
publishing and events division of United Business Media. Bernard 
will retire at the Annual General Meeting in July.
Graham Howe
A N R
(45)
Non-executive Director; Senior Independent Director
Graham Howe was appointed as a Non-executive Director in May
2003 and is the nominated Senior Independent Director. Graham
was one of the founding directors of Orange and was its Deputy
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer until 2003
having previously been Finance Director. He is Chairman of
Promethean Technologies Limited. Graham will retire in June.
Company Secretary
Nick Cooper (42)
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
Nick Cooper was appointed Company Secretary on 17 January 2006.
A
Denotes membership of Audit Committee
N
Denotes membership of Nominations Committee
R
Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee
Non-executive Directors
The following are the ongoing Non-executive Directors of the
Company:
Simon Ball
A R
(46)
Non-executive Director
Simon Ball was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 May
2006. Simon is Group Finance Director for 3i Group plc, the FTSE
100 private equity and venture capital business, and has served on
its main Board since April 2005. Prior to this, Simon held a series of
senior finance and operational roles over 15 years at Dresdner
Kleinwort Benson and Robert Fleming Group and, for two years,
served as Director General, Finance for the UK Government’s
Department for Constitutional Affairs.
Clive Butler
A R
(59)
Non-executive Director
Clive Butler was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 May
2005. Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, Clive was Corporate
Development Director at Unilever having served on the main board
since 1992. During that period he also undertook the roles of
Personnel Director and Category Director for Unilever’s Home and
Personal Care division. Clive joined Unilever in 1970 and worked in
a variety of marketing and general management roles, including
positions in the USA, Zimbabwe and the Philippines, prior to his
retirement in 2005. Clive will become the Senior Independent
Director and a member of the Nominations Committee on
Graham Howe’s retirement in June.
Kate Nealon
A N R
(52)
Non-executive Director; Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Kate Nealon was appointed a Non-executive Director in January
2005 and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and
a member of the Nominations Committee on 1 April 2006. She is
a US-qualified lawyer and was Group Head of Legal and
Compliance for Standard Chartered plc until 2004. Kate previously
practised international banking and regulatory law in New Y ork.
She is a Non-executive Director of HBOS plc and Monitor (the
independent regulator of the NHS Foundation Trust Hospitals) as
well as being a senior associate of the Judge Business School at
Cambridge University.
Kasper Rorsted
A N R
(44)
Non-executive Director, Chairman,Audit Committee
Kasper Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive Director in May
2003 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee and a
member of the Nominations Committee on 30 March 2006.
Kasper also became a member of the Remuneration committee on
1 April 2006. He is Executive Vice President at Henkel KGaA having
previously been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Europe
Middle East & Asia for Hewlett-Packard. Kasper has held various
senior management positions with Compaq since 1995 and has
previous experience with Oracle, Digital and Ericsson. Kasper is a
Non-executive Director of Ecolab, Inc. USA.
2005/06 Annual report 43
Board and governance Board and governance
Directors’ report
The Directors present their annual report and audited financial
statements for Cable and Wireless plc and the Cable & Wireless
Group of companies for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are set out on page 2.
On 31 January 2006 Cable & Wireless announced that, from 
1 April 2006, it would divide its business into two operationally 
self-contained businesses: International and UK (including Bulldog)
which reflects the recognition of differing characteristics in both
these businesses. The central functions of Cable & Wireless have
been reshaped to ensure the continuation of proper governance
and control at the corporate centre.
Business review
A review of the performance of the Group’s businesses:
International, UK and Bulldog for the current year is set out on 
pages 14 to 16, 23 to 25 and 26 to 27 respectively.
Indications of likely developments of the Group’s businesses are 
set out in the sections titled ‘where we want to be’ on pages 12,
20 and 21.
The key risks facing the Group are set out on pages 39 and 40.
Results and dividends
The Group’s profit for the year ended 31 March 2006 (after
taxation and minority interests) amounted to £79 million.
A final dividend of 3.1 pence per Ordinary Share is recommended
for the year ended 31 March 2006. This, together with the interim
dividend paid in January 2006 of 1.4 pence per Ordinary Share,
makes the total for the year of 4.5 pence (2005 – 3.8 pence per
Ordinary Share). Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2006
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’), the final dividend will be paid on
11 August 2006 to shareholders on the register at 16 June 2006.
The Company will once again offer a Scrip Dividend option for the
final dividend payable on 11 August 2006. Full details are contained
in the Scrip Dividend brochure which can be obtained from the
Company’s Registrar, from the Company Secretary or from the
Company’s website www.cw.com
Share capital
Details of changes to the Company’s issued share capital during the
year ended 31 March 2006 are set out in note 31 to the financial
statements.
Acquisitions and disposals
Details of significant acquisitions and disposals during the year are
set out on page 36.
Directors
The Directors during the year ended 31 March 2006, together with
biographical notes, are shown on pages 42 and 43. All the Directors
were in office throughout the financial year with the exception of
Clive Butler, who was appointed on 1 May 2005 and John Pluthero,
who was appointed on 14 November 2005. Subsequent to the
year end, Simon Ball was appointed as a Non-executive Director on
1 May 2006.
On 31 January 2006, Cable & Wireless announced the transition to
a new organisation structure through the creation of two business
units, a reduction in the role of the corporate centre and
consequently no Chief Executive role. As a result, from 1 April
2006, Francesco Caio stepped down from his role as Chief
Executive Officer and three Group Managing Directors were
appointed: Harris Jones, Group Managing Director, International;
John Pluthero, Group Managing Director, UK; and T ony Rice, Group
Managing Director, Central and Finance Director. All three Group
Managing Directors report directly to the Chairman.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles, any Director appointed
since the last AGM is required to retire and seek election by the
shareholders at the next following AGM. Accordingly, John Pluthero
and Simon Ball, having been appointed as Directors since the 2005
AGM, will retire at the 2006 AGM and, being eligible, offer
themselves for election. The unexpired portion of the service
contract for John Pluthero is disclosed on page 58 of the Directors’
remuneration report.
The Company’s Articles also require all Directors to retire every
third year from when last elected by shareholders. Kasper Rorsted
will therefore seek re-election at the 2006 AGM.
The Company has provided an indemnity for the benefit of its
Directors which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for
the purpose of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors’ responsibilities for the preparation of the financial
statements and to the Company’s auditors are set out on page 66.
Disclosable interests
The Directors have no interest in the Ordinary Shares of the
Company’s subsidiaries. The beneficial interests of the Directors and
their immediate families in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are
shown in the Directors’ remuneration report, on page 60.
Acquisition of own shares
In accordance with approval obtained from shareholders, the
Company repurchased 14,450,000 Ordinary Shares in the Company
during the year ended 31 March 2006 for an aggregate cost of
£17,432,998. This number of Ordinary Shares represents 0.6% of
the Company’s total issued share capital as at 31 March 2006. All
Ordinary Shares purchased during the year ended 31 March 2006
are held in treasury. In total, as at 31 March 2006, 74,950,000
Ordinary Shares are held in treasury.
Related party transactions
Transactions with joint ventures and associated
companies
All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the
normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of
Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access
charges. There were no material transactions with joint ventures
and associated companies during the year other than disclosed in
note 39 to the consolidated financial statements.
44 2005/06 Annual report every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the
Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the
policy of the Group that the training, career development and
promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical
with that of other employees.
As well as being absolutely committed to providing a working
environment in which the Group’s people can both realise their
own potential and contribute to business success, the Group’s
businesses work to ensure that no employee, job applicant,
customer or supplier is unfairly or illegally discriminated against.
Employee consultation and relations
It is the quality, skill and commitment of the people who work for
Cable & Wireless that allows the Group to deliver for its customers.
Good and open communication is central to driving commitment
from the Group’s employees and making them feel engaged in the
Group’s progress. As such, the Group has both formal and informal
channels for consultation and communication. An example of this is
the staff satisfaction survey conducted in the UK business – the
results of which are shared openly around the business and used to
drive continuous improvement and promote excellence.
Staff participate in the Group’s performance through both share
schemes and performance-related bonus arrangements.
Employee representation
In the UK the Group’s employees are represented through the
Employee Consultation Forum. Elsewhere, employee representation
may be through works councils or trade unions, particularly for
collective bargaining purposes.
All of the Group’s employees are free to join employee
representative bodies or trade unions but decisions on union
recognition are taken at the local level.
Human rights
Cable & Wireless supports the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the International Labour Organisation Core Conventions
relating to freedom of association, the abolition of forced and child
labour.
Environmental matters
Although the Board or its subcommittees consider environmental
issues and identify and monitor environmental risks and
opportunities, the Directors do not consider that such matters are
significant to an understanding of the Group's performance for the
year or position at year end and hence the Annual report focuses
on the more significant operational issues.
Charitable and political donations
During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group made donations
of £2.5 million (2005 – £7.7 million) of which £200,000 (2005 –
£1.7 million) was spent in the UK. More information about our
support of the communities in which the Group operates is set out
in the International and UK sections on pages 13 and 22 respectively.
The Group received £20 million (2005 – £14 million) dividends
from associates and £20 million (2005 – £17 million) from joint
ventures for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Transactions with Directors
Except as disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report, as of
31 May 2006, neither the Company or any of its subsidiaries was 
a party to any material transactions, or proposed transactions, in
which any Director, any other Executive Officer, any spouse or child
under 18 years of age of a Director or Executive Officer had or was
to have a direct or indirect material interest.
During the years ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2006, and 
as of 31 May 2006, no Director nor any other Executive Officer,
nor any associate of any Director or any other Executive Officer
was indebted to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Substantial shareholdings
Except for the holdings of Ordinary Shares listed below, the
Directors are not aware of any person or organisation holding 
3% or more of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at 
31 May 2006, the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this
report. Comparative figures for 2005 are also given.
2006 Number of Percentage of
Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary
Ordinary Shares
1
Share capital
Shareholder
The Trustees of the BT Pension 
Scheme 110,392,537 4.56
FMR Corp. & Fidelity International 
Limited 80,438,282 3.32
Barclays Bank plc 74,956,874 3.10
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 75,084,209 3.10
Legal & General Investment 
Management Limited 73,223,270 3.02
1
As notified to the Company
2005 Number of Percentage of
Cable & Wireless Issued Ordinary
Ordinary Shares
1
Share capital
Shareholder
The Trustees of the BT Pension 
Scheme 101,950,148 4.30
Legal & General Group plc 77,951,197 3.30
1
As notified to the Company
Employees
Employment policies
Cable & Wireless’ employment policies comply with local
requirements and meet relevant standards for occupational health,
safety and environment, business ethics, diversity, disability,
performance management and employee relations.
In particular, applications for employment by disabled persons are
always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitude of the applicant
concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled
2005/06 Annual report 45
Board and governance Board and governance
Directors’ report
The charitable contribution in the financial year 2004/05 were
unusually high as we made two $1 million one-off donations in
response to the Asian Tsunami in December 2004 and to aid in 
the reconstruction of Cayman and Jamaica in the aftermath of
Hurricane Ivan in September 2004.
In the UK we have refocused our charitable giving policy towards a
community based focus with an emphasis on employee engagement
with local based educational organisations. Our objective is to help
reduce the digital divide in the communities where we live and
work. Recent examples include the highly successful ICT Academy
in Bracknell and our partnership with the educational charity
WebPlay in Berkshire.
The Group does not make political donations and has no intention
of making donations to what are generally regarded as political
parties within the EU. As a precautionary measure and in light of
the wide definitions of EU political organisations in The Political
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (the Act), a resolution
to permit the Company to make political donations and incur
political expenditure was passed at the 2004 AGM. The purpose 
of the resolution was to ensure that the Company did not
unintentionally breach the Act. That resolution is valid for a period
of four years from 22 July 2004 or until the date of the 2008 AGM,
if earlier.
Payments to suppliers
In the UK, the Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when
it enters into binding purchase contracts. The Group seeks to abide
by the payment terms agreed whenever it is satisfied that the
supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the
agreed terms and conditions. Cable & Wireless seeks to treat all its
suppliers fairly according to a standard, which deals specifically with
the payment of suppliers.
The average number of days between the invoice date and the date
of payment of invoices by the Company (not the Group) was 79
days (2005 – 56 days).
Annual general meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 10.00am on Friday 21 July 2006 at 
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary,
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The Notice of Meeting, together
with a letter from the Chairman explaining the resolutions to be
proposed, accompanies this report.
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue as auditor
of the Company and resolutions proposing its re-appointment and
to authorise the Directors to fix its remuneration will be proposed
at the AGM.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing basis. The Board
considers that the Group’s system of internal control is
appropriately designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable, but
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of
control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
The Group’s management operates a risk management process,
under which each business unit identifies key risks that could impede
the achievement of their business objectives; these risks are
reviewed by each business’ senior management team and passed 
up the organisation on a filter basis to assist the Group’s Executive
Directors to monitor all significant risks. In addition the Audit
Committee reviews a schedule of the Group’s risks, which covers
significant operational, financial and strategic risks.
The Group’s Executive Directors also report to the Board, on behalf
of management, significant changes in the Group’s business and the
external environment in which it operates.
In addition, they provide the Board with monthly financial
information, which includes key risk and performance indicators.
The Group’s key internal control and monitoring procedures include
the following:
Financial reporting:There is a budgetary system with an annual
budget approved by the Board. At each Board meeting monthly
actual results are reviewed and reported against the budget and,
when appropriate, revised forecasts.
Investment appraisal:The Group has clearly defined policies for
capital expenditure. These include annual budgets and detailed
appraisal and review processes for such expenditure.
Monitoring systems:The Group monitors its internal controls
through a programme of internal audits. The Internal Audit function
reports to the Audit Committee on its examination and evaluation
of the effectiveness and adequacy of the Group’s systems of 
internal control.
Financial controls:The Group has dedicated resource to embed
processes and controls across its businesses consistent with the
standards acceptable to the Group. The Financial Controls T oolkit,
which reinforces the standardisation of financial controls across the
Group, has continued to be rolled out during the year.
The Group also operates a number of additional self-assessment
exercises, which include monthly certification of compliance with key
financial controls and an annual controls self-assessment; the latter
exercise requires management to assess the effectiveness of their
fundamental operating controls over all aspects of their operations,
in addition to the financial controls covered by the Financial
Controls T oolkit. The results of this exercise are utilised by Group
Internal Audit in planning their work for the forthcoming year.
Additionally, finance and general management of operating units are
required to sign a letter of representation to confirm that their
financial reporting is based on sound data, that they are fully aware
of their responsibility to operate internal control systems and that
their results are properly stated in accordance with Group and
statutory requirements.
46 2005/06 Annual report The above procedures reflect the Group’s commitment to ensuring
it has policies in place that ensure high standards of integrity and
transparency throughout its operation. Further, when these
procedures detect unauthorised management practices, the Group
is committed to the correction of such events. The Group is also
committed to analysing its internal controls to make them more
robust and further limit the risk of such incidents. The Board
believes such action properly reflects the Group’s commitment to
financial discipline and integrity at all levels.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within joint
ventures and associates rests, on the whole, with the senior
management of these operations. Cable & Wireless monitors its
investments and exerts influence through Board representation.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal control
systems in operation during the financial year in accordance with the
guidance set out in the Turnbull Report, through the processes set
out above.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new and enhanced
standards of corporate governance, and business and financial
disclosure, apply to US public companies and non-US companies,
including the Company, with securities registered in the United
States. Where applicable the Group has developed policies and
procedures to enable it to comply with the provisions of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Going concern
After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial
Statements on pages 69 to 141.
By order of the Board of Directors
Nick Cooper
Company Secretary
31 May 2006
2005/06 Annual report 47
Board and governance Board and governance
Corporate governance report
48 2005/06 Annual report
responsibilities. The Board has determined not to identify
any single member as having such experience.
D1.1 The Code provides that Non-executive Directors should be
offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major
shareholders and should expect to attend them if requested
by major shareholders. The Senior Independent Director
should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major
shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop
a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of
major shareholders.
During the year under review, the majority of the Company’s
Non-executive Directors have not attended formal meetings
with major shareholders. The Remuneration Committee
Chairman communicated with the Company’s 20 largest
shareholders during the early part of the financial year in
order to discuss proposed changes to the Company’s
remuneration policy (which were passed at the 2005 AGM
in July). In addition, the Company’s Chairman held meetings
with a number of the Company’s major shareholders to
discuss and explain the new Group structure following the
announcement on 31 January 2006.
Composition of the Board
During the year under review the Board comprised the Chairman,
Richard Lapthorne, seven Executive Directors and seven 
Non-executive Directors. Francesco Caio was the Company’s 
Chief Executive Officer during the financial year, however, following
the Company’s restructuring announcement on 31 January 2006,
Francesco stepped down from this position on 1 April 2006 and the
Chief Financial Officer, Charles Herlinger, will retire on 31 May 2006.
Under the new structure, from 1 April 2006, the Group operates as
two separate businesses; International led by Harris Jones and UK
led by John Pluthero. T ony Rice, who became Group Managing
Director, Central and Finance Director on 30 March 2006, has
responsibility for the Group’s central functions. Harris, John and
T ony became Group Managing Directors in place of a Group Chief
Executive Officer and they report directly to the Chairman. In
addition, a number of changes to the Non-executive Directors were
announced which will leave the Board comprising the Chairman,
four Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors after 
the AGM.
Graham Howe was appointed as the Company’s Senior
Independent Director in May 2003. Graham has indicated that he
will retire from the Board in June 2006 and he will be succeeded as
Senior Independent Director by Clive Butler. Clive is available to
shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal
channels of Chairman or Executive Directors has failed to resolve or
for which such contact is inappropriate.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three
years with the expectation that a further three year term will follow,
subject to review by the Board. The initial three year term for
Kasper Rorsted ended on 24 May 2006 and a further three year
term has been agreed with him which will continue until May 2009,
subject to any necessary re-appointment in general meeting.
Cable and Wireless plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and
is therefore required to comply with the listing rules of the United
Kingdom Listing Authority (‘UKLA’), a division of the Financial
Services Authority (‘FSA’). The FSA requires UK listed companies 
to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions set 
out in section 1 of the UKLA’s Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (Combined Code) and, where the provisions have not
been complied with, to provide an explanation. Companies are also
required to explain how they have applied the principles set out in
the Combined Code. Until 13 December 2005, the Company also
maintained a secondary listing on the New Y ork Stock Exchange
and was therefore required to comply with many of the provisions
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as the New Y ork Stock
Exchange’s corporate governance rules.
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for preparing the
financial statements is set out on page 66.
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate
governance. The Corporate Governance statement contained
herein, together with the Directors’ remuneration report set out on
pages 55 to 65, confirms that the Company was compliant with all
the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the
year ended 31 March 2006 and to the date of this report except 
as follows:
A6 The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual
evaluation of its own performance and that of its
committees and individual directors.
No formal review of the Board as a whole or its
Committees took place during the year, although a review 
of the performance of Executive Directors, including the
Chief Executive Officer, and senior management team was
undertaken in May 2005.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors of the Company
met privately three times; once on their own; once with the
Chairman and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen in attendance;
and once with the Chairman, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen
and the Chief Executive Officer present, to consider the
performance of the Chairman and Executive management.
The Chairman also held individual meetings with each of the
Non-executive Directors at least once during the year.
During the financial year 2006/07, it is proposed that a
formal Board evaluation will take place under the guidance
of the new Senior Independent Director, Clive Butler.
C3.1 The Code provides that the board should satisfy itself that at
least one member of the audit committee has recent and
relevant financial experience.
The Board considers that there is a sufficient breadth of
financial expertise across the Committee and considers that,
collectively, the members have the requisite skills and
attributes to enable the Committee to properly discharge its 2005/06 Annual report 49
Board and governance
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations
meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings
Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible
Richard Lapthorne 10 10––––11
Francesco Caio 10 10––––11
George Battersby 10 10––––––
Clive Butler 994444––
Bernard Gray 10 10455511
Charles Herlinger 10 10––––––
Graham Howe 10 10555511
Harris Jones 10 10––––––
Kate Nealon 10 105555––
John Pluthero 34––––––
Tony Rice 10 10551111
Lord Robertson 10 10––––––
Kasper Rorsted 9 1055––––
Rob Rowley 10 10––––––
Agnès T ouraine 10 1055––––
Board meetings and attendance
The Board held ten scheduled meetings during the year
concentrating on strategy and financial and business performance.
Additional Board meetings may be called as required to deal with
specific matters. During the year under review there were two
additional Board meetings.
The Board requires all members to use their best endeavours to
attend Board and Committee meetings and to devote sufficient
time to the work of the Board to discharge their duties. A table
setting out the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and
Committee meetings during the year (including those Directors
appointed during the year) is given below:
The Board considers that all the Non-executive Directors who
served during the year ended 31 March 2006 and up to the date of
this report are independent. Each of the Non-executive Directors
is of independent mind and character and actively contributes to 
the effective performance of the Board and its Committees.
This combination of skills and expertise materially enhances the
judgement and overall performance of the Board.
Full biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 42 
to 43.
Matters reserved for the Board
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for
decision. A copy of the schedule is available on request from the
Company Secretary and is published on the Company’s website.
Matters reserved for the Board include:
– strategy and management;
– structure and capital;
– financial reporting and controls;
– internal controls;
– customer contracts and expenditure over a certain financial limit;
– Board membership and other senior management appointments;
– Director and senior executive remuneration;
– delegation of authority; and
– corporate governance.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Board delegated the
responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Company to
the Chief Executive Officer, Francesco Caio. The Chief Executive
Officer was supported in this by the Executive Committee, which
he chaired. From 1 April 2006, responsibility for the day-to-day
management of the two businesses was delegated to Harris Jones
(International business) and John Pluthero (UK business).
Responsibility for management of the central Group functions was
delegated to T ony Rice. Separate operating boards in the
International and UK businesses provide support for Harris and John.
Additionally, specific responsibilities have been delegated to the
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Board believes that good corporate governance and strong
governance controls improve the performance of the business and
enhance shareholder value. During the year ended 31 March 2006,
the Board has:
– ensured compliance with legal, regulatory and corporate
governance requirements;
– promoted and maintained good corporate citizenship and high
standards of ethical behaviour by the Group’s employees;
– provided the Chief Executive Officer with appropriate support to
drive the performance of the Group;
– set and monitored challenging performance objectives and
benchmarks for the Chief Executive Officer and the executive team;
– set an appropriate control environment within which executive
management can operate;
– reviewed sub-committees of the Board covering remuneration,
nominations and audit matters; and
– considered the appointment of a new Company Secretary. Board and governance
Corporate governance report
50 2005/06 Annual report
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year
ended 31 March 2006. Two additional meetings were also held.
Attendance at scheduled meetings is shown in the table on page 49.
A full report of the Audit Committee is given on page 53 and 54.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the
Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration and
long-term incentive arrangements of the Company’s Chairman,
Executive Directors and senior executive management. The
Committee’s full terms of reference are available from the Company
Secretary and are published on the Company’s website.
The Committee membership consists entirely of independent Non-
executive Directors. During the year under review the Committee
was chaired by Bernard Gray. The other members were Clive
Butler (from 1 May 2005), Graham Howe, Kate Nealon and T ony
Rice (to 1 May 2005). On 1 April 2006, membership of the
committee was extended to include all Non-executive Directors
with Simon Ball included on his appointment to the Board on 
1 May 2006.
The Group Chairman, Executive Directors and Group Human
Resources Director may be invited to attend meetings of the
Committee, but do not participate in any matter which impacts
upon their own remuneration arrangements. Representatives from
the Company’s remuneration consultants, New Bridge Street
Consultants, attend meetings by invitation.
Five meetings are scheduled during the year although additional
meetings may be held. During the year ended 31 March 2006, a
total of nine meetings were held.
The Directors’ remuneration report on pages 55 to 65 includes
details on remuneration policy, practices and the remuneration of
the Directors.
Nominations Committee
The purpose of the Committee is to review the composition of,
and succession to, the Board and recommend to the Board
appointments of Executive and Non-executive Directors following 
a formal and rigorous review process. This involves an ongoing
assessment of the overall balance and performance of the Board
and its individual members intended to ensure a strong executive
and independent non-executive team, taking account of existing and
proposed corporate governance requirements and emerging best
practice. The Committee in particular considers the experience and
skills of individuals who may be suitable as Directors. Members of
the Committee abstain when matters affecting their own
appointments are discussed.
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available from the
Company Secretary and are published on the Company’s website.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Chairman, Richard
Lapthorne, and during the year ended 31 March 2006, comprised
the Group Chief Executive Officer, Francesco Caio, and three
In addition, the Board holds a strategy meeting once a year at which
it considers the direction of the Group.
Information and training
The Board and the various committees, standing and non-standing,
are provided with full and timely information prior to meetings,
including detailed financial information. All Directors have access to
the advice of the Company Secretary and, in addition, the Board has
adopted a procedure whereby all Directors may, in the furtherance
of their duties, take independent professional advice on any matter
at the Company’s expense.
The Chairman, in consultation with the Executive Directors and
Company Secretary, sets agendas for Board meetings. Formal
minutes recording decisions of all Board and Committee meetings
are prepared and circulated to each Director as appropriate. If a
Director objects to a particular proposal this will be recorded in the
minutes of the Board or Committee meetings. During the year
ended 31 March 2006, as for the previous year, there were no 
such objections.
Responsibility for ensuring that an appropriate induction is given to
new Board members lies with the Chairman. The induction involves
meetings with other Directors, senior management and key
advisors. In addition, new Directors are provided with appropriate
background materials covering the business, the financial
performance of the Company and the legal and corporate
governance environment. Directors further receive appropriate
ongoing training, briefings and information to enable them to
perform their roles both on the Board and its principal Committees.
On request, the Company will arrange for its major shareholders to
meet new Non-executive Directors.
Audit Committee
The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in
meeting its responsibilities in ensuring an effective system of internal
control and compliance and accurate external financial reporting;
and to assist management in conducting and reporting the effective
risk management of the Company’s and Group’s activities.
The Audit Committee was chaired by T ony Rice from his
appointment as a Non-executive Director until his appointment 
as Group Managing Director, Central and Finance Director on 
30 March 2006. From this date Kasper Rorsted became Chairman
of the Committee. All other independent Non-executive Directors
are members of the Audit Committee. Biographical details on each
can be found on page 43.
In addition, during the year under review the Company’s Chairman,
Richard Lapthorne, and all Executive Directors were invited to
attend but were not members. The Group Director of Internal
Audit, Group General Counsel and representatives of the external
auditors also attend meetings by invitation. Other members of the
management team attend as required. 2005/06 Annual report 51
Board and governance
independent Non-executive Directors, being the chairmen 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and the Senior
Independent Director.
Following the re-structuring announced on 31 January 2006,
Francesco Caio resigned from the Committee on 31 March 2006
and will not be replaced. Membership going forward will therefore
be limited to the Company Chairman, Richard Lapthorne, the
Senior Independent Director and the Audit and Remuneration
Committee Chairmen. Any of the Executive Directors may be
invited to attend future Committee meetings as appropriate.
The Committee met once during the year under review.
Board performance evaluation
Under the direction and control of the Chairman, the Board
considers its performance both as a group, as individual members
and its various sub-committees. This involves regular discussions
between the individual Board members and use of external support
where necessary.
During the year, as part of the evaluation process, the independent
Non-executive Directors met privately without the Chairman, as a
group with the Chairman and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen, and
similarly with the Chairman, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen and the
Chief Executive Officer, to consider management performance and
succession issues. The independent Non-executive Directors also
appraised the Chairman’s performance and reviewed the
relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to
ensure that the relationship was working to promote the creation
of shareholder value.
In May 2005, the Chief Executive Officer provided the
Non-executive Directors with a review of the performance 
of the Executive Directors and his senior management team.
The Chairman also reviewed the performance of the Chief
Executive Officer.
In addition, the Chairman held individual meetings with each of the
Non-executive Directors at least once during the year.
Notwithstanding the above, no formal review of the performance of
the Board as a whole and its committees took place.
It is proposed that during the financial year 2006/07 a formal Board
evaluation will take place under the guidance of the new Senior
Independent Director, Clive Butler.
Statement from the independent Non-executive
Directors
The independent Non-executive Directors met frequently during
the year in addition to Board meetings to formally discuss
governance issues – once with the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer present, three times with the Chairman present, and the
remainder on their own. After the final meeting, Graham Howe,
Senior Independent Director, provided feedback to the Board 
on the Independent Non-executive Directors’ collective views 
of the following:
– The perceived quality of the relationship between the Chairman
and the Chief Executive Officer;
– The degree of openness between the Chief Executive Officer and
the Board;
– The visibility of checks and balances within the Executive
Directors’ team; and
– Whether all questions asked by the independent Non-executive
Directors have been adequately addressed.
General comments
1. Going into last year, the strategic direction was clear with a desire
to reach critical scale in the core UK business, a move towards next
generation networks of which unbundling the local loop was a key
part and the optimisation of the international portfolio. The
acquisition of Energis was envisaged but had not yet been executed;
Bulldog was a relatively new initiative with only limited unbundling
having been carried out. The tools for providing the future 
for the UK business had, therefore, been designed but execution
risks remained; particularly in completing the assembly of the
strategic tools and in taking a firmer management grip of 
operational performance.
2. It was apparent at the beginning of the financial year that the UK
business needed to strengthen its team and the Chief Executive
Officer decided to take direct control of this business. There
followed a significant period of uncertainty in the UK business as a
result of a protracted negotiation process to acquire Energis
coupled with a further three month delay whilst the transaction
cleared regulatory hurdles. This extended timetable gave rise to
operational and management issues and combined with
deteriorating trading conditions contributed to a market update in
late October 2005.
3. It became increasingly clear that the leadership structure of the
Company needed reshaping to take it into the next phase in its
recovery. In particular, it had become apparent that any Chief
Executive Officer could become preoccupied with turning around
the UK business – running the risk of not maximising the potential
of the international portfolio. Therefore at the end of January the
Company announced operational separation of the UK and
International businesses with a Group Managing Director in charge
of each reporting directly to the Chairman.
4.At the same time, the Company updated market forecasts for 
the UK for 2006/07 when it became clear that the then projected
underlying earnings combined with the impact of the new UK
management team’s desire to radically reshape the UK business
were not yet reflected in the financial targets already pencilled in by
the market.
5.As a Board our duty is to make change where it is in the interests
of shareholders. The changes made in the last quarter of the year
were sometimes uncomfortable – particularly as the significant
remodelling of the management systems including incentive
arrangements began to gather momentum. In general, the
relationship between the Chairman who led and drove this process
and the independent Non-executive Directors was maintained at a
very high quality. Board and governance
Corporate governance report
Specific questions
The perceived quality of the relationship between the Chairman
and the Chief Executive Officer
– The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer continued to work
together through a difficult transition phase, sharing with the
Board the issues that they were addressing.
– They developed the view that a transition to a new structure 
was the best way to ensure effective implementation of the
Company’s strategy following the Energis acquisition.
– Once it became clear that the new team in the UK was ready to
take the lead, the Chairman worked with the CEO to ensure a
rapid and orderly transition to the new organisation.
The degree of openness between the Chief Executive Officer 
and the Board
– Although significant issues needed to be addressed throughout
the year communications between the Board and the Chief
Executive Officer were open and frank.
The visibility of checks and balances within the Executive
Directors team
– The primary checks and balances had until now been between
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
– During the year the Chief Executive Officer formed a Group
executive committee so that checks and balances could be
realised through the executive team. With hindsight, insufficient
communication between the UK business and the executive team
and the lack of balance amongst the participants impaired the
ability of this committee to function as well as had been hoped.
– However, on the critical issue of UK earnings, the Board and
executive management did act together to ensure proper and
timely information was given to the market.
Whether all questions asked by the Non-Executive Directors
have been adequately addressed
– Questions were answered in an honest and constructive manner.
– Although every effort was made to address the issue, the need 
to improve the understanding of the underlying performance of
the UK prompted the Board to request an additional review of 
in year financials prior to the statement to the market on the 
31 January 2006.
Overall it was a difficult year for the company, the acquisition of
Energis was completed after some delay, Bulldog experienced 
start-up challenges and the operational separation of the UK and
International businesses took place; all in difficult trading conditions.
However many of the strategic and management tools are now 
in place and the execution risks are now being addressed.
Despite this period of change for the Company, through the
significant efforts of the Board of Directors, its principal committees
and the senior management team, the independent Non-executive
Directors are satisfied that the appropriate corporate governance
controls have been effective during the year ended 31 March 2006.
52 2005/06 Annual report Board and governance
Report of the Audit Committee
2005/06 Annual report 53
Board and governance
In addition, during the year under review, the Committee considered
and discussed the business set out below and made
recommendations to the Board where appropriate:
– preliminary results and press release for the year ended 
31 March 2005;
– the 2004/05 Annual report and accounts/Form 20-F together
with the Directors’ statement on compliance with Turnbull
guidance on internal controls and risk management;
– interim results and press release for the six months ended 
30 September 2005;
– corporate governance developments in UK and US arising from
the revised Combined Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002
including regular updates on the work being undertaken in
connection with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;
– impact of International Financial Reporting Standards on the
Group’s results;
– delisting from New Y ork Stock Exchange and deregistration of the
Company’s securities under the 1934 Securities Act;
– insurance cover;
– integration plan following the acquisition of Energis;
– treasury policies;
– review of the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors;
– security, health and safety; and
– significant contracts and outsource agreements.
Disclosure Committee
The Audit Committee is assisted by the Disclosure Committee,
which is primarily responsible for identifying and considering
disclosure control issues in connection with the preparation of all
market releases containing material financial information.
Membership of the Disclosure Committee is limited to the Director
of Investor Relations, Group Financial Controller, Group General
Counsel, Director of External Affairs and Group Treasurer although
other senior management and employees may be invited to attend
where necessary. During the preparation of the Company’s annual
financial statements, the Disclosure Committee requests and obtains
confirmatory statements from contributors prior to the document
being approved by the Board.
Formal minutes are kept of Disclosure Committee meetings which
are made available to the Board as a whole.
Internal audit
The Group monitors its internal controls through a programme of
internal audits. The Internal Audit function is headed by the Group
Director of Internal Audit who is supported by a team of auditors
based in the UK and Jamaica. The Group’s Internal Audit function
has a formal charter approved by the Board that describes its
purpose, authority and responsibility.
The function’s annual audit plan is approved by the Group Audit
Committee. Private meetings are also held between the Chairman
of the Audit Committee and the Group Director of Internal Audit.
T erms of reference
The objectives of the Audit Committee include assisting the Board
in meeting its responsibilities in ensuring an effective system of
internal control and compliance and accurate external financial
reporting; and assisting management in conducting and reporting the
effective risk management of the Company’s and Group’s activities.
In order to undertake this purpose, the Committee has terms of
reference which are summarised below.
– to review and, where necessary, challenge the actions and
judgements of management in relation to the preliminary, full year
and interim financial statements before submission to the Board.
Particular attention is paid to critical accounting policies and
practices and any changes; clarity of disclosure; compliance with
accounting standards, stock exchange and other legal and
regulatory requirements;
– to review the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements arising from its listing in London and, to 
13 December 2005, New Y ork;
– to review the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements arising from its SEC registration;
– to review material complaints regarding accounting, internal
controls and auditing raised by the Company’s employees and
generally monitor the Company’s whistle blowing procedures;
– to review the internal audit programme and consider the
effectiveness of the internal audit function; and
– to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment,
re-appointment and removal of the Company’s auditor, to
approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the
external auditor and process of the approval of audit and 
non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
Full terms of reference are available on request from the Company
Secretary and are published on the Company’s website.
Meetings
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year
ended 31 March 2006. Two additional meetings were also held.
Attendance at scheduled meetings is shown in the table on page 49.
Prior to each meeting, the Chairman of the Audit Committee meets
with the Group Director of Internal Audit, Group Financial
Controller and the external auditor without the presence of
management. During the year under review the Chairman of the
Audit Committee also held private meetings with the Chief Financial
Officer and the external auditors before each Committee meeting.
In addition, the entire Committee will meet (i) the external auditor
without the presence of management and (ii) management without
the presence of external auditor, at least annually.
Standing reports were received from the Chief Financial Officer, the
external auditor, Group Director of Internal Audit and the Group
General Counsel at each scheduled meeting. Board and governance
Report of the Audit Committee
54 2005/06 Annual report
External audit
KPMG Audit Plc has acted as auditor of the Company since 1991.
The Audit Committee has established a policy which is intended to
maintain the independence of the Company’s auditor. The policy
governs the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by
the auditor and its associates to the Company and its subsidiaries.
The policy clearly identifies permitted services and those which are
prohibited from being provided by the auditor.
In addition, the policy clearly sets out the procedure to be followed
for the approval of all audit and non-audit services; all engagements
with an expected value in excess of £250,000 require the prior
approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, fees for audit services of 
£3.9 million (including £1.1 million relating to the prior year) 
were approved by the Committee. During the year, fees for audit
related regulatory reporting of £800,000 and non-audit work of
£1.2 million were approved. The nature of the services provided 
is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Kasper Rorsted
Chairman,Audit Committee
31 May 2006 Board and governance
Directors’ remuneration report
2005/06 Annual report 55
Board and governance
different characteristics, and strategies of the two businesses –
International and UK;
– total reward levels should reflect the markets in which the 
Group competes. The Group’s competitive position is regularly
monitored by independent analysis against comparator groups 
of companies selected on the basis of relevant size, business and
geographic focus;
– fixed salaries and benefits should be set with reference to the
mid-market level compared with similar types of company;
– the majority of total remuneration should only be receivable as a
result of the Company achieving demanding performance targets;
– an appropriate mix of short and long-term incentives should be
set so that Directors are incentivised to maximise performance
over both the short and medium-term; and
– the remuneration structure for Directors should be cascaded
down to other senior executives in a consistent manner.
Summary of Executive Directors’ remuneration
As a result of the changes in the organisation and the creation of
two discrete businesses, announced in January 2006, effective 1 April
2006, the Committee reviewed the current remuneration structure
for the continuing directors. Several changes have already been
made and a number are proposed as a result of this review. These
changes have been discussed with leading shareholders and their
representative bodies, who have been generally supportive.
In summary, these proposals (which are outlined more fully 
below) comprise:
– base salaries – adjusted to reflect levels of responsibilities in the
new structure. The revised salaries were effective from 1 April
2006 and there is no intention for these salaries to be increased
for a further three years.
– annual bonus – potential maximum opportunity set at 100% of
salary for all Executive Directors. This represents a reduction from
the current maximum (150% of salary) for John Pluthero and
Harris Jones.
– long-term incentives – to encourage investment of their own
funds in shares, restricted shares have been awarded on a
matching basis to the Executive Directors’ own investment in
shares. In addition, it is proposed that Executive Directors will
receive one-off long-term incentive awards in 2006 and there is
no intention for them to receive any further long-term incentive
awards for at least three years. These awards will be in the form
of share options for T ony Rice and George Battersby and, subject
to approval at the AGM, a new Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan for
John Pluthero and Harris Jones.
Elements of remuneration
Executive Directors’ remuneration comprises salary, pension and
other benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentives.
The Committee believes that the majority of Executive Directors’
potential remuneration should be performance related. The
appropriate mix and level of performance related awards may 
vary from year-to-year and between each Executive Director
according to the judgement of the Committee. The actual value
delivered is dependent upon the achievement of stretching
performance conditions.
This report sets out the policy and disclosures in relation to
Directors’ remuneration. The remuneration report will be subject
to an advisory vote at the AGM of the Company to be held on
21 July 2006 in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration
Report Regulations 2002. Full details of the resolution is set out in
the Notice of AGM.
Composition and terms of reference of the
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) makes
recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference,
on the Company’s framework of executive remuneration and on
the specific remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors 
and other senior executive management. During the year the Board
approved all recommendations from the Remuneration Committee
without amendment. The terms of reference for the Committee
are obtainable from the Company's website or from the 
Company Secretary.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Committee comprised
the independent Non-executive Directors, namely: Bernard Gray
(Chairman), Graham Howe, Kate Nealon,T ony Rice (until 1 May
2005) and Clive Butler (from 1 May 2005).
With effect from April 2006, Kate Nealon took over from Bernard
Gray as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
In forming their recommendations, the Committee received advice
and information from the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the
Group HR Director and the Group Director of Performance and
Reward. The Committee has appointed independent consultants,
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (‘NBSC’), to provide advice on
remuneration and share plans both for Executive Directors and the
wider executive population. In addition they provide the Company
with measurement of its relative total shareholder return (‘TSR’)
performance. NBSC’s terms of engagement are available on request
from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman, Executive Directors and any officers attending 
a meeting abstain from any discussion or decision on their 
own remuneration.
Statement of remuneration policy
Remuneration philosophy
Cable & Wireless is an international company, operating in many
countries around the world. Attracting, retaining and motivating 
high quality people is key to the Group’s success. Remuneration
arrangements are designed to enable the Group to maintain a
competitive position in each country in a cost-effective way and 
are reviewed annually against best practice.
Cable & Wireless Group remuneration philosophy for Directors 
is based upon creating a strong link between performance and
reward, underpinned by the following guiding principles:
– the reward package should be aligned to the organisational
strategy;
– the reward structures should (where appropriate) reflect the Board and governance
Directors’ remuneration report
56 2005/06 Annual report
The chart below illustrates the average proportion of Executive
Directors’ potential remuneration for 2006/07 that will be
performance related.
Split of potential total remuneration
Figures reflect on-target payment potential under the annual bonus
plan and the expected value of long-term incentive awards at the
time of grant.
Base salary
Base salaries are reviewed by reference to the mid-market of
comparator groups of companies selected on the basis of
comparable size, geographic spread and business focus. Individual
salary decisions take into account personal contribution and
business performance. The salaries for George Battersby, Harris
Jones and John Pluthero were increased from 1 April 2006, and it is
intended that there will be no further increases for three years.
Accordingly, salaries for the forthcoming year will be:
George Battersby £420,000
Harris Jones £600,000
John Pluthero £600,000
T ony Rice £600,000
The retiring directors, Francesco Caio, Charles Herlinger and Rob
Rowley, continue to receive their current salary with no increases.
Executive Directors’ pensions are based only on their base salaries.
Annual bonus
Individual awards under the annual bonus scheme for 2006/07 will
be based solely on financial performance and paid only in cash.
There will be no compulsory or voluntary deferral of bonus into
shares. The maximum bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors
is 100% of salary. This presents a reduction from the 2005/06
maximum (150% of salary) for Harris Jones and John Pluthero.
Target financial performance will continue to generate a bonus
payment of 60% of maximum.
The financial measures and targets within the bonus plans are
reviewed annually by the Committee and reflect the different
operating environments.
The retiring directors, Francesco Caio, Charles Herlinger and Rob
Rowley, will not receive a bonus for 2005/06 or participate in a
bonus for 2006/07.
1
2
3
4
1. Salary
2. Pension and other benefits
3. Performance-related
 annual bonus
4. Performance-related
 long-term incentives
Long-term incentive awards
It is proposed that Executive Directors will receive one-off 
long-term incentive awards in 2006 and there is no intention 
for them to receive any further long-term incentive awards for 
three years.
The retiring directors, Francesco Caio, Charles Herlinger and Rob
Rowley, will receive no new long-term incentive awards.
The awards will be granted in any of the following three forms:
Restricted share plan (‘RSP’)
In order to encourage executive investment in shares so as to 
align their interests with shareholders, George Battersby, John
Pluthero and T ony Rice invested their own funds into Company
shares and received a matching award of restricted shares with 
TSR performance conditions (see performance conditions for 
share-based awards on page 57). Harris Jones intends to make 
an investment once the Company comes out of the close period.
Investment in Maximum award
Company shares of matching
(shares) restricted shares
George Battersby 275,000 917,570 shares with 
performance conditions
John Pluthero 1,000,000 1 million shares with no
performance conditions
1
Tony Rice 2,000,000 1 million shares with no
performance conditions
1
2 million shares with 
performance conditions
1
Part of his joining arrangements on becoming an executive.
Share option plan (‘SOP’)
Executive Directors with Central Group functions (George
Battersby and T ony Rice) received a one-off award of share options
with a face value of ten times base salary, which is the annual award
limit under the plan. T ony Rice received his award on 30 March
2006 and George Battersby’s award will be made before the AGM.
The vesting of share options granted under the SOP is subject to
relative TSR performance conditions (see Performance conditions
for share-based awards on page 57).
Cash Long-T erm Incentive Plan (‘Cash LTIP’)
Subject to shareholder approval, Harris Jones and John Pluthero will
participate in the new Cash LTIP plan. Full details of the proposed
plan are outlined in the accompanying shareholders’ circular.
In summary, this plan will create a reward pool for each of the two
businesses over a four-year period. If a business grows by less than
the hurdle rate (of at least 8% per annum compounded), there will
be no reward pool for that business. If a business grows by more
than the hurdle rate, then 10% of the growth in value in excess of
the hurdle rate goes into the reward pool. If the business grows by
less than 20% per annum, then John Pluthero and Harris Jones will
receive no more than they would receive under a traditional 
long-term incentive scheme. John Pluthero and Harris Jones will
each receive a 20% share of their business’ reward pool. 2005/06 Annual report 57
Board and governance
Performance graphs
The graph below shows the change in value of a hypothetical £100
holding in Cable & Wireless Ordinary Shares over five years against
the FTSE GTSI. The FTSE GTSI is the comparator group against
which relative performance is assessed under the SOP , and RSP
(where performance conditions apply).
The graph below shows the change in value of a hypothetical £100
holding in the Company’s Ordinary Shares over five years relative to
a broad equity market index. The FTSE 100 index was considered
by the Committee to be the most relevant index for this purpose
as the Company is a constituent of the index and a five-year history
is available.
Dilution
The Committee ensures that at all times the number of new shares
which may be issued under any share option or share-based plans,
including all-employee plans, does not exceed the dilution limit of
10% of the Company’s issued share capital over any ten year rolling
period. As at 31 March 2006, 5.5% of the issued shared capital was
available for issue under the Company’s share-based plans.
Awards under the various share plans are funded by a mix of
purchased and newly issued shares, as determined by the
Committee. Newly issued shares are subject to the dilution limit
outlined above. Purchased shares, which are held by the 
Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust, are subject
to a limit of 5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
Value  (£)
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 Mar 01 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 06
T otal shareholder return
FTSE 100
C&W
Source:  Thomson Financial
This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2006, of £100 invested in Cable & Wireless 
on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
31 Mar 05
Value  (£)
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 Mar 01 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 06
T otal shareholder return
FTSE Global T elecoms Index
C&W
Source:  Thomson Financial
This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2006, of £100 invested in Cable & Wireless 
on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Global 
T elecoms Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
31 Mar 05
75% of the reward pool will be payable to participants at the end of
year three, and 100% payable (less payments made at end of year
three) to all participants at the end of year four (2010).
Other plans
The Committee currently intends that no awards will be made
under the Performance Share Plan or the Deferred Short-Term
Incentive Plan in the next three years.
The Stock Appreciation Rights Plan is used to exactly replicate the
plans described above but rewards are delivered as a cash
equivalent. It is used in exceptional cases for countries in which tax
or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options. No
Executive Director has ever received awards under this plan.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in all-employee
share schemes and savings plans applicable in their home countries.
These include the Cable & Wireless Savings Related Share Options
Scheme and the Cable & Wireless Share Purchase Plan – further
details can be found in note 33 to the financial statements.
Performance conditions for share-based awards
TSR is the main performance measure used in share-based awards,
as it provides an objective external measure of financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee believes that it is important to
measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set
of companies. The Company’s relative TSR performance is assessed
against a comparator group comprising the FTSE Global Telecoms
Sector Index (‘FTSE GTSI’), which provides a global benchmark of
independently selected industry peers.
TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions.
TSR performance is averaged over a three-month period at the
beginning and end of the performance period. This moderates the
effect of short-term share price volatility.
Awards vest depending upon the Company’s TSR ranking relative to
the comparator group at the end of a single three-year
performance period.
The following outlines the current vesting schedule for different
share plans:
Share option Restricted shares
plan (‘SOP’) plan (‘RSP’)
Below median 0% 0%
Median 33.33% 25%
Upper quartile 100% 100%
The vesting schedule for SOP is based on a sliding scale whereas for
the RSP , vesting is on a staged basis.
In order for any share options or restricted shares (where
performance conditions apply) to vest, the Committee must also be
satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Company
warrants the release of the shares determined by the Company’s
TSR performance. Specific Committee decisions will be explained
in future remuneration reports. Board and governance
Directors’ remuneration report
58 2005/06 Annual report
Pension and other benefits
Harris Jones, John Pluthero and T ony Rice all receive a cash
allowance instead of being members of the pension scheme.
George Battersby participated in the Cable & Wireless Lifetime
Benefits Plan, a defined contribution scheme approved by the Inland
Revenue for the last financial year. From 1 April 2006, George
Battersby has decided to withdraw from the pension scheme and
will receive a cash allowance in lieu of the employer pension
contribution.
Charles Herlinger participated in the Cable & Wireless Lifetime
Benefits Plan for the last financial year. Francesco Caio received a
cash allowance instead of being a member of the pension scheme.
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen and Rob Rowley did not receive any
Company provided pension benefits for the last financial year.
Further details of the pension benefits earned in the year to 
31 March 2006 can be found in the Directors’ remuneration 
table on page 61.
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in employee
benefit programmes including life, disability and health insurance
plans and, where appropriate, receive relocation expenses. The
value of these benefits is included in the Directors’ remuneration
table on page 61.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
The Committee’s policy is that Executive Directors’ service
contracts should contain a maximum notice period of one year.
However, a longer notice period may apply initially, where this is
required to secure the services of executives in exceptional
circumstances. In all cases the notice period will reduce to one year
or less, after two years.
Date of contract Notice period
George Battersby 27 July 2004 One year
Harris Jones 29 November 2004 One year
John Pluthero 14 November 2005 One year
Tony Rice 30 March 2006 One year
Directors’ service contracts continue until their normal 
retirement date.
The Executive Directors’ contracts provide that, in the event of a
change of control of the Company, if the executive’s employment is
adversely changed, then he will receive a payment equal to the
notice period and a time pro-rated annual bonus.
The Executive Directors’ service contracts contain no other
provisions for compensation payable on early termination.
Francesco Caio’s contract was dated 2 April 2003 and the notice
period under contract was one year. Francesco stepped down from
the role of Chief Executive Officer and from the Board of Directors
on 1 April 2006 but will continue to support the Chairman in the
transition to the new organisation structure until his departure on
30 June 2006. Francesco Caio will receive his contractural
entitlement of one year’s base salary and one year’s pension
contribution.
Charles Herlinger’s contract was dated 26 July 2003 and will
continue until his departure on 31 May 2006. The notice 
period under contract is one year. He will receive his contractual
entitlement of one year’s base salary and one year’s pension
contribution.
Rob Rowley’s contract was dated 1 February 2003 and he will
retire from the Board in July 2006. The notice period under
contract was one year. He will receive one year’s base salary.
Lord Robertson’s contract was dated 1 February 2003 and he
retired from the Board on 1 April 2006, although he remains 
in employment.
In the event of early termination, the Committee will, within legal
constraints, determine the approach to be taken according to the
circumstances of each individual case, taking full account of the
departing Executive Director’s obligation to mitigate loss. Except in
cases of early termination for cause, the Committee will take into
account the relevant Executive Director’s current salary, notice
period and contractual benefits when calculating any liability of the
Company. The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to
salary are pension and life insurance. Annual bonuses and long-term
incentives are granted at the discretion of the Committee and
therefore would be dealt with in accordance with the rules of the
relevant schemes. A significant proportion of each Executive
Director’s total remuneration is subject to performance conditions
and therefore will not be payable to the extent that the relevant
targets are not met.
Chairman
The Chairman, Richard Lapthorne, has had his appointment
extended for a further three years (to 10 January 2009). The
appointment will be terminable by either party serving a year’s
notice. Richard Lapthorne receives an annual fee of £386,000,
which is fixed for the three-year term.
The Chairman is committed to retaining at least 500,000 Ordinary
Shares throughout his service as a Director.
If Richard Lapthorne’s appointment is terminated by reason of death
or by the Company, otherwise than by due notice or if there is a
change of control, he or his personal representatives shall be
entitled to an immediate payment equivalent to his fee for the
balance of the period ending on the earliest date on which the
appointment would have been terminated if the Company had
given the requisite prior written notice, unless in the case of a
change of control he remains a Chairman of the Company on
similar terms. 2005/06 Annual report 59
Board and governance
T ony Rice’s obligation to acquire the final tranche of 100,000
Ordinary Shares ceased on his appointment as an Executive
Director on 30 March 2006.
Kasper Rorsted will purchase 30,000 Ordinary Shares on 4 June
2006 or as soon as practicable thereafter.
Bernard Gray and Graham Howe will both retire from the Board in
the coming two months.
The Non-executive Directors are expected to hold the purchased
Ordinary Shares for a minimum period of three years from the date
of purchase and to hold a minimum of 30,000 shares throughout
their service as a Director. None of the benefits under the
arrangement is pensionable. There is no intention to offer similar
share purchase arrangements to Non-executive Directors in 
the future.
None of the Non-executive Directors are entitled to any
compensation if their appointment is terminated.
External directorships
The Company allows Executive Directors to hold non-executive
directorships and retain the fees received from those roles.
Details of directorships held and the annual fees received for the
financial year 2005/06 are given below:
George Battersby
Non-executive Director of SHL Group plc, Chairman
of the Remuneration Committee and Senior
Independent Director £25,000
Harris Jones
Non-executive Director of Caracal Inc No fee
T ony Rice
Non-executive Director of Tunstall Holdings Ltd No fee
1
Non-executive Director of British Med Airways Ltd No fee
1
Non-executive Director of Help the Aged No fee
1
Lord Roberston of Port Ellen
Non-executive Director of Weir Group plc £32,000
Non-executive Director of Smiths Group plc £45,000
Non-executive Director of Western Ferries (Clyde) Ltd £3,000
Rob Rowley
Non-executive Director of Prudential plc, Chairman
of the Audit Committee £90,000
Non-executive Directorship of Liberty International plc £40,000
Non-executive Directorship of T aylor Nelson 
Sofres plc and Senior Independent Director £31,847
1
T ony Rice’s fees need only be shown for the period following his appointment as an
Executive Director (30 March 2006) to the year end.
Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with the
Company, but instead have letters of appointment. Their fees are
determined by the Board, within the limits set out in the Company’s
Articles of Association, with Non-executive Directors abstaining from
any discussion or decision on their fees. Fee levels reflect the
Directors’ responsibilities, the committees on which they serve and
the general market conditions for their services. Full details of the
fees paid in the year ended 31 March 2006 are set out in the
Directors’ remuneration table and the associated notes on page 61.
The Non-executive Directors do not receive any pension.
Base fees paid to each continuing Non-executive Director have
been fixed for a three-year period from 1 March 2004 or date of
appointment if later than 1 March 2004 at the following levels:
Simon Ball £65,000
Clive Butler £65,000
Kate Nealon £75,000
1
Kasper Rorsted £90,000
2
Agnès T ouraine £65,000
1
Includes £10,000 for role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee
2
Includes £25,000 for role as Chair of the Audit Committee
Kasper Rorsted has been appointed for a further three-year term
commencing on 24 May 2006. Kate Nealon and Agnès T ouraine
were appointed for a three-year term commencing on 18 January
2005, Clive Butler was appointed for a three-year term on 1 May
2005 and Simon Ball was appointed for a three-year term on 
1 May 2006.
After two three-year terms, the period may be extended on an
annual basis at the invitation of the Chairman. Termination of the
appointment may be earlier at the discretion of either party on one
month’s written notice.
T ony Rice became an Executive Director on 30 March 2006.
Bernard Gray will retire from the Board at the AGM in July 2006
and Graham Howe will retire from the Board in June 2006. Fees
for retiring Non-executive Directors will continue at their current
level until retirement.
In accordance with the terms of their initial appointments as 
Non-executive Directors, the following Directors agreed to acquire
Ordinary Shares in the Company on 4 June 2004, 4 June 2005 and
4 June 2006, or as soon as practicable after each date, at a price of
103.5 pence per Ordinary Share:
Director Number of Ordinary Shares
Bernard Gray 100,000
Graham Howe 100,000
Tony Rice 100,000
Kasper Rorsted 30,000 Board and governance
Directors’ remuneration report
60 2005/06 Annual report
Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the Ordinary Shares of the Company were as follows:
As at
1 April 2005
(or date of As at
appointment Shares 31 March
if later) acquired 2006
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 2,600,000 – 2,600,000
Continuing Executive Directors
George Battersby
1 2
1,318 352,158 353,476
Harris Jones
1
220,750 – 220,750
John Pluthero
1
– 1,000,000 1,000,000
Tony Rice
1
100,000 2,100,000 2,200,000
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen
1 2 3
3,009 55,174 58,183
Continuing Non-executive Directors
Clive Butler –– –
Kate Nealon – 9,923 9,923
Kasper Rorsted 30,000 30,000 60,000
Agnès T ouraine –– –
Retiring Executive Directors
Francesco Caio
1 2
425,299 175,484 600,783
Charles Herlinger
1 2
31,401 44,469 75,870
Rob Rowley
1 2
497,370 11,373 508,743
Retiring Non-executive Directors
Bernard Gray 100,000 100,000 200,000
Graham Howe 100,000 100,000 200,000
1
As potential beneficiaries from outstanding awards, which may be satisfied by shares held by the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust, George Battersby,
Francesco Caio, Charles Herlinger, Harris Jones, John Pluthero,T ony Rice, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen and Rob Rowley are deemed, by the Companies Act 1985, to have an
interest in all of the Ordinary Shares held by the Trust, which at 31 March 2006, amounted to 50,990,339 shares.
2
Included in the shares acquired during the year are shares purchased under the Deferred STIP and any dividends received on the purchased shares which are converted into
additional shares.
3
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen retired from the Board on 1 April 2006. However, he continues as Non-executive Chairman of the International business.
Between 31 March 2006 and 19 May 2006, Rob Rowley acquired an additional 237 Ordinary Shares as part of his monthly contribution to
the Cable & Wireless Share Purchase Plan. 2005/06 Annual report 61
Board and governance
Directors’ remuneration
The following sections of the Directors’ remuneration report have been subject to audit.
Employer Employer
Pension pension pension
Salary and Other cash contribution contribution
fees Bonuses benefits
3
allowance
4
Total 2006 Total 2005 2006
4
2005
4
Name of Director £ £ £ £££££
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 386,000 – 16,165 – 402,165 396,520 – –
Continuing Executive Directors
George Battersby 350,000 – 18,223 45,500 413,723 564,229 42,000 32,136
Harris Jones
5
500,000 669,800 493,591 125,000 1,788,391 466,161 – –
John Pluthero (from 14 November 2005) 191,288 66,667 6,843 47,822 312,620 – – –
Tony Rice
1
93,696
1
– 738 1,087 95,521 90,000 – –
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen
8
250,000 – 12,978 – 262,978 421,601 – –
Continuing Non-executive Directors
Clive Butler (since 1 May 2005) 59,583 – – – 59,583 – – –
Kate Nealon 65,000 – 738 – 65,738 13,412 – –
Kasper Rorsted 65,000 – 5,979 – 70,979 66,824 – –
Agnès T ouraine 65,000 – 6,549 – 71,549 13,412 – –
Sub-totals 2,025,567 736,467 561,804 219,409 3,543,247 2,032,159 42,000 32,136
Retiring Directors
Francesco Caio
6 9
700,000 – 293,401 175,000 1,168,401 1,924,907 – –
Bernard Gray 75,000 – – – 75,000 76,204 – –
Charles Herlinger
7 9
400,000 – 173,213 56,000 629,213 1,184,487 44,000 44,012
Graham Howe 75,000 – 738 – 75,738 65,000 – –
Rob Rowley
9
250,000 – 22,714 – 272,714 452,684 – –
T otals 3,525,567 736,467 1,051,870 450,409 5,764,313 5,735,441 86,000 76,148
Notes
1.This amount includes Non-executive Director fees for the period up to 30 March 2006 and Executive Director salary from 30 March 2006.
2.The aggregate emoluments of the Directors, which include employer pension contributions were £5,850,313 (2005 – £6,562,353 including amounts for Directors who left office in
2004/05). Ongoing costs for salaries/fees for the Board in 2006/07 will be £2,966,000 and salary/fees for 2005/06 were £3,525,567.
3. In compliance with the Companies Act 1985, Other benefits includes the reimbursement of costs associated with accommodation, relocation, including schooling, and the value of
benefits in kind relating to Company provided life assurance, professional advice, chauffeur travel and accommodation.
4. Employer pension contributions list the Company contributions paid into the Cable & Wireless Lifetime Benefits Plan. Company pension contributions that would otherwise have
breached the Inland Revenue’s funding limit have instead been paid to the Director as an annual cash allowance. An amount of £14.5 million (2005 – £12.5 million) is included in
Retirement benefit obligations to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
5. Harris Jones received reimbursement in respect of relocation, accommodation and schooling related expenses.
6. Francesco Caio was reimbursed for accommodation costs and personal travel expenses.
7. Charles Herlinger was reimbursed for relocation and moving related expenses during the financial year as specified in his contract of employment.
8. Lord Robertson of Port Ellen retired from the Board on 1 April 2006. However, he continues as Non-executive Chairman of the International business.
9. Francesco Caio and Charles Herlinger will receive their contractual entitlement of one year’s salary and one year’s pension contribution, in relation to early termination. Rob Rowley will
receive one year’s base salary. Details of actual payments will be published in the 2007 Annual report. Board and governance
Directors’ remuneration report
62 2005/06 Annual report
Directors’ share options
Shares under Granted Shares under
option at between option at 31
1 April 2005 1 April 2005 March 2006
Date from Date Exercise (or date of and (or date
which first of expiry price appointment 31 March of leaving
Name of Executive Director Scheme Grant date exercisable of option (pence) if later) 2006 if earlier)
Continuing Executive Directors
George Battersby SOP Approved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 27,777 – 27,777
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 783,223 – 783,223
SOP Unapproved 25/8/05 25/8/08 24/8/12 153.9 – 568,551 568,551
811,000 568,551 1,379,551
Harris Jones SOP Approved 1/12/04 1/12/07 30/11/11 113.55 26,420 – 26,420
SOP Unapproved 1/12/04 1/12/07 30/11/11 113.55 1,734,918 – 1,734,918
SOP Unapproved 25/8/05 25/8/08 24/8/12 153.9 – 812,215 812,215
1,761,338 812,215 2,573,553
John Pluthero SOP Approved 3/3/06 3/3/09 2/3/13 107.4 – 27,932 27,932
(from 14 November 2005) SOP Unapproved 3/3/06 3/3/09 2/3/13 107.4 – 1,135,941 1,135,941
– 1,163,873 1,163,873
Tony Rice SOP Approved 30/3/06 30/3/09 29/3/13 1.105 – 27,260 27,260
(from 30 March 2006) SOP Unapproved 30/3/06 30/3/09 29/3/13 1.105 – 5,424,807 5,424,807
– 5,452,067 5,452,067
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen
6
SOP Approved 6/2/04 6/2/07 5/2/11 143.25 20,942 – 20,942
SOP Unapproved 6/2/04 6/2/07 5/2/11 143.25 537,522 – 537,522
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 463,000 – 463,000
SOP Unapproved 25/8/05 25/8/08 24/8/12 153.9 – 406,107 406,107
1,021,464 406,107 1,427,571
Retiring Executive Directors
7
Francesco Caio SOP Approved 26/6/03 26/6/06 25/6/10 103.7 28,929 – 28,929
SOP Unapproved 26/6/03 26/6/06 25/6/10 103.7 2,671,167 – 2,671,167
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 1,946,000 – 1,946,000
SOP Unapproved 25/8/05 25/8/08 24/8/12 153.9 – 1,364,522 1,364,522
SAYE 4/7/03 1/9/06 28/2/07 89 10,393 – 10,393
4,656,489 1,364,522 6,021,011
Charles Herlinger SOP Approved 15/12/03 15/12/06 14/12/10 135.7 22,107 – 22,107
SOP Unapproved 15/12/03 15/12/06 14/12/10 135.7 1,156,964 – 1,156,964
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 927,000 – 927,000
SOP Unapproved 25/8/05 25/8/08 24/8/12 153.9 – 649,772 649,772
SAYE 30/6/04 1/9/07 29/2/08 102.6 9,186 – 9,186
2,115,257 649,772 2,765,029
Rob Rowley SOP Approved 26/6/03 26/6/06 25/6/10 103.7 28,929 – 28,929
SOP Unapproved 26/6/03 26/6/06 25/6/10 103.7 935,391 – 935,391
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108 579,000 – 579,000
SOP Unapproved 25/8/05 25/8/08 24/8/12 153.9 – 406,107 406,107
SAYE 4/7/03 1/9/08 28/2/09 89 17,893 – 17,893
1,561,213 406,107 1,967,320
Notes
1. SOP Approved and Unapproved – Inland Revenue approved and unapproved grants respectively made under the Share Option Plan (see pages 56 to 57 for details). The vesting of
options awarded under the SOP is subject to relative TSR performance conditions. Full vesting occurs only if the Company’s TSR performance ranks at or above the upper quartile 
of a comparator group comprising FTSE Global Telecoms companies. For median ranking, 33.33% of the award vests. A sliding scale operates between median and upper quartile,
and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median. For awards granted after May 2004, performance will be measured over a single three year performance period.
For earlier grants, performance is able to be re-tested until the fifth anniversary of the grant.
2. SAYE – Cable & Wireless Save As Y ou Earn share option scheme. These options are not subject to performance conditions because this is an all-employee scheme governed by 
specific tax legislation.
3. Nil price was paid by Directors for the award of the options listed in the table above.
4.The closing mid-market price of an Ordinary Share on 31 March 2006 was 109.25 pence. The highest closing mid-market price of an Ordinary Share during the year was 
164.75 pence and lowest closing mid-market price was 97.50 pence.
5. No Directors had any gains on the exercise of share options in the years ended 31 March 2005 or 31 March 2006.
6. Lord Robertson of Port Ellen retired from the Board on 1 April 2006. However, he continues as Non-executive Chairman of the International business.
7. For all retiring directors, share options awarded prior to July 2004 will vest in full. For share options awarded after this date the share options will be time pro rated up to the
termination date and will continue to be subject to TSR performance conditions up to the end of the performance period. 2005/06 Annual report 63
Board and governance
Directors’ Deferred Short-T erm Incentive Plan (‘STIP’), Performance Share and Restricted Share 
Plan Awards
Shares
Shares under awarded Shares under
award at between award at 31
1 April 2005 1 April 2005 March 2006
Grant price (or date of and (or date of
Award Vesting of award appointment 31 March cessation if
Name of Executive Director Scheme date date (pence) if later) 2006 earlier)
Continuing Executive Directors
George Battersby Deferred STIP 30/9/05 1/10/08 146.3 – 258,373
1
258,373
(matching shares)
Deferred STIP 27/1/06 1/10/08 114.8 – 3,046 3,046
(matching dividend shares)
Performance Share Awards 25/8/05 30/6/08 153.9 – 113,710
9
113,710
Performance Share Awards 27/1/06 30/6/08 114.8 – 1,340
9
1,340
(dividend shares)
Restricted Shares 30/3/06 29/3/09 108.98 – 917,570
2
917,570
– 1,294,039 1,294,039
Harris Jones Restricted Share Plan 1/12/04 1/12/07 113 220,750
3
– 220,750
(matching shares)
Performance Share Awards 1/12/04 1/12/07 113 441,500
4
– 441,500
Performance Share Awards 25/8/05 30/6/08 153.9 – 162,443
9
162,443
Performance Share Awards 27/1/06 30/6/08 114.8 – 1,915
9
1,915
(dividend shares)
662,250 164,358 826,608
John Pluthero Restricted Shares 3/3/06 3/3/09 107.5 – 1,000,000
5
1,000,000
(From 14 November 2005) Performance Share Awards 3/3/06 2/3/09 107.5 – 232,774
9
232,774
– 1,232,774 1,232,774
Tony Rice Restricted Shares 30/3/06 29/3/09 108.98 – 1,000,000
6
1,000,000
(From 30 March 2006) Restricted Shares 30/3/06 29/3/09 108.98 – 2,000,000
6
2,000,000
– 3,000,000 3,000,000
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen
7
Deferred STIP 17/8/04 25/6/07 105.75 5,792
1
– 5,792
(matching shares)
Deferred STIP 13/8/04 25/6/07 102.25 169 – 169
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/2/05 25/6/07 130 58 – 58
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/8/05 25/6/07 161.25 – 104 104
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 27/1/06 25/6/07 114.8 – 68 68
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 30/9/05 1/10/08 146.3 – 184,552
1
184,552
(matching shares)
Deferred STIP 27/1/06 1/10/08 114.8 – 2,176 2,176
(matching dividend shares)
Performance Share Awards 25/8/05 30/6/08 153.9 – 81,221
9
81,221
Performance Share Awards 27/1/06 30/6/08 114.8 – 957
9
957
(dividend shares)
6,019 269,078 275,097 Board and governance
Directors’ remuneration report
64 2005/06 Annual report
Shares
Shares under awarded Shares under
award at between award at 31
1 April 2005 1 April 2005 March 2006
Grant price (or date of and (or date of
Award Vesting of award appointment 31 March cessation if
Name of Executive Director Scheme date date (pence) if later) 200 earlier)
Retiring Executive Directors
8
Francesco Caio Restricted Share Plan 4/6/03 4/6/06 97.75 383,632 – 383,632
Deferred STIP 17/8/04 25/6/07 105.75 80,182
1
– 80,182
(matching shares)
Deferred STIP 13/8/04 25/6/07 102.25 2,340 – 2,340
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/2/05 25/6/07 130 812 – 812
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/8/05 25/6/07 161.25 – 1,450 1,450
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 27/1/06 25/6/07 114.8 – 945 945
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 30/9/05 1/10/08 146.3 – 583,732
1
583,732
(matching shares)
Deferred STIP 27/1/06 1/10/08 114.8 – 6,883 6,883
(matching dividend shares)
Performance Share Awards 25/8/05 30/6/08 153.9 – 227,420
9
227,420
Performance Share Awards 27/1/06 30/6/08 114.8 – 2,681
9
2,681
(dividend shares)
466,966 823,111 1,290,077
Charles Herlinger Restricted Share Plan 15/12/03 1/12/06 135.7 250,000 – 250,000
Deferred STIP 17/8/04 25/6/07 105.75 57,944
1
– 57,944
(matching shares)
Deferred STIP 13/8/04 25/6/07 102.25 1,691 – 1,691
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/2/05 25/6/07 130 586 – 586
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/8/05 25/6/07 161.25 – 1,048 1,048
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 27/1/06 25/6/07 114.8 – 683 683
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 30/9/05 1/10/08 146.3 – 145,818
1
145,818
(matching shares)
Deferred STIP 27/1/06 1/10/08 114.8 – 1,719 1,719
(matching dividend shares)
Performance Share Awards 25/8/05 30/6/08 153.9 – 129,954
9
129,954
Performance Share Awards 27/1/06 30/6/08 114.8 – 1,532
9
1,532
(dividend shares)
310,221 280,754 590,975
Rob Rowley Restricted Share Plan 4/6/03 4/6/06 97.75 383,632 – 383,632
Deferred STIP 17/8/04 25/6/07 105.75 115,104
1
– 115,104
(matching shares)
Deferred STIP 13/8/04 25/6/07 102.25 3,360 – 3,360
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/2/05 25/6/07 130 1,166 – 1,166
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 11/8/05 25/6/07 161.25 – 2,082 2,082
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 27/1/06 25/6/07 114.8 – 1,357 1,357
(matching dividend shares)
Deferred STIP 30/9/05 1/10/08 146.3 – 27,804
1
27,804
(matching shares)
Deferred STIP 27/1/06 1/10/08 114.8 – 327 327
(matching dividend shares)
Performance Share Awards 25/8/05 30/6/08 153.9 – 81,221
9
81,221
Performance Share Awards 27/1/06 30/6/08 114.8 – 957
9
957
(dividend shares)
503,262 113,748 617,010 2005/06 Annual report 65
Board and governance
Notes
1.These Deferred STIP matching awards will be delivered by the Company to the executive on the third anniversary of grant if the executive is still an employee of the Company, if
the executive has retained beneficial ownership of the required number of Ordinary Shares and if the Company’s TSR performance against a comparator group of FTSE Global
Telecoms companies has been at least upper quartile. The matching shares are based on one matching share for two purchased shares for median TSR performance, rising to two
matching shares for one purchased share for performance at upper quartile or above. No matching shares are awarded for below median performance. A dividend award
supplement also operates on the Plan. Dividends that would have been paid on purchased shares and the actual award of matching shares during the performance period are 
re-invested in additional shares.
2. Subject to George Battersby remaining an employee of the Company and retaining beneficial ownership until 29 March 2009 of the 275,000 Ordinary Shares he acquired on 
30 March 2006, the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him. Performance conditions apply to these shares and full vesting will occur only if the TSR performance of 
the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile measured against the constituents of the FTSE Global Telecoms Sector Index.
3. Subject to Harris Jones remaining an employee of the Company and retaining beneficial ownership until 1 December 2007 of the 220,750 Ordinary Shares he acquired on 
1 December 2004, the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him. No performance conditions are attached to this award, as it was part of the terms felt to be necessary
to secure his employment with the Company.
4.These performance share awards will be delivered by the Company to Harris Jones on the third anniversary of grant if he is still an employee of the Company, if he has retained
beneficial ownership of the 220,750 Ordinary Shares he acquired on 1 December 2004 and if the Company’s TSR performance against a comparator group of FTSE Global
Telecoms companies has been at least upper quartile. If TSR performance has been median, 25% of the shares will be delivered, for performance between median and upper
quartile, shares will be delivered on a pro-rata basis. No shares will be delivered for below median performance.
5. Subject to John Pluthero remaining an employee of the Company and retaining beneficial ownership until 3 March 2009 of the 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares he acquired on 3 March
2006, the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him.
6. Subject to T ony Rice remaining an employee of the Company and retaining beneficial ownership until 29 March 2009 of the 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares he acquired on 30 March
2006, the Company will deliver these 1,000,000 restricted shares to him. In addition a further 2,000,000 restricted shares were awarded to him. Performance conditions apply to
these shares and full vesting will occur only if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile measured against the constituents of the FTSE GTSI.
7. Lord Robertson of Port Ellen retired from the Board on 1 April 2006. However, he continues as Non-executive Chairman of the International business.
8. For all retiring directors, with the exception of Restricted Shares awarded prior to July 2004, shares awarded will be time pro-rated up to the termination date and will continue to
be subject to TSR performance conditions up to the end of the performance period.
9.These Performance Share awards will be delivered by the Company to the executive on the third anniversary of grant if the executive is still an employee and full vesting of the
performance shares, and any associated dividend re-investment shares, occurs only of the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile when compared
against the constituents of the FTSE GTSI during the performance period. Where TSR meets the median, 33% of the performance shares vest and a sliding scale operates between
median and upper quartile. No performance shares vest for TSR performance below the median.
On behalf of the Board
Kate Nealon
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
31 May 2006 66 2005/06 Annual report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the preparation of the financial statements
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the financial statements, and having a
reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future,
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are
unaware; and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought
to have taken as directors to make themselves aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's
auditors are aware of that information.
These are the Group’s first consolidated financial statements
prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and
the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
UK Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial
statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European
Union (EU) and have elected to prepare the parent company
financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as
adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and
performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985 provides in
relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant
part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view
are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company financial statements are required by law to give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements,
the directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
– make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
– for the Group financial statements state whether they have been
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
– for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK
accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group or the Company
will continue in business.
The Directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting
records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the
financial position of the Group and of the Company and enable
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’
remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement that
comply with that law and those regulations.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted on the
Cable and Wireless plc website (www.cw.com). The Directors are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and
financial information included on the website. Information published
on the Internet is accessible in many countries with different legal
requirements. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions. Consolidated
financial
statements
68 Independent auditor’s report
69 Consolidated income statement
70 Consolidated balance sheet
71 Consolidated statement of
recognised income and expenses
72 Consolidated cash flow statement
73 Notes to the financial statements
Consolidated
financial statements
2005/06 Annual report 67 Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of Cable and Wireless plc
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Cable and
Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the
consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the
consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of
recognised income and expense and the related notes. These
consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March
2006 and on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report
that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and
the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the
EU are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
on page 66.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements 
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the
consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’
report is not consistent with the consolidated financial statements,
if we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding
Director’s remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003
FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board’s statements
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion
on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the group financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the group
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the group financial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the
Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2006 and of its profit for the year
then ended;
– the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation; and
– the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with
the consolidated financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
31 May 2006
68 2005/06 Annual report Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2006
2005/06 2004/05
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items T otal items items T otal
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 3,230 – 3,230 2,948 – 2,948
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 6 (2,819) (21) (2,840) (2,524) (143) (2,667)
Amortisation 14, 16 (46) (60) (106) (20) – (20)
Depreciation 14, 17 (228) (177) (405) (170) (8) (178)
Group operating profit/(loss) 137 (258) (121) 234 (151) 83
Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 18 52 2 54 48 – 48
Total operating profit/(loss) 189 (256) (67) 282 (151) 131
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 8 28183 5 (8) (3)
Other income 9 77885 5–5
Interest income 10 80 – 80 102 – 102
Interest expense 10 (69) – (69) (68) – (68)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 209 (97) 112 326 (159) 167
Income tax (expense)/credit 11 (29) 2 (27) (64) 89 25
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 180 (95) 85 262 (70) 192
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 12 28890 22 140 162
Profit/(loss) for the year 182 (7) 175 284 70 354
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 120 (41) 79 221 73 294
Minority interest 62 34 96 63 (3) 60
182 (7) 175 284 70 354
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of 
the Company during the year (pence/share) 13
– basic 3.5p 12.7p
– diluted 3.4p 12.1p
(Losses)/earnings per share from continuing operations attributable 
to the equity holders of the Company during the year (pence/share) 13
– basic (0.4)p 5.7p
– diluted (0.4)p 5.7p
Earnings per share from discontinued operations attributable to 
the equity holders of the Company during the year (pence/share) 13
– basic 3.9p 7.0p
– diluted 3.6p 6.4p
The notes on pages 73 to 141 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Further detail on exceptional items is set out in the relevant notes.
Consolidated
financial statements
2005/06 Annual report 69 Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 2006
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 16 682 206
Property, plant and equipment 17 1,489 1,268
Investments in associates and joint ventures 18 176 245
Trade investments 19 – 33
Available for sale assets 19 15 –
Deferred tax asset 28 17 29
Retirement benefit asset 30 41 26
Other receivables 20 43 43
2,463 1,850
Current assets
Inventories 21 31 26
Trade investments 19 – 80
Financial assets at fair value through income statement 19 39 –
Trade and other receivables 20 944 805
Tax asset 2 –
Cash and cash equivalents 22 1,127 2,021
2,143 2,932
Assets held for sale 23 105 18
2,248 2,950
Total assets 4,711 4,800
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 1,381 1,293
Current tax liabilities 123 158
Loans and obligations under finance leases 25 143 23
Derivative financial instruments 26 15 –
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 29 89 279
1,751 1,753
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 23 – 4
1,751 1,757
Net current assets 497 1,193
Non-current liabilities
Loans and obligations under finance leases 25 641 801
Deferred tax liabilities 28 51 49
Provisions for liabilities and charges 29 193 188
Retirement benefit obligations 30 143 227
1,028 1,265
Net assets 1,932 1,778
EQUITY
Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity shareholders
Share capital 31 605 599
Share premium 32 24 8
Reserves 32 961 876
1,590 1,483
Minority interest 34 342 295
Total equity 1,932 1,778
The notes on pages 73 to 141 are an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements on pages 69 to 141 were approved by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne – Chairman Charles Herlinger – Chief Financial Officer
70 2005/06 Annual report Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expenses
For the year ended 31 March 2006
2005/06 2004/05
Note £m £m
Actuarial (losses)/gains in the value of defined benefit retirement plans 30 (9) 76
Exchange differences on translation of investments recycled to income statement on sale – (2)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 68 (38)
Fair value gains on available for sale assets 19 10 –
Fair value gains on available for sale assets recycled to income statement on sale (70) –
Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity (2) (3)
Total income and expense recognised directly in equity (3) 33
Profit for the financial year 175 354
Total recognised income and expense for the year 172 387
Effect of adoption of IAS 32 and 39 on 1 April 2005 on:
Fair value reserve 32 –
Retained earnings 13 –
Minority interest 31 –
76 –
248 387
Attributable to:
– equity holders of the Company 133 328
– minority interest 115 59
248 387
The notes on pages 73 to 141 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated
financial statements
2005/06 Annual report 71 Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2006
2005/06 2004/05
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from continuing operations 35 100 279
Cash generated from discontinued operations 35 3 28
Income taxes paid (47) (60)
Net cash from operating activities 56 247
Cash flows from investing activities
Continuing operations
Interest received 107 88
Other investment income 5 4
Dividends received 34 31
Proceeds on disposal of trade investments 89 51
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 35 9
Proceeds on disposal of intangible assets 2 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (412) (278)
Purchase of intangible assets (22) (43)
Purchase of Credit Linked Notes – (80)
Disposal of Credit Linked Notes 40 50
Proceeds on disposal of associates and joint ventures 1 –
Acquisition of associates and joint ventures (1) (7)
Acquisition of shareholdings in subsidiaries (net of cash received) 38 (610) (77)
Net cash from continuing operations (732) (252)
Discontinued operations
Proceeds on disposal of trade investments – 17
Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries 12 27 96
Proceeds on disposal of associate and joint ventures – 7
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – (9)
Net cash from discontinued operations 27 111
Net cash used in investing activities (705) (141)
Net cash flow before financing (649) 106
Cash flows from financing activities
Continuing operations
Dividends paid to shareholders (80) (97)
Dividends paid to minority interests (59) (27)
Repayments of borrowings (46) (82)
Loan to minority interest 8 (43) –
Interest paid (61) (67)
Proceeds from borrowings 38 1
Purchase of treasury shares (17) (74)
Proceeds on issue of ordinary share capital 11 6
Net cash used in continuing operations (257) (340)
Discontinued operations – (4)
Net cash used in financing activities (257) (344)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (906) (238)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 2,021 2,270
Exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents 12 (4)
1,127 2,028
Less: Cash reflected as assets held for sale – (7)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 22 1,127 2,021
The notes on pages 73 to 141 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
72 2005/06 Annual report Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
1 General information
Cable and Wireless plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘Cable & Wireless’ or ‘the Group’) is an international telecommunications company,
incorporated and domiciled in the UK. It operates through two standalone businesses – International and UK.
The International business operates integrated telecommunications companies in 33 countries offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international
fixed line services to residential and business customers, with principal operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Channel Islands.
The UK business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US, continental Europe and Asia, and
consumer and small business broadband services in the UK through Bulldog.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
As required by EU regulation, these consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (‘IFRS’) adopted by the European Union (‘Adopted IFRS’). Adopted IFRS are similar to IFRS issued by the IASB, except for certain provisions
concerning hedge accounting that have no impact on the financial statements of the Group and therefore these financial statements comply with IFRS.
These are the Group’s first consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS and IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards has been applied.
An explanation of how the transition to IFRS has affected the reported financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group is provided
in note 42.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest million. They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for those
financial instruments held for trading (which includes derivatives) or classified as available for sale or as fair value through the income statement.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the
application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on
historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of
making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from
these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which
the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and
future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk 
of material adjustment in the coming year are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently, to the extent required by IFRS 1 (see note 2.2 below), to all periods presented in
these consolidated financial statements and in preparing an opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 April 2004 for the purposes of the transition to IFRS.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
2.2 Application of IFRS 1
The Group established its IFRS accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2006 and applied these standards retrospectively to determine the
IFRS opening balance sheet at its date of transition, 1 April 2004, except where permitted or required by IFRS 1 or other applicable standards.
On transition to IFRS, the Group recognised all assets and liabilities as required by IFRS and derecognised all assets and liabilities not permitted by IFRS.
Assets and liabilities were measured in accordance with IFRS. Except where noted below, IFRS recognition and measurement principles were applied
retrospectively.
The impact of transition from UK GAAP to IFRS on the Group’s shareholders’ funds as at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005, and on the Group’s income
statement for the year ended 31 March 2005 is discussed in note 42.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected to adopt IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments:
recognition and measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance contracts from 1 April 2005. The Group has continued to account for and disclose financial
2005/06 Annual report 73
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
instruments in accordance with FRS 4 Capital instruments and FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures for periods ending before that
date. The impact of the adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 is set out in note 43.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business combinations to business combinations that occurred before the date 
of transition. Business combinations that occurred before the date of transition are accounted for in accordance with UK GAAP . The Group had no
unamortised positive goodwill recognised under UK GAAP as at 1 April 2004, so no review of the goodwill for compliance with the IFRS measurement
principles was necessary. Negative goodwill has been credited to reserves on transition as it is not carried on the balance sheet under IFRS 3.
The Directors have elected to take advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption from the provisions of IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates for
the cumulative translation differences that existed at the date of IFRS transition. Consequently, cumulative translation differences on retranslation of
subsidiaries’ net assets as at 1 April 2004 have been set to zero.
IFRS 2 Share-based payments has been applied only to grants of equity settled share-based payments made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested
by 1 January 2005.
2.3 Early adoption of IFRS
As permitted by IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, the Group has applied the standard to assets held for sale and
discontinued operations occurring from its date of transition to IFRS as the necessary valuation information was available to do so.
In 2004 the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits, giving an option to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full, outside the income
statement, in a statement of changes in equity. This amendment applies to financial statement periods beginning after 1 January 2006. However, as
permitted by the amendment, the Group has elected to adopt this amendment early and has applied the new option in these financial statements for
both the current and comparative periods.
2.4 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Group’s share of
the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates. The accounts of the Group’s main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are
made up to 31 March.
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies. The existence and effect of potential voting
rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully
consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair
value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the
acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values
at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share
of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
(b) Associates and joint ventures
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50%
of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s
investment in associates includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method of
accounting and are initially recognised at cost, in accordance with IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures. The Group’s investment in joint ventures includes
goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.
The Group’s share of its associates’ and joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of 
post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount
of the investment.
74 2005/06 Annual report When the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interest or participation, including any other unsecured 
long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or 
joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest or
participation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting
policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
2.5 Segmental reporting
The Group operates in a number of geographical and business segments. The primary reporting segmentation is by business segment as the Directors
consider that this is the most appropriate distinction between the source and nature of risks and returns associated with its activities.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different
from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment
that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to business segments based on the type of service to which they relate. Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure
are allocated to particular business segments if they substantially relate to a single identifiable segment. Assets and capital expenditure that relate to a
range of services falling under different business segments are reported as unallocated.
Revenues are allocated to geographical segments based on the location where the telecommunication services are delivered. Assets, liabilities and
capital expenditure are allocated to geographical segments based on their location.
2.6 Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in
which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional
and presentation currency.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction. Foreign
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into
sterling as follows:
(i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
(ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions; and
(iii) all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
There are no material Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, are taken to shareholders’ equity.
Cumulative translation differences at the date of transition have been set to zero, as permitted by IFRS 1.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated 
at the closing rate. On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the same period in
which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Where net investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency borrowings and the hedge is effective, the exchange differences 
arising on the retranslation of such borrowings are also recorded as movements on the Group’s translation reserves and any excess taken to the
income statement.
2005/06 Annual report 75
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
2.7 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, plant and
equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the site on which it is located are included in the cost of property, plant and
equipment. The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision under IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future
economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other subsequent costs
(primarily repairs and maintenance) are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs of borrowings made specifically to finance separately identifiable major capital projects incurred up to the time that those projects are
ready for service are also capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and
the costs can be measured reliably.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or projects under construction. On other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is provided 
on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful lives of the 
assets as follows:
Lives
Cables up to 20 years
Network equipment 3 to 25 years
Ducting 40 years
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset’s carrying amount is written
down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Surpluses and deficits on disposals of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to sale proceeds and net book values. These are
recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in ‘Assets under construction’ and are stated at cost,
including appropriate allocation of labour and overheads. Provision is made for deterioration and obsolescence. The cost is determined on a weighted
average basis.
2.8 Investments
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to the comparative figures. For the year ended 31 March 2005, the
Group has recognised its financial investments as previously accounted for under UK GAAP .
(a) From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005
Listed and unlisted securities are carried at purchase price net of any diminution in value that is expected to be permanent. Any diminution in value 
is charged in the income statement.
(b) From 1 April 2005
The Group classifies its investments into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, originated loans and receivables,
held-to-maturity investments, and available for sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
The basis of determining fair values are set out in note 2.12(b).
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception. A financial
asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management. Derivatives
are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either
held for trading or are expected to be realised within a year of the balance sheet date.
76 2005/06 Annual report Receivables
Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise when the
Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable. They are included in current assets, except
for those with maturities greater than a year after the balance sheet date; these are classified as non-current assets. Receivables are included in trade
and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Held-to-maturity investments
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Group’s
management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. They
are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within a year of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Investments
are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. Investments are
derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Available for sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
carried at fair value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets at fair value through profit or loss’ category are
included in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary
securities classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains
and losses from investment securities. The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not
active (or for unlisted securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length
transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect
the issuer’s specific circumstances.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. In
the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered
in determining whether the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss – measured as
the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or
loss – is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments
are not reversed through the income statement.
2.9 Trade and other receivables
(a) From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005
Trade and other receivables are carried at the original invoice amount to customers less provision made for doubtful receivables based on a periodic
review of all outstanding amounts. Bad debts are written off through the income statement when identified.
(b) From 1 April 2005
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision 
for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to
collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the provision is recognised 
in the income statement.
2.10 Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired
subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on
acquisitions of joint ventures is included in investments in joint ventures. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include
the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
2005/06 Annual report 77
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
(b) Software and licences
Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as
intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programmes beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as 
a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Intangible assets are amortised over their respective lives. The useful lives of licences (including concessions to provide telecommunication services) are
determined based on the terms of the underlying agreements including renewal periods if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without
significant cost. Intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight line basis over the following periods:
Lives
Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter
Software 3–5 years
Other 3–5 years
2.11 Impairment of assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. All other non-current assets are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment reviews
involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgmental and susceptible to change. An impairment loss is recognised for
the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less
costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately
identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units).
The expected cash flows generated by the assets are discounted using asset specific discount rates which reflect the risks associated with the groups 
of assets. These risks vary with the nature and the location of the cash generating units.
2.12 Financial instruments
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 for the financial year ended 31 March 2005. The Group has
continued to adopt UK GAAP in the accounting for and disclosure of financial instruments for the year ended 31 March 2005. From 1 April 2005,
IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been applied.
(a) From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005
Swaps and forward rate agreements
The net interest paid or received under any interest rate and cross currency swaps and forward rate agreements (‘FRAs’) is recorded on an accruals
basis and included within net financing cost in the income statement. The notional amounts of interest rate swaps and FRAs are not recorded on the
balance sheet. Cross currency swaps are used to hedge the initial draw down and final repayment of certain foreign currency denominated debt, and
the related foreign currency interest flows.
Forward exchange contracts
Forward exchange contracts are carried on the balance sheet at the difference between the amounts of the payable and receivable currency revalued
at the closing exchange rate. The interest differential, being the difference between the contract rate and the spot rate on the date of entering into the
forward exchange contract, is charged to the income statement as interest over the life of the contract.
Exchange gains and losses
Exchange gains and losses on revaluation and maturity of any forward exchange contracts and cross currency swaps are treated according to the
underlying exposure they hedge:
– for any contracts that hedge firm third party commitments, the exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period
as the underlying transaction;
– for any contracts over underlying currency assets or liabilities, the exchange gains and losses are offset against the equal and opposite exchange gains
or losses arising on the retranslation of the underlying assets or liabilities;
– for any contracts taken out to hedge overseas equity investments, the exchange gains and losses are taken to reserves to offset against the exchange
differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets of the investments on consolidation; and
– for any contracts that hedge general trading flows, the exchange gains or losses are taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Where the underlying exposure changes, or ceases to exist, the contract would be terminated and the exchange gain or loss arising taken to the
income statement.
78 2005/06 Annual report 2005/06 Annual report 79
Consolidated
financial statements
(b) From 1 April 2005
Derivative financial instruments and associated gains or losses are recognised as balance sheet items and recognised gains or losses respectively.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature 
of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either:
– hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge);
– hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedges); or
– hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management
objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing
basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Fair value hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity. The gain or
loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss (for instance when
the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset
(for example, network assets) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial
measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss 
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to 
the income statement.
Net investment hedges
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating 
to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity; the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the 
income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value estimation
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives, and trading and available for sale securities) is based
on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price; the
appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety of
methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt. Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows,
are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the
estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance
sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair value 
of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is
available to the Group for similar financial instruments. Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
2.13 Borrowings
(a) From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005
Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received from the borrowing agreement, net of any related issue costs. Those issue costs are
amortised into the income statement over the life of the instrument using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities
unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least a year after the balance sheet date.
(b) From 1 April 2005
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost; any difference
between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings
using the effective interest method.
Where the terms of a borrowing arrangement contain a separable embedded derivative, the initial values of the debt component and the derivative
component(s) are determined using the appropriate fair value calculations. The liability portion is recorded on an amortised cost basis until
extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds. If the conversion option is a derivative it is accounted for as such. Where the conversion option
is considered to be equity, it is recognised and included in shareholders’ equity, net of income tax effects.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least a year after the
balance sheet date.
2.14 Inventories
Materials and consumables are stated at cost less any provision for obsolescence. Inventories held for resale are stated at the lower of cost and net
realisable value which is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less selling expenses. When necessary, provision is made for
obsolete and slow moving inventories.
The cost of inventory held for resale comprises acquisition costs and associated expenses determined on a weighted average basis.
2.15 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant
risk of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash
equivalents comprise cash in hand and bank, short-term deposits, marketable securities and overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings
in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
2.16 Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction,
net of tax, from the issue proceeds. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, for the acquisition of a business, are
included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs
(net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s shareholders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the
related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders.
2.17 Leases
Property leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts. Each component
part is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Lessee
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the present
value of minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other
long-term payables. These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method. The property, plant and equipment
acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
All other leases are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to
the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
80 2005/06 Annual report Lessor
Assets leased out under finance leases or contractual arrangements similar in substance to finance leases are derecognised at the inception of the lease.
Lease receivables are recorded at an amount equal to the sum of the present value of the minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual
value. The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the lease payments is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method, which reflects a constant periodic rate of return.
Assets leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment in the balance sheet. They are depreciated over their expected
useful lives on a basis consistent with similar fixed assets. Rental income is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
2.18 Assets held for sale
Assets classified as assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and recoverable value, defined as market value less costs of disposal,
as their value will be recovered principally through the sale transaction rather than through continuing usage.
The Group adopted IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations from 1 April 2004 in accordance with the standard’s provisions.
Assets or disposal groups held for sale at 31 March 2006 have been separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance
sheet. Income and expenditure related to these assets, or those disposed of during the year, including gains or losses on their disposal, have been
presented as a single line in the income statement.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges but 
separately disclosed.
2.19 Employee benefits
Pension obligations
Group companies operate various pension schemes. The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or 
trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on
one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed
contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to defined contribution schemes 
if the funds do not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The asset and liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans are the present values of the defined benefit
obligations at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligations are determined by discounting the
estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be
paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions in the period in which they
occur directly in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service
for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual
or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as
employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the
future payments is available.
Other post-employment obligations
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the
employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these benefits are
accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans. Actuarial gains and losses
arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way as for defined benefit pension schemes.
Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually.
2005/06 Annual report 81
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Share-based compensation
The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the 
grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets).
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. At each balance sheet
date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of
original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Where continuing employees withdraw from share-based compensation plans the remaining charge is recognised immediately.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary
redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the
employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal; or providing termination benefits as a result 
of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than a year after balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Bonus plans
The Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
2.20 T ax
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates
to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from:
– the initial recognition of goodwill; or
– the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have
been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences
can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
foreseeable future.
2.21 Provisions
These comprise liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation 
as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been
reliably estimated.
Property provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments representing the difference between the rentals due and any income expected 
to be derived from the vacant properties being sub-let. Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations, comprise
employee termination payments. Legal provisions comprise legal fees and expected settlement costs.
Provisions are presented in the balance sheet at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date. Provision charges and reversals are recognised in the income
statement as operating costs. Discount unwinding is recognised as part of interest expense.
82 2005/06 Annual report 2.22 Revenue recognition
Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to
customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis. It includes sales to joint ventures and associated companies but does not include sales by joint
ventures and associated companies or sales between Group companies. Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided. In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of
the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as services are provided. Charges are negotiated separately and are
subject to continual review. Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other
telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile revenue comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, the provision of other mobile
telecommunications services, including data services and information provision and turnover from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle. Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the
invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid top-up cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content on its network originated by third-party providers. The Group assesses whether revenue
should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following indicators:
– whether the Group holds itself out as an agent;
– establishment of the price;
– provision of customer remedies;
– performance of part of the service; and
– assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue-generating activities (generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing service) is
allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the fair value of the components. Revenue from the sale of the
telecom equipment and services is recognised on the basis set out above.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the service 
is provided.
2.23 Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Dividend income is included within Other income.
2.24 Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as
exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
2005/06 Annual report 83
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
2.25 New IFRS standards and interpretations not yet applied
During 2005, the IASB and IFRIC issued additional standards and interpretations, which are effective for periods starting after the date of these financial
statements. The following standards and interpretations have yet to be adopted by the Group:
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
IFRS 1 Amendment relating to IFRS 6
IFRS 4 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial guarantee contracts
IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral assets
IFRS 6 Amendment relating to IFRS 6
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures
IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 – Presentation of financial statements: capital disclosures
IAS 39 Fair value option
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial guarantee contracts
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease
IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market – waste electrical and electronic equipment
IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives
The Group will apply the above standards, excluding IFRIC 8 and 9, in its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2007 and subsequent
periods. IFRIC 8 and 9 will be applied in financial statements for periods ending 31 March 2008 or later.
The amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 dealing with financial guarantee contracts may have an effect on the Group’s financial statements but any such
impact has not yet been quantified. The Group anticipates that the adoption of the other standards and interpretations listed above will not have a
material effect on its results or financial position.
84 2005/06 Annual report 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results
of operations and the financial condition of the Group. Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Group’s most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to
the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results. These particular policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result
of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting
The cost of acquired companies is allocated to tangible and other identifiable intangible assets and liabilities acquired by reference to their estimated 
fair values at the time of acquisition. The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill. Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by
reference to an active market, independent appraisal, or estimated by our management based on cash flow projections which include estimates and
judgements regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired. In the latter situation, where appropriate,
third party valuation specialists are involved. Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating units to which it relates.
3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended 
use for those assets. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets
concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates. Where the Group determines that the useful life of
property and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the
revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense. Any change in asset lives or residual value would be reflected in the Group’s
financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
The Directors assess the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards. Factors that are considered important and which could
trigger an impairment review include the following:
– obsolescence or physical damage;
– significant changes in technology and regulatory environments;
– significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;
– significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy for its overall business;
– significant negative industry or economic trends; and
– significant decline in its stock price for a sustained period and its market capitalisation relative to net book value.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill, which is not amortised, at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or cash
generating units requires significant judgement concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, the timing and amount of expected
cash flows and applicable discount rates.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Group’s cash generating units to their recoverable amounts
which is the higher of net realisable value and the value in use. Net realisable value represents market value in an active market less cost to sell.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset (or the cash generating unit to which it refers). Future cash flows 
are determined with reference to the Group’s own projections using discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital 
for the respective businesses. The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 14.
3.4 Revenue recognition
Revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax or other sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided to customers
and is accounted for on the accruals basis to match revenue with the provision of service. Revenue is recognised monthly as services are provided.
Revenue in respect of services invoiced in advance is deferred and recognised on provision of the service. Revenue in respect of unbilled services 
is accrued.
Judgement is required in assessing the application of these principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenues, including the presentation 
of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
2005/06 Annual report 85
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
3.5 Interconnection with other operators and similar supply arrangements
As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators. In certain instances it uses estimates 
to determine the amount of income receivable from or payments to these other operators. The prices at which these services are charged are
sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment. Estimates are used in assessing the likely impact of these adjustments.
In a similar way, the Group enters into supply arrangements. In certain instances it uses estimates of price or usage to determine the expense 
charged in any period. These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes available or is agreed
with suppliers.
Credits and charges on adjustments to both interconnect and other supply arrangements are taken to operating profit in the period in which the
adjustments are made.
3.6 Impairment of receivables and provision for bad and doubtful debts
The allowance for impairment of receivables (at 31 March 2006) or provision for bad or doubtful debts (at 31 March 2005) reflects estimates of losses
arising from the failure or inability of the Group’s customers to make required payments. The allowance/provision is based on the ageing of customer
accounts, customer credit worthiness and the Group’s historical write-off experience. Changes to the allowance/provision may be required if the
financial condition of its customers improves or deteriorates. An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs. Historically,
changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Group’s financial position and results.
3.7 T axation
The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges. The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of
estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with
the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process. The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material
income statement and/or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of Cable & Wireless and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal
processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve. Payments in respect of
tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items. As a result there can be substantial
differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
3.8 Recognition of deferred tax assets
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future,
against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted. Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial
performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.9 Provisions
A provision is recognised when there is a present (legal or constructive) obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting policy 
in note 2.21. Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.10 Pensions
The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees. The asset and liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of
defined benefit pension plans are the present values of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as:
– the life expectancy of the members;
– the length of service;
– the rate of salary progression;
– the rate of return earned on assets in the future;
– the rate used to discount future pension liabilities; and
– future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in note 30 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may
not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other FTSE 100 companies. Changes to
these assumptions could materially impact the size of the defined benefit schemes’ deficits and assets disclosed in note 30.
86 2005/06 Annual report 3.11 Fair value estimation
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.12. Where market values are not available fair values are based on valuation methodologies
which require inputs and forecasts to be made. Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions underlying those inputs 
and forecasts.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety 
of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt. Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows,
are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the
estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance
sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair value 
of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is
available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
2005/06 Annual report 87
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
88 2005/06 Annual report
4 Segment information
Primary reporting format – business segments
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications service provider. During the year Cable & Wireless operated three primary business segments:
– International business;
– UK corporate business; and
– Bulldog.
The International business operates integrated telecommunications companies in 33 countries offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international
fixed line services to residential and business customers, with principal operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Channel Islands.
The UK corporate business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US, continental Europe
and Asia.
Bulldog Communications Limited (‘Bulldog’) provides consumer and small business telephony and broadband services in the UK. From 1 April 2006
Bulldog became part of the UK corporate business.
Continuing operations
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 are presented below:
International UK corporate Other
1
and
business business Bulldog eliminations T otal
2006 £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 1,212 2,028 33 (43) 3,230
Pre-exceptional operating costs (937) (2,002) (153) (1) (3,093)
Exceptional operating costs (20) (245) – 7 (258)
Group operating profit/(loss) 255 (219) (120) (37) (121)
Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 60 (6) – – 54
Total operating profit/(loss) 315 (225) (120) (37) (67)
Other income 168
Net finance costs 11
Profit before income tax 112
Tax (27)
Net profit 85
1
Other includes Central revenues and expenses.
International UK corporate Other
1
and
business business Bulldog eliminations T otal
2005 £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 1,124 1,835 11 (22) 2,948
Pre-exceptional operating costs (863) (1,761) (41) (49) (2,714)
Exceptional operating costs (22) (99) – (30) (151)
Group operating profit/(loss) 239 (25) (30) (101) 83
Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 56 (8) – – 48
Total operating profit/(loss) 295 (33) (30) (101) 131
Other income 2
Net finance costs 34
Profit before income tax 167
Tax 25
Net profit 192
1
Other includes Central revenues and expenses.
Inter segment sales are not significant but are charged at arm’s length prices. 2005/06 Annual report 89
Consolidated
financial statements
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 and for the year ended on these dates are:
International UK corporate Other
1
and
business business Bulldog eliminations T otal
Year ended 31 March 2006 £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Segment assets 1,809 1,629 138 959 4,535
Associates and joint ventures 186 (10) – – 176
Total assets 1,995 1,619 138 959 4,711
Total liabilities (366) (965) (48) (1,400) (2,779)
Capital expenditure 142 207 70 (3) 416
Acquisitions 2 608 – – 610
Depreciation and amortisation (142) (123) (15) 6 (274)
Impairment charge – (237) – – (237)
Movement on provisions (20) (8) – 2 (26)
1
Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities.
International UK corporate Other
1
and
business business Bulldog eliminations T otal
Year ended 31 March 2005 £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Segment assets 1,733 919 81 1,804 4,537
Associates and joint ventures 245––– 245
Total assets 1,978 919 81 1,804 4,782
Total liabilities (428) (911) (29) (1,650) (3,018)
Capital expenditure 171 155 40 8 374
Acquisitions 55 3 19 – 77
Depreciation and amortisation (126) (61) (2) (1) (190)
Impairment charge (3) (5) – – (8)
Movement on provisions (39) (92) – (75) (206)
1
Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities.
The £237 million impairment charge against assets in the UK corporate business is primarily due to the change in the UK strategy to focus on fewer,
larger customers, supporting them with the migration from legacy to IP solutions, and duplication arising from the combination with Energis. The
impairment has been recorded as an exceptional item within Operating expenses in the income statement.
During 2005, the Group recorded an impairment charge of £8 million in respect of network assets. The impairment has been recorded as an
exceptional item within Operating expenses in the income statement.
The basis of calculation of the impairment is set out in note 14.
Segment assets include goodwill related to the acquisitions of Energis arising in the year ended 31 March 2006 and Monaco Telecom SAM (‘Monaco
Telecom’) and Bulldog recognised in the year ended 31 March 2005.
Goodwill of £384 million relating to Energis is included in the UK corporate business segment. Goodwill of £29 million (2005 – £39 million) relating to
Monaco Telecom is included in the International segment and the £20 million (2005 – £20 million) relating to Bulldog is included in the Bulldog segment.
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating items including
tax balances. Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Discontinued operations
Details of those businesses categorised as discontinued are set out in note 12. The segment results of the discontinued operations for the year ended
31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 are presented below:
International UK
business business Other T otal
2006 £m £m £m £m
Discontinued operations
Revenue 5––5
Operating costs (3) – – (3)
Group operating profit 2––2
Reversal of unutilised provisions – – 68 68
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 173– 20
Profit before income tax 19 36890
Tax –
Net profit 90
International UK
business business Other T otal
2005 £m £m £m £m
Discontinued operations
Revenue 13 207 – 220
Operating costs (9) (189) – (198)
Exceptional operating costs – (2) – (2)
Group operating profit 416 – 20
Reversal of unutilised provisions – – 22 22
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 3 38 – 41
Proceeds from US exit – – 66 66
Other non-operating income –16 – 16
Net finance costs – (1) – (1)
Profit before income tax 76988 164
Tax (2)
Net profit 162
Other includes amounts recognised in respect of previously discontinued operations not included in the current segments.These are primarily
transactions arising from the Group’s exit from its former US operations in prior years. The UK segment includes Spain and Japan.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2006 and for the year ended on this date are £1 million segment
assets and £1 million total liabilities relating to the mobile and fixed line telecommunications businesses in Sakhalin (the ‘Sakhalin Operations’) which is
part of the International business segment. Movement of provisions was a release of £68 million in the other segment.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2005 and for the year ended on this date are:
International UK corporate
business business Other
1
Total
2005 £m £m £m £m
Discontinued operations
Segment assets 108– 18
Total liabilities (2) (2) – (4)
Capital expenditure 310 – 13
Depreciation and amortisation – (1) – (1)
Movement on provisions – – 22 22
1
Other includes corporate and non-operating assets.
Discontinued operations represent those businesses discontinued and disposed of or held for sale at the year end. There were no discontinued
operations held for sale at the year end.
In 2005 the assets and liabilities included within the UK represent the business in Spain. The assets and liabilities within International represent the
Sakhalin Operations. Both these businesses were identified as held for sale at 31 March 2005. These businesses were disposed of during 2006.
Refer to note 12 for further information.
90 2005/06 Annual report Secondary reporting format – geographical segments
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company with continuing operations in six geographical segments: UK (including the United
Kingdom, Europe, US and Asia), Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World.
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 are presented below:
Other
1
and
Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW UK eliminations T otal
2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 564 284 136 124 104 2,040 (22) 3,230
Operating costs (440) (214) (99) (105) (79) (2,134) (22) (3,093)
Exceptional operating costs (16) – – (3) (1) (245) 7 (258)
Group operating profit/(loss) 108 70 37 16 24 (339) (37) (121)
Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 11––5 44 (6) – 54
Total operating profit/(loss) 119 70 37 21 68 (345) (37) (67)
Other income 168
Net finance costs 11
Profit before income tax 112
Tax (27)
Net profit 85
1
Other includes Central revenue and expense.
Other
1
and
Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW UK eliminations T otal
2005 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 550 257 117 100 100 1,843 (19) 2,948
Operating costs (442) (182) (82) (84) (73) (1,799) (52) (2,714)
Exceptional operating costs (21) – – – (1) (99) (30) (151)
Group operating profit/(loss) 87 75 35 16 26 (55) (101) 83
Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 14––1 41 (8) – 48
Total operating profit/(loss) 101 75 35 17 67 (63) (101) 131
Losses on sale of non-current assets (3)
Net finance costs and other income 39
Profit before income tax 167
Tax 25
Net profit 192
1
Other includes Central revenue and expense.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 and for the year ended on these dates are:
Other
1
and
Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW UK eliminations T otal
2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Segment assets 808 376 128 237 260 1,767 959 4,535
Associates 127––7 52 (10) – 176
Total assets 935 376 128 244 312 1,757 959 4,711
Total liabilities (169) (63) (26) (80) (28) (1,013) (1,400) (2,779)
Capital expenditure 78 25 11 10 18 277 (3) 416
Acquisitions ––––2 608 – 610
Depreciation and amortisation (63) (35) (16) (13) (15) (138) 6 (274)
Impairment charge ––––– (237) – (237)
Movement on provisions (18) – – (2) – (8) 2 (26)
1
Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
2005/06 Annual report 91
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Other
1
and
Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW UK eliminations T otal
2005 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Segment assets 787 396 104 289 157 1,000 1,804 4,537
Associates 118––1 126–– 245
Total assets 905 396 104 290 283 1,000 1,804 4,782
Total liabilities (208) (60) (22) (107) (31) (940) (1,650) (3,018)
Capital expenditure 104 44 14 3 6 195 8 374
Acquisitions – – – 55 – 22 – 77
Depreciation and amortisation (58) (31) (15) (11) (11) (63) (1) (190)
Impairment charge (3) –––– (5) – (8)
Movement on provisions (4) – – (35) – (92) (75) (206)
1
Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
Revenue is based on the location where the telecommunication services were delivered. It does not follow necessarily that the international
telecommunication traffic transiting the Group’s networks originates in that location. The Group does not have access to information on the original
source or ultimate destination of international telecommunication traffic.
The £237 million impairment charge against assets in the UK corporate business is primarily due to the change in the UK strategy to focus on fewer,
larger customers, supporting them with the migration from legacy to IP solutions, and duplication arising from the combination with Energis. The
impairment has been recorded as an exceptional item within Operating expenses in the income statement.
During 2005, the Group recorded an impairment charge of £8 million in respect of network assets. The impairment has been recorded within
Operating expenses in the income statement. Of the charge, £5 million was included in the results of the UK segment. The remaining £3 million was
reflected in the results of the Caribbean segment.
The basis of calculation of the impairment is set out in note 14.
Segment assets include goodwill related to the acquisitions of Energis arising in the year ended 31 March 2006 and Monaco Telecom and Bulldog
recognised in the year ended 31 March 2005.
Goodwill of £384 million relating to Energis is included in the UK segment. Goodwill of £29 million (2005 – £39 million) relating to Monaco is included
in the Monaco segment and the £20 million (2005 – £20 million) relating to Bulldog is included in the UK segment.
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating items including
tax balances.
Discontinued operations
2005/06 2004/05
ROW UK T otal ROW UK T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Discontinued operations
Revenue 5–5 13 207 220
Total segment assets 1–1 10 8 18
Capital expenditure ––– 31013
5 Revenue
2005/06 2004/05
Note £m £m
Continuing operations
Sales of telecommunication services and related operations 3,145 2,890
Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 85 58
3,230 2,948
Revenue from discontinued operations 12 5 220
Total revenue 3,235 3,168
92 2005/06 Annual report 6 Operating costs
The split of the operating costs incurred by the Group, in accordance with the nature of cost is presented below:
2005/06 2004/05
Pre-exceptional Exceptional T otal Pre-exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Outpayments 1,350 – 1,350 1,099 – 1,099
Employee and other staff expenses 527 34 561 527 70 597
Operating lease rentals
– networks 62 – 62 66 – 66
– property 38 – 38 40 – 40
– plant and equipment 3– 3 3–3
Other administrative costs 261 12 273 270 – 270
Foreign exchange losses (8) – (8) (7) – (7)
Other network maintenance costs 226 1 227 188 8 196
Property taxes and utility costs 83 (7) 76 70 56 126
Cost of equipment sold 274 – 274 256 – 256
Other operating expenses 3 (19) (16) 12 9 21
2,819 21 2,840 2,524 143 2,667
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 46 60 106 20 – 20
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 228 177 405 170 8 178
Total operating costs 3,093 258 3,351 2,714 151 2,865
Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the establishment or release of accruals. The nature of telecommunications industry is
such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for
some time. As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate – the net impact of this is included in operating costs within
the relevant line item. The nature of the industry and of these items is such that the amount of the credits or charges vary from year to year.
2005/06 2004/05
Note £m £m
Exceptional items
Staff costs (i) 34 68
Hurricane related charges (ii) 6 17
Other costs (iii) (12) 4
Property costs (iv) (7) 54
21 143
Asset impairment (v) 237 8
Total exceptional operating costs 258 151
(i) Staff costs principally relate to redundancy costs arising from the restructuring of the Group’s operations in continuing businesses. International
business £9 million (2005 – £2 million), UK business £14 million (2005 – £57 million) and Corporate £11 million (2005 – £9 million).
(ii) Hurricane Ivan adversely affected the Group’s operations in the Caribbean. As a result, exceptional restoration costs of £6 million (2005 – £12
million) were incurred in rectifying damage caused to the network. In 2005 the hurricane related exceptional restoration costs also included employee
costs £2 million, property costs £2 million and £1 million of other costs.
(iii) Other costs include £4 million of restructuring costs and £2 million of other costs in the International business, Energis integration costs of £8
million, £5 million provided to a joint venture to assist with Tsunami related restoration costs and £2 million corporate restructuring costs. These were
offset by provision releases of £33 million.
In 2005 other costs included charges of £11 million relating to onerous network costs in the UK corporate business and other restructuring charges in
the UK corporate business of £8 million, partially offset by provision releases of £15 million relating to a joint venture operation.
(iv) Property costs include provision releases relating to prior period restructuring provisions in the UK corporate business of £6 million and centrally 
of £1 million. In 2005 the property costs related to the restructuring of Group operations being £32 million in the UK corporate business and 
£22 million elsewhere.
(v) An impairment charge of £237 million has been recognised relating to property, plant and equipment (£177 million) and intangible assets (£60
million) arising in the UK corporate business. In 2005 an impairment charge of £3 million was recognised relating to property, plant and equipment that
were damaged by the hurricane and tsunami. In addition, as a consequence of the restructuring in the Group’s European operations, an impairment
charge of £5 million was recognised in respect of property, plant and equipment. Refer to note 14 for further information on the impairments.
2005/06 Annual report 93
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Auditor’s remuneration
The remuneration of the auditor and its associates in respect of audit services provided to the Group during the year was £3.9 million including £1.1
million relating to the prior year (2005 – £3.2 million including £300,000 relating to 2004). The audit remuneration in respect of prior years resulted
from additional audit work in the Cayman Islands following Hurricane Ivan and additional work to comply with SEC disclosures. Regulatory reporting
fees principally related to compliance with IFRS and the review of interim financial statements. The remuneration of the auditor and its associates in
respect of non-audit services to the Company and its UK subsidiaries during the year was £900,000 (2005 – £900,000) and to overseas subsidiaries
£300,000 (2005 – £600,000) as summarised below:
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Audit services
Statutory audit services 2.8 2.9
Audit services in respect of prior years 1.1 0.3
Audit-related regulatory reporting 0.8 1.4
4.7 4.6
Further assurance services 0.2 0.2
Tax services – Compliance 0.5 1.0
Tax services – Advisory services 0.2 0.2
Other services 0.3 0.1
5.9 6.1
7 Employee and key management personnel expenses
Costs of employees of the Group excluding temporary and contract staff
2005/06 2004/05
Note £m £m
Wages and salaries 434 503
Social securities costs 41 44
Share-based payments 33 14 10
Pension costs
– defined benefit plans 30 6 19
– defined contribution plans 30 9 12
504 588
Less: Staff costs capitalised (18) (51)
Staff costs 486 537
Average number of employees
The average monthly number of persons, including Executive Directors employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was:
2005/06 2004/05
International business
– Caribbean 4,083 4,149
– Panama 1,825 1,894
– Macau 960 908
– Monaco 477 434
– Rest of the World 700 887
Total International business 8,045 8,272
UK corporate business 5,604 5,224
Bulldog 511 223
Other 165 329
Continuing operations 14,325 14,048
Discontinued operations (pro-rated) – 647
14,325 14,695
94 2005/06 Annual report Key management’s remuneration
Included in staff costs are key management expenses, including £6 million (2005 – £4 million) aggregate Directors’ emoluments, as follows:
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Salaries and short-term employment benefits 9 9
Termination and relocation benefits 3 2
Share-based payments 4 3
16 14
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 61.
8 Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets
2005/06 2004/05
Pre-exceptional Exceptional T otal Pre-exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 2 81 83 5 (8) (3)
Gains less losses on disposals of non-current assets before exceptional items amount to £2 million (2005 – £5 million). These gains and losses arise on
the sale of businesses that do not meet the definition of a discontinued operation, investments or fixed assets. The tax charge attributable is £ nil 
(2005 – £ nil) and the minority interest share is £ nil (2005 – £1 million).
Exceptional gains on disposals of non-current assets total £81 million (2005 – £8 million loss). This is made up of £70 million gains on the sale of the
Group’s stake in MobileOne and £11 million on the sale of Coventry College, the Group’s training centre. In 2004/05 the loss of £8 million is
attributable to the disposal of operations. The tax charge attributable is £ nil (2005 – £ nil) and the minority interest share is £34 million (2005 – £ nil).
The cash proceeds on disposal of MobileOne were £87 million, of which £43 million is attributed to the minority interest. This was loaned to the
minority interest during the year.
9 Other income
2005/06 2004/05
Pre-exceptional Exceptional T otal Pre-exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Other income 7 78 85 5–5
Pre-exceptional other income of £7 million (2005 – £5 million) primarily relates to dividends from investments.
Exceptional other income of £78 million (2005 – £ nil) comprises £6 million of insurance receipts in respect of Hurricane Ivan and £72 million resulting
from the resolution of claims and other matters in respect of Pender Insurance Limited (‘Pender’), the Group’s insurance subsidiary.
10 Interest income and expense
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Interest income
Interest on cash and deposits 80 102
Interest expense and similar charges
Interest on bank loans (9) (9)
Interest on other loans (58) (60)
Finance charges on leases (2) –
Unwinding of provision discount (3) (1)
(72) (70)
Less: Interest capitalised 3 2
Total interest expense and similar charges (69) (68)
T ax relief of £ nil is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2006 (2005 – £ nil). Interest has been capitalised at a rate of 9% (2005 – 6%).
2005/06 Annual report 95
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
11 Income tax expense/(credit)
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Current tax expense
UK tax at 30% 35 4
Double tax relief (35) (4)
– –
Overseas tax 48 49
Adjustments relating to prior years (34) (96)
Total current tax expense/(credit) 14 (47)
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 8 10
Effect of change in tax rates (1) (2)
7 8
Adjustments relating to prior years 6 16
Total deferred tax charge 13 24
Total tax expense/(credit) 27 (23)
Continuing operations 27 (25)
Discontinued operations – 2
27 (23)
The £48 million (2005 – £49 million) overseas tax expense is net of a £2 million credit (2005 – £4 million credit) in respect of the exceptional
operating costs included in note 6.
The 2005 £96 million overseas tax credit relating to prior years includes an exceptional release of £85 million in respect of settlement and clarification
of various long-standing overseas tax items at less than their expected cost.
The Group’s effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows:
2005/06 2004/05
%%
UK statutory tax rate 30.0 30.0
Effect of overseas tax rates (19.6) (5.0)
Effect of accounting for associates (2.0) (1.4)
Effect of intra-group dividends less double tax relief 6.5 8.6
Effect of income not taxable/disallowed expenditure (2.0) 10.0
Effect of other temporary differences 0.5 (0.1)
Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 14.3 (25.3)
Adjustments relating to prior years (14.3) (23.9)
Effective tax rate 13.4 (7.1)
12 Discontinued operations
There were no businesses classified to discontinued operations during the current year. The amounts being reflected in the discontinued operations for
the current year represent business classified as discontinued in the previous years.
Businesses Disposal date Gain on disposal
£m
2006
Cable & Wireless SLU (‘C&W Spain’) 8 April 2005 3
The Sakhalin Operations 13 July 2005 17
20
2005
C&W Japan 17 February 2005 38
96 2005/06 Annual report The profit for the 2005/06 year from discontinued operations includes the results of C&W Spain and the Sakhalin Operations up to the dates of
disposal of £2 million as well as the gain of £20 million on their disposal and the reversal of £68 million unutilised provisions relating primarily to US
operations discontinued in a prior financial year.
The profit for the 2004/05 year from discontinued operations included the results of C&W Japan up until the date of disposal of £16 million and the
results of the Sakhalin Operations and C&W Spain of £4 million. Profits from discontinued operations also include the following items:
– profit of £38 million on the disposal of C&W Japan.
– profit of £16 million arising from the disposal of certain investments held by C&W Japan, before its disposal by the Group;
– cash proceeds of £66 million arising from the Chapter 11 process of the US operations which were discontinued during the previous financial year
and a reversal of unutilised provisions of £22 million; and
– deferred consideration of £3 million received on the disposal of the Group’s Yemen operation, which was sold in a prior year.
2005/06 2004/05
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional T otal exceptional Exceptional T otal
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 5 5–5 220 – 220
Operating expenses (3) – (3) (197) (2) (199)
Depreciation ––– (1) – (1)
Operating profit/(loss) 2 – 2 22 (2) 20
Gain on disposals of discontinued operations –2020 –3838
Profit on disposal of investments ––– –1616
Proceeds from US exit ––– –6666
Reversal of unutilised provisions –6868 –2222
Deferred consideration received from disposal of Yemen operations ––– 3–3
Profit before finance cost and tax 28890 25 140 165
Net financing cost ––– (1) – (1)
Profit before income tax 2 88 90 24 140 164
Income tax expense 11 ––– (2) – (2)
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 2 88 90 22 140 162
In 2005/06 C&W Spain and Sakhalin Operations contributed £27 million to net cash from investing activities.
In 2004/05 C&W Japan contributed £2 million to net cash from operating activities and £6 million inflow from investing activities.
The aggregate assets and liabilities at the disposal dates were the following:
2005/06 2004/05
Spain and Sakhalin Japan
Carrying amount Carrying amount
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 5 43
Current assets 11 56
Trade and other payables (3) (55)
Non-current liabilities – (24)
Cumulative foreign currency translation reserve – 3
Net assets 13 23
Minority interests (3) (2)
Net assets disposed 10 21
Total disposal consideration received 30 62
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of (3) (14)
Transaction costs – (3)
Net cash inflow on disposal of discontinued operations 27 45
In 2005 the Group also received cash inflows from the disposal of its Yemen operations (£7 million) and from the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process of its
US operations (£44 million).
2005/06 Annual report 97
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
98 2005/06 Annual report
13 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per Ordinary Share are based on the profit for the year attributable to shareholders and the weighted average number of shares in issue,
excluding Ordinary Shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 79 294
Interest saved on loan stock conversion 20 11
Diluted profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 99 305
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 2,286 2,322
dilution effects of:
– share options 38 28
– convertible unsecured loan stock 178 178
Diluted weighted average number of shares 2,502 2,528
Basic earnings per share (p/share) 3.5p 12.7p
Diluted earnings per share (p/share)
1
3.4p 12.1p
Continuing operations
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders (10) 132
Diluted profit/(loss) from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 10 143
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (p/share) (0.4)p 5.7p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (p/share)
2
(0.4)p 5.7p
Discontinued operations
Profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 89 162
Diluted profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 89 162
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (p/share) 3.9p 7.0p
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations (p/share) 3.6p 6.4p
Cable & Wireless uses the non-IFRS financial measure ‘Basic earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items’ as one of the key performance
indicators for evaluating the financial performance of the business. The Group believes that this measure provides an important measure of the
underlying operating performance of the Group because it excludes non-recurring items. For the year ended 31 March 2006, the Basic Earnings per
Ordinary Share before Exceptional Items was 5.2 pence (2005 – 9.5 pence) computed as:
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 79 294
Impact of exceptional items after tax and minority interest 41 (73)
Profit for the financial year before exceptional items 120 221
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue (millions) 2,286 2,322
Basic earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items 5.2p 9.5p
1
In determining the diluted earnings per share, we have excluded the convertible loan stock because it is anti-dilutive in 2006.
2
In determining the diluted earnings per share for continuing operations, we have excluded the share options and the convertible loan stock because both are anti-dilutive in 2006. 14 Impairment review
Cable & Wireless assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards. Factors that are considered important, which could
trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Non-current assets
Year ended 31 March 2006
The UK corporate business comprises two cash generating units (‘CGUs’) – Energis acquired during the year and the legacy Cable & Wireless UK
business. As the performance and cash flows are separately identifiable in this year, these are treated as separate CGUs for the purpose of impairment
review as permitted by IAS 36.
The change in focus and strategy of the UK corporate business and the recent performance of the legacy C&W UK corporate business triggered 
a review of the carrying value of that legacy business' assets.
A number of these assets are of continuing strategic value to the combined business and have a market value in excess of their carrying value.
These include the core network, the investment in the Next Generation Network ('NGN') and certain properties.
The impaired assets relate primarily to technologies that are becoming obsolete as customers move towards IP network solutions, support customers
falling outside the UK corporate business’ future strategy or are duplicated as the business combines with Energis. A discounted cash flow analysis using
the business’ approved business plan reflecting a negative growth rate of 1% (as these businesses migrate to the NGN) and a discount rate of 10.6%
indicates that the carrying value of these remaining assets should be written off, which is reflected in the impairment charge of £237 million.
The Group reviewed the carrying values of its interests in joint ventures at the end of the year. An impairment totalling £4 million has been considered
appropriate being £3 million in a Chinese joint venture, CITIC Cable & Wireless Broadband, and £1 million in a Solomon Islands joint venture, Solomon
Telecom Company Limited.
Year ended 31 March 2005
The Group was in the process of restructuring its European operations (part of the UK Group segment) to focus on the Carrier business. As a
consequence of this restructuring, a general review was undertaken of the carrying value of the network assets within the European geography.
The European geography, which excludes the main UK corporate business, the Group’s remaining operations in the US and Asia and Bulldog, was
treated as a single cash generating unit (reflecting the basis on which the business is managed). The recoverable amount of the network assets was
determined by reference to the value in use. An impairment charge of £5 million was identified.
Value in use was determined by discounting to present value the future cash flows obtainable as a result of the continued use of the cash generating
unit’s property, plant and equipment.
Future cash flows were determined with reference to the Group’s three-year management projections. Cash flows beyond this forecasting period were
extrapolated using an estimated long-term growth rate of 2.5%. This growth rate is in line with the long-term growth rate projections for the countries
in which the cash generating unit operates. Future cash flows were discounted by a rate of 15%, which represents the estimated weighted average cost
of capital for the cash generating unit.
In the first half of 2005, Hurricane Ivan caused damage to certain network assets in the Group’s operations in the Caribbean. As a consequence,
specific network assets that had been recorded within the Plant and equipment asset class within property, plant and equipment were identified as
damaged beyond repair and were written off. The total value of this specific impairment was £3 million.
Goodwill
During the year the Group acquired a controlling interest in Chelys Limited, the parent company of Energis (2005 – controlling interests in Monaco
Telecom and Bulldog). Goodwill of £384 million (2005 – £36 million and £20 million, respectively), arose on this acquisition. As required by IFRS 3,
impairment tests of this goodwill were performed as at 31 March 2006. In performing these tests, the recoverable amount of goodwill was determined
by reference to the value in use of continuing to operate these businesses. Assumptions relating to the significant elements of goodwill are:
Energis
Energis represents a single cash generating unit for impairment purposes therefore all goodwill has been allocated to that unit.
The Directors consider that the purchase price of Chelys Limited continues to represent the fair value less costs to sell of the business and therefore
no impairment is necessary.
2005/06 Annual report 99
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Monaco T elecom
Three cash generating units were identified for the purposes of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecom’s network assets, namely, domestic
business, cable television business and the international business. Goodwill has been allocated to this group of cash generating units as permitted 
by IAS 36.
The value in use was determined for each cash generating unit by discounting future cash flows (based on management’s three-year projections
extrapolated at long-term growth rates of between 0% and 2.5%) at discount rates of between 8% and 40% (dependent on the risk adjusted cost 
of capital of different parts of the business). The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth, operating margin and the
level of maintenance capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level. Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive concession
in Monaco and management’s forecasts were based on historical experience for the business. No impairment was considered necessary.
15 Dividends declared and paid
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Final dividend in respect of the prior year 60 73
Interim dividend in respect of the current year 32 27
Total dividend paid 92 100
During the year ended 31 March 2006 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 2.6 pence per share (2005 – 2.1 pence per share but paid with
the interim dividend for the 2003/04 year of 1.05 pence per share) in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005. The Group has also declared and paid
an interim dividend of 1.4 pence per share (2005 – 1.2 pence per share) in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 3.1 pence per share (2005 – 2.6 pence per share), totalling £75 million (2005 – £60 million) for
approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 21 July 2006 in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006. These financial statements do not
reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 
31 March 2007.
The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend. 13,644 shareholders (2005 –
14,076 shareholders) owning 528 million shares (2005 – 106 million shares) elected to take the interim dividend wholly or partly in shares. 13,795
shareholders (2005 – 13,488 shareholders) owning 180 million shares (2005 – 68 million shares) elected to take the final dividend wholly or partly in
shares. The total shares were issued with a value of £12 million (2005 – £3 million). The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust
waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust.
100 2005/06 Annual report 16 Intangible assets
Customer
Licences and contracts and
Goodwill Software concessions relationships Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 – 650 – – 32 682
Business combinations 56 1 66 – 14 137
Acquired –43 – – – 43
Disposals – (84) – – (30) (114)
Exchange adjustments 3 (2) – – – 1
At 1 April 2005 59 608 66 – 16 749
Business combinations 384 16 3 132 – 535
Reassessment of previous business combinations (note 38 (b)) (8) – – – – (8)
Acquired –26 5 – 5 36
Transfers from property, plant and equipment – 21 – – – 21
Disposals – (2) – – – (2)
Exchange adjustments (2) 3 – – – 1
At 31 March 2006 433 672 74 132 21 1,332
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2004 – 607 – – 31 638
Charge for the year – 14 3 – 3 20
Disposals – (84) – – (30) (114)
Exchange adjustments – (1) – – – (1)
At 1 April 2005 – 536 3 – 4 543
Charge for the year – 32 4 5 5 46
Impairment –60 – – – 60
Exchange adjustments – 1 – – – 1
At 31 March 2006 – 629 7 5 9 650
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 433 43 67 127 12 682
At 31 March 2005 59 72 63 – 12 206
The goodwill recognised during the year relates to the acquisition of Energis (£384 million). In 2005 the goodwill recognised was £36 million from the
Monaco Telecom and £20 million from Bulldog. Disclosure of these business combinations is set out in note 38.
Intangible assets recognised in the business acquisitions made during the current and previous year represent:
Amortisation
Acquisition Intangible asset Useful life method
2006
Energis Customer contracts and relationships 4–15 years Straight line
Energis Software 3 years Straight line
Atlas Customer contracts and relationships 6 years Straight line
2005
Monaco Concession licence 18.6 years Straight line
Monaco International managed service contracts 1–5 years Straight line
Bulldog Brand name 4 years Straight line
XM Mobile Intellectual property 5 years Straight line
Monaco Telecom has been awarded a concession agreement by the principality of Monaco. This concession agreement gives Monaco Telecom a
monopoly over fixed line, mobile and Cable TV until 2023. The carrying amount of this concession asset at 31 March 2006 is £61 million (2005 – 
£62 million) and the remaining amortisation period is 16.8 years.
As at 31 March 2006, the Group carried out an asset impairment review (as disclosed in note 14). An impairment charge of £60 million (2005 – £ nil)
was recognised in relation to intangible assets included in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2006.
Other than goodwill, there are no intangible assets with an indefinite life.
2005/06 Annual report 101
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
17 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant and Assets under
buildings equipment construction T otal
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 509 6,068 406 6,983
Additions 2 67 275 344
Business combinations –32 – 32
Disposals (55) (467) (13) (535)
Transfers 4 410 (414) –
Transfer to held for sale assets – (13) – (13)
Exchange differences (7) (45) (7) (59)
At 31 March 2005 453 6,052 247 6,752
Additions 9 77 294 380
Business combinations 25 172 41 238
Disposals (17) (24) (8) (49)
Transfers 53 175 (228) –
Transfers to intangibles – – (21) (21)
Exchange differences 10 118 8 136
At 31 March 2006 533 6,570 333 7,436
Depreciation
At 1 April 2004 283 5,403 154 5,840
Charge for the year 13 157 – 170
Impairment –628
Disposals (26) (446) (12) (484)
Transfers – 144 (144) –
Transfer to held for sale assets – (8) – (8)
Exchange differences (2) (40) – (42)
At 31 March 2005 268 5,216 – 5,484
Charge for the year 15 213 – 228
Impairment 49 76 52 177
Disposals (9) (22) – (31)
Transfers 17 (17) – –
Exchange differences 584 – 89
At 31 March 2006 345 5,550 52 5,947
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 188 1,020 281 1,489
At 31 March 2005 185 836 247 1,268
Included in the cost of plant and equipment at 31 March 2006 is £16 million (2005 – £6 million) relating to assets held under finance leases.
Accumulated depreciation on these assets is £4 million (2005 – £1 million).
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction period of certain assets of £3 million (2005 – £2 million)
and £45 million (2005 – £51 million) respectively.
As at 31 March 2006, the Group carried out an asset impairment review (as disclosed in note 14). An impairment charge of £177 million (2005 – 
£8 million) was recognised in relation to property, plant and equipment included in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2006. The £52 million of projects
under construction impaired during the year primarily relates to consultancy, IT projects and capitalised labour.
Certain items identified as being fully written down at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, have been included in cost at £ nil.
102 2005/06 Annual report 18 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Interest in Interest in
associates joint ventures Total
£m £m £m
Gross book value
At 1 April 2004
– Cost/valuation 21 54 75
– Equity loans 1–1
– Share of post-acquisition reserves 55 148 203
77 202 279
Investment during the year
– Net assets –1414
Share of after tax profit 26 22 48
Dividends (14) (17) (31)
Disposals – (9) (9)
Exchange differences (3) (7) (10)
At 31 March 2005 86 205 291
At 1 April 2005
– Cost/valuation 21 59 80
– Equity loans 1–1
– Share of post-acquisition reserves 64 146 210
86 205 291
Investment during the year
– Net assets 67 13
Share of after tax profit 25 29 54
Dividends (20) (20) (40)
Disposals – (1) (1)
Transfer to non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (105) – (105)
Exchange differences 86 14
At 31 March 2006 – 226 226
Impairment provision
At 1 April 2004 (4) (42) (46)
Impairment charge –––
At 31 March 2005 (4) (42) (46)
Impairment charge – (4) (4)
At 31 March 2006 (4) (46) (50)
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 (4) 180 176
At 31 March 2005 82 163 245
2005/06 Annual report 103
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Investments in associates and joint ventures are stated using the equity method of accounting. The investment is comprised of the cost of the
investment together with Group’s share of post acquisition profits or losses less any impairments. The Group’s aggregated interest in its associates 
and joint ventures is presented below:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Associates
Non current assets – 51
Current assets – 50
Non current liabilities (5) (2)
Current liabilities – (18)
Share of net assets (5) 81
Loan to associates 1 1
(4) 82
Revenue 63 60
Operating costs (40) (36)
Operating profits 23 24
Net interest income 2 2
Share of profits before tax 25 26
Taxation charge – –
Dividends paid to Group companies (20) (14)
Share of retained profits 5 12
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Joint ventures
Non current assets 225 157
Current assets 104 72
Non current liabilities (92) (17)
Current liabilities (57) (49)
Share of net assets 180 163
Revenue 199 151
Operating costs (165) (121)
Operating profits 34 30
Net interest financing costs (1) (1)
Share of profits before tax 33 29
Taxation charge (4) (7)
Dividends paid to Group companies (20) (17)
Share of retained profits 9 5
There are no significant restrictions on associates’ or joint ventures’ ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The associates and joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent
liabilities in relation to its interest in joint ventures and associates.
The Group’s associates and joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2006 (2005 – nil).
104 2005/06 Annual report 19 Investments
At 1 April 2005, the Group adopted the International Accounting Standards relating to financial instruments; IAS 32 and IAS 39. We have applied 
the exemption given in IFRS 1 which permits non-application of these standards to the comparative figures. Therefore part (a) of this note discloses 
the current year investments under IFRS. Part (b) gives the comparative period under the Group’s previous GAAP (UK GAAP).
(a) Investments
Fair value through Available
income statement for sale Total
£m £m £m
At 31 March 2005
Transferred from trade investments 78 27 105
IAS 39 remeasurement –6363
At 1 April 2005 78 90 168
Disposals (40) (15) (55)
Fair value gain to income statement 1–1
Fair value gain to equity –1010
Recycling of fair value changes to income statement – (70) (70)
At 31 March 2006 39 15 54
Less
Current portion 39 – 39
Non-current portion –1515
Year end financial investments comprise the following:
31 March 2006
£m
Listed securities
UK Government Gilts 15
Unlisted securities
Credit Linked Notes 39
The Group disposed of its holding in MobileOne Limited during the year. The unlisted investments are not considered to be financial assets and are
included in non-current receivables.
The Credit Linked Notes were issued by two AA-rated banks and are aligned with the Company’s 2012 bond. These transactions have a similar
economic effect to repurchasing the bonds for the period of the investment. In return for the Company receiving interest on the Credit Linked Notes,
at rates similar to those payable on the underlying bond, the final redemption to be received by the Company would be less than face value if a ‘credit
event’, as defined in the terms of the notes, occurs in respect of Cable and Wireless plc.
Reflecting the terms of the underlying bond, credit events in the notes are as follows:
– Bankruptcy;
– Failure to make any payment due under any of its debt obligations, after expiration of any grace period and subject to a threshold of £25 million; and
– Restructuring of any of its debt subject to a threshold of £25 million.
If a credit event should take place, the counterparties to the Credit Linked Notes are entitled to deliver to Cable and Wireless plc its own bonds 
or debt obligations with a face value equivalent to that of the Credit Linked Notes, or a cash amount equal to the market value thereof.
(b)(i) Non-current trade investments
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 94
Business combinations 2
Additions 2
Disposals (42)
Exchange differences (1)
At 31 March 2005 55
Provisions and amounts written off
At 31 March 2005 22
Trade investments at 31 March 2005 33
2005/06 Annual report 105
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Year end financial investments comprise the following:
31 March 2005
£m
Listed securities
MobileOne Limited 15
UK Government Gilts 12
Unlisted securities
Other 6
(b)(ii) Current trade investments
31 March 2005
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 50
Additions – Credit Linked Notes 80
Disposals – Credit Linked Notes (50)
At 31 March 2005 80
A provision of £2 million reflecting a temporary reduction in value was held at 31 March 2005.
20 Trade and other receivables
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade receivables 661 677
Other debtors 145 128
Prepayments and accrued income 248 128
Taxation and social security receivables 5 4
Lease receivables 1 1
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 8 4
Total gross amounts 1,068 942
Less provision against receivables 81 94
Total trade and other receivables 987 848
Non-current portion 43 43
Current portion of trade and other receivables 944 805
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
The provision comprises £81 million (2005 – £94 million) related to trade receivables. An impairment charge of £19 million (2005 – bad debt
provision charge of £24 million) incurred in the normal course of business is recognised as pre-exceptional in the income statement for the year ended
31 March 2006.
All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless
products and services, network and access charges. There were no material transactions with joint ventures and associated companies during the year.
On 1 April 2005, the Group adopted the International Accounting Standards relating to financial instruments; IAS 32 and IAS 39. We have applied the
exemption given in IFRS 1 which permits non-application of these standards to the comparative figures. Accordingly, trade receivables at 31 March 2006
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, while comparative period disclosures remain under the Group’s previous GAAP .
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of receivables at 31 March 2006.
106 2005/06 Annual report 21 Inventory
Inventories are presented net of a provision of £13 million (2005 – £10 million) against slowing moving or obsolete items.
The cost of consumables and accessories held for sale included in operating costs is £274 million (2005 – £256 million). During the year, the Group
recorded additional inventory provisions of a net £3 million (2005 – £1 million).
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Group’s borrowings.
22 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents typically include bank deposits, money market funds, commercial paper and government securities. These deposits generally
have short maturities not exceeding one year.
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash in bank and hand 371 125
Short-term bank deposits 756 1,896
1,127 2,021
Short-term bank deposits include money market and fixed income instruments, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice. The effective
interest rate on short-term bank deposits is 4.6% (2005 – 4.7%). These deposits have an average maturity of 71 days (2005 – 145 days).
Included within cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year is an amount of £17 million (2005 – £30 million) held by the Group’s insurance
subsidiary, Pender. This amount is pledged against potential future claims arising from insurance written in prior years. As such, it is not readily available
for the general purposes of the Group.
Due to the lack of foreign exchange reserves, the Group cannot generally remit earnings from its Seychelles subsidiary. As such, cash totalling 
£60 million (2005 – £55 million) held by this subsidiary has been excluded from the Group balance.
Included within short-term deposits is £33 million (2005 – £42 million) which is pledged as cash collateral against bank loans and guarantees.
23 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
At the end of the year the Group’s interest in Bahrain Telecommunications Company BSC (‘Batelco’) had been identified as non-current assets and
disposal groups held for sale (2005 – C&W Spain and the Sakhalin Operations). The Group announced on 22 February 2006 its intention to dispose
of its 20% interest in Batelco. The assets and liabilities of these businesses are carried in the balance sheet at the lower of carrying value or expected
proceeds less disposal costs as set out below:
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Non-current assets held for sale
Investments in associates 105 –
Total non-current assets held for sale 105 –
Assets of disposal groups held for sale
Property, plant and equipment – 5
Other current assets – 13
Total assets of disposal groups held for sale – 18
Total assets held for sale 105 18
Liabilities directly associated with disposal groups held for sale
Trade and other payables – 4
– 4
The above assets and liabilities represent those which the Group is committed to dispose of at 31 March 2006, and were available for immediate sale 
at that date. The market value of non-current assets, for which there are published price quotations, is £335 million (2005 – £386 million), which
relates to the market value of the Group’s interest in Batelco.
The disposal groups C&W Spain and the Sakhalin Operations were sold during the year ended 31 March 2006. The proceeds and gain on disposal are
disclosed in Note 12.
2005/06 Annual report 107
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
24 Trade and other payables
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade payables 475 430
Payments received on account 4 4
Other taxation and social security 61 38
Other creditors 142 189
Accruals 501 568
Deferred income 198 64
1,381 1,293
Less non-current portion – –
Trade and other payables – current portion 1,381 1,293
On 1 April 2005, the Group adopted the International Accounting Standards relating to financial instruments: IAS 32 and IAS 39. We have applied 
the exemption given in IFRS 1 which permits non-application of these standards to the comparative figures. Accordingly, March 2006 trade payables 
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, while comparative period disclosures remain under the Group’s previous GAAP .
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables at 31 March 2006.
25 Loans and obligations under finance leases
On 1 April 2005, the Group adopted the International Accounting Standards relating to financial instruments: IAS 32 and IAS 39. One impact of this
adoption has been to reduce the principal value of the convertible bond as at 1 April 2005 by £60 million and to recognise a derivative liability of 
£47 million. We have applied the exemption given n IFRS 1 which permits non-application of these standards to the comparative figures. Therefore,
the current year (2006) disclosures below have been prepared under IFRS (applying IAS 32 and IAS 39), but the comparative year (2005) disclosures
have been prepared under the Group’s previous GAAP (UK GAAP).
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Loans and bonds
4% convertible unsecured bond due end 2010 202 252
Sterling repayable at various dates up to 2019 364 379
US dollars repayable at various dates up to 2038 82 84
Euro loan repayable in 2006 106 106
Other currencies repayable at various dates up to 2017 1 1
755 822
Less current portion (134) (22)
Non-current portion of loans and convertible bonds 621 800
Finance lease payables
Obligations under finance leases 29 2
Less current portion (9) (1)
Non-current portion of obligations under finance leases 20 1
Total non-current portion of loans and obligations under finance leases 641 801
Total current portion of loans and obligations under finance leases 143 23
Other than a portion of the £33 million (2005 – £42 million) of cash held as collateral against certain bank loans the Group’s borrowings are 
not secured.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group.
108 2005/06 Annual report The payment profile of loans and obligations is:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Loans and bonds
Due in less than one year 134 22
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 11 142
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 228 29
Due in more than five years 382 629
Total loans and convertible bonds 755 822
Finance leases – minimum lease payments
Due in less than one year 11 1
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 11 1
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 12 –
Total obligations under finance leases 34 2
Less future finance charges on finance leases (5) –
Present value of finance lease liabilities 29 2
The present value of net finance lease liabilities is as follows:
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Due in less than one year 9 1
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 9 1
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 11 –
Due in more than five years – –
Present value of finance lease liabilities 29 2
Interest is payable on loans and obligations falling due after more than five years at rates of between 5.25% and 8.75%.
Convertible unsecured bond
On 16 July 2003, £257,714,000 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par. Each bond entitles the holder to convert the conversion amount
of such bond into fully paid Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each at the rate of 457.930 Ordinary Shares for each £1,000 held at an initial conversion
price of £1.45 per Ordinary Share at any time prior to 9 July 2010. Full conversion of the bonds would result in an additional 177,733,748 shares being
issued. The bond also has a take-over protection clause, which adjusts the share conversion price, pro-rated over the life of the bond, in the event of a
change of control. Also, after 16 July 2007, if Cable & Wireless’ share price exceeds an amount calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions
for a specified number of days, Cable & Wireless has the right to give not less than 30 days’ and not more than 90 days’ notice that it will redeem all
unconverted bonds still outstanding on a given date at par plus accrued interest. If the bonds have not been converted, purchased and cancelled or
redeemed by 16 July 2010 they will be redeemed at par on that date.
Prior to 1 April 2005, the finance costs charged in the profit and loss accounts comprise the aggregate of the coupon and the proportion of issue costs
that relate to the financial year.
On the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 April 2005 the fair value of the liability component and the equity conversion component was determined
as at the date of issue of the bond. The fair value of the liability component, included in long-term borrowings, was calculated using an interest rate of
10.7% for an equivalent non-convertible bond. At 1 April 2005, the debt element was reduced by £60 million primarily reflecting the unamortised
value of the conversion option. The debt element is accounted for on an amortised cost basis. The conversion option and takeover protection feature
were marked to market at 1 April 2005 and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of £62 million. As at this date, the derivative
elements were carried on a fair value basis with changes in value being taken to the income statement. This was required by IAS 39 because, when
originally issued, the convertible bonds included a cash settlement option whereby the Company had the right to settle part of any conversion with
cash rather than shares. Subsequent to 1 April 2005 this cash settlement option was removed and the conversion option reclassified as a component
of equity hence it is no longer revalued through the income statement.
2005/06 Annual report 109
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
The convertible bond is recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
£m
Face value of convertible bond issued on 16 July 2003 258
Issue costs (6)
Equity conversion component on initial recognition (75)
Previous year’s amortisation of the liability component 15
Liability component on 1 April 2005 192
Interest expense 20
Interest paid (10)
Liability component at 31 March 2006 202
Interest expense on the bond is calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate (10.7%) for an equivalent non-convertible
bond to the liability component of the convertible bond. The cash coupon paid on the convertible bond is unchanged at 4% per annum.
Sterling loans
The Group has the following sterling loans:
(a) £200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance at 31 March 2006, net of costs, of £184 million (2005 – £184 million). Interest is payable 
at 8.75% per annum annually. During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group repurchased but did not cancel £16 million of this bond at an
average price of 101.625 pence.
(b) £200 million listed bond due in 2019 with a balance at 31 March 2006, net of costs, of £180 million (2005 – £180 million). Interest is payable at
8.625% per annum annually. During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group repurchased but did not cancel £19.9 million of bond at an average
price of 99.83 pence.
US dollar loans
Various US dollar based loans of approximately £82 million (2005 – £84 million) held by various subsidiaries across the Group. Interest on these loans
ranges between 3% and 7.8%. The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
Euro loans
(a) European Investment Bank Loan with a balance at 31 March 2006, net of costs, of £106 million (2005 – £106 million). This loan bears interest at
LIBOR minus 0.15% and interest is payable quarterly.
26 Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial investments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet of Cable & Wireless from 1 April 2005, the date of adoption of IAS 39.
The fair value of the Group’s derivative financial investments is presented below.
31 March 2006
£m
Liabilities – current
Cross currency swaps 15
Cross currency swaps
The Group has a Euro denominated loan (the ‘Loan’) and a related euro-sterling cross currency swap (the ‘Swap’) with terms matching those of the
Loan. Under UK GAAP , the Loan and Swap were accounted for as if they were a single loan denominated in sterling. Under IFRS the components
have been separated. The Loan has been translated at the closing rate at 31 March 2006 giving rise to a reduction in the balance of £15 million.
The Swap was marked to market at the same date and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of £15 million. The Group 
has not applied hedge accounting to the Loan and Swap. Both the Loan and Swap are revalued at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses on 
the instruments (which will materially offset each other) are recognised in the income statement.
Forward currency purchases
The Group has a forward exchange contract matching US$44 million deposits held as cash collateral against certain bank guarantees. The Group 
has not applied hedge accounting to the deposits and the forward exchange contract. Both the deposits and forward exchange contract are revalued
at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses on the instruments (which will materially offset each other) are recognised in the income statement.
110 2005/06 Annual report 27 Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s loans and obligations under finance leases.
Market values obtained from third parties have been used to determine the fair value of cross currency swaps, the convertible bond, Euro loan, sterling
repayable and the US dollar loan. All other financial liabilities have a short maturity in which case the carrying amount has been used.
Carrying amount Fair value
31 March 31 March
2006 2006
£m £m
Financial liabilities
Convertible bond 202 228
Sterling repayable at various dates up to 2019 364 371
US dollars repayable at various dates up to 2038 82 82
Euro loan repayable in 2006 106 106
Other currencies repayable at various dates up to 2017 1 1
Obligations under finance leases 29 29
Cross currency swap 15 15
At 31 March 2006, the effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:
Currency Interest rate
%
4% convertible unsecured bond due end 2010 £ 10.7
Sterling repayable at various dates up to 2019 £ 8.7
US dollars repayable at various dates up to 2038 US$ Floating
Other currencies repayable at various dates up to 2017 Other Floating
Short-term loans and overdrafts Other Floating
Obligations under finance leases £ 9.2
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and short-term investments and loans and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
31 March 31 March
2006 2006
financial financial
assets liabilities
£m £m
Sterling 783 581
US dollar 115 82
Euro 114 106
Other currencies 115 1
1,127 770
2005/06 Annual report 111
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
28 Deferred tax
The movements in deferred tax and liabilities during the year are as follows:
Capital
allowances on Balance
non-current sheet
assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax assets 21 –26– 29
Deferred tax liabilities (42) – (5) (2) – (49)
At 1 April 2005 (21) – (3) 4 – (20)
Profit and loss charge (17) 12 (5) (3) – (13)
Tax charged to equity – – (2) – – (2)
Exchange adjustments (1) 1–1–1
At 31 March 2006 (39) 13 (10) 2 – (34)
Deferred tax assets 17 13 1 7 (21) 17
Deferred tax liabilities (56) – (11) (5) 21 (51)
At 31 March 2006 (39) 13 (10) 2 – (34)
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences:
Capital
allowances on
non-current
assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 1,841 12,058 295 158 14,352
At 31 March 2006 3,666 12,330 121 91 16,208
Tax losses of £17 million (2005 – £ nil) expire within one year, £16 million (2005 – £ nil) expire within three years, £48 million (2005 – £65 million)
expire within five years, £19 million (2005 – £ nil) expire within ten years and £64 million (2005 – £15 million) expire after more than ten years.
Other deferred tax assets are not subject to expiry.
The £12,330 million (2005 – £12,058 million) losses principally arise in overseas holding companies in which the opportunity to realise benefits
therefrom is considered remote.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates where the Group controls the timing of remittance
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unremitted earnings on which no provision has been made is £2,829 million (2005 – £2,713 million).
112 2005/06 Annual report 29 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Network
and asset
Redundancy retirement
Property costs obligations Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 151 27 127 63 368
Charged to income statement
– additional provision 54 68 26 80 228
– amounts used (66) (30) (18) – (114)
– unused amounts reversed (20) (6) (25) 7 (44)
Acquisitions – – – 27 27
Discount adjustment ––1–1
Exchange adjustments ––1–1
At 31 March 2005 119 59 112 177 467
Less current portion 60 57 48 114 279
Non-current portion 59 2 64 63 188
Charged to income statement
– additional provision 443231989
– amounts used (43) (57) (27) (53) (180)
– unused amounts reversed (28) (9) (41) (53) (131)
Acquisitions 3 – 21 10 34
Discount adjustment ––3–3
Exchange adjustments –––––
At 31 March 2006 55 36 91 100 282
Less current portion 636113689
Non-current portion 49 – 80 64 193
Property
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties
being sub-let. The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Redundancy
Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to 1 April 2006. Agreement had been reached with 
the local employee representatives that specified the number of staff involved and quantified the total amounts payable to those made redundant.
The provision is expected to be used within one year.
Network and asset retirement obligations
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity. The provision is expected to be
used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and sub sea
cabling. This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Other
Other provisions include amounts relating to the disposal of the previously discontinued US businesses, amounts relating to specific claims held against
the Group’s insurance subsidiary Pender and amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals of Group companies and investments. The reversal of
unused amounts reflect the resolution of claims and other risks during the year.
30 Retirement benefits obligations
The Company and its principal subsidiaries operate pension and other retirement schemes, which cover the majority of employees in the Group.
These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on the employee’s remuneration and length of service, and
defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees.
Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Defined contribution schemes
The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes was £9 million (2005 – £12 million).
2005/06 Annual report 113
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Defined benefit schemes
UK main scheme – funding valuation
The latest triennial actuarial valuation was carried out by Watson Wyatt Limited as at 31 March 2005. The projected unit method was used and the
principal actuarial assumptions adopted were that the annual rate of inflation would be 2.7% and that future increases in pensionable earnings would 
be 3.7% per annum; investments held in respect of pensions before they become payable would average 6.6% annual rate of return; investments held 
in respect of pensions after they become payable would average 5.25% annual rate of return; and pensions would increase at an annual rate of 3% for
fixed guarantee pensions and 2.7% for inflation related pensions.
As at 31 March 2005 the mid-market value of the assets of the defined benefit section of the scheme was £1,610 million and the value of the assets
represented approximately 95% of the actuarial value of benefits due to members calculated on the basis of pensionable earnings and service at 
31 March 2005 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected increases in pensionable earnings.
The latest generally adopted mortality tables were used for the funding valuation, adjusted to reflect the scheme’s actual experience, and including an
allowance for future improvements in life expectancy. Under these assumptions the average life expectancy is 26.5 years for a man aged 60 and 
28.1 years for a woman aged 60. A one year increase or decrease in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased or decreased the scheme
liabilities by around £40 million. A 0.25% change in the assumed rate of return on scheme investments would have increased or decreased the funding
required by around £86 million. A 0.25% change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have increased or decreased the funding required by
around £7 million.
The actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet future benefit accrual was 25% 
of pensionable earnings (20.3% employer’s and 4.7% employee’s). This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next independent actuarial valuation
is carried out, which will be based on the position at 31 March 2008. The terms of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund Trust Deed also allow
the Trustees or the Company to call for a valuation at any time. The future service contribution rate does not include an allowance for administration
expense or the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) levy. Contributions to meet these costs are reviewed annually. From 1 April 2005 contributions equal
to 2% of pensionable earnings have been paid to cover the administration costs and PPF levy. Employers therefore paid a total contribution rate of
22.3% in 2005/06, or £13.4 million.
The actuarial valuation revealed that the deficit at 31 March 2005 was £81 million in the defined benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions
adopted by the actuary. The £98 million contribution made to the scheme by Cable & Wireless on 31 March 2006 was calculated on the basis of the
£81 million deficit at 31 March 2005, together with the investment returns that would have been made during the year to 31 March 2006 had the
contribution been made at the valuation date, and the back-dating of the increased employers’ contribution rate to the valuation date. As a result 
of the £98 million contribution the scheme is fully funded on an ongoing basis, based on the 2005 valuation.
The Occupational Pension Schemes (scheme funding) Regulations 2005 did not apply to the 31 March 2005 valuation, but will apply to future 
funding valuations.
IAS 19 valuation
The actuarial valuations of the major defined benefit schemes and medical plans operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2006 by
qualified independent actuaries for all subsidiaries. Watson Wyatt Limited prepared the valuation for the UK main scheme and unfunded schemes,
and reviewed the actuarial valuations prepared for subsidiaries. The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes’
assets are as follows. Other schemes include unfunded liabilities in the UK relating to pension provisions for former Directors and other senior
employees in respect to their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap. Also included are the Group’s overseas schemes in 
Macau, Jamaica, Barbados, Guernsey, Hong Kong, Ireland and the US.
UK main scheme Other
Assets Assumption Assets Assumption
Year ended 31 March 2006 £m % £m %
Inflation assumption 2.8 4.4
Salary increases 3.3 6.3
Pension increases 2.8-3.0 3.0
Discount rate 4.9 7.5
Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets
– Equities 995 7.5 83 8.2
– Bonds and gilts 715 4.5 39 5.4
– Property 131 6.0 31 6.9
– Cash/Other 137 4.3 83 5.2
1,978 236
114 2005/06 Annual report UK main scheme Other
Assets Assumption Assets Assumption
Year ended 31 March 2005 £m % £m %
Inflation assumption 2.7 3.9
Salary increases 3.2 5.9
Pension increases 2.7-3.0 2.9
Discount rate 5.4 7.2
Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets
– Equities 877 8.0 75 8.3
– Bonds and gilts 539 4.9 52 6.2
– Property 92 6.5 24 5.2
– Other 103 4.0 64 4.6
1,611 215
The UK main scheme assumptions used by the actuaries are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily
be borne out in practice. The assumptions shown above for Other represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
The assumptions are more conservative than those used to prepare the 2005 funding valuation for the UK main scheme.
The overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class. The expected
asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the
country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
The UK main defined benefit scheme is closed to new entrants and under the projected unit method, all else remaining constant, for closed schemes
the current service cost will increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group are presented below:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
UK main UK main
scheme Other T otal scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Total fair value of plan assets 1,978 236 2,214 1,611 215 1,826
Present value of funded obligations (2,067) (200) (2,267) (1,787) (175) (1,962)
Excess of liabilities of funded obligations (89) 36 (53) (176) 40 (136)
Present value of unfunded obligations – (38) (38) – (31) (31)
Effect of asset ceiling – (11) (11) – (34) (34)
Net deficit in defined benefit schemes (89) (13) (102) (176) (25) (201)
Retirement benefit obligations (89) (54) (143) (176) (51) (227)
Retirement benefit assets – 41 41 –2626
Included within this liability is an amount of £15 million (2005 – £13 million) to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
UK main UK main
scheme Other T otal scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 16 5 21 20 6 26
Interest cost 95 14 109 94 13 107
Expected return on plan assets (105) (19) (124) (97) (16) (113)
Losses/gains on curtailment or settlement ––– 1 (2) (1)
Total expense 6 – 6 18 1 19
The defined benefit expense has been included in employee benefit expenses (note 7).
The actual return on plan assets was £330 million (2005 – £171 million).
2005/06 Annual report 115
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Net actuarial losses amounting to £32 million (2005 – actuarial gain £85 million) have been recognised directly in equity and are presented in the
statement of recognised income and expenses. In addition a gain of £23 million (2005 – loss of £9 million) has been recognised in the statement 
of recognised income and expenses due to the change in the effect of the asset ceiling. The total amount recognised in the statement of recognised
income and expenses in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2006 is an expense of £9 million (2005 – income £76 million) 
and income of £67 million (2005 – £76 million) respectively.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
UK main scheme Other Total
£m £m £m
Obligation at 1 April 2004 (1,758) (207) (1,965)
Service cost (20) (6) (26)
Interest cost (94) (13) (107)
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in equity 36 (9) 27
Employee contributions (4) (2) (6)
Liabilities extinguished due to divestiture –99
Settlement/curtailments (1) 2 1
Exchange differences on foreign plans –44
Benefits paid 54 16 70
Obligation at 31 March 2005 (1,787) (206) (1,993)
Service cost (16) (5) (21)
Interest cost (95) (14) (109)
Actuarial losses recognised in equity (224) (14) (238)
Employee contributions (3) (2) (5)
Exchange differences on foreign plans – (6) (6)
Benefits paid 58 9 67
Obligation at 31 March 2006 (2,067) (238) (2,305)
Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows:
UK main scheme Other Total
£m £m £m
Fair value of assets as at 1 April 2004 1,406 192 1,598
Expected return 97 16 113
Actuarial gains recognised in equity 43 15 58
Contributions by employer 115 12 127
Employee contributions 426
Exchange differences on foreign plans – (6) (6)
Benefits paid (54) (16) (70)
Fair value of assets as at 31 March 2005 1,611 215 1,826
Expected return 105 19 124
Actuarial gains recognised in equity 206 – 206
Contributions by employer 111 4 115
Employee contributions 325
Exchange differences on foreign plans –55
Benefits paid (58) (9) (67)
Fair value of assets as at 31 March 2006 1,978 236 2,214
Experience gains for the period:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
UK main UK main
scheme Other scheme Other
Year ended 31 March £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligation (2,067) (238) (1,787) (206)
Plan assets 1,978 236 1,611 215
(Deficit)/surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling (89) (2) (176) 9
Experience (loss)/gain on plan liabilities (15) (14) 36 (9)
Experience gain adjustments on plan assets 206 – 43 15
116 2005/06 Annual report The best estimate of contributions for the following year is:
2006/07
UK Other T otal
£m £m £m
Employer contributions excluding one-off contributions 12 2 14
Employee contributions 314
31 Share capital
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
£m £m
Authorised
2006 and 2005 – 3,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25p each 875 875
Issued, called up and fully paid 605 599
2006 – 2,421,046,668 Ordinary Shares of 25p each
(2005 – 2,394,822,240 Ordinary Shares of 25p each)
Number of
shares £m
Issued, called up and fully paid
At 1 April 2004 2,385,467,990 596
Allotted under share options scheme 6,328,947 2
Allotted under scrip dividends 3,025,303 1
At 31 March 2005 2,394,822,240 599
Allotted under share options scheme 16,731,953 4
Allotted under scrip dividends 9,492,475 2
At 31 March 2006 2,421,046,668 605
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was £6.6 million (2005 – £2.3 million). The Company repurchased 14.45 million shares 
(2005 – 60.5 million shares), representing 0.6% (2005 – 2.53%) of issued share capital at 31 March 2006, during the year for consideration of £17.4 million
(2005 – £75 million). None of these shares were cancelled as at 31 March 2006. The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March
2006 was £18.7 million (2005 – £15 million) and £81.9 million (2005 – £78.2 million), respectively. In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association,
each share (other than those held in treasury) entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless. The Company’s shareholders can
declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Allotments of Ordinary Shares of 25p each were made during the year in respect of the following:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
Gross Gross
Number of consideration Number of consideration
allotted shares received allotted shares received
££
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 8,699,598 3,574,305 1,499,690 678,675
Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2,463,200 1,221,971 408,757 305,970
Share Option Plan – Approved 78,495 90,001 28,929 29,999
Share Option Plan – Unapproved 5,490,660 5,908,034 4,391,571 4,558,778
Scrip dividends 9,492,475 –
1
3,025,303 –
1
T otal 26,224,428 10,794,311 9,354,250 5,573,422
1
Scrip dividends with a cash equivalent value of £12,156,491 (2005 – £3,368,237) were issued during the year. This represents a non-cash transaction.
2005/06 Annual report 117
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
32 Share premium and other reserves
Foreign
currency
Share Treasury Special Other Fair value translation Retained
premium shares reserve reserves reserve reserve earnings T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 2 (152) 1,745 105 – – (986) 714
Premium on shares issued during the year 6 – (9) –––96
Own shares purchased – (75) ––––– (75)
ESOP Trust shares issued to satisfy share awards –3–––– (3) –
Profit for the year –––––– 294 294
Fair value adjustment on sale of investment –––––– (2) (2)
Actuarial gains recognised – net of deferred taxation –––––– 73 73
Foreign currency translation reserves ––––– (39) – (39)
Recycled translation reserves on disposal of subsidiary –––––3–3
Share-based payment costs –––––– 10 10
Dividends –––––– (100) (100)
At 31 March 2005 8 (224) 1,736 105 – (36) (705) 884
Adoption of IAS 32/39 –––– 32 – 13 45
Premium on shares issued during the year 16 – (22) – – – 22 16
Own shares purchased – (17) ––––– (17)
ESOP Trust shares issued to satifsy share awards – 10–––– (10) –
Conversion element of convertible bond transferred to equity – – – 47––– 47
Profit for the year –––––– 79 79
Fair value gain on available for sale assets ––––7––7
Fair value gain on available for sale assets recycled to 
income statement –––– (36) – – (36)
Actuarial gains recognised – net of deferred taxation –––––– (10) (10)
Foreign currency translation reserves ––––– 48 – 48
Share-based payment costs –––––– 14 14
Dividends –––––– (92) (92)
At 31 March 2006 24 (231) 1,714 152 3 12 (689) 985
Treasury shares
Treasury shares relate to shares held in the Company directly or indirectly by the Group and include those shares held by the Group’s Employee Share
Ownership Plan Trust (ESOP Trust).
Special reserve
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of share premium account approved by the Company at the 2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court 
in February 2004. It is reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid up share capital and share premium account of the
Company after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable
reserves. The special reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the Company until any debt or claim against the Company outstanding as at 
20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than that 
of the Company.
Other reserves
Other reserves include a capital redemption reserve of £105 million (2005 – £105 million) and an equity reserve of £47 million (2005 – £ nil) resulting
from the transfer of the conversion element of the Group’s convertible bond from derivative financial instruments to equity.
118 2005/06 Annual report 33 Share-based payments
Share option schemes
The share option schemes operating as at 31 March 2006 or having options outstanding as at this date, are as follows:
Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme
Under the Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme (‘SAYE scheme’), UK employees can enter a savings contract with a bank to save
regular monthly sums of between £5 and £250 for a period of either three, five or seven years. At the end of the savings contract, the participant
receives interest from the bank on their savings. The savings and the interest may then be used to exercise an option over Ordinary Shares of the
Company, which are issued at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Company’s Ordinary Shares at the date of grant. The Company has
extended the SAYE scheme to its overseas employees by the Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme (‘GSAYE scheme’).
The GSAYE scheme is offered in various of the Group’s territories (excluding the UK) and it operates along similar lines to the SAYE scheme with 
local variations to accommodate local legal and tax consideration.
The SAYE was last offered in June 2004 and GSAYE was last offered in December 2004.
Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Senior employees’ share option scheme
Prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless granted share options under the Cable & Wireless Senior employees’ share option scheme (‘SESOS’) and the
Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme (‘RESOS’). Options awarded under these plans between June 1999 and July 2001 are
subject to performance conditions based on Cable & Wireless’ TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index, underpinned by real growth in
EBITDA and turnover. TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions. TSR performance is averaged over a three-month period at
the beginning and end of the performance period. This moderates the effect of short-term share price volatility. For full vesting, Cable & Wireless’TSR
must achieve at least upper quartile level against the FTSE 100 between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. Half vesting applies for
TSR at the median level, with a sliding scale between median and upper quartile. If the performance conditions are not met by the fifth anniversary 
of the date of grant, the options lapse. As at the date of this report, none of these options have achieved their performance conditions.
Options granted under RESOS and SESOS before June 1999 became exercisable if growth in Company’s published earnings per share (excluding
exceptional items) measured over any period of three consecutive financial years, commencing not earlier than the financial year in which the option
was granted, exceeded by not less than 6% of the percentage growth of the Retail Price Index over the same three-year period. All such options
became exercisable in full.
No further grants will be made under the RESOS and SESOS plans.
Cable & Wireless Share option plan (approved and unapproved)
The level of any share option award is determined by the Remuneration Committee each year by reference to total remuneration within a market peer
group, subject to an overriding annual limit of ten times salary for Executive Directors.
The vesting of share options awarded to the Executive Directors and to all employees outside the US is subject to relative TSR performance conditions.
For options granted before May 2004, full vesting occurs only if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile between
the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. Where TSR performance meets the median, 50% of the initial award vests. A sliding scale operates
between median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median. If performance conditions have not been met by the
fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse. For options granted from May 2004, the re-testing of performance conditions for share options
granted from that date will cease. If performance conditions for these options have not been met by the third anniversary of the date of grant the
option lapses. For options granted from June 2005, 33.33% of options vest where TSR performance meets the median and if the Remuneration
Committee is satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the group warrants the release of the shares.
Performance conditions are applied in determining the level of awards to employees in the US, but do not normally apply to the vesting of such awards.
In addition, 25% of awards to employees in the US vest on the first anniversary of the date of the grant with a further 25% on each subsequent
anniversary. These terms reflect normal practice in the US.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust
The Cable & Wireless ESOP Trust is a discretionary trust, which has been funded by loans from the Company to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless
plc. At 31 March 2006 the Trust holds 50,990,339 shares with a cost of £139 million and a market value of £56 million.
The costs of running the Trust are included in the profit and loss account as they accrue. The Trustees of the plan may notionally allocate Ordinary
Shares in the Company annually to Executive Directors or other senior executives and other key staff. Shares are held in trust until such time as they
may be transferred to employees in accordance with the terms of the Performance share plan, the Restricted share plan, the Deferred short-term
incentive plan and the Share option plan, details of which are given below. The shares will be provided from existing Ordinary Shares in issue acquired
by the Trustees. Surplus shares may be held to satisfy future awards. The Trust has waived its rights to dividends. At 31 March 2006, there were
2,069,870 shares under contingent awards in relation to the Performance share plan, 19,070,363 shares under restricted share awards in relation to the
2005/06 Annual report 119
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Restricted share plan, 245,636 shares under the Deferred bonus plan, 1,752,339 shares under the Deferred short-term incentive plan, 280,392 shares
under the Stock appreciation rights plan, and 24,557,918 shares under options in relation to the Share option plan.
Other equity instrument awards
Deferred short-term incentive plan (‘Deferred STIP’)
The Deferred STIP is designed to encourage participants to invest in shares to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders. Under this
plan any bonus deferred is used to purchase shares in the Company, which are held in trust for three years before being released to the participant.
Participants may also be awarded up to two matching shares for every one purchased share based on the relative TSR performance of the Company
measured over a three-year period (see Performance conditions for share-based awards). A dividend award supplement also operates on the Deferred
STIP . Dividends that would have been paid on the purchased shares and the actual award of matching shares during the performance period are
reinvested in additional shares.
For the 2005/06 financial year, Executive Directors were able to elect to pay up to two-thirds of any net annual bonus and senior executives could elect
to pay up to one-third of any net bonus into the Deferred STIP . Conditional matching shares were awarded on a gross basis i.e. for every £100 of net
bonus invested in the Deferred STIP , participants have the potential to receive matching shares with a face value on grant of £333.
Deferred bonus scheme
Executive Directors and selected senior executives were able voluntarily to defer between 10% and 50% of their post-tax senior management bonus 
to purchase shares in the Company, which will be held in Trust. Half of the purchased shares will be held in Trust for a two-year deferral period and 
the remaining half will be held in Trust for a three-year deferral period. Participants will be awarded matching shares when the purchased shares vest 
at the end of the deferral periods.
No award has been made under the deferred bonus scheme since June 2004.
Performance share plan (‘PSP’)
Under the PSP , Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The plan rules limit the value of shares that can be granted to an individual in any year to 100% of salary.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative TSR performance conditions (see Performance conditions for share based awards). A dividend
award supplement operates on the PSP . Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares, which vest, will be regarded as having been
re-invested in additional shares.
Restricted share plan (‘RSP’)
The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares to executives and selected employees below the Executive Directors, primarily as a retention or a
recruitment tool to compensate for the forfeiture of long-term incentive arrangements when transferring to the Company. 50% of any restricted shares
awarded under this plan vest after one year with the remaining 50% vesting after three years.
During the year, the restricted share plan was also used to award matching shares with performance conditions to Executive Directors who invested
their own funds into Company shares. Attainment of these matching shares is dependent on the Executive continuing to hold the invested shares and
on meeting the required TSR performance conditions. 100% of any shares awarded under this plan vest after three years.
Performance conditions for share based awards
TSR is the main performance measure used in the share option plan, the Deferred STIP and the PSP as it provides an objective external measure 
of financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is important to measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set of companies.
The Company’s relative TSR performance is assessed against a comparator group comprising the FTSE Global Telecoms Sector Index (‘FTSE GTSI’),
which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers.
Awards vest depending upon the Company’s TSR ranking relative to the comparator group at the end of a single three-year performance period.
Cash-based awards
Stock appreciation rights plan (‘SARs’)
The SARs is used to exactly replicate the plans described above but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent. It is used in exceptional cases for
countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
120 2005/06 Annual report Other schemes
Cable & Wireless share purchase plan
The Company also offers its employees who are chargeable to income tax, under Section 15 Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, the 
Cable & Wireless share purchase plan (‘the Plan’) which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan. Under the Plan, employees can contribute up to 
a value of £1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year (whichever is the lower), to buy partnership shares in the Company. Shares are held in a UK resident
trust and can be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but there may be pay as you earn taxation and national insurance contributions payable in such
events if the shares have not been held in the trust for five years. Dividends on the partnership shares are reinvested in additional Dividend Shares.
Share options
Options are exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. Options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2006 resulted in 18.7 million shares
(31 March 2005 – 6.3 million shares) being issued at the average exercise price of 69p each (31 March 2005 – 88p each). The related market weighted
average share price at the time of the exercise was 125p per share (31 March 2005 – 117p per share).
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are presented below:
Average exercise Options
prices (p/share) (thousands)
At 1 April 2004 253.94 176,444
Granted 109.59 26,151
Forfeited 357.44 58,864
Exercised 88.05 6,255
Expired 524.46 1,729
At 31 March 2005 204.25 135,747
Exercisable 458.99 38,121
At 31 March 2005 204.25 135,747
Granted 130.86 14,184
Forfeited 221.51 15,692
Exercised 68.67 18,702
Expired 577.68 14,215
At 31 March 2006 164.41 101,322
Exercisable 289.10 32,964
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
Number of Weighted Number of Weighted
options Weighted average options Weighted average
outstanding average remaining life outstanding average remaining life
Range of exercise prices at 31 March exercise (rounded to at 31 March exercise (rounded to
(p) 2006 price nearest year)
1
2005 price nearest year)
1
0-49p 12,148,661 36.96 2 17,188,037 36.96 3
50-99p 6,119,340 89.52 2 8,128,182 89.44 3
100-149p 47,486,732 109.82 5 54,717,034 109.53 6
150-199p 6,734,696 155.09 6 7,960,563 160.27 2
200-249p 7,863,845 204.40 3 11,266,255 204.44 4
250-299p 335,157 274.64 2 1,273,461 272.37 2
300-349p 18,258,827 339.88 2 23,917,292 339.94 3
350-399p 610,847 359.10 2 1,102,359 356.26 4
400-449p 124,183 420.50 0 430,841 416.78 1
450-499p 156,113 470.66 2 342,922 470.64 3
500-549p 5,469 548.50 2 23,562 542.97 1
550-599p 424,024 553.62 1 466,417 553.68 2
600-1250p 1,058,789 863.54 3 8,590,666 943.19 3
1
Weighted average remaining life relates to legal life of options not expected life.
The weighted average fair value, at measurement date, of the 14 million (2005 – 26 million) options granted during the year ended 31 March 2006 
was 34.41 pence (2005 – 30.17 pence). The Company computes the fair value of its share option awards using the Black-Scholes-Merton formula
model for the Savings related and Global savings related share option schemes and the Monte Carlo pricing model for the share option plans
(Approved, Unapproved and US).
2005/06 Annual report 121
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
The following assumptions were used in the fair value exercise as at 31 March 2006 for the options granted during 2006:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
Monte Carlo Black Scholes Monte Carlo Black Scholes
Weighted average share price 128.83 – 109.18p 122.32p
Weighted average exercise price 130.86 – 111.2p 98.14p
Dividend yield 3.4%-3.9% – 3.6% 3.6%
Expected volatility 27.9%-39.6% – 39.4%-47.4% 32.9%-47.7%
Risk-free interest rates 4.1%-4.4% – 4.6%-5.1% 4.4%-5.1%
Expected lives of the options 4– 4 3-7
The expected volatility was determined based on the statistical analysis of daily shares prices over a historical period equal to the expected lives 
of the options.
During 2002 and 2003, significant restructuring was carried out at Cable & Wireless and the Directors consider the share price volatility over 
that period is unrepresentative of future volatility. Accordingly, for the purposes of calculating historical volatility and share price correlations 
Cable & Wireless’ share price movements from 1 August 2002 to 31 December 2003 have been replaced with a ‘synthetic stock’.
This synthetic stock takes as a starting point the share price of Cable & Wireless on 31 July 2002. The daily share price movements then track the
average daily share price movements of six companies from the FTSE GTSI from that time until 31 December 2003. From 31 December 2003
onwards the daily share price movements track the actual daily share price movements of Cable & Wireless. The companies used to derive this
synthetic share price were selected as those whose daily share price returns were most closely correlated with those of Cable & Wireless prior 
to and immediately after the synthetic period.
The synthetic Cable & Wireless share price was not used other than for calculating share price volatility and share price correlations. Share price
correlations and volatilities were calculated using daily return data for Cable & Wireless (including the synthetic data for the relevant period) and, where
relevant, other comparator companies.
Performance and other market conditions attached to awards were reflected in the calculation of fair value as part of the Monte Carlo simulations.
Other awards
Awards granted during 2006
Weighted average Features incorporated
Award Shares fair value in schemes
DSTIP 1,361,186 119.00 TSR conditions
RSP 17,694,393 118.52 –
PSP 2,102,358 56.41 TSR conditions
Awards granted during 2005
Weighted average Features incorporated
Award Shares fair value in schemes
DSTIP 461,806 73.95 TSR conditions
DBS 848,706 127.00 –
RSP 721,950 106.21 –
RSP matching performance shares 706,400 54.96 TSR conditions
No share-based payment arrangements were modified during the period.
The total expense relating to share-based payments which are all equity settled transactions was £14 million (2005 – £11 million). As the Group 
has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2, the charge only includes grants made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 
1 January 2005.
122 2005/06 Annual report 34 Minority interests
£m
Balance brought forward at 1 April 2004 202
New acquisitions 64
Share of total recognised income and expenditure for the year 59
Dividends paid (28)
Disposals (2)
Balance as at 31 March 2005 295
Share of total recognised income and expenditure for the year 115
Dividends paid (59)
Disposals (9)
Balance as at 31 March 2006 342
35 Cash flows from operating activities
Reconciliation of net profit to net cash inflow from operating activities:
2005/06 2004/05
Note £m £m
Continuing operations
Profit for the year from continuing operations 85 192
Adjustments for:
Tax expense/(credit) 27 (25)
Depreciation 17 228 170
Amortisation 16 46 20
Impairment 14 237 8
(Gains) and losses on sale of non-current assets 8 (83) 3
Other income (7) (5)
Interest and similar income 10 (80) (102)
Interest and similar charges 10 69 68
(Decrease)/increase in provisions
– Operating activities (135) 95
– Non-operating activities (34) –
Share-based payments 14 10
Defined benefit pension expense 6 19
Defined benefit pension contributions (includes pension top-up of £98 million (2005 – £100 million)) (115) (127)
Share of results after tax of associates (54) (48)
Operating cash flows before working capital changes 204 278
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisitions and disposal of subsidiaries)
Increase in inventories (4) 5
Decrease in trade and other receivables 8 116
Decrease in payables (108) (120)
Cash generated from continuing operations 100 279
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 90 162
Adjustment for
Tax expense 12 – 2
Depreciation 12 – 1
Profit on disposal of investments – (16)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (4) –
Interest and similar charges 12 – 1
Profit on sale of operations (20) (130)
Decrease in provisions (64) –
Changes in working capital 1 8
Cash generated from discontinued operations 3 28
Cash generated from operations 103 307
2005/06 Annual report 123
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
36 Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial year, for which no provision has been made, are as follows:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 77 71
Other – 13
Total capital commitments 77 84
In addition to the capital commitments above, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Group’s
business. The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs. In the event of default of another party, the Group may be
liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
Of the above, £33 million (2005 – £28 million) relates to the Group’s share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and 
renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2006 is disclosed in note 6. The future aggregate minimum lease payments under
operating leases are:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
£m £m
No later than one year 97 89
Later than one year but not later than five years 206 203
Later than five years 128 150
Total minimum operating lease payments 431 442
37 Guarantees
Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
£m £m
Trading guarantees 184 178
Other guarantees 61 65
Total guarantees 245 243
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds or contracts issued in the normal course of business guaranteeing the Group will meet 
its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The guarantees also enable the customer to obtain
repayment of any advance payment in the event of the relevant subsidiary failing to carry out its contractual obligations in full. Some of these
guarantees are uncapped.
Other guarantees include guarantees in respect of financial obligations of subsidiary undertakings principally in respect of leases, borrowings and letters
of credit.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of
materials. The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Pender, the Group’s Isle of Man insurance subsidiary, has written policies in favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially significant insurance claims
have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and disputes with reinsurers.
Legal proceedings continue against Pender and the Company in respect of certain insurance claims as set out in note 40.
Other matters
In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of
disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some
uncapped indemnities have been given.
In relation to the sale of CWC ConsumerCo in May 2000, the Company gave a number of standard warranties and indemnities. There is no time limit
or cap that applies generally, the Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
124 2005/06 Annual report 38 Business combinations
The acquisitions made during the year are summarised below:
2005/06 2004/05
Monaco Bulldog/
Energis Atlas Total Telecom SA XM Mobile Total
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Consideration paid 705 2 707 114 25 139
Goodwill arising on acquisitions 16 384 – 384 36 20 56
Fair value of net assets acquired 321 2 323 78 5 83
Cash outflows on acquisitions 705 2 707 112 23 135
Less: cash acquired in subsidiaries (97) – (97) (57) (1) (58)
Cash outflow on acquisitions 608 2 610 55 22 77
Details of these are presented below:
(a) 2005/06 Acquisition of Energis
On 11 November 2005, Cable & Wireless purchased the entire share capital of Chelys Limited, the parent company of the Energis Group (‘Energis’),
for a total consideration of £705 million. The consideration was made up of £675 million debt repayment, £15 million to acquire the share capital of 
Chelys Limited and £15 million of direct costs incurred to acquire Energis.
As part of the Energis acquisition, Cable & Wireless agreed to pay contingent consideration of between nil and a maximum of £80 million. The 
amount of contingent consideration is tied to the Company’s share price and may be satisfied, at the Company’s option, in either cash or shares of 
the Company. Payments will be based on a ratio of £1.25 million for every one penny by which the maximum three month volume weighted average
Cable & Wireless share price in the third year following completion exceeds the reference price of 135 pence. Any payments would begin in March
2008, would be payable once a month until December 2008 and will be based upon Cable & Wireless’ volume weighted average share price for the
three months prior to any relevant payment date.
The terms and conditions of the contingent consideration include anti-dilution mechanisms similar to those in the 4% convertible bond issued by 
Cable & Wireless (due 2010). In addition, in the event of a change of control of Cable & Wireless, or in the event of its shares ceasing to be admitted
to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange's market for listed securities, a sum calculated in accordance with the terms of the
contingent consideration will be payable in cash within ten business days.
Energis contributed £266 million to revenues and £35 million to EBITDA from the date of acquisition. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2005
the contribution to Group revenue would have been £709 million and the contribution to EBITDA would have been £93 million.
Net assets and acquired goodwill are:
Energis acquisition
Note £m
Purchase consideration:
– Cash paid 690
– Contingent consideration –
– Direct costs related to acquisitions 15
Fair value of assets acquired (321)
Goodwill 16 384
The Directors have assessed the fair values of the assets and liabilities as follows:
Alignment of
Book value accounting policy Revaluations Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Software –19 – 19
Customer contracts and relationships – – 130 130
Property, plant and equipment 402 (28) (136) 238
Trade and other receivables 124 6 – 130
Cash and cash equivalents 97 – – 97
Trade and other payables (250) – (9) (259)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges (13) (21) – (34)
T otal 360 (24) (15) 321
2005/06 Annual report 125
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
£m
Purchase cost settled in cash 705
Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiary (97)
Cash outflow on acquisition 608
The acquiree's carrying amounts were recorded under UK GAAP .
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Energis includes expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing UK corporate business,
workforce valuations and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets. Cash and cash equivalents
is stated net of amounts paid in respect of Energis’ management incentive plan.
(b) Reassessment of Monaco acquisition
Cable & Wireless purchased the Monaco Telecom business in the financial year 2004/05, when the transaction was recorded at provisional values.
A reassessment of the fair values at the date of acquisition was performed during the current financial year, within one year of the acquisition date.
The adjustment to the goodwill balance is as follows:
£m
Goodwill on acquisition 36
Exchange rate adjustment 3
Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2005 39
Reassessment of fair value adjustments (8)
Exchange rate adjustment (2)
Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2006 29
(c) 2004/05 Acquisition of Monaco T elecom SA
On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless purchased a 55% beneficial stake in Monaco Telecom for a total consideration of €162 million (£108 million).
In its last audited financial year to 31 December 2003, prepared under Monegasque GAAP , Monaco Telecom made a profit after tax and minority
interests of £12 million. From that date to the date of acquisition Monaco Telecom made a profit after tax and minority interests of £7 million.
Monaco Telecom contributed £13 million to the Group’s net operating cash flows, £1 million outflow for return on investment and servicing of finance,
£5 million outflow for capital expenditure and £1 million outflow for repayment of debts, £10 million inflow of liquid resources and a decrease in cash
of £2 million.
Monaco Telecom contributed £100 million to revenues and £17 million to profit before tax from the date of acquisition. Disclosure of the contribution
Monaco Telecom would have made to Group revenue and net profit had it been also acquired on 1 April 2004 is impracticable; Monaco T elecom
prepares its local accounts in Monegasque GAAP and does not have revenue and net profit numbers in an IFRS comparable format for the period
prior to acquisition.
Net assets acquired and goodwill are:
Monaco
Telecom SA
acquisition
Note £m
Purchase consideration:
– Cash paid 108
– Deferred consideration 2
– Direct costs related to acquisitions 4
Fair value of assets acquired (78)
Goodwill 16 36
126 2005/06 Annual report The assets and liabilities arising from acquisition were:
Acquiree’s
carrying amount Fair value
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 57 57
Property, plant and equipment 25 28
Concession agreements –65
International managed service contracts –10
Trade investments 22
Trade and other receivables 80 82
Inventories 11
Trade and other payables (78) (80)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges (36) (23)
Net assets 51 142
Minority interests (64)
Net assets acquired 78
Purchase cost 114
Less deferred consideration (2)
Purchase settled in cash 112
Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiary (57)
Cash outflow on acquisition 55
Acquiree’s carrying amounts were recorded under Monegasque GAAP . No reconciliation to IFRS is available.
Goodwill arising on the Monaco acquisition includes transaction costs and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria set out 
in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
(d) Other acquisitions
Bulldog and XM Mobile were acquired on 28 May 2004 and 9 September 2004, respectively.
Cable & Wireless paid £19.5 million in respect of the acquisition of 100% of Bulldog and £1.5 million in respect of the acquisition of 100% of XM
Mobile BV. A further £2 million of purchase consideration has been accrued in respect of the XM Mobile acquisition. This is contingent on certain
operational and financial conditions being met in the period to 31 December 2007. Bulldog and XM Mobile contributed revenues of £11 million and
net loss of £27 million from the date of acquisition. If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2004 the contribution to Group revenue would have
been £12 million and the contribution to net profit would have been a loss of £28 million.
Net assets acquired and goodwill are:
Other
acquisitions
Note £m
Purchase consideration:
– Cash paid 21
– Accrued purchase consideration 2
– Direct costs related to acquisitions 2
Fair value of assets acquired (5)
Goodwill 16 20
2005/06 Annual report 127
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
The assets and liabilities arising from acquisition were:
Acquiree’s
carrying amount Fair value
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 11
Property, plant and equipment 44
Trade and other receivables 11
Trade and other payments (6) (6)
Intangible assets (brand) –1
Intangible assets (intellectual property) –4
Net assets acquired –5
Purchase cost 25
Less deferred consideration (2)
Purchase settled in cash –23
Cash and cash equivalents in acquired subsidiaries – (1)
Cash outflow on acquisition –22
Goodwill of £20 million arising on the Bulldog acquisition includes transaction costs and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria
set out in IAS 38.
39 Related party transactions
Transactions with joint ventures and associates
All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless
products and services, network and access charges. There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures and associated companies during 
the year.
The Group made a payment of £5 million to Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Limited, an associate, towards the restoration cost incurred as a result 
of the Tsunami.
The Group received £20 million (2005 – £14 million) dividends from associates and £20 million (2005 – £17 million) from joint ventures for the year
ended 31 March 2006 as set out in note 18.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates in respect of trading balances are set out in note 20.
Cable & Wireless has an interest free loan of £1 million (2005 – £1 million) with Quantum Communications Limited, an associate of the Group, as set
out in note 18.
Transactions with key management personnel
There were no material transactions with key management personnel, including loans advanced to Directors or other key managers, except for those
relating to remuneration, disclosed in notes 7 and 33, and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties
There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There were no material transactions with Directors, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company. Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other
material related parties.
128 2005/06 Annual report 40 Legal proceedings
Arbitration between AT&T Corp,Alascom Inc, Cable and Wireless plc and Japan T elecom
On 28 January 2005, AT&T Corp and Alascom, Inc. (‘Claimants’) filed a Request for Arbitration before the ICC against the Company and Japan Telecom
(‘Respondents’) relating to the Respondents’ alleged duties as Founding Signatories and Maintenance Authorities under the Construction and
Maintenance Agreement for the North Pacific Cable System (‘NPC’). The Claimants allege breach of contract and breaches of fiduciary duty against the
Respondents in connection with alleged overcharging of operations and maintenance fees by PT Cable Inc., a now bankrupt former Founding Signatory
of NPC. The complaint is for US$23,867,909 in damages plus interest (US$16 million through to 31 December 2005) and punitive damages.
The Company’s US Counsel has advised that, in their opinion, all of the Claimants’ claims are weak. A hearing date is yet to be set.
Pender Insurance Limited
Australia-Japan Cable Limited (‘AJC’), a policyholder of Pender has brought proceedings in London against Pender and Cable & Wireless. AJC claims
that it is entitled to insurance cover for loss of revenue following damage caused to an undersea cable by a cargo vessel. It also claims that, if it does
not have such cover, Pender or the Group is liable for its losses because of representations made to AJC that it was entitled to such insurance cover.
The claim is for US$130 million (£75 million). Pender and the Group have been advised by legal counsel that the claim is unmeritorious and
accordingly are defending it vigorously. The trial is set for 3 July 2006 and is estimated to last four weeks. Certain of Pender’s re-insurers of the AJC risk
have instituted proceedings seeking a declaration that they are entitled to avoid their obligations. Pender is also vigorously defending these proceedings.
In February 2006 a settlement was reached of the suit commenced by Cable and Wireless plc and Pender on 30 March 2004 against five companies
and six individuals (five of whom were former Cable & Wireless employees), the terms of which are confidential. As part of that settlement Pender 
has also resolved all outstanding issues with QBE International Insurance Limited and others.
Claim against the Minister of Finance and Economy, Panama
On 16 December 2002, a complaint was filed by two Panamanian lawyers exercising a public action at the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court of
Justice of Panama questioning the validity of the Operating Agreement executed between Cable and Wireless (CALA Management Services) Limited
(‘Cable & Wireless CALA’) and INTEL, SA (now Cable & Wireless Panama, SA (‘C&W Panama’) as part of the privatisation agreements, which they
claim violated the law governing, and rules of, Public Bid No. 06 96 won by Cable and Wireless plc for the purchase of 49% of the shares of 
C&W Panama. Complaints filed at the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice must be filed against the public officer who enacted the
relevant regulation or act. This complaint was filed against the Minister of Finance and Economy in Panama specifically alleging that the Operating
Agreement was null and void ab initio, on the grounds that it had not been published in the Official Gazette in Panama.
The Operating Agreement enables C&W Panama to use the technical and management know-how of Cable & Wireless CALA to fulfil more effectively
its obligations under the concession granted to it by the Government of Panama to install, operate and exploit telecommunication services in Panama.
C&W Panama, due to its close interest in the outcome of the complaint, requested recognition by the Court and permission to participate in the
proceedings. The Court agreed to this.
On 21 March 2003, the Court permitted the claim to proceed. C&W Panama filed an appeal against the admission of the claim to proceed, however
the Court confirmed its decision to permit the claim to proceed on 17 March 2004.
During the bid process, and as required by the Bid rules of Public Bid No. 06 96, the Administration’s Attorney General provided an opinion to the
Minister of Economy and Finance stating that the Share Purchase Agreement and the Operating Agreement were legal and valid. Then, at the request
of the Court, and within the complaint process, the Administration’s Attorney General opined that the Concession Contract, the Share Purchase
Agreement, and the Operating Agreement complied with all the requirements established by the law and by the rules of Public Bid No. 06 96.
The contract was also countersigned by the Comptroller General of the Republic acting with due authorisation.
On 1 April 2005, C&W Panama tendered its response to the claim and submitted evidence for consideration by the Court. The plaintiff has 
requested, on two occasions, that the effect of the Operating Agreement be suspended temporarily, an issue which the Court, in both instances
rejected. On 7 September 2005, the submission of evidence before the Court was completed and both parties filed their closing arguments.
The Court’s ruling is still pending to be issued.
Panamanian counsel considers this claim to be without merit and none of Cable and Wireless plc, C&W Panama or Cable & Wireless CALA is party 
to the complaint. If the complaint were to be successful, the concession under which C&W Panama operates would not be affected. However, the
Operating Agreement could be declared null and void and then the complainants could file a complaint against Cable & Wireless CALA requiring the
return of all management fees collected under the agreement since its execution on 20 May 1997. This would amount to approximately £60 million.
2005/06 Annual report 129
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
T elecarrier Inc. vs. C&W Panama
On 5 May 2004,Telecarrier Inc. (‘Telecarrier’), a new telecommunications operator, lodged a claim in the Sixth Circuit Civil Court of Panama alleging
non-compliance by C&W Panama with the Interconnection Agreement between the parties in connection with the invoicing and collection process.
Telecarrier requested the Court to order the continued provision of a pre-determined billing and charging process and to prevent C&W Panama from
using an alternative process. They also claimed US$18 million (£10 million) damages and costs.
On 9 September 2004, C&W Panama submitted a defence to the claim and on 30 December 2004, the parties presented a petition for suspension 
of the process for a period of 45 days to allow them to negotiate with each other. In a resolution dated 30 December 2004, the Court admitted 
the petition and negotiations with the plaintiff were initiated. Negotiations between C&W Panama and Telecarrier concluded and no agreement was
reached. The Court re-opened proceedings on 13 May 2005.
In a separate action, on 25 August 2004, C&W Panama lodged a claim against Telecarrier in the Seventeenth Circuit Civil Court of Panama claiming
unjustified enrichment by Telecarrier through the use of C&W Panama’s fixed telephone network to allow the rerouting of traffic for internet public use.
C&W Panama is claiming US$14 million (£8 million).
The claim was admitted by the Court on 2 September 2004. On 23 December 2004, the parties agreed to suspend the process for a period of 
30 days to allow for a period of negotiation – a move endorsed by the Court on 23 December 2004. Negotiations between C&W Panama and
Telecarrier concluded and no agreement was reached. The proceedings are pending the submission of evidence before the Court.
On 25 August 2005,Telecarrier petitioned the Court to join the unjust enrichment claim brought by C&W Panama with its non-compliance 
claim against C&W Panama discussed above. The Court ruled in favour of the two cases being joined and a ruling on what evidence is admissible 
is still pending.
Arbitration between Mrs. Beatriz Anguizola de Arosemena, on behalf of The Nation and C&W Panama
On 21 December 2004 Mrs. Beatriz Anguizola de Arosemena, on behalf of the Panamanian Government, filed a request for arbitration against 
C&W Panama demanding that it return to The Nation monies collected for telephone services rendered to the National Assembly, the Judicial Branch
and the Attorney General’s Office, when, it is alleged these should have been provided for free under a state franchise. The amount claimed is
approximately US$11.6 million (£7 million).
The arbitration process is currently suspended following a writ of unconstitutionality filed by C&W Panama on 2 February 2005 to the Supreme Court
for a ruling of unconstitutionality against the resolution issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance which invested Mrs. Beatriz Anguizola with the
authority to file suit against C&W Panama on behalf of the Nation.
C&W Panama have been advised that if the writ of unconstitutionality is rejected by the Supreme Court, then the arbitration process would resume.
Universal T elecom & Energy vs. C&W Panama
Universal Telecom & Energy (‘Universal’) lodged a claim against C&W Panama on 10 February 2005 in the Thirteenth Circuit Civil Court alleging 
C&W Panama breached a contract between them for Universal to make an inventory of C&W Panama’s ducts. Universal alleges that C&W Panama
did not deliver the materials necessary to complete the work and that therefore the work had to be stopped. The amount claimed is approx US$12.6
million (£7 million), of which US$10 million (£6 million) is claimed as moral damages, although the contract is worth approx US$800,000 (£460,000).
On 7 April 2005 C&W Panama answered the complaint and submitted a separate petition requesting the court to declare the action res judicata (‘cosa
juzgada’), on the basis that the parties had previously entered into an extrajudicial transaction (out of court settlement) on 9 May 2003 which settled
the issues covered in the subsequent lawsuit filed by Universal. C&W Panama is waiting for a decree from the Court in response to this petition, and
for the Court to make a pronouncement as to the admission of evidence, counter-evidence and objections to the same.
T echLink Services Corporation vs. C&W Panama
TechLink Services Corporation (‘TechLink’) brought a petition against C&W Panama that one contract between the parties be terminated and 
that another be declared null and void. TechLink also claimed damages of approx US$10.9 million (£6 million) in respect of a third contract and 
US$1.5 million (£800,000) for moral damages. Judgment was found in favour of C&W Panama on 15 July 2005 by the First Circuit Civil Court.
TechLink has appealed this judgment and C&W Panama is vigorously defending the appeal. The parties are waiting for the appeal decision of the 
First Superior Tribunal.
Galaxy Communications Corp. vs. C&W Panama
On 2 February 2006 Galaxy Communications Corp. (‘GCC’) filed a claim against C&W Panama alleging that C&W Panama has committed
monopolistic practices and has abused its dominant market position by denying GCC interconnection to its network. GCC is seeking punitive damages
of approx US$135 million (£78 million). C&W Panama filed its response on 17 April 2006. C&W Panama believe the case to be without merit and
will be strongly defending the case. At this stage GCC have not filed any evidence to support their allegations.
130 2005/06 Annual report Per Second Billing case
On 28 July 2005, the Regulator of Public Services issued a Resolution ordering C&W Panama to retroactively refund to customers of basic local,
national and international telecommunications services an initial minimum call charge which had been levied between February 2003 and May 2005.
C&W Panama has filed a motion for reconsideration with the Regulator on the basis that C&W Panama does not have an obligation to refund these
amounts to its customers and the Regulator has no jurisdiction to make decisions imposing compensation payments. In addition, C&W Panama filed a
Warning of Illegality with the Supreme Court of Panama, arguing that the rule invoked by the Regulator to impose this obligation on Cable & Wireless
Panama should be declared illegal. The Regulator cannot decide on the motion for reconsideration presented by C&W Panama until after the Supreme
Court reaches a decision on the Warning of Illegality.
Other litigation
From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, investigations or reviews. Other than the
above, there are no pending claims, proceedings, investigations or reviews against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, which the Company believes
will, if determined adversely to the Group, have a material adverse effect on the Group’s liquidity or operations.
41 Licences and concessions
In a number of countries the Group hold licences or concessions to operate. These licences take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and
obligations vary significantly. The Group assumes that it will renew licences as they expire as it has done in the past. Were renewal not to occur, in
most cases the business or its assets would be transferred to the new operator or government at market value or net book value. In a small number
of locations, transfer is at a value below carrying value; in these places the Group monitors closely the likelihood of licence renewal in order to ensure
that should a licence not be renewed, the business’ assets have been written down to their recoverable value at the point of transfer.
There were no significant changes to the terms of the Group’s licenses in the year.
42 First time adoption of IFRS
Cable & Wireless reported under UK GAAP in its published financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005. The Group is required by EU
regulation to prepare consolidated financial statements under IFRS for periods commencing after 1 January 2005. As such, IFRS applies for the first 
time in Cable & Wireless’ consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2006.
As a SEC registrant the Group would normally be required to present two year’s comparative information. However, the terms of an accommodation
granted by the SEC permit first time adopters of IFRS to present only one year’s IFRS comparatives in the year of adoption. Consequently, the Group’s
date of transition to IFRS is 1 April 2004.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 prior to 31 March 2005. Accordingly, the comparative information 
in the Financial Statements reflects the Group continuing to account for and disclose financial instruments in accordance with FRS 4 Capital instruments
and FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures. The Group has also elected not to apply IFRS 4 Insurance contracts prior to 
31 March 2005.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Directors have elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business combinations to business combinations that occurred before the date 
of transition. Business combinations that occurred before the date of transition are accounted for in accordance with UK GAAP . The Group had no
unamortised positive goodwill recognised under UK GAAP as at 1 April 2004, so no review of the goodwill for compliance with the IFRS measurement
principles was necessary. Negative goodwill has been credited to reserves on transition as it is not carried on the balance sheet under IFRS 3.
The Directors have elected to take advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption from the provisions of IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates
for the cumulative translation differences that existed at the date of IFRS transition. Consequently, cumulative translation differences on retranslation 
of subsidiaries’ net assets as at 1 April 2004 have been set to zero.
IFRS 2 Share-based payments has been applied only to grants of equity settled share-based payments made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested
by 1 January 2005.
As permitted by IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, the group has applied the standard to assets held for sale and
discontinued operations occurring from its date of transition to IFRS as the necessary valuation information was available to do so.
In 2004 the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits, giving an option to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full, outside the income
statement, in a statement of changes in equity. This amendment applies to financial statement periods beginning after 1 January 2006. However, as
permitted by the amendment, the Group has elected to adopt this amendment early and has applied the new option in these financial statements 
for both the current and comparative periods.
2005/06 Annual report 131
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Property, plant and equipment that has been fully written down has been included in cost at its nil net book value. The cost and accumulated
depreciation of all other property, plant and equipment has been recognised on transition.
Profit and loss reconciliation
As required by IFRS 1, the Group has prepared reconciliations between the profit recorded under UK GAAP and IFRS for the year ended 31 March 2005,
being the last year reported under UK GAAP .
Income statement for the year ended 31 March 2005
UK GAAP IFRS
year ended IFRS year ended
31 March 2005 adjustment 31 March 2005
£m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3,002 (54) 2,948
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (2,676) 9 (2,667)
Depreciation (199) 21 (178)
Amortisation (7) (13) (20)
Group operating profit/(loss) 120 (37) 83
Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 33 15 48
Total operating profit/(loss) 153 (22) 131
Net finance costs and other income 36 – 36
Profit before income tax 189 (22) 167
Income tax (expense)/credit 22 3 25
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 211 (19) 192
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 166 (4) 162
Profit for the year 377 (23) 354
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 301 (7) 294
Minority interest 76 (16) 60
377 (23) 354
An analysis of the IFRS adjustments is given below:
Reconciliation of profit between UK GAAP and IFRS
Note Year ended
31 March
2005
£m
As reported under UK GAAP 377
Deconsolidation of Maldives business (a) (17)
Employee benefits (b) 2
Intangible assets (c) 1
Share-based payments (d) (8)
Income taxes (e) 2
Recycling of foreign exchange losses on disposal (f) (3)
As restated under IFRS 354
Continuing operations 192
Discontinued operations 162
354
Equity reconciliation
The Group has prepared reconciliations between the shareholders’ equity recorded under UK GAAP and IFRS as at 1 April 2004, the date of transition
to IFRS, and 31 March 2005, the date of the last UK GAAP accounts.
132 2005/06 Annual report Balance sheet in IFRS format:
31 March 2005 Date of transition
UK GAAP IFRS IFRS UK GAAP IFRS IFRS
31 March 2005 adjustment 31 March 2005 1 April 2004 adjustment 1 April 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 1,379 (111) 1,268 1,214 (71) 1,143
Intangible assets 91 115 206 (9) 53 44
Investments in associates and joint ventures 208 37 245 208 31 239
Trade investments 33 – 33 58 2 60
Taxation recoverable 14 (14) – 30 (15) 15
Deferred tax asset 25 4 29 28 7 35
Retirement benefit asset 202 (176) 26 103 (76) 27
Trade and other receivables 43 – 43 27 1 28
1,995 (145) 1,850 1,659 (68) 1,591
Current assets
Inventories 35 (9) 26 38 (9) 29
Taxation recoverable – – – 7 (2) 5
Trade investments 82 (2) 80 49 – 49
Trade and other receivables 816 (11) 805 868 (4) 864
Cash and cash equivalents 2,072 (51) 2,021 2,305 (35) 2,270
3,005 (73) 2,932 3,267 (50) 3,217
Assets held for sale – 18 18 – – –
3,005 (55) 2,950 3,267 (50) 3,217
Total assets 5,000 (200) 4,800 4,926 (118) 4,808
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 1,353 (60) 1,293 1,290 (1) 1,289
Current tax liabilities 158 – 158 271 (1) 270
Loans and obligations under finance leases 23 – 23 44 – 44
Dividend payable – – – 73 (73) –
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 279 – 279 – – –
1,813 (60) 1,753 1,678 (75) 1,603
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale – 4 4 – – –
1,813 (56) 1,757 1,678 (75) 1,603
Net current assets 1,192 1 1,193 1,589 25 1,614
Non-current liabilities
Loans and obligations under finance leases 801 – 801 875 (1) 874
Trade and other payables – – – – 1 1
Deferred tax liabilities 43 6 49 25 4 29
Provisions for liabilities and charges 184 4 188 368 – 368
Retirement benefit obligations 22 205 227 28 393 421
1,050 215 1,265 1,296 397 1,693
Net assets 2,137 (359) 1,778 1,952 (440) 1,512
EQUITY
Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity shareholders
Share capital 599 – 599 596 – 596
Share premium 8 – 8 2 – 2
Reserves 1,211 (335) 876 1,105 (393) 712
1,818 (335) 1,483 1,703 (393) 1,310
Minority interest 319 (24) 295 249 (47) 202
Total Equity 2,137 (359) 1,778 1,952 (440) 1,512
An analysis of the adjustments is given below:
2005/06 Annual report 133
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity between UK GAAP and IFRS
31 March 1 April
2005 2004
Note £m £m
As reported under UK GAAP 1,818 1,703
Employee benefits (b) (395) (480)
Intangible assets (c) 10 9
Dividends payable (g) 60 73
Income taxes (e) (8) (5)
Other (2) 10
As restated under IFRS 1,483 1,310
(a) Deconsolidation of Dhiraagu
Under UK GAAP , the Group accounts for its 45% shareholding in Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Limited (‘Dhiraagu’), the Group’s Maldivian business,
as a subsidiary. The revenue, operating profit and financing costs of Dhiraagu were consolidated in full in the income statement with a corresponding
allocation to minority interest. IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements defines a subsidiary as an entity that is controlled by another entity.
The IFRS basis of determining control differs from that of UK GAAP; consequently, under IFRS, the Group considers this investment to be a joint
venture. Under UK GAAP , the assets and liabilities of Dhiraagu were fully consolidated in the balance sheet with a minority interest calculated. The IFRS
consolidated balance sheets at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 reflect only the Group’s interest in Dhiraagu.
(b) Employee benefits
The Group has elected, in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits, to adopt a policy of accounting for defined benefit employee retirement schemes
through full recognition of the schemes’ surpluses (or deficit) on the balance sheet at each year end. Actuarial gains and losses are included in the
statement of recognised income and expenditure (‘SORIE’).
This is similar to the approach required by the UK standard FRS 17 Retirement benefits for which the Group has previously provided transitional
disclosure information. In addition, the prepayment under SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs was also reversed, further reducing net assets.
The deferred tax impact of employee benefits is disclosed within the tax figure.
Under UK GAAP , in line with common practice, the Group did not account for holiday pay accruals unless legally obliged to make cash settlement.
IAS 19 explicitly requires appropriate provision to be made for the cost of holiday entitlements not taken at the balance sheet date.
(c) Intangible assets
IFRS allows companies to elect not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations which occurred before the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group has elected to take advantage of this exemption. Negative goodwill has been credited to reserves on transition at 1 April 2004 as IFRS 3
does not allow negative goodwill to be carried on the balance sheet.
The recognition criteria for intangible assets other than goodwill differ between UK GAAP and IFRS. In general, a greater number of intangible assets 
are recognised under IFRS 3. During the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group acquired three businesses: Monaco Telecom, Bulldog and XM Mobile.
Under IFRS 3 a number of intangible assets were identified with a consequent reduction in the amount of goodwill recognised.
Under UK GAAP , goodwill was amortised over its expected useful life, and is tested for impairment in specific circumstances. IFRS 3 requires that
goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed on an annual basis for impairment.
(d) Share-based payments
Under UK GAAP share based awards were accounted for on an intrinsic basis. In addition, no charges apply to the Group’s SAYE schemes.
Under IFRS 2, an expense is recognised in the income statement for grants of equity instruments in relation to employee options and performance
share schemes including SAYE schemes. The expense recognised is based on the fair value of the shares or options at the date of grant and is
recognised over the vesting period of the scheme.
IFRS 1 permits a company to apply IFRS 2 only to grants of equity settled share-based awards granted after 7 November 2002 that have not vested 
by the later of the date of transition to IFRS and 1 January 2005. The Group has taken advantage of this exemption. The Group has used the Monte
Carlo pricing model and Black-Scholes Merton formula, as appropriate, for the purposes of computing fair values under IFRS 2.
134 2005/06 Annual report (e) Income taxes
Under UK GAAP deferred tax was provided on timing differences. IAS 12 Income T ax requires deferred tax to be provided on temporary differences
rather than just timing differences, with the exception of: unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group controls 
the timing of the remittances and it is probable that the associated temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future; and differences
arising from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination
affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit. Under IFRS, the Group’s share of the tax charge or its associates is not included in the tax charge, but
instead deducted from its share of pre-tax profits.
(f) Recycling of foreign exchange losses on disposal of a subsidiary
IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates requires cumulative translation differences arising from translation of foreign operations to 
be recorded in equity and then recycled as a gain or loss on disposal when the operation is sold. IFRS 1 permits entities an exemption from IAS 21;
cumulative translation differences up to the date of transition are not recycled. However, from this date onwards, translation differences are recorded 
in accordance with IAS 21.
The Group has taken advantage of this exemption and, as such, the cumulative translation differences at the date of transition have been set to zero.
Translation differences from 1 April 2004 in respect of the Group’s Japanese operations, which were disposed of during the current year, have been
included in the calculation of profit on disposal. There is no effect on shareholders’ equity.
(g) Dividends payable
Under UK GAAP , dividends relating to the current year but declared after the balance sheet date were recognised as a liability at the year end. Under
IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, such dividends are not permitted to be recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date as the liability does
not represent a present obligation as defined by IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets. As a result, the dividends declared after the
balance sheet date and accrued in the balance sheet as at 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005 are reversed.
2005/06 Annual report 135
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
43 Impact of the adoption of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4
Impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 adoption
The Group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 April 2005 as permitted by IFRS 1. The impact of the adoption of the new standard on the net assets 
as at 31 March 2005 is presented below:
IFRS Effect of IFRS
31 March IAS 32/39 1 April
2005 adoption 2005
Note £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 1,268 – 1,268
Intangible assets 206 – 206
Investments in associates and joint ventures 245 – 245
Trade investments (i) 33 (33) –
Available for sale financial assets (i) –9090
Deferred tax asset 29 – 29
Retirement benefit asset 26 – 26
Trade and other receivables 43 6 49
1,850 63 1,913
Current assets
Inventories 26 – 26
Trade investments (ii) 80 (80) –
Available for sale financial assets (ii) – 78 78
Trade and other receivables 805 – 805
Cash and cash equivalents 2,021 – 2,021
2,932 (2) 2,930
Assets held for sale 18 – 18
2,950 (2) 2,948
Total assets 4,800 61 4,861
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (ii) 1,293 (2) 1,291
Current tax liabilities 158 – 158
Loans and obligations under finance leases 23 – 23
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 279 – 279
1,753 (2) 1,751
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 4–4
1,757 (2) 1,755
Net current assets 1,193 – 1,193
Non-current liabilities
Loans and obligations under finance leases (iii, iv) 801 (75) 726
Derivative financial instruments (iii, iv) – 62 62
Deferred tax liabilities 49 – 49
Provisions for liabilities and charges 188 – 188
Retirement benefit obligations 227 – 227
1,265 (13) 1,252
Net assets 1,778 76 1,854
(i) Certain non-current listed investments, with a carrying value of £27 million and classified as trade investments under UK GAAP , have been
reclassified as available for sale financial instruments with a fair value of £90 million. The Group’s share of the fair value gain (£32 million) has 
been recognised in equity and the minority’s share in minority interest. The remaining items classified as trade investments under UK GAAP have
been classified as trade and other receivables. Items classified as available for sale are revalued at each balance sheet date with changes in value
recognised in reserves. The net amount held in reserves is taken to the income statement on disposal of the asset.
(ii) Certain current investments, with a carrying value of £78 million and classified as current asset investments under UK GAAP , have been reclassified
as current available for sale financial instruments with a fair value of £78 million.
136 2005/06 Annual report (iii) The Group has a Euro denominated loan (the ‘Loan’) and a related euro-sterling cross currency swap (the ‘Swap’) with terms matching those 
of the Loan. Under UK GAAP , the Loan and Swap were accounted for as if they were a single loan denominated in sterling. Under IFRS the
components have been separated. The Loan has been translated at the closing rate at 31 March 2005 giving rise to a reduction in the balance of
£15 million. The Swap was marked to market at the same date and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of £15 million.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting to the Loan and Swap. Both the Loan and Swap are revalued at each balance sheet date. Gains and
losses on the instruments (which will materially offset each other) are recognised in the income statement.
(iv) The terms and conditions of the Group’s Convertible debt instrument result in a recognition and measurement basis that is different from the 
basis applied under UK GAAP . The debt agreement provides for the conversion of the debt into Ordinary Shares of Cable and Wireless plc at a
predetermined fixed rate. The conversion is at the option of the bondholders and exercisable at any time prior to 9 July 2010. The bond also has
a takeover protection clause, which adjusts the share conversion factor, over a period of time, until settlement or conversion of the bond. The
Group has the option to settle the entire bond in cash (although this option was removed in April 2005). The takeover protection terms and the
cash settlement option are considered to be derivative features that are required to be accounted for separately from the debt element of the bond.
The liability component and the derivative features are separated and measured in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 and IAS 39.
At 1 April 2005, the debt element was reduced by £60 million primarily reflecting the unamortised value of the conversion option. The debt
element is accounted for on an amortised cost basis. The conversion option and takeover protection feature were marked to market at
1 April 2005 and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of £47 million. The derivative elements are carried on a fair value
basis with changes in value being taken to the income statement. Subsequent to 1 April 2005 the cash settlement option in respect of the
conversion option was removed and the conversion option reclassified as a component of equity.
No deferred tax impact has been booked as a consequence of the above adjustments as there are unrecognised tax losses available to offset any
additional liability.
Impact of IFRS 4 adoption
The adjustments relating to the implementation of IFRS 4 are restricted solely to the reclassification of elements of certain current receivables, payables
and provisions to more properly reflect their insurance based nature. These reclassifications do not affect net assets and, where material, will be
reflected in the notes to the financial statements.
44 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
Ownership
Issued
Share
Local Capital Via Class of Country of Area of
currency (million) Direct subsidiaries shares incorporation operation
Cable & Wireless UK £ 3,033 – 100% Ordinary England UK
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 – 82% Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica
Cable & Wireless Panama, SA
1
Balboa 316 – 49% Ordinary Panama Panama
Companhia de Telecomunicacoes de Macau, SARL
2
Pataca 150 – 51% Ordinary Macau Macau
and China
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Ltd B$ 72 – 81% Ordinary Barbados Barbados
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Ltd £ 5 – 100% Ordinary England Caribbean
Monaco T elecom SAM
3 4
Euro 2 – 49% Ordinary Monaco Monaco
Bulldog Communications Ltd £ 2 – 100% Ordinary England UK
Chelys Limited (Energis) £ 14 – 100% Ordinary England UK
Joint ventures
Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd
3
T$ 283 – 49% Ordinary Trinidad Trinidad
and T obago and T obago
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd
2
Rufiya 190 – 45% Ordinary Maldives Maldives
Associates
Bahrain T elecommunications Company BSC
2
Dinar 100 20% – Ordinary Bahrain Bahrain
1
The Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement.
2
This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders’ agreement.
3
This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms.
4
The Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM.
2005/06 Annual report 137
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco based telecommunication service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In addition, the 6% interest is subject to
certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco T elecom to 
Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions, a prohibition
on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality (subject to certain limited exceptions) selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual 
pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality. The Principality has a put option entitling it to 
put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008. The exercise price under the put option is 
fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those
companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial statements.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual Return, to be filed
with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
45 Financial risk management
Treasury policy
The Group’s treasury operations are managed on the basis of policies and authorities approved by Cable and Wireless plc’s Board of Directors.
Day-to-day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Finance Director and the Group Treasurer, within specified financial limits for each type
of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiary operating companies undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by the Group treasury function. Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash, debt and hedging positions to Group treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of the treasury function include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency
risk. The majority of the Group’s funding and cash resources are managed centrally.
Wherever possible individual companies in the Group are funded in, and operate in, their functional currency.
Cable & Wireless only uses derivatives and financial instruments including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps
and options in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by the
Treasury Management Committee (comprising of the Finance Director, Group Treasurer and other senior financial managers as required) and subject to
policies approved by the Board. Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are monitored
and reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Exchange rate risk
Cable & Wireless trades in many countries and much of its revenue is generated in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency payments, dividend income from foreign subsidiaries, reported
profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts 
and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term. Where 
it is deemed appropriate the Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange
exposures for the Group. In addition, overseas subsidiaries are generally financed in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of
foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As at 31 March 2006, the Group had in place foreign exchange contracts amounting to £31 million, being primarily the sale of US$54 million 
against sterling.
138 2005/06 Annual report The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange ruling during the year. Overseas earnings are predominately in US
dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar. In broad terms, based on the 2005/06 mix of profits, the impact of a unilateral 1% weakening of sterling
would have been to increase the operating profit before exceptional items by approximately £2 million. The Group does not undertake profit
translation hedging activities.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas
investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
Currently there are no external foreign currency liabilities matched against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The Group currently does not undertake any hedges of long-term currency trading flows.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to movements of interest rates on its debt and surplus cash balances. The treasury function may seek to reduce volatility 
by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate. There were no derivatives 
in place as at 31 March 2006.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Group’s fixed rate debt. However, no debt is held for
trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity, hence the exposure to fair value loss has not been modelled.
Credit risk
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed to
perform as contracted. The counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Group’s financial instruments are entities rated A1 short-term and/or
AA- long-term by Standard and Poor’s (or equivalent by Moody’s and/or Fitch). The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on an ongoing
basis. The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the Board with limits on the
exposure to any one counterparty.
Liquidity risk
At 31 March 2006, Cable & Wireless had cash, current asset investment and short-term deposits of £1,166 million. This amount included £50 million 
of cash pledged against liabilities, some contingent. The surplus cash is a significant component of the Group’s overall liquidity and capital resources.
Approximately 73% of the Group’s cash is held centrally and is predominantly invested in short-term bank deposits and AAA-rated money 
market funds.
During 2004/05 the Group purchased £80 million of Credit Linked Notes issued by AA-rated banks and referenced to the Company’s £200 million
bond, which matures in 2012. This transaction has a similar economic effect to repurchasing the bonds for the period of the investment. During
2005/06, £40 million of these Credit Linked Notes were sold at par. The Company considers that the remaining £39 million, at fair value, of Credit
Linked Notes could be realised for cash in the short term and hence are liquid assets. Further information on these transactions is given in note 19.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions, which restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the parent company. £60 million of cash held in
restricted jurisdictions is not included in gross cash at 31 March 2006.
2005/06 Annual report 139
Consolidated
financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
46 Financial instruments – comparative disclosures
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1 in preparing these financial statements and has elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 
until 1 April 2005. Consequently, the Group has applied the UK standard FRS 13 in the comparative year. The disclosures below are those required 
by FRS 13 in respect of the year ended 31 March 2005. The main adjustments that would be made to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39 are similar in
nature and size to those presented in note 43.
Interest rate management
The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the Group at 31 March 2005, after taking account of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest
rate swaps, is set out in the table below:
Floating rate Fixed rate Total
£m £m £m
Sterling 121 617 738
US$ 25 60 85
Other –11
146 678 824
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest at rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from one week to six
months by reference to LIBOR for sterling and US dollar borrowings.
The weighted average interest rates for the fixed rate financial liabilities of the Group at 31 March 2005, together with the periods for which the rates
were fixed, are set out in the table below:
Weighted
average
period for
Weighted which the
average interest rate
interest rate is fixed
% (months)
Sterling 6.8 102
US$ 5.4 73
Other 10.0 22
6.7 98
The interest and other similar income rate profile of the financial assets of the Group at 31 March 2005, is set out in the table below:
Non interest
Floating rate bearing Total
£m £m £m
Sterling 1,860 – 1,860
US$ 139 1 140
Euro 86 – 86
HK$ 11516
Other 34 4 38
2,120 20 2,140
The floating rate financial assets principally comprise cash and short-term deposits. The financial assets include £6 million cash held as part of the 
£18 million assets held for sale. Of the total, approximately 86% is held by the Group’s central treasury operations as sterling and US dollar cash
deposits with short-term maturities based on LIBOR and maturities ranging between one month and a year. During the year, the Group also 
purchased £80 million of Credit Linked Notes with a maturity of 2012. Refer to note 19 for further details.
At 31 March 2005, the Group does not have any significant financial assets earning a fixed return. The non-interest bearing financial assets are held 
in a trade investment.
140 2005/06 Annual report Exchange risk management
The following table shows the Group’s currency exposures at 31 March 2005 on currency transactions that give rise to the net currency gains and
losses recognised in the income statement. Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in 
the functional currency of the operating company involved.
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities) in £m
Functional currency of the
operating company US$ Sterling Euro Other T otal
Sterling 33 – (2) (5) 26
HK$ –––22
Euro 5–––5
Other 6641 17
4462 (2) 50
The amounts shown in the table above take into account the effect of any cross currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and other derivatives
entered into to manage these currency exposures.
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profiles of the Group’s financial liabilities, as listed in the fair value table below are disclosed in note 25.
Fair value
The estimated fair values of the Group’s financial instruments are summarised below:
31 March 2005
Carrying Estimated
amount fair value
£m £m
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations
Trade investments 20 83
Cash 135 135
Short-term deposits 1,979 1,979
Cash held as part of held for sale assets 66
Loans and obligations under finance leases due within one year (23) (23)
Convertible bonds (252) (277)
Other loans and obligations due after more than one year (549) (582)
Derivative financial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency exposure
Cross currency swap liabilities (15) (15)
Trade investments
Trade investments above are detailed in note 19. The fair value is based on year end quoted prices for listed investments and estimates of likely sales
proceeds for other investments.
Cash at bank and in hand, short-term deposits and short-term borrowings
The carrying value approximates to fair value either because of the short maturity of the instruments or because the interest rate on investments 
is reset after periods not greater than six months.
Convertible bonds and other long-term debt
The fair value is based on quoted market prices or, where these are not available, on the quoted market prices of comparable debt issued by 
other companies.
Forward rate agreements, interest rate and cross currency swaps
The fair value of forward rate agreements, interest rate and cross currency swaps is the estimated amount which the Group would expect to pay or
receive were it to terminate the swaps at the balance sheet date. This takes into consideration current interest rates, current exchange rates and the
current creditworthiness of the counterparties. The nominal value of swaps at 31 March 2005 was £121 million. There are no unrecognised gains 
and losses at 31 March 2005.
Forward exchange contracts
The value of these contracts is the estimated amount, which the Group would expect to pay or receive on the termination of the contracts. This takes
into consideration current interest rates and current exchange rates. At 31 March 2005 the Group had £29 million of such contracts outstanding.
2005/06 Annual report 141
Consolidated
financial statements 142 2005/06 Annual report Individual
financial
statements
of Cable and
Wireless plc
144 Independent auditor’s report
145 Balance sheet
146 Reconciliation of movements in
equity shareholders’ funds for 
the Company
147 Notes to the financial statements
Individual financial
statements
2005/06 Annual report 143 Independent auditor’s report to the members of
Cable and Wireless plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which
comprise Company balance sheet, reconciliation of movements in
shareholders’ funds for the Company and the related notes. These
parent company financial statements have been prepared under 
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described
as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial
statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 
31 March 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the
Directors’ remuneration report and the parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting
Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out
in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 66.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report 
to you if in our opinion the information given in the Directors’
report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific
information presented in the Annual report that is cross referenced
from the Business review section of the Directors’ report. We also
report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by
law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is 
not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company
financial statements. We consider the implications for our report 
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to
be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates
and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the
parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity
or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration
report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view,
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2006;
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
– the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with
the parent company financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
31 May 2006
144 2005/06 Annual report Company balance sheet
As at 31 March 2006
Restated
31 March 31 March
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 6 12 11
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiaries 7 21,342 20,412
Investments in joint ventures and associates 7 25 19
Loans to joint ventures and associates 7 1 1
Available for sale assets 9 15 –
21,395 20,443
Current assets
Debtors
– due within one year 8 66 148
– due after more than one year 8 3 1
69 149
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss account 9 39 –
Available for sale financial assets 9 655 –
Current assets, investments and short-term deposits 9 – 1,819
Cash at bank and in hand 162 11
925 1,979
Current liabilities
Creditors 10 (227) (272)
Loans 11 (106) –
Derivative financial instruments 12 (15) –
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (348) (272)
Net current assets 577 1,707
Total assets less current liabilities 21,972 22,150
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Creditors 10 (18,349) (18,382)
Convertible debt 11 (202) (252)
Loans 12 (184) (304)
(18,735) (18,938)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 14 (87) (164)
Retirement benefit obligations 17 (23) (20)
(18,845) (19,122)
Net assets 3,127 3,028
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 15 605 599
Share premium account 16 24 8
Reserves 16 2,498 2,421
Equity shareholders’ funds 3,127 3,028
The accompanying notes on pages 147 to 164 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company.
The financial statements of the Company on pages 145 to 164 were approved by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne – Chairman Charles Herlinger – Chief Financial Officer
2005/06 Annual report 145
Individual financial
statements 146 2005/06 Annual report
Reconciliation of movements in
equity shareholders’ funds for the Company
For the year ended 31 March 2006
Restated
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 120 112
Dividends – interim (32) (27)
– final (60) (73)
Profit for the year carried forward 28 12
Adoption of FRS 25/26 14 –
Other recognised gains relating to the year 2 –
Actuarial loss in the value of defined benefit retirement plans (2) –
New share capital issued 22 9
Purchase of own shares (17) (75)
Share-based payments 5 5
Conversion element of convertible bond transferred to equity 47 –
Increase/(decrease) in equity shareholders’ funds 99 (49)
Opening equity shareholders’ funds (prior year adjusted) 3,028 3,077
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 3,127 3,028
Opening equity shareholders’ funds were originally £3,109 million before deducting a prior year adjustment of £81 million (2004/05 – £3,107 million
before deducting a prior year adjustment of £30 million) relating to the adoption of FRS 17, FRS 20 and FRS 21 (see note 1.2).
The accompanying notes on pages 147 to 164 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company. Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
1 Statement of accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally accepted accounting
principles in the UK and the provisions of the Companies Act, and on the historical cost basis where appropriate, except for the revaluation of
investments in subsidiaries.
These financial statements set out the position of the Company and not Cable & Wireless Group (the ‘Group’) which it heads.
1.2 New accounting standards
The following Accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Company’s financial
statements except as noted below.
The Company has adopted FRS 17 Retirement benefits, FRS 20 Accounting for share-based payments, FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date, FRS 22
Earnings per share (not applicable to the Company), FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, FRS 24 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary
economies, FRS 25 Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation, FRS 26 Financial instruments: Measurement. The comparative figures have been
restated where applicable.
The adoption of FRS 17 resulted in a prior year adjustment of £141 million reducing opening equity shareholders’ funds (2004 – £103 million).
The adoption of FRS 20 resulted in a charge in the years ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2006 in respect of share based payments of £5 million
and £5 million respectively. There was no impact on the opening balance sheet.
The adoption of FRS 21 changed the timing of the recognition of dividends from the period to which the dividend related to the point at which the
dividend becomes payable. A prior year adjustment of £60 million has been reflected in the opening balance sheet at 1 April 2005 (2004 – £73 million).
The adoption of FRS 23 and FRS 24 has no impact on these financial statements.
The adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 requires substantial additional disclosures and the reclassification and re-measurement of certain of the Company’s
assets and liabilities. As permitted under the transitional arrangements for the implementation of these standards, the Company has adopted FRS 25
and FRS 26 from 1 April 2005. A reconciliation of the balance sheet at 31 March 2005 to 1 April 2005 is set out in note 20.
1.3 Use of estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues 
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18 Accounting policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the change 
has a material impact on the reported results for the period.
1.4 Tangible fixed assets and depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation. The cost of fixed assets includes directly attributable labour and overhead costs. Interest
incurred up to the time that separately identifiable major capital projects are ready for service is also capitalised as part of the cost of assets. Where
the Company has a legal or constructive obligation to dismantle and remove its assets and restore the relevant sites, a provision is made for the
estimated costs of the asset retirement obligation. The present value of the asset retirement obligation is capitalised as part of the initial cost 
of the asset.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or projects under construction. On other tangible fixed assets, depreciation is provided on the difference
between the cost of tangible fixed assets and the estimated residual value, in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for use. These lives are:
Lives
Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold land and buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less
Profits and losses on disposals of tangible fixed assets are determined by reference to sale proceeds and net book values.
2005/06 Annual report 147
Individual financial
statements Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
148 2005/06 Annual report
1.5 Asset impairment
Intangible and tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the 
fixed asset may not be recoverable. Where an impairment indicator is identified, the carrying value of the income-generating unit is compared with 
its recoverable amount. Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value an impairment is recognised.
1.6 Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at valuation. Investments in joint ventures and associates are included in the balance sheet
at cost.
1.7 Financial investments
(a) From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005
Listed and unlisted securities are carried at purchase price net of any diminution in value that is expected to be permanent. Any diminution in value is
charged to profit.
(b) From 1 April 2005
The Company classifies its investments into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit and loss, loans and receivables,
held-to-maturity investments, and available for sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit and loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they
are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within one year of the balance sheet date.
Originated loans and receivables
Originated loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Company provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable. They are included 
in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date; these are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Held-to-maturity investments
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Company’s
management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within one year of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date – the date on which the Company commits to purchase or sell the asset. Investments
are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit and loss. Investments are
derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Available for sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are subsequently
carried at fair value. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial assets at fair value through profit and loss’ category are
included in the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise. Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of 
non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the profit and loss account 
as gains and losses from investment securities. The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset
is not active (and for unlisted securities), the Company establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length
transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect
the issuer’s specific circumstances.
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered
in determining whether the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss – measured as
the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit and loss – is removed from equity and recognised in the profit and loss account. Impairment losses recognised in the profit and loss account on equity
instruments are not reversed through the profit and loss account.
1.8 T ax
The charge for tax is based on the result for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain
items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the extent
that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future
reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have arisen but not
reversed at the balance sheet date.
1.9 Pensions
The Company is a member of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme but is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities 
of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution
scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the Company’s profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of
the accounting period.
The Company also operates an unfunded pension plan to cover the costs of former Directors’ and other senior employees’ pension entitlements.
Provision is made in the Company’s financial statements for the expected costs of meeting the associated liabilities.
Costs in respect of the Company’s defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis as
contributions become payable.
1.10 Employee share schemes
The cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares are recognised over the period of the employee’s related
performance. Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
1.11 Borrowings
(a) From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005
Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received from the borrowing agreement, net of any related issue costs. Those issue costs are
amortised into the profit and loss account over the life of the instrument using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current
liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the balance sheet date.
(b) From 1 April 2005
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost; any difference
between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the
borrowings using the effective interest method.
Where the terms of a borrowing arrangement contain a separable embedded derivative, the initial values of the debt component and the derivative
component(s) are determined using the appropriate fair value calculations. The liability portion is recorded on an amortised cost basis until
extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds. If the conversion option is a derivative it is accounted for as such. Where the conversion option
is considered to be equity, it is recognised and included in shareholders’ equity, net of income tax effects.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after
the balance sheet date.
1.12 Trade and other receivables
(a) From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005
Trade and other receivables are carried at the original invoice amount to customers less provision made for doubtful receivables based on a periodic
review of all outstanding amounts. Bad debts are written off through the profit and loss account when identified.
(b) From 1 April 2005
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision 
for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able 
to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the provision is recognised in 
the profit and loss account.
2005/06 Annual report 149
Individual financial
statements Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
150 2005/06 Annual report
1.13 Financial instruments
(a) From 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005
Swaps and forward rate agreements
The net interest paid or received under any interest rate and cross currency swaps and forward rate agreements (‘FRAs’) is recorded on an accruals
basis and included within net financing cost in the profit and loss account. The notional amounts of interest rate swaps and FRAs are not recorded on
the balance sheet. Cross currency swaps are used to hedge the initial draw down and final repayment of certain foreign currency denominated debt,
and the related foreign currency interest flows.
Forward exchange contracts
Forward exchange contracts are carried on the balance sheet at the difference between the amounts of the payable and receivable currency revalued
at the closing exchange rate. The interest differential, being the difference between the contract rate and the spot rate on the date of entering into the
forward exchange contract, is charged to the profit and loss account as interest over the life of the contract.
Exchange gains and losses
Exchange gains and losses on revaluation and maturity of any forward exchange contracts and cross currency swaps are treated according to the
underlying exposure they hedge:
– for any contracts that hedge firm third party commitments the exchange gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same
period as the underlying transaction;
– for any contracts over underlying currency assets or liabilities the exchange gains and losses are offset against the equal and opposite exchange gains
or losses arising on the retranslation of the underlying assets or liabilities;
– for any contracts taken out to hedge overseas equity investments the exchange gains and losses are taken to reserves to offset against the exchange
differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets of the investments on consolidation; and
– for any contracts that hedge general trading flows the exchange gains or losses are taken to the profit and loss account in the period in which they
arise. Where the underlying exposure changes, or ceases to exist, the contract would be terminated and the exchange gain or loss arising taken to
the profit and loss account.
(b) From 1 April 2005
Derivative financial instruments and associated gains and losses are recognised as balance sheet items and recognised gains/losses respectively.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature 
of the item being hedged. The Company designates certain derivatives as either:
– hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge);
– hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedges); or
– hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The Company documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk
management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Company also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception
and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash
flows of hedged items.
Fair value hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account, together with any
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity. The gain 
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the profit and loss account in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss (for instance
when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial
asset (for example, network) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial
measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss 
existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to 
the profit and loss account. Net investment hedges
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating 
to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity; the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the 
profit and loss account.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the profit and loss account when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Fair value estimation
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives, and trading and available for sale securities) is based
on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Company is the current bid price; the
appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Company uses a variety
of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt. Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows,
are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the
estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance
sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair value 
of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is
available to the Company for similar financial instruments.
1.14 Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) and purchase of own shares by the Company
The financial statements of the Company include the assets and related liabilities of the Group’s Employee Share Ownership Plan T rust (‘the T rust’),
which holds shares for the Group’s ESOP . Under the requirements of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts the shares held by the Trust are stated at cost
and deducted from shareholders’ funds.
Shares purchased by the Company are held as treasury shares at cost and deducted from shareholders’ funds until they are cancelled, sold for cash 
or transferred out of treasury pursuant to an employees’ share scheme. Treasury shares do not carry voting rights and no dividends will be paid on
these shares.
2 Company’s profit and loss account and cash flow statement
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not presented its own profit and loss
account. The profit for the year of the Company amounted to £120 million (2005 – £112 million after £40 million of prior year adjustments resulting
from the application of new accounting standards).
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 1 (revised) and has not presented its own cash flow statement, as its cash flows
are included in the consolidated cash flow of the Group, set out on page 72.
3 Remuneration of directors
Information covering Directors’ remuneration, interests in shares, share options and pension benefits is set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on
pages 55 to 65.
2005/06 Annual report 151
Individual financial
statements Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
152 2005/06 Annual report
4 Staff numbers and costs
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year, was as follows:
2005/06 2004/05
Average number of persons employed by the Company 287 556
2005/06 2004/05
Costs for the year £m £m
Wages and salaries 24 44
Share-based payments 5 5
Social securities costs 2 3
Other pension costs 42 44
73 96
5 Employee share schemes
The details of share option schemes and other share-based plans are disclosed in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements. The cost of such
options and awards is borne by participating businesses and the Company has borne its charge as set out in the table above.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are presented below:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
Weighted average Weighted average
exercise price Number of options exercise price Number of options
(p) ‘000 (p) ‘000
Outstanding at the start of the period 139.35 28,114 196.49 22,708
Granted in the period 127.25 10,233 110.14 11,956
Forfeited in the period 122.68 (226) 127.67 (640)
Exercised in the period 101.85 (3,449) 97.94 (414)
Lapsed in the period 209.65 (3,122) 316.33 (5,496)
Outstanding at the end of the period 132.69 31,550 139.35 28,114
Exercisable at the end of the period 287.61 2,997 462.56 1,916
The Company has applied the requirement of FRS 20 and has elected to adopt the exemption to apply FRS 20 only to awards made after 
7 November 2002.
6 T angible fixed assets
Projects
Land and Plant and under
buildings equipment construction T otal
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 279 3 84
Additions –134
Disposals – (51) (1) (52)
Transfers – 1 (1) –
At 31 March 2006 230 4 36
Depreciation
At 1 April 2005 172 – 73
Charge for the year –2–2
Disposals – (51) – (51)
At 31 March 2006 123 – 24
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 174 12
At 31 March 2005 173 11 2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Land and buildings at net book value
Freeholds 1 1
7 Fixed asset investments
Joint
ventures
and Subsidiary
associates undertakings T otal
£m £m £m
Cost/valuation
At 1 April 2005 24 16,272 16,296
Additions 75865
Disposals – (16) (16)
At 31 March 2006 31 16,314 16,345
Loans
At 1 April 2005 1 13,457 13,458
Additions – 949 949
Loans repaid and transferred – (62) (62)
At 31 March 2006 1 14,344 14,345
Provisions and amounts written off
At 1 April 2005 (5) (9,317) (9,322)
Increase in year (1) – (1)
Disposals –11
At 31 March 2006 (6) (9,316) (9,322)
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 26 21,342 21,368
At 31 March 2005 20 20,412 20,432
On 11 November 2005, the Company purchased the entire share capital of Chelys Limited, the parent company of the Energis Group (‘Energis’), for 
a total consideration of £705 million. The consideration was made up of £675 million debt repayment, £15 million to acquire the share capital of 
Chelys Limited and £15 million of direct costs incurred to acquire Energis.
As part of the Energis acquisition, the Company agreed to pay contingent consideration of between nil and a maximum of £80 million. The amount of
contingent consideration is tied to the Company’s share price and may be satisfied, at the Company’s option, in either cash or shares of the Company.
Payments will be based on a ratio of £1.25 million for every one penny by which the maximum three month volume weighted average Cable & Wireless
share price in the third year following completion exceeds the reference price of 135 pence. Any payments would begin in March 2008, would be
payable once a month until December 2008 and will be based upon Cable & Wireless’ volume weighted average share price for the three months prior
to any relevant payment date.
The terms and conditions of the contingent consideration include anti-dilution mechanisms similar to those in the 4% convertible bond issued by 
Cable & Wireless (due 2010). In addition, in the event of a change of control of the Group, or in the event of its shares ceasing to be admitted to the
Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange's market for listed securities, a sum calculated in accordance with the terms of the contingent
consideration will be payable in cash within ten business days.
On 11 December 2005, the entire shareholding in Chelys Limited was sold to another Group company at no gain or loss.
Joint ventures
and associates
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Investments at net book value
Listed shares 23 17
Unlisted shares 2 2
Loans 1 1
26 20
The market value of the Company’s holdings in listed shares of joint ventures and associates was £335 million (2005 – £386 million). A list of the
Company’s significant subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates is disclosed in note 19.
2005/06 Annual report 153
Individual financial
statements Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
154 2005/06 Annual report
8 Debtors
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors 3 2
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 41 93
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 4 5
Other taxation and social security 5 –
Other debtors 6 19
Prepayments and accrued income 7 29
66 148
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Other debtors 3 –
Prepayments and accrued income – 1
3 1
Total debtors 69 149
The fair value of all debtors is not materially different to their carrying value.
9 Investments
At 1 April 2005, the Company adopted FRS 25 and 26 relating to financial instruments. We have applied the exemption given which permits non-application
of these standards to the comparative figures. Part (a) of this note discloses the current year investments under FRS 25 and 26. Part (b) gives the
comparative period under the previous standards.
(a) Investments
Fair value through Available
profit and loss for sale
£m £m
At 31 March 2005 ––
Transferred from trade investments 78 1,739
FRS 25 and 26 remeasurement –1
At 1 April 2005 78 1,740
Net disposals (40) (1,072)
Fair value gain to profit and loss 1–
Fair value gain to equity –2
At 31 March 2006 39 670
Less
Current portion 39 655
Non-current portion –15
Year end financial investments comprise the following:
31 March 2006
£m
Listed securities
UK Government Gilts 15
Unlisted securities
Credit Linked Notes 39
Short-term deposits 655
The Credit Linked Notes were issued by two AA-rated banks and are aligned with the Company’s 2012 bond. These transactions have a similar
economic effect to repurchasing the bonds for the period of the investment. In return for the Company receiving interest on the Credit Linked Notes
at rates similar to those payable on the underlying bond, the final redemption to be received by the Company would be less than face value if a ‘credit
event’ as defined in the terms of the notes occurs in respect of Cable and Wireless plc. Reflecting the terms of the underlying bond, credit events in the Credit Linked Notes are as follows:
– Bankruptcy;
– Failure to make any payment due under any of its debt obligations, after expiration of any grace period and subject to a threshold of £25 million; and
– Restructuring of any of its debt subject to a threshold of £25 million.
If a credit event should take place, the counterparties to the Credit Linked Notes are entitled to deliver to Cable and Wireless plc its own bonds or
debt obligations with a face value equivalent to that of the Credit Linked Notes, or a cash amount equal to the market value thereof.
(b) Current asset investments and short-term deposits
As at 31 March 2005 the Company held current asset investments and short-term deposits of £1,819 million including £12 million of UK Government
Gilts and £80 million of Credit Linked Notes. A provision of £2 million, reflecting a temporary reduction in value, was held at 31 March 2005.
10 Creditors
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors 3 3
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 45 31
Other taxation and social security 102 119
Other creditors 47 75
Accruals and deferred income 30 44
227 272
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 18,349 18,382
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of creditors at 31 March 2006.
11 Convertible debt and loans
On 1 April 2005, the Company adopted FRS 25 and 26 relating to financial instruments. The liability component and the derivative features on the
Company's convertible bond are separated and measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS 25 and FRS 26. An impact of this adoption has
been to reduce the principal value of the convertible bond as at 1 April 2005 by £60 million and recognise a derivative liability of £47 million. We have
applied the exemption which permits non-application of these standards to the comparative figures. The current year disclosures below have been
prepared under FRS 25 and 26.
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
Note £m £m
4% convertible unsecured bond due end 2010 (a) 202 252
Sterling loan due in 2012 (b) 184 183
Euro loan due in 2006 (c) 106 121
Derivative financial instrument 12 15 –
507 556
Less current portion (121) –
Non-current portion of loans and convertible bonds 386 556
2005/06 Annual report 155
Individual financial
statements Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
156 2005/06 Annual report
The payment profile of loans and obligations is:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
£m £m
Due in less than one year 121 –
Due in more than one year but not more than two years – 121
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 202 –
Due in more than five years 184 435
Total loans and convertible bonds 507 556
(a) Convertible unsecured bond
On 16 July 2003 £257,714,000 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par. Subject to Cable & Wireless’ right to make a cash alternative
election, each bond entitles the holder to: i) convert the bond into fully paid Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each at the rate of 457.930 Ordinary Shares
for each £1,000 held at an initial conversion price of £1.45 per Ordinary Share; and ii) to have redeemed the cash settled amount of such bond in
accordance with the terms and conditions (representing 231.724 Ordinary Shares for each £1,000 held at the initial conversion price of £1.45 per
Ordinary Share), at any time prior to 9 July 2010. Full conversion of the bonds would result in an additional 177,733,748 shares being issued. In April
2005, the terms of the bond were amended to remove Cable & Wireless’ right to make a cash alternative election.
After 16 July 2007, if Cable & Wireless’ share price exceeds an amount calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions for a specified number
of days, Cable & Wireless has the right to give not less than 30 days and not more than 90 days notice that it will redeem all unconverted bonds still
outstanding on a given date at par plus accrued interest. If the bonds have not been converted, purchased and cancelled or redeemed by 16 July 2010,
they will be redeemed at par on that date.
The finance costs charged in the profit and loss accounts comprise the aggregate of the coupon and the proportion of issue costs that relate to the
financial year.
On the adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 the fair value of the liability component and the equity conversion component was determined on the issue of
the bond. The fair value of the liability component, included in long-term borrowings, was calculated using a market interest rate of 10.7% for an
equivalent non-convertible bond. The residual amount, representing the value of the equity conversion component, is included in shareholders’ equity
net of deferred income taxes.
The convertible bond is recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
£m
Face value of convertible bond issued on 16 July 2003 258
Issue costs (6)
Equity conversion component on initial recognition (75)
Previous years’ amortisation of the liability component 15
Liability component on 1 April 2005 192
Interest expense 20
Interest paid (10)
Liability component at 31 March 2006 202
Interest expense on the bond is calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate 10.7% for an equivalent non convertible
bond to the liability component of the convertible bond.
(b) Sterling loan
The Sterling loan consists of a £200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance at 31 March 2006, net of costs, of £184 million. Interest is payable
at 8.75% per annum annually. During 2004/05 the Company repurchased but did not cancel £16 million of this bond at an average price of 101.625p.
(c) Euro loan
European Investment Bank loan with a balance at 31 March 2006, net of costs, of £106 million. This loan bears interest at LIBOR minus 0.15% and
interest is payable quarterly. 12 Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial investments are recorded in the balance sheet of the Company from 1 April 2005, the date of adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26.
The fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments is presented below.
31 March 2006
£m
Liabilities – current
Cross currency swaps 15
Cross currency swaps
The Company has a Euro denominated loan (the ‘Loan’) and a related euro-sterling cross currency swap (the ‘Swap’) with terms matching those 
of the Loan. Prior to 1 April 2005 the Loan and Swap were accounted for as if they were a single loan denominated in sterling. Under FRS 25 and
FRS 26 the Loan has been translated at the closing rate at 31 March 2006, giving rise to a reduction in the balance of £15 million. The Swap was
marked to market at the same date and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of £15 million. The Company has not applied
hedge accounting to the Loan and Swap. Both the Loan and Swap are revalued at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses on the instruments
(which will materially offset each other) are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Forward currency purchases
The Company has a forward exchange contract matching US$44 million deposits held as cash collateral against certain bank guarantees. The Company
has not applied hedge accounting to the deposits and the forward exchange contract. Both the deposits and forward exchange contract are revalued
at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses on the instruments (which will materially offset each other) are recognised in the profit and loss account.
13 Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Company’s financial instruments that are carried in the
financial statements at other than fair values.
Market values obtained from third parties have been used to determine the fair value of cross currency swaps, the convertible bond, Euro loan, sterling
repayable and the US dollar loan. All other financial liabilities have a short maturity in which case the carrying amount has been used.
Carrying amount Fair value
31 March 31 March
2006 2006
£m £m
Financial liabilities
Convertible bond 202 231
Sterling repayable due in 2012 184 189
Euro loan repayable in 2006 106 106
Cross currency swap 15 15
507 541
At 31 March 2006, the effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:
Currency Interest rate
%
4% convertible unsecured bond due end 2010 £ 10.7
Sterling repayable due in 2012 £ 8.7
The carrying amounts of the Company’s cash and short-term investments and loans and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
31 March 31 March
2006 2006
financial financial
assets liabilities
£m £m
Sterling 790 401
US dollar 39 –
Euro 27 106
856 507
2005/06 Annual report 157
Individual financial
statements Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
158 2005/06 Annual report
14 Provisions for liabilities and charges
At At
1 April Amounts 31 March
2005 Additions Releases used 2006
Note £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred taxation (i) 1 – (1) – –
Redundancy (ii) 9 12 – (11) 10
Property (iii) 31 5 (20) (11) 5
Network (iv) 10 – (8) – 2
Other (v) 113 15 (30) (28) 70
164 32 (59) (50) 87
(i) Deferred taxation
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. Due to the availability of losses and
other reliefs, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
As at 31 March 2006, the Company had unrecognised deferred tax timing differences in the UK relating to capital allowances of £13 million (2005 – 
£13 million), losses of £31 million (2005 – £31 million) and other timing differences of £94 million (2005 – £153 million).
(ii) Redundancy
Provisions have been made for the cost of redundancies announced during the year. These are expected to be utilised within one year.
(iii) Property
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties
being sub-let. The provision is expected to be utilised over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
(iv) Network
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity. The provision is expected to be
utilised over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
(v) Other
Other provisions include amounts relating to the disposal of the previously discontinued US businesses, amounts relating to specific claims held against
the Group’s insurance subsidiary Pender, and amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals of Group companies and investments. The reversal of
unused amounts reflect the resolution of claims and other risks during the year. 15 Called up share capital
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Authorised
3,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25p each 875 875
(2005 – 3,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25p each)
Allotted, called up and fully paid
2,421,046,668 Ordinary Shares of 25p each 605 599
(2005 – 2,394,822,240 Ordinary Shares of 25p each)
Purchases and allotments of Ordinary Shares of 25p each were made during the year in respect of the following:
Gross
Number of consideration
shares received
allotted £
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 8,699,598 3,574,305
Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2,463,200 1,221,971
Share Option Plan – Approved 78,495 90,001
Share Option Plan – Unapproved 5,490,660 5,908,034
Scrip dividends
a
9,492,475 –
1
T otal 26,224,428 10,794,311
1
Scrip dividends with a cash equivalent value of £12.1 million (2005 – £3.4 million) were issued during the year. This represents a non-cash transaction.
16 Reserves
Profit
Share Treasury Special Other Fair value and loss
premium shares reserve reserves reserve account T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 8 (224) 1,736 105 – 885 2,510
Prior year adjustment ––––– (81) (81)
At 1 April 2005 (restated) 8 (224) 1,736 105 – 804 2,429
Adoption of FRS 25/26 ––––1 13 14
Own shares purchased – (17) –––– (17)
Premium on shares issued 16 – (22) – – 22 16
Conversion element of convertible bond transferred to equity – – – 47 – – 47
Profit for the year retained ––––– 120 120
Fair value gains on available for sale assets ––––2–2
Actuarial loss recognised ––––– (2) (2)
ESOP trust shares issued to satisfy share awards – 10––– (10) –
Share-based payment costs –––––55
Dividends ––––– (92) (92)
At 31 March 2006 24 (231) 1,714 152 3 860 2,522
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was £6.6 million (2005 – £2.3 million). The Company repurchased 14.45 million shares,
representing 0.6% of issued share capital at 31 March 2006, during the year for consideration of £17.4 million. None of these shares were cancelled as
at 31 March 2006. The nominal value and market value of Treasury shares held by the company at 31 March 2006 was £18.7 million and 
£81.9 million, (2005 – £15 million and £78.2 million) respectively. Also included in Treasury shares are 50,990,339 (2005 – 54,759,057) shares acquired
by the Cable & Wireless ESOP Trust (the Trust) for consideration of £139 million (2005 – £149 million). The nominal value and market value of the
Trust’s shares held at 31 March 2006 was £12.7 million and £55.7 million (2005 – £13.7 million and £70.8 million) respectively. All shares in the Trust
are held to satisfy the Company's obligation in respect of share options granted.
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of share premium account approved at the 2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court in February 2004.
It will be reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid up share capital and share premium account after 20 February 2004
resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration. The special reserve will not be treated as realised profits until any debt or
claim outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
Other reserves includes £105 million (2005 – £105 million) capital redemption reserve and £47 million (2005 – £ nil) relating to the transfer of the
convertible element of the convertible bond to equity.
2005/06 Annual report 159
Individual financial
statements Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
160 2005/06 Annual report
17 Pension scheme
The Company is a member of a group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay. Because the Company is unable 
to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, as permitted by FRS 17 Retirement benefits; the scheme 
has been accounted for in these financial statements as if the scheme was a defined contribution scheme.
The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2005 and was updated for FRS 17 purposes to 31 March 2006 by a qualified external
independent actuary. The contribution for the year was £110.8 million (2005 – £115.7 million). It has been agreed that an employer contribution rate
of 22.3% (2005 – 20%) of pensionable pay will apply from 1 April 2005. Further details of the scheme are set out on page 114.
The Company also operates unfunded pension plans to cover the costs of former Directors’ and other senior employees’ pension entitlements.
Provision is made in the Company’s financial statements for the expected costs of meeting the associated liabilities and is disclosed as the Retirement
benefit obligation on the Company’s Balance Sheet.
The major assumptions used in this valuation were:
2005/06 2004/05
Inflation assumption 2.8% 2.7%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.3% 3.2%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.8 or 3.0% 2.7 or 3.0%
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities 4.9% 5.4%
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered,
may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Scheme assets and liabilities
The fair value of the scheme’s assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change before they 
are realised, and the present value of the scheme’s liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and thus inherently
uncertain, were:
Unfunded Unfunded Funded Funded
value value value value
2006 2005 2006 2005
At 31 March £m £m £m £m
Equities – – 997 879
Bonds and gilts – – 715 539
Property – – 133 94
Cash – – 137 103
Total market value of assets – – 1,982 1,615
Present value of scheme liabilities (23) (20) (2,059) (1,775)
Deficit in the scheme – pension liability (23) (20) (77) (160)
Related deferred tax liability/asset – – – –
Net pension liability (23) (20) (77) (160)
Long-term rate of return
2005/06 2004/05
Equities 7.5% 8.0%
Bonds and gilts 4.5% 4.9%
Property 6.0% 6.5%
Cash 4.3% 4.0% Movement in deficit during the year
Unfunded Unfunded Funded Funded
2005/06 2004/05 2005/06 2004/05
£m £m £m £m
Deficit in scheme at beginning of year 20 20 160 336
Current service cost – – 17 20
Contributions paid – (1) (111) (116)
Curtailment cost – – – 1
Other finance (income)/cost 1 1 (11) (3)
Actuarial (gain)/loss 2 – 22 (78)
Deficit in the scheme at the end of the year 23 20 77 160
18 Related party transactions
Under FRS 8 Related party disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions with entities that are part of the 
Cable & Wireless Group, or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties, as all of the Company’s voting rights are controlled within the Group.
Transactions with joint ventures and associates
All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless
products and services, network and access charges. There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures and associated companies during 
the year.
The Company has an interest free loan of £1 million (2005 – £1 million) with Quantum Communications Limited, an associate of the Group. This loan
is still outstanding at 31 March 2006.
The Company received £20 million (2005 – £14 million) dividends from associates and £2 million (2005 – £3 million) from joint ventures for the year
ended 31 March 2006.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates are set out in note 8.
Transactions with other related parties
There are no controlling shareholders of the Company.
There were no material transactions with Directors, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company. Other than the parties disclosed above, the Company has no other
material related parties.
2005/06 Annual report 161
Individual financial
statements Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
19 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
Ownership
Issued
share Country Area
Local capital Via Class of of of
currency (million) Direct subsidiaries shares incorporation operation
Cable & Wireless UK £ 3,033 – 100% Ordinary England UK
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 – 82% Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica
Cable & Wireless Panama, SA
1
Balboa 316 – 49% Ordinary Panama Panama
Companhia de Telecomunicacoes de Macau, SARL
2
Pataca 150 – 51% Ordinary Macau Macau
and China
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Ltd B$ 72 – 81% Ordinary Barbados Barbados
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Ltd £ 5 – 100% Ordinary England Caribbean
Monaco T elecom SAM
3 4
Euro 2 – 49% Ordinary Monaco Monaco
Bulldog Communications Ltd £ 2 – 100% Ordinary England UK
Chelys Limited (Energis) £ 14 – 100% Ordinary England UK
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd
2
Rufiya 190 – 45% Ordinary Maldives Maldives
Joint ventures
Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd
3
T$ 283 – 49% Ordinary Trinidad Trinidad
and T obago and T obago
Associates
Bahrain T elecommunications Company BSC
2
Dinar 100 20% – Ordinary Bahrain Bahrain
1
The Company regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement.
2
This company had a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders’ agreement.
3
This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its International member firms.
4
The Company holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom via a subsidiary.
The list above only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in
the financial statements.
On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco based telecommunication service provider, from Vivendi Universal.
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to an unrelated third party.
Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In addition, the 6% interest is subject 
to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management control of Monaco T elecom to
Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions, a prohibition
on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality (subject to certain limited exceptions) selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, mutual
pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality. The Principality has a put option entitling it to 
put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008. The exercise price under the put option 
is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual Return, to be filed
with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
162 2005/06 Annual report 162 20 Impact of FRS 25/FRS 26 adoption
The Company adopted FRS 25 and FRS 26 from 1 April 2005 as permitted by the standards. The impact of the adoption of the new standard on the
net assets as at 31 March 2005 is presented below.
Pre-FRS 25/26 Effect of
31 March FRS 25/26 1 April
2005 adoption 2005
Note £m £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 11 – 11
Investments in subsidiaries 20,412 – 20,412
Investments in joint ventures and associates 19 – 19
Loans to joint ventures and associates 1–1
Available for sale assets (i) –1313
20,443 13 20,456
Current assets
Debtors 149 – 149
Trade investments (i) 1,819 (1,819) –
Available for sale investments (i) – 1,727 1,727
Fair value through profit and loss account (i) – 78 78
Cash at bank and in hand 11 – 11
1,979 (14) 1,965
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (i) (272) 2 (270)
Net current assets 1,707 (12) 1,695
Total assets less current liabilities 22,150 1 22,151
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Convertible debt (ii) (252) 60 (192)
Other loans (iii) (121) 15 (106)
Derivative financial instruments (ii, iii) – (62) (62)
Other creditors (18,565) – (18,565)
(18,938) 13 (18,925)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (164) – (164)
Retirement benefit obligations (20) – (20)
(19,122) 13 (19,109)
Net assets 3,028 14 3,042
(i) Certain current investments, with a carrying value of £1,819 million and classified as trade investments prior to the adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26,
have been reclassified as non-current available for sale financial instruments with a fair value of £1,727 million and current fair value investments
through profit and loss account with a fair value of £78 million.
(ii) The terms and conditions of the Company’s Convertible debt instrument result in a recognition and measurement basis that is different from the
basis applied prior to the adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26. The debt agreement provides for the conversion of the debt into Ordinary Shares of
Cable and Wireless plc at a predetermined fixed rate. The conversion is at the option of the bondholders and exercisable at any time prior to 
9 July 2010. The bond also has a takeover protection clause, which adjusts the share conversion factor, over a period of time, until settlement 
or conversion of the bond. The Company has the option to settle the entire bond in cash (although this option was removed in April 2005).
The takeover protection terms and the cash settlement option are considered to be derivative features that are required to be accounted for
separately from the debt element of the bond.
The liability component and the derivative features are separated and measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS 25 and FRS 26.
At 1 April 2005, the debt element was reduced by £60 million primarily reflecting the unamortised value of the conversion option. The debt
element is accounted for on an amortised cost basis. The conversion option and takeover protection feature were marked to market at 1 April
2005 and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of £47 million. The derivative elements are carried on a fair value basis 
with changes in value being taken to the profit and loss account. Subsequent to 1 April 2005 the cash settlement option in respect of the
conversion option was removed and the conversion option reclassified as a component of equity.
2005/06 Annual report 163
Individual financial
statements Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2006
(iii) The Company has a Euro denominated loan (the ‘Loan’) and a related euro-sterling cross currency swap (the ‘Swap’) with terms matching those 
of the Loan. Under FRS 25 and FRS 26 the Loan has been translated at the closing rate at 1 April 2005, giving rise to a reduction in the balance 
of £15 million. The Swap was marked to market at the same date and recognised on balance sheet giving rise to a derivative liability of £15 million.
The Company has not applied hedge accounting to the Loan and Swap. Both the Loan and Swap are revalued at each balance sheet date. Gains
and losses on the instruments (which will materially offset each other) are recognised in the profit and loss account.
No deferred tax impact has been booked as a consequence of the above adjustments as there are unrecognised tax losses available to offset any
additional liability.
21 Auditor’s remuneration
The remuneration of the auditor in respect of audit services provided to the Company during the year was £1.0 million including £400,000 relating to
the prior year (2005 – £2.2 million including £200,000 relating to 2004). Audit remuneration in respect of prior years resulted from additional work to
comply with SEC disclosures. Regulatory reporting fees of £800,000 (2005 – £1.4 million) principally related to compliance with IFRS and the review
of interim statements. Remuneration for non-audit services to the Company during the year was £100,000 (2005 – nil).
22 Commitments
The Company had no capital commitments at the end of the financial year or previous year.
23 Guarantees
Guarantees given by the Company at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows:
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
£m £m
Trading guarantees 184 170
Other guarantees 310 347
Total guarantees 494 517
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds or contracts issued in the normal course of business, guaranteeing the Group company will
meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The guarantees also enable the customer to obtain
repayment of any advance payment in the event of the relevant subsidiary failing to carry out its contractual obligations in full. Some of these
guarantees are uncapped.
Other guarantees comprise guarantees for financial obligations of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of borrowings, leases and
letters of credit.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation 
of materials. The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Pender Insurance Limited (‘Pender’), the Group’s Isle of Man insurance subsidiary, has written policies in favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially
significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and
disputes with reinsurers. Legal proceedings have been initiated against Pender and the Company in respect of certain insurance claims.
Other matters
In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of
disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some
uncapped indemnities have been given.
In relation to the sale of CWC ConsumerCo in May 2000, the Company gave a number of standard warranties and indemnities. There is no time limit
or cap that applies generally, the Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
164 2005/06 Annual report Shareholder
information
Shareholder
information
166 Shareholder information
168 Glossary of terms
2005/06 Annual report 165 Shareholder information
Trading market
The principal trading market for the Ordinary Shares is the London Stock
Exchange on which 8,568,253,866 Ordinary Shares were traded during
the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006. As at 31 March 2006,
the Company had a market capitalisation of approximately £2,553 million.
The table below sets forth, for the fiscal quarters indicated, the high and
low middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares on the London
Stock Exchange as reported on its Daily Official List.
Pence Per
Ordinary Share
High Low
Year ended 31 March 2002 531.5 207.0
Year ended 31 March 2003 223.0 41.0
Year ended 31 March 2004 153.5 71.0
Year ended 31 March 2005 133.5 96.5
Year ended 31 March 2006 164.8 97.5
Year ended 31 March 2005
First quarter 133.5 115.8
Second quarter 125.3 96.5
Third quarter 119.8 97.8
Fourth quarter 113.3 112.8
Year ended 31 March 2006
First quarter 149.0 118.0
Second quarter 164.8 142.5
Third quarter 143.5 107.0
Fourth quarter 128.5 97.5
Pence Per
Ordinary Share
High Low
October 2005 143.5 107.0
November 2005 126.5 114.8
December 2005 120.3 116.3
January 2006 128.5 102.3
February 2006 110.0 97.5
March 2006 112.8 105.3
Distribution and classification of ordinary shareholdings
Analysis by balance level as at 31 March 2006.
Number of % Number of %
At 31 March 2006 Accounts of total Shares of total
Up to 1,000 shares 81,897 67.4 36 1.5
1,001 – 10,000 36,962 30.4 91 3.8
10,001 – 100,000 1,915 1.6 45 1.9
100,001 – 1,000,000 444 0.4 158 6.5
1,000,001 and over 259 0.2 2,091 86.3
T otal 121,477 100 2,421 100
Individuals 112,564 92.7 141 5.8
Corporate bodies 1,105 0.9 275 11.4
Banks/nominee companies/
insurance companies/
pension funds 7,808 6.4 2,005 82.8
T otal 121,477 100 2,421 100
At 31 May 2006, the Company had 119,756 shareholders of record.
Dividends
The table below sets out the sterling amounts of interim, final and total
gross dividends paid per Ordinary Share.
There are currently no UK governmental restrictions on dividend
payments to non-UK shareholders applicable to the Company.
Pence per Ordinary Share
Year ended 31 March Interim Special Final Total
2002 1.50 11.50
a
3.50 16.50
2003 1.60 – – 1.60
2004 1.05
b
– 2.10
b
3.15
2005 1.16 – 2.64 3.80
2006 1.40 – 3.10 4.50
a
Paid at the same time as the interim dividend.
b
Paid together as a full year dividend.
The Board has not adopted a formal dividend policy. The increase in 
the 2005/06 dividend reflects the increased visibility the move to the
execution phase of the turnaround plan gives us.
A scrip dividend scheme will be offered in respect of the final dividend.
Those shareholders who have already elected to join the scheme need
do nothing since the final dividend will be automatically applied to 
the scheme.
Shareholders wishing to join the scheme for the final dividend (and all
future dividends) should return a completed mandate form to Lloyds TSB
Registrars,The Causeway,Worthing,West Sussex BN99 2DZ by 14 July
2006. Copies of the mandate form, and the scrip dividend brochure, can
be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars (UK callers: 0870 600 3975,
overseas callers: +44 1903 502 541) or from the Company’s website
(www.cw.com).
166 2005/06 Annual report Shareholder
information
Registrar
The Company’s share register is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
All queries about your shareholding should be addressed to:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Telephone 0870 600 3975 (UK shareholders)
+44 1903 502 541 (overseas shareholders)
Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their own
shareholding by viewing Shareview (www.shareview.co.uk). Shareholders
registered with Shareview can elect to receive shareholder
communications in electronic form.
Scrip dividend scheme
A scrip dividend alternative will be available for the final dividend payable
on 11 August 2006. Full details on the scrip dividend can be found in the
Scrip Dividend brochure which is available from the Company’s Registrar
at the address above, from the Company Secretary or from the
Company’s website (www.cw.com).
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date 14 June 2006
Record date 16 June 2006
Last date for election to join scrip dividend 14 July 2006
AGM 21 July 2006
Payment of final dividend 11 August 2006
Announcement of interim results 2006 8 November 2006
ShareGift
If you have a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to
sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift
(registered charity 1052686), which collects unwanted shares until there
are enough to sell and uses the proceeds to support a wide range of UK
charities. Over £7 million has been donated to charity in this way since
ShareGift was formed 10 years ago. The relevant share transfer forms may
be obtained from ShareGift, the Company Secretary’s Office or the
Investor Relations section of the Company’s website. Further information
about ShareGift is available from their website (www.sharegift.org) or by
contacting them directly on +44 (0)20 7337 0501.
Investor Relations
Enquiries may be directed to:
Director, Investor Relations
The Point
37 North Wharf Road
London
W2 1LA
or email: investor-relations.c&wplc@cw.com
Company Secretary and Registered Office
Mr Nick Cooper is the Company Secretary.
The Company’s Registered Office and address for correspondence is:
Lakeside House
Cain Road
Bracknell
Berkshire
RG12 1XL
Tel: +44 (0)1908 845 000
Electronic communication
As an alternative to receiving documents through the post,
Cable & Wireless offers shareholders the option to elect to receive
communications from the Company electronically. To make use 
of this facility, please register at www.shareview.com following the 
onscreen instructions.
Documents on display
Shareholders can view the Register of Interests of Directors (and their
families) in the share capital of the Company, together with service
contracts of Executive Directors and letters of appointment of 
Non-executive Directors at the Company’s registered office.
Shareholders may also obtain copies of the Company’s Memorandum and
Articles of Association at the Company’s registered office.
2005/06 Annual report 167 Shareholder information
Glossary of terms
168 2005/06 Annual report
T erms used in this Brief description of meaning
Annual report
Access/internet access Broadband or dial-up connections used by customers to access the internet.
Accounts Financial statements.
ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line – a technology supporting faster transfer for received data (downstream) 
and slower transfer for sent data (upstream).
Alternative network provider Providers who rely on the use of the incumbent’s network and interconnect their own network with it.
ARPU Average revenue per user.
Backbone High capacity network linking networks of lower capacity like LANs.
Bandwidth Network capacity.
Broadband Transmits data at higher speeds (bits per second) than dial-up.
Bundling Multiple services or products ‘bundled’ together instead of offered separately.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
Carrier services Part of the business dealing with other telecoms providers across the globe.
Central The Group’s corporate centre.
Company Cable and Wireless plc.
Connectivity Providing customers with access to the internet.
Constant currency Calculated by retranslating prior year local currency amounts at current year average rates and comparing against
current year local currency at the current year average. This eliminates impact of foreign exchange movement year 
on year.
Data services Services transmitting data via fixed line, IP or mobile platforms.
Dial-up Internet access using a standard telephone line (also known as Narrowband).
Digital Sound, text or video coded into binary form to enable more effective transmission.
DSL Digital Subscriber Line or technology allowing the delivery of broadband to customers via standard copper telephone
lines by digitising and compressing the transmissions.
EPS Earnings per share.
Exchange Building, usually owned by the incumbent service provider, which houses network equipment.
Fibre optic Use of glass fibres to transmit digital information through laser light pulses. Fibre optic lines offer more capacity than
copper telephone lines.
Frame relay Legacy data product allowing broadband transmission – has an additional layer of intelligence and functionality
beyond leased lines.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Policies.
Group Cable & Wireless plc and its subsidiaries. Shareholder
information
2005/06 Annual report 169
T erms used in this Brief description of meaning
Annual report
GSM Global System for Mobile communications or a digital mobile platform allowing the transmission of voice and data 
as well as global roaming.
Hosting Service providing a facility or location for customers to set up servers and equipment or house websites.
IAS International Accounting Standards.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Incumbent Sole telecommunications provider in a one provider market – or the original telecommunications provider 
in a competitive market.
Interconnect Connection arrangements between carriers.
International business Collectively the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Rest of the World.
IP Internet Protocol or a set of rules that govern how interconnected devices communicate.
IP-VPN Internet-based network used to provide companies with an internal communications system linking employees 
in different offices worldwide.
IRU Indefeasible Rights of Use or the right to use a cable fibre or wavelength exclusively for a fixed period of time.
LAN Local Area Network or a network covering only a short distance (usually less than 1 km) – normally confined to one
building or site.
Leased line Legacy data service that delivers data from point-to-point on a dedicated line.
Legacy platform Existing communications and transmissions infrastructure underpinning the majority of telecoms operators’ networks
and usually comprising copper wire or fibre networks.
Liberalised markets/ liberalisation Previously restricted markets previously that are now open to competition.
Local loop Telecommunications connection from the local exchange to the customer premises.
LLU Local loop unbundling – the process of installing DSL equipment in rented space within an incumbent operator’s local
exchange to allow independent control of the local loop.
Managed firewall Service where customer firewalls are managed by Cable & Wireless. A firewall is a system of hardware and software
designed to prevent unauthorised access to a private network.
Mbps Megabits per second – used to measure rates of data transfer.
Mobile services Delivery of voice and data services to mobile handsets via wireless technologies.
Mobile transit traffic Telecommunications traffic across the network between mobile operators who don’t have a direct connection with
each other.
Network costs Include bandwidth purchase, operation and maintenance of equipment, operation of software and cables, wayleaves,
customer acquisition costs, cost of goods sold, licences and associated royalties paid to government.
NGN Next Generation Network – Cable & Wireless’ all IP-based network.
Nodes Connecting points on a network.
Ofcom Independent regulator and competition authority for the UK communications industries – covers television, radio,
telecommunications and wireless communications services. Shareholder information
Glossary of terms
170 2005/06 Annual report
T erms used in this Brief description of meaning
Annual report
Openreach A new part of BT, created to deliver installation and maintenance services on behalf of the UK’s telephone and
internet service providers.
Outpayments Payments to other network operators to carry traffic for Cable & Wireless’ customers.
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network – the international telephone system based on copper wires and carrying
analogue voice data.
Resellers Businesses buying capacity from network operators and selling it on to provide communications services 
to consumers.
SMS Short Messaging Service – text message transmission between mobile handsets.
Switched voice Telecoms services provided over the PSTN.
TDMA Time Division Multiple Access or digital mobile technology that assigns a specific audio frequency to each user to
deliver mobile voice and data.
Traditional services Voice and data services delivered via the fixed line or switched networks.
UK United Kingdom.The UK geographic segment includes both the UK business and Bulldog.
UK business Includes the UK corporate business and Bulldog. The UK corporate business includes operations in the UK, Europe,
Asia and the US.
VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol – service providing enhanced functionality, like the delivery of voice, video and data,
with the reliability and features associated with switched voice networks.
VPN Virtual Private Network – corporate network provided to a customer using elements of a switched network. Designed and produced by Pauffley Ltd  www.pauffley.com
Printed by Royle Corporate Print
The paper used for the cover of this Annual report is produced from pulp sourced from well managed forests and is made without the use 
of elemental chlorine (ECF).The text paper contains 25% de-inked post-consumer fibre, 50% pre-consumer fibre and 25% fibre produced in
accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council.
The printer and the manufacturing mills are environmentally accredited ISO 14001. 2005/06 Annual report
Cable & Wireless   2005/06 Annual report
OUR
BUSINESS:
WHERE ITIS
ANDWHERE 
IT WILLBE 2005/06 Annual review 
and Summary ﬁnancial statement
OUR
BUSINESS:
WHERE ITIS
ANDWHERE 
IT WILLBE MAKING
ITHAPPEN
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
04 Group overview
06 Our International business 
08 International performance 
10 Our UK business 
12 UK performance 
15 Our work in our communities
16 Board of Directors 
18 Summary ﬁnancial statement and Auditor’s statement
19 Summary consolidated income statement
20 Summary consolidated balance sheet
21 Summary consolidated cash ﬂow statement
22 Summary remuneration report
24 Summary Directors’ report
25 Understanding your investment Highlights
Cable & Wireless is one of the world’s leading international
communications groups. It operates through two standalone businesses:
International and UK.
1
Cash
£1.1BILLION
Full year dividend per share
4.5 PENCE
Earnings per share
UP 9%
(before exceptionals and Bulldog investment losses) Chairman’s statement
The year has been one of change and of progress with signiﬁcant steps
taken to redeﬁne and continue the turnaround of Cable & Wireless – 
the most important of these being:
• acquisition of the number three in the UK telecoms market, Energis 
• our new structure – separating Cable & Wireless into two discrete 
and self-contained businesses: International and UK.
This new structure is designed to maximise
shareholder value. Both International and UK are 
now responsible for their own ﬁnancial performance
and return on capital employed and, subject to
shareholder approval, will be rewarded in line with 
their value creation for shareholders.
This new structure marks our next phase with the 
job of the last three years complete. In that time,
we have:
• removed risks to the Group’s ﬁnancial security 
with exits from unsustainable markets;
• successfully rebalanced the International business
towards the growth areas of broadband and mobile
whilst absorbing the impact of the liberalisation we 
face in a number of key markets; and
• put in place in the UK the strategic foundations 
to reposition and stabilise our business.
Our priorities for the next three years are clear –
delivery and execution. And our commitment is to
deliver for our customers and for our shareholders.
International
In the International business, where we are the 
leading player in virtually all of the 33 markets in 
which we operate, we are very conscious of the
responsibilities that our position demands.
We have made good progress increasing mobile 
and broadband coverage and rolling out new
technologies and compelling services for customers.
We continue to play an active role in our communities
and environments. All this is borne out by our solid
customer acquisition and retention rates – achieved
against growing competition.
UK
Our UK business is undergoing a transformation.
The acquisition of Energis in November 2005 bought 
us scale, a strong base of large corporate and public
sector customers and solid management capabilities.
With the strategic asset that our local loop unbundling
capability gives us, we now have all the tools in place 
to be a real alternative to BT for our customers.
STRATEGIC
REPOSITIONING 
COMPLETE
Richard Lapthorne,
Chairman 2 Prior to this acquisition, our intention was for the UK
to become a business with £2 billion of revenues and 
double digit operating margin – these same targets
have been committed to with conﬁdence by our new
UK management team.
Our ambition is to serve the largest users of telecoms
in the UK and globally with IP-based services – and to
be famous for delivering a great service experience 
to our customers.
Inevitably as we effect major change, individual lives 
are affected and I’d like to thank those employees 
who have left, as well as those who continue with 
us on our journey.
Board structure
Our move to split the businesses has resulted in 
a new board structure for Cable & Wireless.We have
created two new operating boards, for International 
and UK, which report to the main Group board.
These new boards beneﬁt from operationally strong 
and experienced executive management teams.
Consequently, we have slimmed down the main board.
I would like to thank all the directors who are stepping
down – my thanks go to them for their work in getting
our business to where it is today. It is their efforts that
have, in no small part, succeeded in preparing us for
the next phase of our reinvention.
Dividend
I am pleased to propose a ﬁnal dividend, to be paid in
August, of 3.1 pence per share.The total dividend paid
of 4.5 pence per share represents an18% increase on
last year. This rise in the dividend reﬂects the increased
visibility and conﬁdence in our future prospects.
The future
The environments in which we operate continue to 
be remarkably challenging – in most cases suffering
from price cutting and stiff competition, particularly as
we move towards technology convergence.The move
to all IP will exacerbate these characteristics as players
struggle for market share – our focus on delivering a
superior level of service tailored to individual customer
needs means we are well placed to capitalise on this.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our
employees for their hard work, focus and determination
to deliver for customers regardless of the challenging
environment in which we must operate.They are 
the ones that bring our ambitions to life and they 
are the ones that customers identify with. As such,
I am confident that, together, we can build our 
future success.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
DIVIDEND
UP1 8%
PENSION
FULL Y FUNDED
3 Group overview
We continue to have a strong cash position with Group cash at the 
year end of £1.1 billion despite our acquisition of Energis and continued
investment in local loop unbundling.
Group overview
Group revenue increased by 9% (at constant currency)
to £3,230m principally as a result of the integration 
of Energis from 11 November 2005 and a strong
performance in the mobile and broadband parts of our
International business.This has offset declines in UK
revenues mainly due to churn and price erosion driven
in part by the trend from legacy to IP services.
We have seen an increase in operating costs to
£2,819m due primarily to the consolidation of Energis, an
increased volume of lower-margin Carrier business in
the UK, the increase in mobile customer acquisition
costs in the International business and the continued 
investment in Bulldog.These have been partly offset 
by restructuring and other cost control activities,
particularly in the UK, where we have reduced gross
headcount of the combined business by 1,474.
The trends in revenues and operating costs resulted 
in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation (‘EBITDA’) and before exceptional items 
of £411m.
Depreciation has increased signiﬁcantly year on year
reﬂecting the consolidation of Energis together with the
investment in local loop infrastructure in Bulldog and in
mobile and broadband in the International business.
Exceptional items in 2005/06 consist primarily of 
a £237m write down of assets in the UK business 
and a £41m charge resulting from restructuring
throughout the Group.These exceptional losses have
been partially offset by £140m gains resulting from
progress in resolving claims and other risks in our
insurance subsidiary and from our withdrawal from 
the US domestic market. In addition the Group realised
gains of £101m on the disposal of our investment in
MobileOne, our Sakhalin and Spanish businesses and 
our training centre.
Our ﬁnancial performance for the year is discussed 
in more detail on the International and UK pages 
that follow.
International Financial Reporting Standards
We have successfully completed our transition to
International Financial Reporting Standards and
consequently the 2005/06 numbers have been
prepared on this basis. 2004/05 comparative numbers
have been restated throughout this Annual review.As
previously announced, the principal areas of impact for
the Group were: the deconsolidation of the Group’s
Maldives business; and pension and share-based
payment accounting.
4
TWO DISTINCT
BUSINESSES
Tony Rice, 
Group Managing Director,
Central and Finance
Director Corporate structure
We announced, in January 2006, a restructure of the
Group into two self-contained operational units –
International and UK (including our consumer
broadband and telephony business, Bulldog).
Each business is responsible for its overall ﬁnancial
performance and return on capital employed.This is
designed to give them the right balance of autonomy
and accountability to drive shareholder value.
As such, we have also redeﬁned the scope of our
corporate centre which will give rise to £20m of
savings for the Group in 2006/07.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Remuneration
Committee has approved a new management incentive
scheme for executives.The new scheme ensures that
the remuneration of individuals is fully aligned with the
goals of their business and in proportion to the future
shareholder value created by that business. Details are
set out in the summary remuneration report on pages
22 to 23.
Pension schemes
We provide pension schemes in most of the countries in
which we operate and remain committed to supporting
these. Of these, the principal deﬁned beneﬁt scheme is
the funded scheme covering UK employees. During the
year, we have continued to work with the trustees of
this scheme to ensure that it remains appropriately
funded – taking into account the latest views on life
expectancy. Following the latest triennial funding
valuation as at 31 March 2005, we agreed a revised
funding programme which included an immediate
contribution of £98m which was paid on 31 March
2006. As a result of this payment, the scheme was 
fully funded on an ongoing basis, based on the 2005
funding valuation.
Signiﬁcant acquisitions and disposals
Over the year, we have made a number of acquisitions
and disposals.The most signiﬁcant acquisition was 
of Energis, for net cash consideration of £608m in
November 2005.The acquisition strengthened our
management capability, increased our scale and reach 
in the UK and enhanced earnings from the outset.
We also sold our 12% stake in MobileOne, a
Singaporean mobile player, for £87m (our share of 
this was £44m) and our Sakhalin and Spanish 
retail operations for £27m.
INTERNATIONAL
Offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international ﬁxed line services 
to residential and business customers in 33 countries
UK
Serving the UK’s largest users of telecoms with IP-based services here 
and internationally – and broadband services via Bulldog
5 Our principal operations are in the Caribbean, Panama,
Macau, Monaco and the Channel Islands. Our ownership
of these companies varies – some are wholly owned,
others are partly owned with the public, local
Governments or other corporate partners.
In virtually all our markets, we are the leading provider.
The diversity of our markets – be it in terms of size,
geography or culture – means we take care to tailor our
services to the relevant market – but with the beneﬁt
of scale and a global network.
Over the last year, we have repositioned our
International business to ensure we are best placed 
to deliver an unrivalled customer experience and help
Governments deliver their economic development
agendas.We continue to manage the portfolio’s
profitability to generate cash and deliver value 
for shareholders.
Following progressive liberalisation over the past 
five years, 93% of our revenues are generated in
competitive environments, dispelling any myth that 
our businesses are monopolies in under-developed
telecoms markets. Across our markets, we face 
broadly the same issues. New technologies are driving
down the price of existing offerings. At the same 
time, liberalisation has seen new entrants seeking to
challenge our position and driving price erosion as 
they compete aggressively.
Against this backdrop, I’m pleased to report a solid 
set of ﬁnancial results for the year ended 31 March
2006 – due to our unrelenting focus on our mobile
and broadband growth prospects, supported by tight
management of our operating costs.
Our overall revenues have increased by 6% to 
£1,212m (at constant currency) with strong year 
on year growth in mobile revenues (up 17%) and
broadband revenues (up 72%).We are the market
leader in 18 of our 22 mobile markets and our total
residential customer base has increased by 22%.
And in broadband, we are the market leader in all of 
the 21 markets where we offer broadband services
and have seen our customer base increase by 97%.
EBITDA increased year on year by 6% to £417m 
(at constant currency), equivalent to an EBITDA 
margin of 34.4%.
Our International business operates telecommunications companies in 
33 countries, offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international 
ﬁxed line services to residential and business customers.
Our International business
6
33 BUSINESSES
AROUNDTHE
WORLD
24 SUBSIDIARIES 
9 JOINT VENTURES
AND ASSOCIATES
Vanuatu, Fiji & the
Solomon Islands
Panama
Caribbean 
& Bermuda
Channel
Islands &
Monaco
Tunisia &
Algeria 
St. Helena
& Ascension 
The Falklands
Afghanistan
Bahrain
Macau
Diego Garcia,
Maldives &
the Seychelles Our ambition is to be the ﬁrst choice for customers 
and for Governments in delivering their economic
development agenda – by investing in technology,
our brands and our people.
So what does this mean in practice? Firstly, we
recognise the importance of getting the basics right,
so we’re improving the quality and speed of all of our
services – as well as the reliability and performance 
of our networks.We’re also providing our customers
with quick and easy ways to access our services by
developing new distribution channels and self-
provisioning packages for broadband and increasing 
the availability of online bill payment mechanisms.
We believe that the future of our telecoms services 
is integrated communications solutions – and that our
fixed line infrastructure is a vital component of this.
We’re already developing VoIP business solutions and
looking to package our ﬁxed services with our mobile
and broadband propositions where appropriate.
Our capital expenditure aligns with our strategic
objectives of broadband and mobile growth. Driving
complexity out of our operations is also a priority 
– streamlining business processes and systems and
identifying consolidation opportunities in purchasing,
supply chain, IT and networks. For example, we have in
place a common billing infrastructure across 21 of our
markets (with more to follow) enabling us to converge
our mobile, ﬁxed and broadband propositions.
This year has seen a number of steps towards 
inorganic growth. In the Seychelles, we acquired the
largest internet provider and in Jersey, we are
preparing to launch a new mobile service to compete
with Jersey Telecom.
These are exciting times. In October, we celebrate 
25 years of CTM (our business in Macau) and 
are proud to be sponsoring the ICC Cricket World
Cup 2007 in the Caribbean.
Our position as the only full-service telecoms provider 
in the majority of our markets means that we are 
well placed to capitalise on the acceleration towards
integrated communications solutions.
The technology pendulum is swinging our way and 
we intend to make the most of it!
INVESTING 
INBROADBAND
AND MOBILE
Harris Jones, 
Group Managing Director,
International
7 International performance
Revenue
Total revenue increased by 6% year on year as our
strong performance in the growth areas of mobile 
and broadband more than offset declines in ﬁxed 
line revenues.
Although the number of fixed lines connected
increased slightly over the year to 1.5m, ﬁxed line
revenues declined, due primarily to the substitution of
ﬁxed line with mobile connections and a fall in
international revenues.This was driven by increased
competition particularly in Barbados as a consequence
of the introduction of liberalisation.
Mobile revenues grew by 17% year on year due to
strong customer demand, driven by our compelling
propositions and brand development.We had over
2.7m mobile customers at the year-end, an increase
of 22% over last year, with increased penetration
across our business.We continue to invest in mobile
networks and services in the 22 markets where we
have a mobile presence.
The growth in demand for broadband services has
resulted in a 97% increase in our customer base to
275,000 customers and a 72% year on year growth 
in revenue, to £57m.This growth has more than 
offset the 47% decline in dial-up internet revenue 
as customers migrate to higher speed services.
Other revenue comprises revenues from data and
enterprise products for corporate customers and
revenues from international management contracts,
directory services and equipment rentals.The 11%
increase year on year is principally due to a full year’s
consolidation of Monaco Telecom in 2005/06 and
growth in enterprise solutions in Macau.
Operating costs
Outpayments and network costs, which include cost 
of sales and some ﬁxed network costs, increased by 
14% year on year, reflecting the acquisition costs
associated with the growth of our mobile and
broadband customer bases.
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Fixed line 526 543 
Mobile 360 302 
Broadband and dial-up internet 66 49 
Other 260 230 
Revenue 1,212 1,124 
Operating costs (795) (737)
EBITDA
1
417 387
Depreciation and amortisation (142) (126)
Share of proﬁt of joint ventures 
and associates 58 56 
Exceptional items (18) (22)
Total operating proﬁt 315 295 
1
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax depreciation and
amortisation and exceptional items.
All percentage comparisons year on year are at constant
currency.
MEETING THE
CHALLENGE
93% of our revenues are achieved in competitive markets
8 Staff costs increased 2% year on year, primarily due 
to the impact of consolidating a full year of Monaco
Telecom and a 1% net increase in staff numbers.
Other costs, largely comprising property costs and
professional fees, have been reduced by 8% as a result 
of the continued focus on cost control. Progress in
negotiating supplier disputes in Monaco allowed us to
release an accrual of £7m.
Despite the increased costs, our efforts to drive
efﬁciencies have controlled our underlying operating 
cost base to maintain EBITDA margins above 34%.
Depreciation and capital expenditure
The 11% rise in depreciation reﬂects our investment
over recent years in mobile and broadband to support
growing customer demand for these services.
Capital expenditure as a percentage of revenue has
decreased from a high level of 15% in 2004/05 to 
12% in 2005/06. Capital expenditure in 2004/05 was
particularly high due to investment in the GSM mobile
network across the whole Carribean.The main
investments in 2005/06 were in mobile networks in 
Jamaica and Panama and the rollout of the broadband
infrastructure in Jamaica.We also invested in the launch 
of mobile services in the Falkland Islands, enhanced our
coverage in the Seychelles and are rolling out a new
network to prepare for the launch of our mobile
services in Jersey. In addition, we continued to invest 
in our ﬁxed networks.
Joint ventures and associates
The main contributors are Batelco (Bahrain),
Dhiraagu (the Maldives) and TSTT (Trinidad and
Tobago). Declines in the proﬁtability of all three were
offset by growth in Monaco Telecom’s investment in
Roshan, which operates in the rapidly developing
Afghan mobile market.
Cash ﬂow
We generated £363m of net cash ﬂow before
ﬁnancing. The disposals of our investment in
MobileOne and our businesses in Sakhalin generated
cash of more than £110m of which £43m is attributable
to minority interests. Capital expenditure amounted 
to £170m.
WINNING WAYS
Mobile customers up 22%
Broadband customers up 97%
2004
1,849,000
2,255,000
2,746,000
MOBILE
CUSTOMERS
31 March
2005 2006 2004
17,000
140,000
275,000
BROADBAND
CUSTOMERS
31 March
2005 2006
9 I began the last financial year running Energis – 
a business that was largely through its own turnaround 
and meeting the challenge of how it could move into 
the next generation of technologies and services.
I ended the year running Cable & Wireless UK – 
a business only just starting its turnaround but 
whose prospects for that future world are clear,
tangible and exciting.
The acquisition of Energis, completed on 11 November
2005, marked a transition.The work of Richard
Lapthorne and Francesco Caio up to then was to
remove obstacles to future success.
Francesco’s vision and handsome legacy for our
business is signiﬁcant scale (the Energis acquisition),
market leadership in local loop unbundling (Bulldog) 
and a commitment to Next Generation Networks
(£190m committed in April 2005) – all the tools to
fulﬁl our vision of being the ﬁrst built-for-purpose next
generation telecoms company.
That vision requires some explaining. For too long,
ﬁxed line telecoms companies have bellyached about
price erosion and escalating costs.The truth is – it’s 
our own fault.
As an industry, we taught customers that price is the
sole selection criterion because service has been poor.
Our cost base has been high because, following
opportunistic and defensive strategies, we ended up
running multiple technology and billing platforms.
Those days are over.
No part of our business will look the same in the future
as it does now.We are, however, well equipped for the
challenge with great customers, a capable team,
the beneﬁt of a full dress rehearsal in Energis and
towering ambition.
We aim to focus our resources on serving fewer, larger
customers with a wide range of IP-based services
tailored to fit their specific business needs – and
delivering them a higher level of service than they
receive from other areas of the telecoms industry.
The UK business serves the largest users of telecoms services across the
UK, continental Europe, Asia and the US.
Our products and services span contact centres, data and IP , hosting and
applications and voice, and broadband services in the UK through Bulldog.
Our UK business
CUSTOMERS 
DESERVEBETTER
SERVICE
10 This points us at a very speciﬁc segment of the overall
market – encompassing around 3,000 corporates,
carriers and public institutions – where in excess of
£7 billion is spent on telecommunications each year.
Our ﬁrst priority – of integrating the businesses – is
complete. So now, the recovery work can really kick in.
In the four and a half months since acquisition, we’ve
made good progress – in fact we’re right on plan,
already delivering annualised cost savings in excess 
of £50m. In line with our focus on fewer, larger
customers, we have already given notice to over 9,000
customers and reduced headcount to 5,614. Overall,
headcount will reach between 2,500 and 3,500 over
the next three to ﬁve years.
We have built a strong management team which is
developing a customer-centric, execution-obsessed
culture – and importantly, our service is improving;
we have cut delivery times and introduced new
service-based products – an approach which is 
winning customer plaudits.
In line with our strong delivery focus, our people are now
measured and rewarded against new performance criteria
based around customer insight and the ability to deliver.
All of this has a clear output.We will become known 
for quality services and employing great people who are
obsessive about customers, developing into the ﬁrst
choice partner for the largest users of telecoms in the UK
and internationally.
Combined, these factors will secure robust, consistent
financial performance ultimately resulting in £2 billion
revenues and double digit operating margin.
Bulldog
Local loop capability is fundamental to our overall UK
corporate access strategy.To date, we have chosen to
leverage this investment through Bulldog – but this is
only part of the picture.
Bulldog provides broadband and telephony services 
to residential, SoHo and SME customers in the UK.
Using LLU, we install our own equipment in BT’s local
exchanges, taking control of the local loop between 
the exchange and the customer’s home or office and
allowing us to differentiate our service offering.
As the ﬁrst major company in the UK to engage in full
unbundling of broadband and voice, we currently serve
around 120,000 customers and offer broadband speeds
up to a maximum of 16Mbps.
Competition in consumer broadband services is tough.
A number of our competitors have announced 
plans for LLU, but we believe we have around a 6- 
to 12- month advantage in rollout terms. In addition,
to date, our competitors have chosen partial 
unbundling and so remain dependent on BT to
provide voice services.
THE RIGHT FOUNDATIONS
TO DELIVER FOR CUSTOMERS
John Pluthero,
Group Managing
Director, UK
11 UK performance
Energis
The year on year comparison of results is impacted by
the consolidation of Energis’ results since its acquisition
on 11 November 2005. Energis contributed £266m of
revenue and £35m of EBITDA to the UK results from
the date of its acquisition. Energis EBITDA margin was
13% compared with the UK EBITDA margin (excluding
Energis) of 6%.
UK sales is split between our Services team – primarily
serving large corporates, systems integrators and public
institutions; and our Carrier team – providing for the
needs of telecommunications carriers, service providers
and resellers across more than 140 countries.
Customers
We currently serve 21,000 customers. Our strategy 
is to focus on the largest 3,000 customers, with 60% of
revenues being derived from IP and hosting products.
We have made good progress so far against this objective.
Services
Excluding the impact of Energis, Services revenues 
have declined 13% year on year, due to customer 
churn and price erosion and the historically poor 
service experience.
Carrier
Excluding the impact of Energis, underlying Carrier
revenues have increased by 8% year on year, driven 
by higher volumes and utilisation of spare network
capacity.The increase is offset in part by continued
price pressure and the full year impact of the September
2004 reduction in mobile termination rates.
Operating costs
Excluding the impact of Energis, total operating costs
are marginally lower year on year; including Energis,
they are 10% higher.
COMPLEXITY
COSTSUS
Our strategy is to focus on fewer, larger customers
with a wide range of tailored IP-based services 
12
UK corporate business
2005/06
1
2004/05
£m £m
Services 965 935 
Carrier 1,063 900 
Revenue 2,028 1,835 
Operating costs (1,879) (1,700)
EBITDA
2
149 135 
Depreciation and amortisation (123) (61)
Share of loss of joint ventures 
and associates (6) (8)
Exceptional items (245) (99)
Total operating loss (225) (33)
1
Energis consolidated from 11 November 2005.
2
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation and exceptional items. The increase in outpayments and network costs is
entirely due to the Energis impact; excluding Energis, the
increase in outpayments is in line with increased volumes,
offset by a reduction in other network costs.
Staff costs as a percentage of revenue have improved 
from 16% to 14%, as initiatives to control staff costs
offset rising employment costs. Headcount has 
risen from 5,528 at the start of the year to 5,614 at
31 March 2006 despite 1,560 people joining the
business with the acquisition of Energis.
Operating costs have also beneﬁted from operational
releases of £60m relating to the release of accruals for
customer and supplier liabilities made in prior years
and settled in 2005/06.
A key performance indicator going forward is a
reduction in monthly operating costs as we reduce 
the complexity of the business.The target is £5m 
per month by 30 September 2006.At 31 March 2006,
we had achieved £4.4m per month.
Depreciation and capital expenditure
Excluding the impact of Energis, the increase in
depreciation reﬂects a natural rise from historically low
levels following ﬁxed asset impairments between 2002
and 2004.
Capital expenditure has increased year on year due 
to the impact of Energis and increased investment in 
IP products and platforms.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items in 2005/06 consist primarily of 
a £237m write-down of assets of the UK business
(excluding Energis).These assets were surplus to
requirements, obsolete due to recent changes in
technology or duplicated following combination 
with the Energis business. In 2004/05, exceptional 
items primarily arose from restructuring.
Acquisitions and disposals
On 11 November 2005, we acquired Energis for a net
cash consideration of £608m.
On 8 April 2005, we disposed of our Spanish retail
business for £4m, resulting in a proﬁt on disposal of £3m.
Cash ﬂows
The UK business generated cash outﬂows of £889m
before ﬁnancing activities.This reﬂects EBITDA of
£149m, less the Energis acquisition of £608m, capital
expenditure of £221m, a pension top-up contribution
of £59m and working capital movements of £67m.
A further £8m of exceptional costs and provision
movements of £91m include the cash cost of the
restructuring programme relating to the integration 
of the UK and Energis businesses. Other headcount,
property and network cost reduction programmes,
initiated in previous years, are also included in these
cash costs.
The pension top-up of £59m is for the main UK
deﬁned beneﬁt scheme. A further £39m was paid 
from Central, to make this scheme fully funded.
13
IT’S ALL ABOUT
EXECUTION UK performance continued
Revenue
Revenue growth was driven by an increase in the
customer base from 10,000 to 118,000 residential and
business customers as the number of unbundled
exchanges increased from 252 to 411. Average revenue
per residential customer was £36 per month in 
March 2006.
We intend to have 800 exchanges unbundled by
30 September 2006.
Operating costs
Outpayment and network costs rose to £66m in the
year largely due to the rise in the number of unbundled
exchanges and the increase in customer numbers.
Other costs have increased as we invest in higher
skilled staff and marketing.
Depreciation and capital expenditure
The increase in depreciation has been driven by 
the capital expenditure invested in expanding our 
LLU footprint.
Capital expenditure was principally in respect of the
unbundling of an additional 159 exchanges in the year
and investment in provisioning, billing and other
support systems.
Cash ﬂow
After taking account of capital expenditure of £61m,
net cash outﬂow before ﬁnancing was £163m.
Customer care
As the first full local loop unbundler in the UK, we
encountered signiﬁcant challenges during the year as
we grew our customer base. Our provisioning process
has now improved dramatically and we are provisioning
88% of customers on time compared with 32% last
year. Openreach’s (BT) process accounts for at least
10 of the current 14 days’ average time from order 
to delivery.
Our improvement in provisioning and support services
has halved the level of faults per customer despite the
ten-fold increase in customer numbers. At the same
time, we have invested heavily in our ability to resolve
customers’ problems when they do arise and are now
resolving more than 90% of faults within ﬁve days of
their being reported.
ACCESS
ALL AREAS
Mar
2005
252
411
800 (target)
UNBUNDLED
EXCHANGES
Mar
2006
Sept
2006
Bulldog
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Revenue 33 11
Operating costs (138) (39)
EBITDA
1
(105) (28)
Depreciation and amortisation (15) (2)
Total operating loss (120) (30)
1
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax depreciation and
amortisation and exceptional items.
14 Our work in our communities
We recognise the positive role we can play in economic
and social development in our communities. How 
we do business, develop our employees, treat our
environment and interact with our communities are
important to our continued development.
Community investment and involvement
With particular emphasis on working with the 
younger generation, we have established a number 
of foundations in Jamaica, Panama and the Seychelles.
We were delighted to win a Social Responsibility
Award in Panama. Meanwhile on the back of our
sponsorship of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 
and ongoing commitment to Caribbean grass-roots 
cricket, we have donated over 20 moveable pitches 
to local organisations.
The digital divide 
We’re committed to assisting Governments in
development programmes with internet access 
for schools, universities and hospitals – as well as
residential access to all sections of the population.
In Macau, we run an ‘i.Campus’ Student Broadband
Award, while our Grenada Rural Enterprise Project
partnership gives broadband to and improves
computer literacy of communities around the island.
Healthy communities 
In the Seychelles, we provided the charity CARE with
funding to provide educational material for schools
on the dangers of taking heroin. In Jamaica, we
contributed to a number of local charities including the
Jamaica Cancer Society, Dare to Care Children’s Home
and St. Aloysius Primary School.
ICT and the internet
Based in our Bracknell UK headquarters, the after-
school Academy club sees us tutoring local children
between the ages of 11 and 14 about ICT. We’ve just
started working with WebPlay and Bracknell Borough
Council to help local school children develop and
design a web-based online tourist guide of the area.
As a founding member of the Internet Watch
Foundation (IWF), we work with the relevant
authorities to mitigate the risks presented by minors
having access to material designed for over-18s or
illegal content in general.
MAKING A
DIFFERENCE
15 Board of Directors
As a result of our new organisation structure and the creation
of two distinct businesses – International and UK – we have
slimmed down our main Board.
As such, Francesco Caio, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, stepped down
from his role on 1 April 2006 and Charles Herlinger, Chief
Financial Ofﬁcer, will step down from his role on 31 May 2006.
Graham Howe, Senior Independent Director, will retire from
the Board in June – while Bernard Gray, Non-executive
Director and former Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee, and Rob Rowley, previously Executive Deputy
Chairman, will retire at our AGM on 21 July 2006. In addition,
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen stepped down from our Group
Board from 1 April 2006 to concentrate on his role as Chairman
of our International business.
Directors:
1. Richard Lapthorne 
N
(63) 
Chairman; Chairman, Nominations Committee 
Richard Lapthorne was appointed Chairman in January 2003.
Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, from 1999 to May 2003,
Richard was Chairman of Amersham International plc, having
joined its Board as a Non-executive Director in 1988. He 
was Finance Director of British Aerospace plc from July 1992
and Vice Chairman from April 1998 until his retirement in
September 1999. Richard is Non-executive Chairman of 
Morse plc and the New Look Group and was Chairman of
Arlington Securities from May to December 2005.
2.Anthony (T ony) Rice (54) 
Group Managing Director, Central and Finance Director
Tony Rice was appointed a Non-executive Director and
Chairman of the Audit Committee in January 2003 and was 
a member of the Nominations Committee. He relinquished
these roles on 30 March 2006 when he was appointed Group
Managing Director, Central and Finance Director. Tony was 
Chief Executive of Tunstall Holdings Ltd until its acquisition by
Bridgepoint on 13 September 2005 and he continues as a
Non-executive Director of that company. T ony is also a 
Non-executive Director of British Mediterranean Airways
Limited and Help the Aged. Prior to joining Tunstall,T ony was
Group Treasurer and then Group MD Commercial Aircraft of
British Aerospace plc and was also involved in the ﬁnancing 
and ﬂotation of Orange.
3. Harris Jones (44) 
Group Managing Director, International 
Harris Jones was appointed as Group Managing Director,
International and Chief Executive of the International business
on 1 April 2006. Previously he was Executive Director of the
International Business from December 2004. Prior to joining
Cable & Wireless, Harris was Chief Executive Officer of
T -Mobile UK following its acquisition by Deutsche Telekom 
and has prior experience as a senior executive with 
Omnipoint Communications and Sprint Spectrum. Harris 
is a Non-executive Director of Caracal, Inc., USA.
4. John Pluthero (42) 
Group Managing Director, UK 
John Pluthero was appointed as Group Managing Director, UK
and Executive Chairman, UK on 1 April 2006. Previously he was
Executive Director of the UK business from November 2005.
From September 2002 until the acquisition by Cable & Wireless,
John was Chief Executive of Energis. Previously, he was founder
and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Freeserve (now Orange), leading
it to its July 1999 flotation on the London Stock Exchange
and NASDAQ. Prior to this, John held various strategy and
operations positions within the Dixons Group including
Managing Director of Mastercare, Quality Director and Business
Review Director.
5. George Battersby (59) 
Executive Director, Human Resources 
George Battersby was appointed as Executive Director of
Human Resources in July 2004. He has held senior human
resources positions in a number of FTSE 100 companies over
the past 20 years and immediately prior to joining Cable &
Wireless was Group Human Resources Director and a member
of the Board of Amersham International plc. George is a 
FACING THE
FUTURE
16 Non-executive Director of SHL Group plc, a leading
international HR consultancy, where he is Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
6. Clive Butler 
AR
(59) 
Non-executive Director 
Clive Butler was appointed a Non-executive Director on 
1 May 2005. Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, Clive was
Corporate Development Director at Unilever having served 
on the main Board since 1992. During that period he also
undertook the roles of Personnel Director and Category
Director for Unilever’s Home and Personal Care division.
Clive joined Unilever in 1970 and worked in a variety of
marketing and general management roles, including positions 
in the USA, Zimbabwe and the Philippines, prior to his
retirement in 2005. Clive will become the Senior Independent
Director and a member of the Nominations Committee on
Graham Howe’s retirement in June.
7. Kate Nealon 
ANR
(52) 
Non-executive Director; Chairman,
Remuneration Committee 
Kate Nealon was appointed a Non-executive Director in
January 2005 and became Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee 
on 1 April 2006. She is a US-qualiﬁed lawyer and was Group
Head of Legal and Compliance for Standard Chartered plc 
until 2004. Kate previously practised international banking and
regulatory law in New Y ork. She is a Non-executive Director of
HBOS plc and Monitor (the independent regulator of the NHS
Foundation Trust Hospitals) as well as being a senior associate
of the Judge Business School at Cambridge University.
8. Kasper Rorsted 
ANR
(44) 
Non-executive Director, Chairman, Audit Committee 
Kasper Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive Director in
May 2003 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee and
a member of the Nominations Committee on 30 March 2006.
He is Executive Vice President at Henkel KGaA having
previously been Senior Vice President and General Manager,
Europe Middle East & Asia for Hewlett-Packard. Kasper has held
various senior management positions with Compaq since 1995
and has previous experience with Oracle, Digital and Ericsson.
Kasper is a Non-executive Director of Ecolab, Inc. USA.
9. Agnès T ouraine 
AR
(51) 
Non-executive Director 
Agnès Touraine was appointed a Non-executive Director in
January 2005. Based in France, Agnès is Managing Partner 
of Act III Consultants having previously been Chairman and 
CEO of Vivendi Universal Publishing. She has held various 
senior executive positions with the Lagardère Group and 
began her career with McKinsey. Agnès is a Board member 
of Fondation de France and was a Non-executive Director of
Lastminute.com until its acquisition by Travelocity in July 2005.
10. Simon Ball 
AR
(46) 
Non-executive Director 
Simon Ball was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 
1 May 2006. Simon is Group Finance Director for 3i Group plc,
the FTSE 100 private equity and venture capital business, and
has served on its main Board since April 2005. Prior to this,
Simon held a series of senior ﬁnance and operational roles over
15 years at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and Robert Fleming
Group and, for two years, served as Director General, Finance
for the UK Government’s Department for Constitutional Affairs.
Nick Cooper (42) 
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 
Nick Cooper was appointed Company Secretary on 
17 January 2006.
A
Denotes membership of Audit Committee 
N
Denotes membership of Nominations Committee 
R
Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee 
Left to right
Top 12345
Bottom 678910
17 18
Statement of the independent auditor to the
members of Cable and Wireless plc
Pursuant to section 251of the Companies Act 1985
We have examined the Summary ﬁnancial statement set 
out on pages 19 to 21.
This statement is made solely to the Company’s members,
as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies
Act 1985. Our work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those matters we are
required to state to them in such a statement and for no
other purpose.To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s members as a 
body, for our work, for this statement, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of the Directors 
and the auditor
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the 
consistency of the Summary ﬁnancial statement within the
Annual review with the full Annual accounts and Directors’
report and the Directors’ remuneration report, and its
compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251
of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made
thereunder.We also read the other information contained
in the Annual review and consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements
or material inconsistencies with the Summary ﬁnancial
statement.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999/6
‘The auditor’s statement on the summary ﬁnancial statement’
issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United
Kingdom. Our report on the Group’s full Annual accounts
describes the basis of our audit opinion on those accounts.
Opinion
In our opinion the Summary financial statement is
consistent with the full Annual accounts, the Directors’
report and the Directors’ remuneration report of Cable
and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 
and complies with the applicable requirements of section
251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations
made thereunder.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor, London
31 May 2006
This Summary ﬁnancial statement is a summary of
information contained in the Group’s Annual report 
and accounts on which the Group’s auditor expressed 
an unqualiﬁed opinion.The auditor’s report did not include 
any statement under sections 237(2) or 237(3) of the
Companies Act 1985.This Summary ﬁnancial statement
does not contain sufﬁcient information to allow as full an
understanding of the results of the Group and state of
affairs of the Company or of the Group or of their policies
and arrangements concerning Directors’ remuneration, as
would be provided by the full Annual report and accounts.
For further information the full Annual accounts, the
Auditor’s report on those accounts and the Directors’
report should be consulted. Requests to receive, free of
charge, copies of the full 2005/06 Annual report and
accounts (and elections to receive the full Annual report 
and accounts in place of the Summary ﬁnancial statement for
all future years) should be sent to the Company’s registrar
whose address is shown on page 25.
Information relating to a review of the activities of the
Company and its subsidiaries and future developments 
in the business is given in the Chairman’s statement,
the Group overview, the International section and the 
UK section on pages 2 to 14 inclusive.The Directors 
of Cable and Wireless plc who served during the year 
and their remuneration for the year to 31 March 2006 
(or, where relevant, part thereof) are shown on 
pages 16 to 17.
Summary ﬁnancial statement 19
2005/06 2004/05
Pre- Excep- Pre- Excep-
exceptional tional exceptional tional
items items T otal items items T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3,230 – 3,230 2,948 – 2,948
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (2,819) (21) (2,840) (2,524) (143) (2,667)
Amortisation (46) (60) (106) (20) – (20)
Depreciation (228) (177) (405) (170) (8) (178)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 137 (258) (121) 234 (151) 83
Share of post-tax proﬁt of associates and joint ventures 52 2 54 48 – 48
T otal operating proﬁt/(loss) 189 (256) (67) 282 (151) 131
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 28183 5 (8) (3)
Interest income 80 – 80 102 – 102
Other income 77885 5–5
Interest expense (69) – (69) (68) – (68)
Proﬁt/(loss) before income tax 209 (97) 112 326 (159) 167
Income tax (expense)/credit (29) 2 (27) (64) 89 25
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 180 (95) 85 262 (70) 192
Discontinued operations
Proﬁt for the year from discontinued operations 28890 22 140 162
Proﬁt for the year 182 (7) 175 284 70 354
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 120 (41) 79 221 73 294
Minority interests 62 34 86 63 (3) 60
182 (7) 175 284 70 354
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the Company
– basic 3.5p 12.7p
– diluted 3.4p 12.1p
Earnings per share from continuing operations
– basic (0.4)p 5.7p
– diluted (0.4)p 5.7p
Dividends per ordinary share – interim (paid) 1.4p 1.2p
– ﬁnal (proposed) 3.1p 2.6p
Dividends paid during the year were £92m (2005 – £100m).
Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group 
that are identiﬁed as exceptional by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.The items are explained in the Annual report 
and accounts.
Summary consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2006 20
2006 2005
£m £m
Assets
Non-current assets 2,463 1,850
Current assets 2,143 2,932
Assets held for sale 105 18
T otal assets 4,711 4,800
Liabilities
Current liabilities 1,751 1,753
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale – 4
1,751 1,757
Net current assets 497 1,193
Non-current liabilities 1,028 1,265
Net assets 1,932 1,778
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 605 599
Share premium 24 8
Reserves 961 876
1,590 1,483
Minority interest 342 295
T otal equity 1,932 1,778
The summary ﬁnancial statements on pages 19 to 21 were approved by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2006 and are 
signed on its behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne, Chairman
Charles Herlinger, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Summary consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 2006 21
2005/06 2004/05
£m £m
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Cash generated by continuing operations 100 279
Cash generated by discontinued operations 3 28
Income taxes paid (47) (60)
Net cash from operating activities 56 247
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Cash used by continuing operations (732) (252)
Cash generated by discontinued operations 27 111
Net cash used in investing activities (705) (141)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Cash used by continuing operations (257) (340)
Cash used by discontinued operations – (4)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (257) (344)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (906) (238)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,021 2,270
Exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents 12 (4)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2006 1,127 2,028
Less: Cash reﬂected as assets held for sale – (7)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2006 1,127 2,021
Summary consolidated cash ﬂow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2006 22
Directors’ remuneration
Employer Employer
Pension pension pension
Salary Othercash T otal T otal contribution contribution
and fees Bonuses Beneﬁts allowance 2005/06 2004/05 2005/06 2004/05
Name of Director ££££ £ £ £ £
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 386,000 – 16,165 – 402,165 396,520 – –
Continuing Executive Directors
George Battersby 350,000 – 18,223 45,500 413,723 564,229 42,000 32,136
Harris Jones 500,000 669,800 493,591 125,000 1,788,391 466,161 – –
John Pluthero (from 14 November 2005) 191,288 66,667 6,843 47,822 312,620 – – –
T ony Rice 93,696 – 738 1,087 95,521 90,000 – –
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen 250,000 – 12,978 – 262,978 421,601 – –
Continuing Non-executive Directors
Clive Butler (since 1 May 2005) 59,583––– 59,583 – – –
Kate Nealon 65,000 – 738 – 65,738 13,412 – –
Kasper Rorsted 65,000 – 5,979 – 70,979 66,824 – –
Agnès T ouraine 65,000 – 6,549 – 71,549 13,412 – –
Sub-totals 2,025,567 736,467 561,804 219,409 3,543,247 2,032,159 42,000 32,136
Retiring Directors
Francesco Caio 700,000 – 293,401 175,000 1,168,401 1,924,907 – –
Bernard Gray 75,000––– 75,000 76,204 – –
Charles Herlinger 400,000 – 173,213 56,000 629,213 1,184,487 44,000 44,012
Graham Howe 75,000 – 738 – 75,738 65,000 – –
Rob Rowley 250,000 – 22,714 – 272,714 452,684 – –
T otals 3,525,567 736,467 1,051,870 450,409 5,764,313 5,735,411 86,000 76,148
Notes
The aggregate emoluments of the Directors, which include employer pension contributions were £5,850,313 
(2005 – £6,562,353).
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen retired from the main Board on 1 April 2006. However, he continues as Non-executive 
Chairman of the International business.
Tony Rice received Non-executive Director fees for the period to 30 March 2006 and Executive Director salary from 
30 March 2006.
Ongoing costs for salaries/fees for the Board in 2006/07 will be £2,966,000 and salary/fees for 2005/06 were £3,525,567.
No Directors had any gains on the exercised share options in the year (2005 – £nil).
Two (2005 – four) Directors accrued beneﬁts under the Group’s deﬁned contribution pension scheme.
Summary remuneration report 23
Remuneration philosophy 
Our remuneration philosophy for our Directors is based
upon creating a strong link between performance and
reward, underpinned by the following guiding principles:
• the reward package should be aligned to our strategy;
• the reward structures should (where appropriate) reﬂect
the different characteristics and strategies of the two
businesses – International and UK;
• total reward levels should reﬂect the markets in which
the Group competes.The Group’s competitive position 
is regularly monitored by independent analysis against
comparator groups of companies selected on the basis 
of relevant size, business and geographic focus;
• ﬁxed salaries and beneﬁts should be set with reference 
to the mid-market level compared with similar types 
of company;
• the majority of total remuneration should only be
receivable as a result of the Group achieving demanding
performance targets;
• an appropriate mix of short- and long-term incentives
should be set so that Directors are incentivised to
maximise performance over both the short and medium
term; and
• the remuneration structure for Directors should 
be cascaded to other senior executives in a 
consistent manner.
Elements of remuneration
Executive Directors’ remuneration consists of salary, pension
and other beneﬁts, annual bonus and long-term incentives.
The Committee believes that the majority of an Executive
Director’s potential remuneration should be performance-
related. The appropriate mix and level of performance-
related awards vary from year to year and between each
Director according to the judgement of the Remuneration
Committee.The actual value delivered is dependent upon
achievement of stretching performance conditions.
As a result of the changes in the organisation and the
creation of two discrete businesses, announced in January
2006, effective 1 April 2006, the Remuneration Committee
reviewed the current remuneration structure for the
continuing Directors. Several changes have already been
made and a number are proposed as a result of this review.
These changes have been discussed with leading shareholders
and their representative bodies, who have been generally
supportive. In summary, these proposals comprise:
• Base salaries – adjusted to reflect levels of
responsibilities in the new structure.The revised salaries
were effective from 1 April 2006 and there is no 
intention for these salaries to be increased for a further
three years.
• Annual bonus – potential maximum opportunity set 
at 100% of salary for all Executive Directors.
• Long-term incentives – to encourage investment of their
own personal funds in shares, restricted shares have been
awarded on a matching basis to the Executive Directors’
own personally invested shares. In addition, it is proposed
that Executive Directors will receive one-off long-term
incentive awards in 2006 and there is no intention for
them to receive any further long-term incentive awards
for at least three years.These awards will be in the form 
of share options for Executives Directors with Central
Group functions (George Battersby and Tony Rice) and,
subject to shareholder approval, a new Cash Long-Term
Incentive Plan for John Pluthero and Harris Jones.
Performance graph
The graph below shows the change in value of a hypothetical
£100 holding in the Company’s Ordinary Shares over five
years relative to a broad equity market index.The FTSE
100 index was considered by the Committee to be the
most relevant index for this purpose as the Company is a
constituent of the index and a five-year history is available.
Value  (£)
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 Mar 01 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 06
T otal shareholder return
FTSE 100
C&W  
Source:  Thomson Financial
This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2006, of £100 invested in Cable & Wireless 
on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
31 Mar 05 24
Principal activities
Cable & Wireless is one of the world’s leading international
communications companies. It operates through two
standalone businesses – International and UK.
The International business operates integrated
telecommunications companies in 33 countries offering
mobile, broadband, domestic and international ﬁxed line
services to residential and business customers, with principal
operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and
the Channel Islands.
The UK business provides enterprise and carrier solutions 
to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK,
US, continental Europe and Asia, and broadband services 
in the UK through Bulldog.
Dividend
The Directors propose a ﬁnal dividend for 2005/06 of 
3.1 pence per share. Subject to approval by shareholders,
this will be paid on 11 August 2006, to shareholders on the
register at 16 June 2006.
Directors
As a result of our new organisation structure and the
creation of two discrete businesses – International and UK 
– we have slimmed down our main Board and a number 
of Directors have retired or will retire from the main board.
Further details can be found on pages 16 and 17.
Committees
We have three standing Board committees: the Audit
Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration
Committee.A summary of the Remuneration report can 
be found on pages 22 and 23 of this Annual review. Further
information on the standing committees and the full
Remuneration report are contained within the full Annual
report.The composition and terms of reference of the
standing committees are also available at www.cw.com
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing
basis.The Board considers that the Group’s system of
internal control is appropriately designed to manage, rather
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and provides reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.The concept
of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control
procedure should not exceed the expected beneﬁts.
The Group’s management operates a risk management
process, under which each business unit identiﬁes key risks
that could impede the achievement of business objectives;
these risks are reviewed by each business’ senior management
team and passed up the organisation on a ﬁlter basis to assist
the Group’s Executive Directors to monitor all significant
risks. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews a schedule 
of the Group’s risks, which covers signiﬁcant operational,
ﬁnancial and strategic risks.
The Group’s Executive Directors also report to the Board,
on behalf of management, signiﬁcant changes in the Group’s
business and the external environment in which it operates.
They also provide the Board with monthly ﬁnancial
information including key risk and performance indicators.
The Group monitors its internal controls through a
programme of internal audits.The Internal Audit function
reports to the Audit Committee on its examination and
evaluation of the effectiveness and adequacy of the 
Group’s systems of internal control.
Going concern 
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group and Company have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statement 
on pages 19 to 21.
Summary Directors’ report How much dividend will I receive?
The Directors propose a final dividend for 2005/06 of 
3.1 pence per share for shareholders on the register on 
16 June 2006 – this is subject to approval at the 2006
Annual General Meeting (AGM).
When will I receive my dividend?
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 
11 August 2006.The total dividend for the year is 
4.5 pence per share.
Do I pay tax on my dividend?
Tax is deducted at a rate of 10% from your dividend,
which is not reclaimable from HM Revenue and Customs.
If you are a higher rate tax payer, you will have further
tax to pay on your dividend via the Revenue’s Self
Assessment system.
What is a scrip dividend and how can 
I receive one?
A scrip dividend is where you receive your dividend in 
the form of additional shares in Cable and Wireless plc,
rather than cash. Full details on the scrip dividend and how
to receive it are available in the Scrip Dividend brochure
which can be obtained from the Company’s registrar,
from the Company Secretary or from our website at
www.cw.com 
Where can I see my shareholding?
Lloyds TSB Registrars offers a facility for you to view
information on your shareholding electronically.
This service can be accessed at www.shareview.co.uk
When is the AGM?
The AGM takes place on Friday 21 July 2006, at 10.00am 
at the Queen Elizabeth Conference Centre,
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SWIP 3EE.
Who administers my shareholdings?
The Company’s share register is administered by Lloyds TSB
Registrars.All queries about your shareholding should be
addressed to them by calling 0870 600 3975 (UK
shareholders) or +44 1903 502 541 (overseas shareholders).
Or you can write to them at: Lloyds TSB Registrars,The
Causeway,Worthing,West Sussex BN99 6DA.
What is the Annual report and accounts?
This Annual review is a summary of information in the
Annual report and accounts, and as such does not contain
sufficient information to allow a complete understanding 
of the results and state of affairs of the Group.The 2006
Annual report and accounts are available from our website 
at www.cw.com where they can be viewed or printed.
Company Secretary and registered office
Nick Cooper is the Company Secretary.
The Company’s registered office is:
Lakeside House
Cain Road
Bracknell
Berkshire RG12 1XL
Tel: +44 (0) 1908 845 000
Investor Relations
Enquiries may be directed to:
investor-relations.c&wplc@cw.com
Understanding your investment
25
Designed and produced by Pauffley Ltd  www.pauffley.com
Printed by Royle Corporate Print
The paper used in this Annual review is produced from pulp sourced in Europe from well managed forests 
and is made without the use of elemental chlorine (ECF).
Both printer and manufacturing mill are environmentally accredited ISO 14001. 
