 W e have a clear 
vision of where 
we’re going.
This is a report 
on our progress.
2006/07 Annual Report
Cable & Wireless  2006/07 Annual Report A year after our decision to
operate as two standalone
businesses, EBITDA is up
20% to £492 million.
Good news.
But this is just the start.
There is more change 
to come and more value 
to unlock. 04 Cable & Wireless at a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
An overview of our businesses
and performance during the 
year including a review from 
our Chairman.
A review of our strategy , how our
two businesses – International
and Europe, Asia & US – have
performed during the year and 
the key factors underlying 
our performance.
Information on how we manage
our businesses including Board
committees and Directors’
biographies and remuneration.
Financial statements for 
the Group and Company 
including a report from 
the independent auditor .
Everything shareholders 
need to know about how to
administer their shareholding 
in Cable & Wireless.
08 International Chief Executive’s review
09 International overview
1 2 International performance review
1 6 Europe, Asia & US Chairman’s review
1 7 Europe, Asia & US overview
20 Europe, Asia & US performance review
24 Finance Director’s review
25 Group financial performance review
30 Board of Directors
32 Directors’ report
34 Corporate governance report
37 Report of the Audit Committee
38 Directors’ remuneration report
48 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Cable & Wireless Group
50 Independent auditor’s report
51 Consolidated financial statements
55 Notes to the financial statements
128 Shareholder information
Introduction Business 
review
Governance Shareholder
information
Financial statements
Company Group
Cable and Wireless plc
108 Independent auditor’s report
109 Company financial statements
111 Notes to the financial statements 02
Definitions
This report (‘ Annual Report’) comprises the Annual Report of Cable and Wireless plc
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Registration and Listing Rules
requirements. The Annual Review for the year ended 31 March 2007 is published 
as a separate document.
Unless otherwise stated in this Annual Report, the terms ‘Cable & Wireless’, the 
‘Group’, ‘it’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Cable and Wireless plc and its subsidiaries,
collectively . The term ‘Company’ refers to Cable and Wireless plc.
Cable & Wireless Group prepares its financial information in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) applicable for use in the EU. 
The Company prepares its financial information in accordance with UK GAAP . 
Unless otherwise indicated, any reference in this report to financial statements 
is to the consolidated financial statements of Cable & Wireless on pages 51 to 107 
of this report.
References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references to 
the Company’s financial year ending 31 March of that year . In this report, financial 
and statistical information is, unless otherwise indicated, stated on the basis of the
Company’s financial year .
Information has been updated to the most practical date prior to the approval date 
of the document on 23 May 2007 .
References to year-on-year percentage comparisons in International are stated in
constant currency terms, calculated by retranslating prior year local currency amounts 
at current year average rates and comparing against current year local currency amounts
at the current year average rate.
Cautionary statement regarding forward looking statements
This Annual Report contains forward looking statements that are based on current
expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events. These forward
looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical
or current facts. Forward looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target,
expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may , should, would, could or other 
words of similar meaning. Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements
because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and
uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results,
and Cable & Wireless’ plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed 
or implied in the forward looking statements.
There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from 
those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. Among the factors are
changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory
forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business
combinations or dispositions. Summaries of some of the potential risks faced by 
Cable & Wireless are set out on pages 11, 18 to 19 and 28.
Cable & Wireless undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward looking
statement contained within this Annual Report, regardless of whether those statements
are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Companies Act 2006
Pages 6 to 28 consitute the Chairman’s statement and business review of Cable and
Wireless plc and, for the purposes of section 463 of the Companies Act 2006, are
incorporated by reference into the Directors’ report set out on pages 32 and 33.
Addressees of the Annual Report
This Annual Report is addressed solely to the members of Cable and Wireless plc 
as a body , to assist them in assessing the strategies adopted by the Company and 
the potential for those strategies to succeed. Neither the Company nor its Directors 
accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report (beyond the
responsibilities arising from the production of this Annual Report under the 
requirements of the Companies Act 1985) or any responsibility to update any 
statements in this Annual Report.
English law
Pages 6 to 48 inclusive consist of a Directors’ report that has been drawn up and
presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and the
liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the 
limitations and restrictions provided by such law. Introduction 
03
04 Cable & Wireless at a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
An overview of 
our businesses and
performance during
the year including 
a review from our
Chairman.
Introduction  04
International
Operating in 33 countries across five continents,
we aim to be the telecoms provider of choice in 
all of our markets. We’ll do that by offering our
customers attractive products and services using
high quality networks coupled with a superior
customer experience.
We are the only full service provider in most of our
markets, providing mobile, broadband, domestic
and international fixed line services to both
residential and business customers. 
Cable & Wireless at a glance
Providing enterprise and carrier solutions to 
the largest users of telecoms services around the
world, we intend to be the first customer-defined
communications services business. We also
provide wholesale broadband services in the 
UK through C&W Access.
We’ve set our sights firmly on a worldwide target
market of around 3,000 corporates, carriers and
public institutions and on providing a superior level
of service to our customers.
We operate as two standalone businesses:
International and Europe, Asia & US, with 
a small Central team as portfolio manager .
Europe, Asia & US (formerly known as UK)
Revenue
EBITDA
06/07 £1,212m 2005/06
06/07
£1,228m 2006/07
06/07 £417m 2005/06
06/07
£430m 2006/07
Revenue*
EBITDA*
06/07 £2,040m 2005/06
06/07
£2,139m 2006/07
06/07 £44m 2005/06
06/07
£84m 2006/07
*Includes C&W Access and is after intra-group eliminations
Group revenue 
up 4%
£3.3
bn 05
Introduction 
Highlights
■ Over five million total mobile customers; 
market leader in 20 out of 24 markets 
■ Over 400,000 total broadband customers;
market leader in all 26 markets
■ Revenue increased 7% (at constant currency) 
to £1.2 billion, with mobile revenue up 19% 
and broadband revenue up 45%
■ EBITDA up 8% (at constant currency) to 
£430 million, EBITDA margin of 35% 
■ Cash repatriation of over £0.5 billion
Highlights
■ Turnaround under way – integration completed
and recovery ahead of schedule
■ EBITDA of £84 million nearly double last year
■ Cash for the turnaround well within expectations
■ Rollout to over 800 exchanges complete, LLU
capability in place for wholesale broadband and
future enterprise services 
■ We have set our platform to achieve our
ambition of £2 billion revenue and double-digit
operating margin
Mobile customers
Broadband customers
06/07 3,485,000 31 March 2006
06/07
5,033,000 31 March 2007
06/07 288,000 31 March 2006
06/07
401,000 31 March 2007
The company we keep
Group EBITDA before
exceptionals up 20%
£492
m
Group cash and cash
equivalents
£1.0
bn
Full year dividend 
per share up 30% to
5.85
p Chairman’s statement
A year ago, I was absolutely clear about our priority 
– namely delivery and execution. That has not changed;
what I didn’t anticipate was the scale and pace of operational
improvements that we would see in this first year of the 
new approach.
So, while I’m pleased with our progress, I must underline 
that we’re only at the start – there’s a great deal more value 
to create and deliver . 
The move to separate our businesses into two discrete
operating arms both absolutely focused on their customers’
needs – and the resulting smaller Central division acting 
as a portfolio manager of the two – has proved itself to be 
the right one. This is evidenced by improving financial
performance and a strong balance sheet with shareholder
value rising by £1.5 billion this year .
Likewise, with a slimmed down main Board and Operating
Boards for International and Europe, Asia & US, our new
governance structure is working well. As part of this new 
structure, we were delighted to welcome Simon Ball as 
a Non-executive Director who brings with him a wealth of
financial acumen and investment experience. The statement
of the independent Non-executive Directors on page 35
speaks to all of this in more detail.
Looking to the future, it’s a case of more of the same. 
With delivery and execution remaining our number one
priority , the coming year will see us building on the success
and accomplishments of the last and remaining focused 
on creating value for our shareholders. 
Finally , I would like to take this opportunity to mention our
people. Specifically , I want to express my sincere thanks to
each and every one of them for the significant effort they 
put in and commitment they show day in, day out.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
It’s been a good year . The success of the structural
changes we made a year ago is there for all to see.
International has performed well delivering growth
in customers and revenues and, as a result, improved
EBITDA. We have made a very encouraging start 
to the Europe, Asia & US turnaround and we now
have sufficient visibility to believe that we’ll deliver
on our ambitious targets. 
All of which reinforces our confidence in our future
prospects which is reflected in the dividend. I’m
delighted to recommend a 34% rise in the final 
dividend to 4.15 pence per share which, with the
interim of 1.7 pence per share, gives a full year
dividend of 5.85 pence per share, an increase 
of 30% over last year .
While I’m pleased with our
progress, I must underline
that we’re only at the start 
– there’s a great deal more
value to create and deliver .
06 08 International Chief Executive’s review
09 International overview
1 2 International performance review
1 6 Europe, Asia & US Chairman’s review
1 7 Europe, Asia & US overview
20 Europe, Asia & US performance review
24 Finance Director’s review
25 Group financial performance review
A review of our strategy , 
how our two businesses –
International and Europe, 
Asia & US – have performed
during the year and the 
key factors underlying 
our performance.
Business 
review
Business 
review
07 08
International Chief Executive’s review
We have started to see 
the rewards of putting 
the customer at the centre 
of everything we do.
We saw strong growth in Panama, where relatively low
mobile and broadband penetration and plans to expand 
the Panama canal should continue to drive future growth.
Likewise, in Macau, the strength of the gaming industry 
is driving demand for our services.
I’m particularly pleased that in Jamaica the turnaround 
is showing tangible results. Mobile customers are up 47% 
on last year with rising market share. And we have almost
doubled our broadband customers since March 2006. 
This is all evidenced in a 13% rise in Jamaica EBITDA 
(at constant currency).
This year as next, we continue to invest in our mobile and
broadband expansion plans to improve network quality and
coverage and to take advantage of low market penetrations.
Next year , we are aiming to enable 90% of our network to
deliver at least 8Mbps broadband.
Despite our good progress, I’m far from satisfied and there 
is always room for improvement. In particular , we have to 
do better in our joint venture in T rinidad and T obago, where
we don’t have management control. Here results have fallen 
a long way short of our expectations. 
I’m pleased with our improved focus on cash repatriation 
to Central. We repatriated £530 million of cash of which
£256 million was from the net sale proceeds of our 
associate investment in Bahrain.
Cable & Wireless International is well positioned as the
leading full-service provider for small to medium markets.
And we have what it takes to drive our business forward. 
I’d like to thank everyone in the International team. Without
our people, none of the achievements of the past 12 months
would have been possible. 
Harris Jones
Chief Executive of International 
and Joint Group Managing Director
International has performed well. Our focus on
mobile and broadband has paid dividends with
customer numbers over five million for mobile 
and over 400,000 for broadband. The turnaround 
of the Jamaican business is evident and we are
regaining mobile market share there. Our EBITDA
has increased by 8% (at constant currency) to 
£430 million, with an EBITDA margin of 35%.
We are starting to see the rewards of putting the customer 
at the centre of everything we do. Our revenue has increased
by 7% (at constant currency), with mobile revenue up 19%
and broadband revenue up 45%. An increased focus on
working together across International has allowed us to
improve the customer experience while reducing our other
operating costs to 31% of revenue. As a result, EBITDA before
exceptionals has increased 8% to £430 million and we have
achieved an EBITDA margin of 35%.
We operate in 33
countries around 
the world, serving
residential and
business customers. Business 
review
09
International overview
Offering mobile, broadband and fixed line services 
to residential and business customers, we’re the
leading provider of telecommunications services 
to small and medium-sized markets.
We operate in 33 countries with principal operations
in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and 
the Islands portfolio. We are the market leader 
in 20 out of 24 mobile markets and in all 26 of 
our broadband markets. 
Our business today
We’re a company to be reckoned with – in nearly 
all our markets, we are the leading and incumbent
telecommunications provider . 
Operating in 33 countries across five continents we span
eight regions: Jamaica, Barbados, North Caribbean, East
Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Islands. Islands
comprise operations in the Channel Islands, Isle of Man 
and the Indian, Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. 
We operate through 25 subsidiaries and eight joint ventures.
Our ownership of these companies is varied – some are
wholly owned and others are partly owned with the public,
the local government or other corporate partners.
We are the only full service company in most of our markets,
providing mobile, broadband, domestic and international
fixed line services to residential and business customers. 
Due to the diversity of our markets in terms of size,
geography and culture, we treat each business individually
by tailoring our services to the relevant market – but with 
the benefit of our scale and global network. 
In our small and medium-sized markets, the services 
we deliver – and, as importantly , the way we deliver them
– make a real difference. And not just to our residential 
and business customers – they also help governments 
drive economic change. 
We aspire to be the telecoms provider of choice wherever 
we operate. So, we’re building a dynamic organisation 
that ensures our customers benefit from the new services,
expertise and efficiencies achieved since market liberalisation.
T alking of change, we are running with an ambitious agenda
to engage our employees better . Why? Because of the direct
correlation between our people, the results they achieve and
the quality of the services we offer . 
For the good of our customers, there’s a shared purpose 
to be the best we can be, as we improve processes, remove
duplication and focus on creating enhanced and more
resilient services. Collectively , we’re working as a team 
better than ever before. 
In a nutshell, we’re prepared not just to meet competition in
our markets, but to beat it. As such, we’ve made significant
progress over the past year – particularly in Panama,
Jamaica, Macau and Barbados.
We are market
leaders in nearly 
all of our markets;
offering mobile,
broadband and
fixed line services.
We aim to offer 
our customers
attractive products
and a superior
customer
experience.
Total mobile customers
31 March
Total broadband customers
31 March
Our mobile business in Panama competes with one of the
largest mobile operators in the world – and we’re winning.
Our mobile revenues grew by 24% compared with 2005/06.
Similarly broadband revenue grew by 31%.
The turnaround in Jamaica is a great achievement, given
that our market share fell following liberalisation of the
mobile market. In 2006/07 , we saw mobile revenues grow 
by 24% in a highly competitive environment. Our broadband
revenues grew by even more at 93%. All of which is a reward
for the effort and imagination of the local management, who
have worked hard to recapture lost ground. We’re putting 
the lessons learned here to good use in our other markets.
We’re looking to our business in Macau to achieve significant
growth in revenues and profits. Macau’s economy is dynamic
and growing rapidly , fuelled by the gaming industry . As you’d
expect, the mobile market is highly competitive but we’re
confident that our service model, supported by the requisite
investment, will win. In 2006/07 , mobile revenue was up 
16% while revenues from our enterprise segment were 
9% higher .
Based on our network platform in Guernsey , we’ve launched
our mobile service in Jersey , branded ‘Sure’, and we’ll be
launching in the Isle of Man in the summer . The latter two
businesses are at an early stage of their development but
we’re confident that as they mature they will be a source 
of revenue and profit growth. 
In short, there’s a real feeling of building momentum.
Includes subsidiaries and joint ventures and excludes Batelco for ease of comparison.
3,485,000 2006
5,033,000 2007
288,000 2006
401,000 2007 10
We aim to be the
telecoms provider
of choice in all our
markets.
We treat 
each business
individually while
taking advantage 
of our global reach.
Our strategy 
We aim to be the telecoms provider of choice in all of 
our markets.
How? By offering our customers attractive products 
and services using high quality networks and a superior
customer experience.
We offer high quality products as standard. We’re aiming 
for at least 8Mbps capability for broadband and to complete
the already well advanced process of replacing legacy mobile
technologies with Global Service for Mobile (GSM). We
already have our own Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)
solutions that are proving popular with customers. 
Our pricing and payment plans are easy to understand, with
options to suit different customer needs including prepay ,
post pay , per second billing and international calling cards.
We also ensure that we offer our customers quick and easy
ways to access our services with a variety of distribution
channels including online, through our retail shops and from
street vendors. 
In an increasingly competitive environment, developing
brands that have local resonance is key to our commercial
strategy . Alongside our Cable & Wireless brand, we have a
mix of local brands such as CTM in Macau, Monaco T elecom
and Dhiraagu in the Maldives. 
Our customers deserve the best technology and network 
– so that’s what we deliver – along with 24/7 proactive
network monitoring to anticipate and fix any issues. And
where the usual network options aren’t available, we offer our
customers alternatives including V oIP over Wimax technology .
It’s vital that we tailor our operations to local needs and have
them led by local management teams. This, coupled with the
benefits of our global connectivity , means that we’re able to
compete both efficiently and effectively . 
In addition, by streamlining our business processes, getting
rid of duplication and sharing best practice, we can benefit
from portfolio efficiencies. F or example, we have implemented
a central mobile network performance management system
to monitor network and marketing performance. We have a
common billing platform in 26 markets that supports both
prepaid and post paid billing. 
In terms of further expansion, we intend to make selective
acquisitions in growing, small to medium-sized markets
where we can be the market leader , a full service provider
and have management control. Of particular interest to 
us, where feasible, is growing our economic interest in our
existing subsidiaries and joint ventures – something we’re
actively trying to achieve. 
We continue to invest in our most crucial asset – our people
– through development programmes, on-line training and
tailored courses. So as people build their careers with us, 
we actively support their developmental needs along the 
way effectively resulting in better service for our customers. 
Our market
Right now, our industry is changing more rapidly than ever . 
T en years ago, 90% of all calls were fixed-to-fixed and 
the remainder were to ‘car phones’. T oday , fixed-to-fixed
represents less than 20% of all calls whilst mobile-to-mobile
accounts for nearly 50%. The increase in broadband usage
provides a platform for new services such as VoIP , video calls
and television. 
Across our markets, we face broadly the same issues. 
New technologies are driving down the price of existing
offerings. At the same time, liberalisation has seen new
entrants seeking to challenge our position, driving price
erosion as they compete aggressively . Additionally , we are
dealing with continuing developments in regulatory and
government policy . 
As a full-service provider , we can flex our business model 
to take advantage of market trends. We see mobile, already
our single largest revenue segment, continuing to increase
over the next few years. Our GSM mobile customer numbers
in Panama increased this year to more than one million, while
a range of initiatives in Jamaica saw our mobile customer
numbers rise by 47%. These two examples serve to highlight
that pulling all the elements together – improved network
coverage, keener pricing and targeted marketing spend 
– do produce the desired results. 
Liberalisation has fuelled competition, so today we’re facing
new challenges and new opportunities. With 93% of our
revenues generated in competitive markets, we’re investing
in enhanced service propositions throughout our product
portfolio and further developing our Cable & Wireless and
local brands. It’s essential that there’s a level competitive
playing field, both for existing operators and new entrants.
Consequently , we work closely with local regulators to
ensure fair and efficient regulation.
There are significant growth opportunities in a number of 
our markets fuelled by tourism, gaming, financial services
and infrastructure investment. Macau, for example, 
has overtaken Las Vegas to become the world’s largest
gaming centre, with casino revenue expected to double 
to US$11.6 billion by 2010. 
Panama is our single largest market by revenue. Here a
US$5.25 billion investment to expand the capacity of the
Panama canal has been announced with work set to start 
in 2008. This massive investment will enhance Panama’s
service-based economy and the world’s second-largest 
free trade zone – home to some 2,000 companies.
Our markets in the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean are 
a magnet for tourists, financial services and, to a lesser 
extent, the gaming industry , affording us further growth
opportunities. We’re investing in our mobile networks as 
well as broadband infrastructure and have seen strong
revenue increases as a result. A new MPLS network is 
being deployed across the region to provide our business
customers, which include HSBC, Scotia Bank, Shell and
International overview Business 
review
11
93% of our
revenues are
generated in
competitive
markets.
Macau has
overtaken Las
V egas as the
world’s largest
gaming centre.
Plans to expand 
the Panama canal
should continue 
to drive further
growth.
We help bridge 
the digital divide 
in the communities 
we serve.
Chevron, with increased bandwidth and a wide range of
products; for example, managed services, hosting and
disaster recovery .
Risks to our future success
We believe that we have all the necessary licences and
concessions needed to operate our business but from 
time to time some of them come up for renewal. We manage
this risk by maintaining regular dialogue and building
relationships with governments and regulators. For example,
our fixed line concession in Macau expires in 2011 and is
scheduled for review in 2007 . We’re working with the Macau
Government and regulatory body to develop a regulatory
framework that enables ongoing stability and investment 
for our Macau business. We’re also implementing a ‘Digital
Macau’ investment programme to demonstrate our long-
term commitment to Macau.
There’s a risk that our joint ventures may underperform.
Without management control, we aren’t always able to
influence performance. We approach this by having regular
dialogue with key stakeholders, active engagement with
these companies, operational involvement where practicable
and gaining management control where possible.
In parts of Asia and the Caribbean, natural disasters and
severe weather such as hurricanes pose a risk. T o address
this risk, we have in place robust disaster preparation and
business continuity plans; contingency equipment and
suppliers; monitoring; strong network resilience and
insurance cover .
Foreign exchange fluctuations are a feature of our business
– particularly of the US dollar . About 70% of International’s
EBITDA is US dollar denominated or pegged. While we
manage the foreign exchange exposure on remittances 
from International businesses to Central, it is not possible 
to hedge the reported value of our non-sterling earnings. 
We do not hedge the sterling value of overseas assets.
Wherever we operate – and particularly in litigious markets
such as Panama – litigation could adversely affect our
profitability and reputation. As you’d expect, if and when 
this happens, we defend our position robustly using the 
full range of legal resources available. 
Finding and keeping good people is key to our strategy . 
In Macau, the growth of the gaming industry is putting
considerable strain on the local labour market, while in the
Caribbean, the challenge is in being able to restructure our
business to meet local market needs. We manage this risk 
by actively engaging with our people and employee bodies
with regular surveys, feedback and forums.
Our corporate and social responsibility 
Communities
As a leading international communications company , 
we recognise the positive role we can play in programmes
that help bridge the digital divide and improve Information
Communications T echnology (ICT) development in
communities we serve. ICT and modern telecoms are vital
elements on every economic change agenda and we are
proud of the positive contribution that our initiatives bring 
to our markets.
These initiatives range from our well-established charitable
foundations, which we continue to expand – often with the
help of our people – through to youth and culture
development programmes. 
Here’s a snapshot of some of what we’ve been up to: 
■ In Jamaica, we’ve given more than 1,000 computers and
free broadband connections to 108 schools. And, in the
wider Caribbean, we’ve established the CaribSurf Junior
Cyber Club ensuring 6 to 18-year olds can surf the 
Internet safely .
■ In Barbados, during the ICC Cricket World Cup held 
in spring 2007 , which we sponsored, we invited 250
students to the Kensington Oval in Bridgetown as part 
of our active development of sporting excellence.
■ In Panama, we’ve committed donations of US$1 million 
per year until July 2009 to enable the establishment of 
the Panama ‘Digital Alphabetisation Fund’. In its first year ,
the Foundation installed 150 VSAT antennas and satellite
Internet connections, plus nearly 3,700 wireless
computers in rural schools.
■ In Macau, CTM has donated 100 refurbished computers
and 200 free Internet connections to members of the
Macau Mentally-disabled F amilies Association and the
Macau Deaf Association. 
■ In the Seychelles, we are providing a free broadband
service for three years to all primary , secondary and 
post-secondary schools, working in partnership with 
the Ministry of Education.
Environment, health and safety
No matter where we are, we’re committed to minimising 
the environmental impact of our business activities and 
the health, safety and welfare of all our people is paramount. 
Our Chief Security Officer is responsible for the overall
governance of health, safety and the environment (HSE),
conducting audits and co-ordinating all HSE improvements
and best practice and ensuring we maintain a comprehensive
set of HSE standards and procedures across all 
our businesses. 12
International performance review
International has performed well. By putting 
the customer first, investing in the growth areas 
of mobile and broadband and being mindful of our
costs we’ve achieved an 8% increase, at constant
currency , in our EBITDA. Our relentless focus on
cash is reflected in the over half a billion pounds
we’ve remitted to Central. We exit this year stronger
than we began and have set the foundation for an
even better performance in 2007/08.
International key performance indicators
As at As at As at
31 March 30 September 31 March
2007 2006
1
2006
1
(’000) (’000) (’000)
Total active
2
GSM mobile 
customers 5,033 4,290 3,485
Subsidiaries 2,611 2,085 1,750
Joint ventures 2,422 2,205 1,735
Total broadband customers 401 338 288
Subsidiaries 378 321 275
Joint ventures 23 17 13
Total fixed line connections 1,902 1,876 1,867
Subsidiaries 1,531 1,505 1,497
Joint ventures 371 371 370
1 For ease of comparison, March 2006 and September 2006 numbers have been
restated to exclude Batelco (Bahrain).
2 An active customer is defined as one having performed a revenue-generating event 
in the previous 60 days.
We had over five million mobile customers at the end of
2006/07 across 24 markets, an increase of 44% compared
with 31 March 2006. We are the market leader in all but four 
of these markets.
Our subsidiaries’ active GSM mobile customer base
increased 49% in 2006/07 to 2.6 million customers. 
We saw growth in all our markets, with the largest gains 
in Panama, Jamaica and the East Caribbean.
Panama’s mobile customer base grew to over one million this
year driven by our improved network quality and coverage,
innovative promotional activity on prepaid products and
further migration from TDMA services. In Jamaica, we have
grown our mobile customer numbers by 47% to 545,000 by
improving our network coverage and simplifying our pricing
plans. This has led to growth in our market share of four
percentage points to 27%. Mobile customer numbers in the
East Caribbean increased 34% to 306,000 in 2006/07
driven by attractive handset pricing and usage promotions.
Our investment in the performance and coverage of our
mobile networks has also been a key driver of growth in other
markets such as North Caribbean and Islands where mobile
customer numbers grew by 39% and 33% respectively .
The number of mobile customers in our joint ventures
increased by 40% in 2006/07 compared with 2005/06
driven by growth in Roshan of 39% to 1.2 million, Dhiraagu 
of 31% to 185,000 and TSTT where migration of customers
from TDMA and underlying market growth drove a 43%
increase in GSM customer numbers to over one million.
Our total broadband customers increased by 39% to over
400,000 customers in 2006/07 . We are the market leader
in all 26 of our broadband markets.
Our subsidiaries’ broadband customers increased by 
37% in 2006/07 to 378,000 broadband customers. This
was primarily driven by strong growth across the Caribbean
– Jamaica almost doubled its broadband customer base 
to 79,000 customers by offering higher speeds for similar
prices. Barbados increased numbers by 75% to 28,000 
as a result of promotional offers, such as the offer of a free
modem and installation. East Caribbean broadband
customer numbers grew by 42% driven by revamped pricing
plans, further rollout of Netspeak (our VoIP product) and
promotional offers.
Broadband customer numbers in Macau increased 38% 
to 102,000 driven by extended network coverage and the
launch of high speed ADSL 2+ services to every home 
and business. 
We continue to extend our broadband network in all our
markets and to upgrade our customer proposition to higher
speed services. Seventeen of our markets (including joint
ventures) still have market penetration rates of less than
50% offering further opportunity for growth.
The number of fixed line customers remained steady over
the 12 month period to 31 March 2007 at approximately 
1.9 million customers. We are the market leader in all but 
one (Jersey) of our 26 fixed line services markets.
In Jamaica, fixed line customer numbers grew 14% compared
with 2005/06 to 360,000 driven by the introduction in
June 2006 of a prepaid fixed line product and the launch 
of a single national rate. This increase was largely offset by
small declines in our other subsidiaries driven by substitution
with other products.
International income statement
The commentary that follows focuses on percentage
changes at constant currency in order to highlight the
underlying trends in International. However , where absolute
amounts are quoted, they reflect actual exchange rates.
T otal revenue increased 7% to £1,228 million compared with
2005/06. Growth in mobile and broadband contributed an
additional £67 million of revenue in 2006/07 and together
now represent almost 40% of our total revenue.
Mobile revenue grew £46 million to £406 million in
2006/07 , a 19% increase compared with 2005/06. Mobile 
is our largest segment representing about a third of our 
total revenue. Panama’s mobile revenue increased 24% compared 
with 2005/06 to £123 million driven by the growth in 
the customer base and our continued investment in 
improving the performance of our network to maintain 
this competitive advantage.
Jamaica’s mobile revenue increased 24% to £47 million 
as we continued to win back customers. Our market share
grew by four percentage points to 27% – evidence that the
turnaround of the Jamaican business is under way . This
growth was the result of expanding our network coverage
and simpler and cheaper calling plans.
The 16% increase in mobile revenue in Macau to £54 million
was driven by growth in roaming revenue as a result of the
negotiation of roaming agreements and increased tourist
arrivals associated with the economic growth.
Our broadband revenue increased by 45% compared with
2005/06 to £77 million, with growth in all our regions. 
The largest gain was in Jamaica where our revenue almost
doubled to £14 million compared with 2005/06. 
Growth was driven by increased coverage, a focus on
improving the quality and speed of service, lower pricing,
further rollout of Netspeak and the migration of customers
from dial up services.
Domestic and international voice revenue decreased 3% 
and 5% respectively compared with 2005/06 to £307 million
and £168 million, principally as a result of competitive 
and regulatory pressure on pricing and substitution by 
mobile and broadband. In particular , international voice
revenue in the North Caribbean declined by £8 million
to £19 million, a 25% decrease compared with 2005/06, 
as high broadband penetration rates drove increased 
VoIP substitution.
However , in Jamaica, fixed line revenue grew despite the
general market conditions, largely due to the introduction 
of a prepaid fixed line service and a new prepaid calling 
card with low international rates, driving 2% growth in both
domestic and international revenue. In Macau, international
voice revenue increased 5% driven by the influx of a large
number of workers to support the rapidly expanding 
gaming industry .
International income statement
Constant
Change as currency
2006/07 2005/06 reported
1
change
2
£m £m % %
Mobile 406 3601319
Broadband 77 56 38 45
Domestic voice 307 338 (9) (3)
International voice 168 188 (11) (5)
Enterprise, data and other
3
264 26026
Other internet 6 10 (40) (37)
Total revenue 1,228 1,212 1 7
Cost of sales (418) (386) (8) (14)
Gross margin 810 826 (2) 3
Other operating costs (excluding L TIP charge) (380) (409) 7 2
EBITDA
4
430 41738
L TIP charge (10) –nmnm
Depreciation and amortisation (140) (136) (3) (9)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (5) (6) 17 17
Net other operating income 2 –nmnm
Operating profit before associates and joint ventures 277 27516
Share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures 21 58 (64) (63)
Operating profit before exceptional items 298 333 (11) (7)
Exceptional items (29) (12) nm nm
Total operating profit 269 321 (16) (12)
Capital expenditure (168) (142) (18) (25)
Headcount (full time equivalents at 31 March) 7,876 8,150 3 n/a
nm represents % change not meaningful.
1 Positive percentages represent improvement.
2 Constant currency growth rates are based on the restatement of prior year
comparatives at current year’s reported average exchange rates. Positive percentages
represent improvement.
3 Includes corporate solutions, international management contracts, internet hosting,
leased circuits, legacy data services, directory services, equipment rentals and
television services.
4 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptionals, 
Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) charge and net other operating income.
Business 
review
13 14
Associates and joint ventures
Our share of Our share of
revenue post-tax profit
Ownership
as at
31 March 2007 2006/07 2005/06 2006/07 2005/06
% £m £m £m £m
T rinidad and T obago 
(TSTT) 49 120 123 (12) 12
Bahrain (Batelco)
1
– 52 63 12 26
Afghanistan 
(Roshan) 37 38 36 2 5
The Maldives 
(Dhiraagu) 45 25 26 12 12
Fiji (Fintel) 49 8 8 2 2
Others 6 7 5 1
Total pre-
exceptional items 249 263 21 58
Exceptionals: 
Dhiraagu – – – 2
TTST – – (29) –
Total post-
exceptional items 249 263 (8) 60
1 Batelco (Bahrain) results only applicable up to the date of disposal, 16 January 2007 .
Our share of post-tax loss (post exceptionals) from
associates and joint ventures was £8 million (including 
a £29 million exceptional write down relating to TSTT)
compared with a £60 million profit in 2005/06. The main
factors of this reduction are the poor performance of
T rinidad and T obago (TSTT) and the disposal of our stake 
in our associate in Bahrain (Batelco).
Our share of pre-exceptional post-tax loss in TSTT was 
£12 million in 2006/07 compared with a £12 million profit 
in 2005/06. In addition to the poor financial performance,
there was evidence of weak controls, which are being
addressed by the new management. We are engaged 
with the Government of T rinidad and T obago, the majority
shareholder , on restructuring efforts targeted at improving
performance.
Monaco T elecom’s joint venture in Afghanistan (Roshan)
contributed £3 million less than in the prior year due to the
introduction of a 10% sales tax, an increase in depreciation
from mobile investment, higher interest charges and adverse
movements in foreign exchange rates.
Our joint venture in the Maldives (Dhiraagu) faced its first full
year of mobile competition in 2006/07 and has competed
strongly to maintain its market leadership – Dhiraagu
contributed £12 million to our share of post-tax profit in line
with results for 2005/06.
Enterprise, data and other revenue increased 6% to £264
million in 2006/07 . This growth was driven by Monaco’s
international traffic management contracts, such as those
with PTK in Kosovo and Roshan in Afghanistan as those
markets continued to develop.
Gross margin increased 3% in 2006/07 to £810 million. 
As a percentage of revenue, gross margin declined two
percentage points to 66%. This was driven by increased
subscriber acquisition costs as we grew our market share,
competitive pricing pressure and lower percentage margin
revenue streams from Monaco’s international traffic
management contracts.
Other operating costs reduced £29 million to £380 million, 
a 2% decrease compared with 2005/06. As a percentage 
of revenue, other operating costs have declined from 34% 
in 2005/06 to 31% in 2006/07 reflecting the restructuring 
of our businesses and cost control with a 3% decrease in
headcount to 7 ,876 at 31 March 2007 .
Our other operating costs include net head office costs
transferred to International of £3 million and additional
investments in Jersey and the Isle of Man totalling £3
million. These costs have been more than offset by accrual
releases totalling £10 million. £7 million of these accrual
releases relate to the settlement of contractual disputes 
on better than expected terms in Monaco.
Our EBITDA before exceptionals increased 8% in 2006/07
to £430 million from £417 million in 2005/06. Our reported
EBITDA margin was 35.0% in 2006/07 compared with
34.4% in 2005/06.
After allowing for the items in other operating costs above,
the EBITDA margin for 2006/07 was 34.7%. In the second
half of 2006/07 , our EBITDA margin was higher than in the
first half mainly as a result of the accrual releases of 
£10 million.
We increased our capital expenditure by £26 million
compared with 2005/06 to £168 million with a focus on
extending our mobile networks and improving the speed 
and coverage of our broadband networks. We will continue
to invest in our broadband coverage and service capability .
By December 2007 , we are aiming to enable 90% of our
broadband network to offer at least 8Mbps broadband.
Depreciation increased by 9% compared with 2005/06 to
£140 million driven mainly by our investment in mobile and
broadband. As we continue to invest in newer technologies,
our asset life cycles are decreasing, resulting in rising
depreciation charges.
International performance review Business 
review
15
Finance income consists of £23 million of dividends received
from associates and joint ventures, and £7 million of interest
and other income. 
Reconciliation of International EBITDA 
to net cash flow before financing and repatriation
2006/07
1
£m
EBITDA
2
430
Exceptional items (13)
EBITDA less exceptionals 417
Movement in exceptional provisions (6)
Movement in working capital and 
other provisions (15)
Income taxes paid (44)
Purchase of property , plant, equipment 
and intangible assets (164)
Finance income 30
Acquisitions and disposals 261
Other income 3
Net cash inflow before financing activities 482
Net inflow from external financing activities 60
Net cash inflow after external financing 542
Less:
Batelco disposal proceeds (net) (256)
Associate and joint venture dividends (23)
Net cash inflow after external financing 
generated by subsidiaries 263
Less:
Share attributable to minority interests (76)
International proportionate share of 
net cash inflow after external financing 187
Surplus cash balances from subsidiaries repatriated 64
Operational repatriation 251
Operational repatriation efficiency
3
134%
Batelco disposal proceeds (net) 256
Associate and joint venture dividends 23
Total repatriation 530
1  Based on our management accounts.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptionals, L TIP
charge and net other operating income.
3  Operational repatriation efficiency is calculated by dividing operational repatriation 
by International share of net cash inflow after external financing.
In 2006/07 , we remitted £530 million to Central. This
remittance included £256 million of net proceeds from the
Batelco disposal, and £60 million proceeds from external
financing activities in Panama and the Caribbean. 
At an operational level, we remitted £251 million to Central 
in 2006/07 representing 134% of our share of net cash flow
generated by subsidiaries after external financing. This
exceeds our target to remit at least 100% of our share of cash
generated and includes the return of surplus cash balances
from our subsidiaries.
Exceptional items
As a result of the trading performance of our joint venture,
TSTT , we have written down our share of TSTT's net assets
by £29 million. As a result, our share of TSTT’s net assets
reduced to £72 million.
International exceptional items also include £13 million costs
following headcount reduction programmes in the Caribbean
and Islands, which are offset by £13 million exceptional
credits relating to insurance receipts and related provision
releases.
Exchange rate movements
2006/07 2005/06
US$:£
Average 1.8807 1.7946
Y ear end 1.9631 1.7406
Jamaican$:£
Average 124.72 112.60
Y ear end 132.74 113.76
During 2006/07 , both the US and the Jamaican dollar
weakened against sterling, by 5% and 11% respectively . 
In 2006/07 , we sold International US$ remittances forward
against sterling at $1.86. In the light of current US dollar
weakness and the fact that 2007/08 remittances are
expected to be primarily received during the second half 
of the financial year , to date we have not entered into 
any further hedging contracts. A one cent change in the
US$:£ rate has approximately a £2 million impact on the 
full year EBITDA of International. A one dollar change in 
the Jamaican $:£ exchange rate has approximately a 
£0.5 million impact on the reported full year EBITDA 
of International.
During 2006/07 , approximately 70% of International
EBITDA was earned in US dollar denominated or related
currencies. Given that the US dollar is the dominant 
currency of International, from 2007/08, we will report 
the International results in US dollars to give a better
reflection of the underlying performance of our business.
Cash flow
We generated net cash flow of £482 million before financing
activities in 2006/07 including £256 million of net proceeds
from the disposal of our 20% stake in our associate in
Bahrain (Batelco). 
The £19 million exceptional outflow represents costs
associated with restructuring our businesses to drive
operational efficiencies principally through headcount
reductions.
Our £15 million movement in working capital is mainly driven
by Monaco where an accrual release following the settlement
of supplier disputes and the renegotiation of contract
payment terms relating to our contract with PTK in Kosovo
had a negative impact on working capital of £14 million. Europe, Asia & US Chairman’s review
Our success rests on our
ability to deliver great service
to our customers – and that
relies heavily on our people.
But there’s plenty more to do. While we’re almost through
our recovery phase with a business delivering solid
performance, we’re also ready to begin our transformation.
This is where we’ll realise our ambition of being the first
customer-defined communications services business.
Our enduring success will rest on our ability to deliver a great
service experience to our customers – and that relies heavily
on the efforts of our people. The success we’ve achieved
thus far has been due to the efforts of every person in the
business so I’d like to express my admiration and gratitude 
to them. The calibre and energy of our people – especially
through tough times – is impressive. They are our best asset.
So what have we been up to? Put simply , we’ve built a reliable
business. We’re two-thirds of the way through our customer
reduction programme; we’re winning more business than 
we thought we would and with a reasonable mix of more
sustainable revenues. Our service is improving and we’re
creating a customer-centric culture that takes pride in and
values its people; we’ve exited the consumer broadband
market with the sale of Bulldog and moved to wholesale 
our local loop capability – an asset which gives us a
competitive advantage.
The culture in our business today is materially different 
to 18 months ago. Customer focus and service obsession 
are back at the top of our agenda and colleagues’ sentiment
improves with each new success.
So, our work is starting to show in a good set of results 
– results that still only hint at the strength of our future
business. While there’s no shortage of new opportunities, 
it’s important that we don’t get distracted as these are still
early days.
The time I’ve now spent in the business has shown me
clearly what it means, and could mean to customers,
colleagues and shareholders. Helping to create the 
Cable & Wireless they truly deserve is our simple goal 
– we won’t fail them.
John Pluthero
Chairman Europe, Asia & US 
and Joint Group Managing Director 
The last year has been one almost entirely without
glamour and that’s just as it should be. We’ve always
been clear that the turnaround of our business would
take three to five years, so this year , representing
months five to 17 of that journey , has been one of
heads down and sleeves rolled up.
We set out our intention 18 months ago to deliver to our 
top end corporate and public sector customers worldwide 
a service experience second to none. Nothing we’ve seen
since then has caused us to change tack and we’ve 
achieved a great deal. Indeed, we’re sitting on a larger 
than expected opportunity .
We serve top end
corporate and public
sector customers
worldwide.
16 Business 
review
17
We aim to 
be the first 
customer-defined
communications
services business. 
Our customers
don’t stand still, 
so we won’t either .
On a mission to provide an excellent service
experience to our customers across the globe, 
we provide enterprise and carrier solutions to the
largest users of telecoms services – and wholesale
broadband services in the UK.
Our business today
T elecoms customers have been forced to suffer poor service
from our industry for too long – our ambition is to change that.
Our customers rely on our services to conduct their
business, connect with their customers and with each other .
So, when a stranded driver with a broken down vehicle calls
the AA for help, they use our services to do it. Likewise, when
the UK Prime Minister sends an email, he relies on us to get 
it from A to B.
Given the company we keep, our focus is on delivering 
a customer experience second to none – and that is defined
by our customers – something which sets us apart from 
our industry . Being customer-defined means listening,
understanding, questioning, testing and evolving in line with
our customers’ needs. But we also realise that 21st century
businesses require new and different things from their
communications suppliers – making the old and accepted
ways obsolete.
We’re leading by example. Under our banner of ‘ A New 
Way Everywhere’, we’re redesigning every aspect of our
business based on what our customers want. And we’re 
not done yet. We’re getting to grips with on time provisioning,
sorting fault handling, putting more people on our front line
customer services desks and allowing customers to define
which services we make available – but we’re also clear that
we are still a work in progress.
We aim to help our customers achieve their business goals.
While our competitors continue to promote a technology-
only vision of the world, our focus is subtly , but powerfully ,
different. Working closely with our customers, we’re
bottoming out the individual service experience they want
and showing them how our technologies can be exploited 
to deliver that.
With service our number one priority , we’re clear that our
service is delivered by our people and not just by whizzy
technology . Our people set us apart – they have the smarts
to understand our customers’ environments and put 
the technology together in a way that delivers what our
customers want in the way they want it. So it’s our people
that we are putting our energy into.
Europe, Asia & US overview
The AA
T revor Didcock, Director of Information Systems 
at the AA, said:
“Cable & Wireless used to provide voice and
contact centre services – ensuring that the 
right call was routed to the right call centre. 
It’s still doing this, but under the new contract,
Cable & Wireless is our single supplier for
managed network services – our strategic
telecoms partner . 
“Cable & Wireless stood out over its competitors
because of its attention to detail, focus on 
service and proven track record in delivering
change projects. This agreement will save us
money , position the AA network for the future
and further streamline our processes as all 
our service requirements will now be handled 
by a single supplier .”
Our strategy
Providing enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users
of telecoms services around the world, Cable & Wireless
Europe, Asia & US intends to be the first customer-defined
communications services business.
With our sights firmly set on our worldwide target market 
of about 3,000 corporates, carriers and public institutions,
we’re aiming for about £2 billion revenues and double-digit
operating margin. We’re around a year and a half into a three
to five year journey .
T o be the kind of business that deserves to work with these
kinds of customers – and to deliver the service levels they
require – we’ve made a lot of changes. Our customers don’t
stand still, so we won’t either .
Our focus on specific customer segments allows us to design
our business around particular needs – in turn allowing us 
to simplify our operations. We’ve made good progress on
rationalising our product set, now only launching new
products our customers have asked us for . We’re two-thirds
of the way through our customer base reduction programme
from 30,000 of varying sizes to around 3,000 large
corporates and public institutions – and this spring cleaning
process has also meant that we can reduce headcount.
But our driving force is not ripping out cost. More, it’s about
achieving a simplified organisation – for customers and
colleagues – obsessive about delivering great service. As such, our most important investments have been part
technology-based, but have mainly been in our people 
– as it’s our people who deliver great service to our
customers. So, while we’re proud to say we’ve upgraded our
Asia network and completed rollout of our local loop and next
generation networks – we’re more interested in investments
in our colleagues.
Delivering great service means having the right people in the
right places. We’ve attracted new people bringing alternative
skill sets in line with our service ambitions with a majority
coming into roles that directly interact with our customers,
like front line support. And, with around a quarter of our
revenues coming from our worldwide capabilities, we’ll 
be doubling our headcount in Asia over the next two years.
As well as bringing in new talent, we’re investing in our
existing colleagues. We’re intent on enabling them to provide
better service and instilling a culture of service obsession
with initiatives like our Colleague Academy , Colleague
Consultation Forum, Recognition Scheme and Customer
Service Awards.
And we’re motivating and encouraging them to share in our
success. We’ve given each colleague £1,000 worth of shares
(or cash equivalent) and have introduced a ‘buy one, get one
free’ share incentive scheme.
Our market
With experience of delivering connectivity into some 153
countries, major operations predominantly across Europe,
Asia and the US and customers with exacting demands on 
a worldwide scale, we operate in tough and competitive
markets. We like it like that; it allows us to shine.
We’re redesigning
our business 
based on what our
customers want.
Delivering great
service to our
customers is 
our number one
priority bar none.
18
Europe, Asia & US overview
But in terms of our competitive environment, the dynamics
are largely the same as in recent years. The industry is
suffering from price erosion, expenditure on telecoms is flat
year-on-year – but with volumes growing across the product
set – and customers are still let down by the poor service our
industry seems to think it’s acceptable to dish out.
Our customers (typically the Chief Information Officers 
or IT directors of large organisations) face significant
technological change with much hyped next generation
networks, convergence and so on. They want more for less 
– as they respond to the demands on them to remove cost
and complexity while successfully negotiating the path to an
all-IP world and its attendant benefits … and all this without
dropping the ball.
Increasingly , we’re seeing customers favour relationships
with a select number of trusted suppliers rather than multi-
sourcing as a means of spreading risk. This is particularly
pronounced with burgeoning demand for our managed or
‘dedicated’ services capabilities.
In terms of our UK regulatory environment, BT continues 
to implement its undertakings from Ofcom’s 2005 Strategic
Review of T elecommunications. We’ve yet to see significant
tangible benefits for our customers – and remain sceptical
that a fundamental change in competitive conditions will 
be delivered.
With our UK foundations well established, our worldwide
story is one of growth – led by our customers’ requirements.
This sees us investing further in locations like India and
China – where our customers have their own commercial
ambitions in terms of outsourcing or global expansion and
require our support. We’re applying for International Long
Distance and National Long Distance Licences in India and
have already secured authorisation in Poland, the Czech
Republic and Hungary – again enabling us to meet our
customers’ requirements.
As a service-led business, rather than a commodity supplier ,
our role is to help our customers find the right technology
answers and service experience to meet their own very
individual requirements. So, when it comes to a technology
deployment or refresh, we take pains to ensure our customers
understand all that’s involved – and to progress at the right
pace for them. One size fits all, forced migration, rip and
replace – none of these sum up our approach.
Put simply , delivering great service to our customers is our
number one priority bar none. And it’s our people, not our
technology , that do that.
Littlewoods Shop Direct
Martin Wyke, CIO, Littlewoods, said: 
“The way we had grown meant the business 
was served by disparate networks and suppliers.
Such a fragmented approach blocked the full
integration of the business and also hampered
the growth of the company .
“We were looking to consolidate our services 
and build a platform for future development 
and growth. Cable & Wireless’ market 
leading IP services fit the bill and give us 
the commercial flexibility that we need.” Business 
review
19
Risks to our future success
While we’re pleased with our progress, like any business,
there are risks to our future success. There’s the usual
competitive and pricing pressures – as well as some more
specific to us. Here’s an outline of these and how we’re
managing them.
With excellent service our priority , we’re systematically
dealing with the barriers on our path to success. So while
moving parts of our non-customer facing operations to 
India allows us to provide better service with more resource
for less cost, we’ll also no longer be in direct control. We’re
addressing this by implementing rigorously tested
governance structures ensuring our service levels 
are sustained. Additionally , with our customers’ own
requirements to be served by us in India and elsewhere
increasing, we’re working closely with regulatory authorities
and governments to secure the necessary licences.
Particular bugbears for telecoms customers are failure 
to meet commitments and inaccurate billing. Our service
ambition hinges on getting the basics right so we’re
overhauling our processes, putting more people in the 
front line and building additional network where necessary . 
Likewise, without the right levels of customer engagement
and service delivery , we don’t deserve to retain our major
customers. We’re meeting that challenge head on. A tight
and targeted executive engagement programme ensuring 
we stay close to our customers and meet their requirements
first time, every time is in place and already showing signs 
of success.
Our corporate and social responsibility
Our people
We’re all about giving good service to our customers.
Delivering that ambition relies on having happy , motivated
people. We’re putting all our energy into ensuring our people
can do their jobs well and we’re busy creating a company
where people aspire to work. That means having people who
understand the importance of good service, feel enabled to
deliver and can share in the success we’re building for our
customers and ourselves. Having a ‘can do’ culture lies at the
heart of this. 
Our values are embedded via leadership team-run colleague
roadshows, listening and question time sessions and all
colleague events – as well as survey and feedback sessions.
There’s also a dedicated and confidential 24-hour assistance
line offering help on issues ranging from work-related stress
to financial advice.
Environment, health and safety
With an emphasis on the efficient use of energy , resources
and minimisation of waste, we updated our environmental
policy following the integration of Energis and our property
portfolio rationalisation. Meanwhile, our Energy Stakeholders
Group spearheads an action plan to assess our carbon
footprint, reduce energy usage and offset fossil fuel emissions.
Our core values
■ Think customer
■ Do what’s right
■ Keep our promises
■ Succeed together
We help TSF to
provide emergency
telecommunications    
in conflict or natural
disaster-stricken
areas.
It’s our people 
that set us apart.
BASF
Adrian Lee, Manager of Network Service Infrastructure, 
Asia Pacific for German chemicals giant BASF , said:
“Just one of our sites was interrupted by the
Taiwan earthquake. Management was very
happy about this. Very pleased indeed.
“Cable & Wireless has a very strong and resilient
network in Asia; it also has a strong engineering
background and its engineers are very , very good.
Without the network, our business doesn’t run. 
There are always issues with networks so it’s 
important to have the right people who can turn
things around and get things fixed quickly . Cable
& Wireless has this. Technically , it rates very 
well and commercially , it’s very competitive.
“We have a single point of contact, a single point 
of responsibility and a single point of ownership
for the whole network meaning a faster
turnaround time to resolve issues. And when
things do go wrong, the replacement of hardware
is faster , helping to keep the network up and
running. All this means that we have seen some
real improvement in our service.” 
We’re fully committed to maintaining health and safety
policies promoting a safe working environment. Managers
have direct responsibility , while the Colleague Consultation
Forum and the Operations, Health, Safety and Environment
Forum provide a means for consultation and discussion.
Communities
We focus our efforts on promoting Information
Communications T echnology (ICT) development and play 
an active role by contributing to a number of charities and
encouraging colleagues to participate both in company 
and charitable giving schemes.
This includes things like:
■ Our after-school ICT Academy , in partnership with
Bracknell Forest Council, sees colleagues working as
mentors to school pupils to improve their ICT
understanding.
■ Our long term partnership with Télécoms sans Frontières
(TSF), a humanitarian non-governmental charity
specialising in providing emergency telecommunications
in conflict or natural disaster-stricken areas.
■ In September 2006, as part of a team working challenge,
colleagues organised and carried out – in just half a day – 
a fundraising scheme which made £30,000.
■ Our membership of the Internet Watch Foundation
furthering UK internet safety . We’ve made more progress than expected in
2006/07 on the underlying drivers of our long term
success. The impact is already coming through in 
our results with EBITDA and cash flow well ahead 
of plan.
It’s only a start, but a good start. We’re looking
forward to the next few years.
The following analysis of the Europe, Asia & US key
performance indicators, income statement and cash flow
reconciliation refers to Europe, Asia & US excluding C&W
Access. The equivalent analysis for C&W Access is on 
pages 22 to 23.
Europe, Asia & US key performance indicators
31 March 30 September 31 March
2007 2006 2006
Number of customers 9,992 14,566 21,000
Services revenue
1
48 % 44 % 44 %
IP , data and hosting revenue
1
37% 32 % 27 %
Reduction in monthly operating cost
run rate from November 2005 £7.3m £7.1m £4.4m
Headcount (full time equivalents) 5,341 5,179 5,614
Number of exchanges unbundled 802 685 411
1 Calculated on the basis of six months ending.
Our programme to reduce the number of customers is
progressing well and we now have fewer than 10,000
customers. We expect to reduce the overall number of
customers to about 3,000, comprising large corporates,
carriers, resellers and public institutions.
The proportion of services revenue has increased from 
44% to 48% since the second half of 2005/06. We are
seeing growth in our global enterprise customers and have
expanded our dedicated services portfolio. We expect to 
see further growth in this area as a result of winning three
additional dedicated services customers in 2006/07 . 
The proportion of IP , data and hosting revenue has increased
from 27% to 37% since the second half of 2005/06. This is a
result of organic growth in our services customers, migration
of customers from legacy data products to IP and a reduction
in traditional voice. 
The monthly operating cost reduction since November 2005
is £7 .3 million representing a reduction in monthly costs of
£2.9 million since 31 March 2006 of which £2.7 million was
achieved during the first half of 2006/07 . During the second
half of this year , we have continued to reduce costs, but
savings have been partially offset by our investment in
service. This investment largely relates to new colleagues
and upgrades to improve network resilience. 
We had 5,341 colleagues in the business at 31 March 
2007 . While this represents a net reduction of 273 since 
31 March 2006, we have added a net 162 in the second half
of this year as a result of our decision to improve service to
our customers through the recruitment of 445 colleagues.
Our local loop rollout programme is complete. We have
backhaul connectivity to our multi-service platform (MSP)
from 802 unbundled exchanges, resulting in 52% coverage
of UK households and businesses. In addition, we intend to
use our footprint to provide services to corporate and SME
customers using ADSL and SDSL.
Europe, Asia & US income statement
We have included the results of Energis from the date of 
its acquisition – 11 November 2005.
Revenue has increased by £91 million to £2,119 million 
in 2006/07 . This is largely due to the inclusion of a full 
year of Energis in 2006/07 . This has more than offset the
impact of the anticipated churn and erosion encountered in
restructuring the business to focus on larger , more profitable
customers.
Whilst we remain a customer-centric business, revenue 
has been split on a product basis for ease of understanding
the performance of the business. For consistency with
previous reporting, the services revenue was £978 million
(46%) and £846 million (42%) for 2006/07 and 2005/06
respectively . The carrier revenue was £1,141 million and
£1,182 million for the same periods respectively .
IP , data and hosting products underpin our strategy –
enabling us to offer our customers high quality global
connectivity and market-leading services and applications,
with the ability to converge onto a single platform.
IP , data and hosting revenue of £727 million in 2006/07 
has increased by £214 million, which is an increase of 42%
compared with 2005/06, and now represents 34% of total
revenue compared with 25% in 2005/06. The improvement
is largely driven by demand for our IP-VPN QoS product,
both through organic growth and migration from legacy
products, as well as higher uptake of our wholesale
bandwidth and hosting products.
Our legacy products, like frame relay and narrowband
internet, are currently being phased out as a result of new
technologies. The speed of the migration will be determined
by our customers’ needs. Our legacy products revenue of
£191 million in 2006/07 has reduced by £36 million
compared with 2005/06. The decline is largely a result of the
migration of customers from frame relay to IP-VPN and lower
market demand for narrowband internet services.
T raditional voice includes our range of non-IP voice products
– from the provision of termination for switched traffic to the
delivery of telebusiness applications via our Intelligent
Network.
20
Europe, Asia & US performance review Business 
review
21
T raditional voice revenue of £1,201 million in 2006/07 has
reduced by £87 million compared with 2005/06 as a result
of a reduction in carrier voice revenue due to our move away
from low margin traffic and lower mobile termination rates 
on some European destinations.
Operating costs of £1,960 million are £81 million higher than
in 2005/06 as a result of the increased cost base following
the Energis acquisition, but have reduced as a proportion of
revenue. Excluding the impact of operational releases within
operating costs (£25 million in 2006/07 and £58 million in
2005/06), these costs have reduced by 2% as a proportion
of revenue excluding operational releases (£3 million in
2006/07 and £18 million in 2005/06).
Outpayments and network costs of £1,516 million are higher
than in 2005/06 largely as a result of outpayments relating
to the increased revenue. However , excluding operational
releases within outpayments and network costs (£25 
million in 2006/07 and £51 million in 2005/06), these 
costs represent a lower proportion of revenue as a result of
improved product mix and cost savings driven through our
recovery programme. More specifically , the savings relate 
to optimisation of interconnection charges, renegotiation 
of equipment and cable maintenance contracts and lower
rental and lease costs associated with network buildings 
and fibre.
Despite including a full year of Energis, staff costs of 
£289 million have remained broadly flat but are better 
as a proportion of revenue compared to 2005/06. During
2006/07 , we have continued to simplify processes enabling
further reduction in colleague numbers across the business.
The cost savings related to this reduction have been partially
offset by the increased cost associated with the recruitment
of 445 additional colleagues into service-related roles.
Other costs of £155 million primarily relate to property costs,
travel, consultancy and professional fees and have reduced
by £13 million against 2005/06. The reduction represents a
1% decrease in other costs as a percentage of revenue.
Reported EBITDA before exceptionals has increased by 7%
to £159 million this year . Excluding operational releases of
£28 million (2005/06 – £76 million), EBITDA has increased
by 79% to £131 million.
Capital expenditure of £204 million in 2006/07 represents
just under 10% of revenue.
In 2006/07 , we continued to invest according to our
customers’ needs and spent £63 million on customer-
specific projects, which represents a relative increase in
customer capital expenditure compared to 2005/06 (from 
Europe, Asia & US income statement
Change as
2006/07 2005/06
1
reported
2
£m £m %
IP , data and hosting 727 513 42
Legacy products 191 227 (16)
T raditional voice 1,201 1,288 (7)
Total revenue 2,119 2,028 4
Outpayments and network costs (1,516) (1,421) (7)
Staff costs (excluding L TIP charge) (289) (290) –
Other costs (155) (168) 8
Operating costs (1,960) (1,879) (4)
EBITDA
3
159 149 7
L TIP charge (17) –nm
Depreciation and amortisation (92) (118) 22
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (12) (5) nm
Net other operating income 8 –nm
Operating profit before associates and joint ventures 46 26 77
Share of post-tax loss of associates and joint ventures (3) (6) 50
Operating profit before exceptional items 43 20 nm
Exceptional items (60) (234) 74
Total operating loss (17) (214) 92
Capital expenditure (204) (207) 1
Headcount (full time equivalents at 31 March) 5,341 5,614 5
nm represents % change not meaningful. 
1 Energis consolidated from 11 November 2005. 
2 Positive percentages represent improvement.
3 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptionals, 
L TIP charge and net other operating income.  29% to 31%). The remaining balance of our investment 
is largely attributable to network infrastructure and new
product development. In 2006/07 , we completed our MSP
and the provision of GigE backhaul to local exchanges from
our network and we have upgraded the resilience of our
network in Asia.
Depreciation and amortisation of £92 million in 2006/07 
is lower than in 2005/06, mainly as a result of an impairment
of our fixed assets at the end of 2005/06.
Net other operating income of £8 million primarily relates 
to the profit on the disposal of property .
The £3 million loss from associates and joint ventures
represents our share of Apollo, a submarine cabling company .
Exceptional items
Exceptional items of £60 million in 2006/07 primarily 
relate to restructuring activities as part of our recovery 
programme. £24 million of the charge relates to our
redundancy programme, the remainder relates to our
property rationalisation programme and to a lesser extent,
rationalisation of network infrastructure. Exceptional items
in 2005/06 principally related to £237 million for the write
down of assets.
Reconciliation of Europe, Asia & US EBITDA to net
cash flow before financing
2006/07
1
£m
EBITDA
2
159
Exceptional items (60)
EBITDA less exceptionals 99
Movement in exceptional provisions (10)
Movement in working capital and other provisions (74)
Income taxes paid (1)
Purchase of property , plant, equipment 
and intangible assets (186)
Acquisitions and disposals 10
Net cash outflow before financing 
activities (162)
1 Based on our internal management accounts.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptionals, L TIP 
charge and net other operating income.
The net cash outflow before financing of £162 million for the
year principally reflects EBITDA, exceptional items relating
to restructuring costs, working capital movement and capital
expenditure.
Exceptional items of £60 million and movement in
exceptional provisions of £10 million are attributable 
to restructuring costs relating to colleague redundancy ,
property and networks.
Working capital movement of £74 million includes £28
million of operational releases. The majority of the £46
million balance reflects timing differences in receipts and
payments during the period and carried forward from the
prior year .
Cash capital expenditure of £186 million reflects a mix of
investments in both customer and infrastructure projects, 
as described previously .
Acquisitions and disposals relate to the sale of properties
and exclude the sale and leaseback transaction completed
on 2 April 2007 for £88 million.
Post-balance sheet events
On 2 April 2007 , we signed a 25 year sale and leaseback
agreement, covering nine properties for which we received
£88 million. Lease payments for the first five years will 
be £4.5 million per year and subject to reviews every 
five years thereafter .
C&W Access 
Through local loop unbundling, C&W Access provides
broadband and telephony services to business and
residential end users through wholesale agreements 
with major UK broadband service providers.
On 8 June 2006, we announced a revised strategy to
leverage returns from our local loop unbundled (LLU)
network asset by offering a wholesale product to major
broadband service providers and ceasing residential sales.
On 7 September 2006, we announced the formation of
C&W Access and our first wholesale customer , Pipex. We
also sold our residential Bulldog customer base and brand 
to Pipex for £9 million of net cash. Following this, we are
integrating a number of activities into Europe, Asia & US.
Revenue in the first half of 2006/07 was primarily generated
through residential sales relating to the Bulldog customer
base. Following the sale of our customer base to Pipex, our
revenue is now primarily generated from our wholesale
agreement with Pipex. 
Revenue of £43 million in 2006/07 is £10 million higher
than 2005/06 and reflects the increase in our average 
end user base over the year . In the second half of 2006/07 ,
revenue declined due to the impact of reduced average
revenue per user (ARPU) as a result of our move to a
wholesale strategy .
22
Europe, Asia & US performance review Business 
review
23
C&W Access income statement
Change as
2006/07
1
2005/06 reported
2
£m £m %
Total revenue 43 33 30
Outpayments and network costs (66) (66) –
Staff costs (19) (28) 32
Other costs (31) (44) 30
Operating costs (116) (138) 16
EBITDA
3
(73) (105) 30
Depreciation and amortisation (26) (15) (73)
Total operating loss before
exceptional items (99) (120) 18
Exceptional items (29) –nm
Total operating loss (128) (120) (7)
Capital expenditure (31) (70) 56
Headcount (full-time equivalents
at 31 March) 187 651 71
1 The results for the year reflect five months and six days of performance under the
previous retail strategy and six months and 24 days of the wholesale strategy .
2 Positive percentages represent improvement. 
3 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptionals, L TIP
charge and other operating income and expenses. 
Outpayments and network costs in 2006/07 are £66
million, flat compared to 2005/06. Outpayments have
increased proportionately to the larger average end user
base over the year and relate to fixed per-line fees, charged
to us by BT Openreach, and voice termination costs. Despite
the increase in associated network costs related to our
enlarged LLU footprint, we have managed to offset the
impact through cost savings and efficiencies gained through
the integration of activities into Europe, Asia & US.
Staff costs of £19 million were £9 million lower than last
year . Following the change in strategy , we have significantly
reduced our headcount, particularly in the sales and
marketing functions, and through the integration of 
activities into Europe, Asia & US.
Other costs relate primarily to the provision of support
services. These have decreased by £13 million in comparison
to 2005/06 as a result of ceasing sales and marketing
activities to the retail market from 8 June 2006.
EBITDA before exceptionals reflects the previous residential
customer strategy for the first half of 2006/07 and the
wholesale strategy for the second half of 2006/07 . The
execution of the new strategy and the integration of a
number of activities into Europe, Asia & US have resulted in
an improved EBITDA loss before exceptionals of £73 million
for 2006/07 .
Capital expenditure of £31 million is primarily related to the
completion of the local loop rollout programme in the period.
Depreciation has increased £11 million to £26 million as a
result of our investment in our LLU footprint expansion.
Exceptional costs of £29 million include £5 million for
restructuring activities related to the move to a wholesale
strategy and integration, as well as a £13 million write off
related to redundant IT assets. A further £11 million of
exceptional costs reflects the write off of £20 million of
acquired intangible assets and goodwill recognised on 
the acquisition of Bulldog, offset by £9 million of net cash
proceeds from the sale of the customer base. The goodwill
has been written off following the move to provide 
wholesale access.
Reconciliation of C&W Access EBITDA to net cash
flow before financing
2006/07
1
£m
EBITDA
2
(73)
Exceptional items (5)
EBITDA less exceptionals (78)
Movement in working capital and
other provisions (13)
Purchase of property , plant, equipment 
and intangible assets (28)
Acquisitions and disposals 9
Net cash outflow before financing activities (110)
1 Based on our management accounts.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptionals and net
other operating income. 
The cash outflow of £110 million for the year primarily reflects
the EBITDA loss of £73 million, capital expenditure of £28
million and the £9 million of net cash proceeds from the sale
of the Bulldog customer base and brand.
Cash capital expenditure is related to the unbundling of
exchanges in the period to deliver our wholesale strategy .
Exceptional items relate to restructuring activities as part 
of the change to a wholesale strategy and to a lesser extent
integration into Europe, Asia & US. Finance Director’s review
Over the last year we have completed the restructuring 
of the Group into two self contained operational units 
– International and Europe, Asia & US. Our Central functions
have been aligned to this new structure, and importantly 
we have halved our Central costs in the process. 
At the same time, the Central team has made good progress
in resolving historical claims around the exit from our former
US business and Pender , our former insurance operation.
This has resulted in the exceptional release of accruals and
provisions during the year .
In addition, the team has worked with our International
colleagues to complete the disposal of our 20% shareholding
in Batelco, the Bahraini telecoms company , for £256 million.
This disposal is in line with our policy of divesting minority
investments where we cannot see a path to control.
Following the £98 million contribution in March 2006 to 
our UK defined benefit pension scheme, I can report that 
this scheme is fully funded on an actuarial basis, based on
the 2005 funding valuation. The scheme also has a surplus
of £43 million under IAS 19. The aggregate pension surplus
of all of our schemes is £28 million under IAS 19.
We are proposing a final dividend of 4.15 pence per share,
which together with the interim dividend of 1.7 pence per
share represents a 30% increase on the prior year’s full 
year dividend. This increase is in line with our progressive
dividend policy and reflects the increased visibility and
confidence we have in the future prospects of Cable 
& Wireless.
Tony Rice
Finance Director and Joint Group 
Managing Director , Central
Our performance over the last
12 months has shown marked
improvement. However , there
is more to do.
24
Our 20% improvement in EBITDA before exceptionals
reflects ongoing progress. This performance,
marking the third key data point of our new structure,
is supported by a strong cash position which gives us
the flexibility we need to invest in our businesses.
Revenue has increased by 4% to £3,348 million driven by
the inclusion of Energis for a full year and strong mobile and
broadband growth in the International business. As a result
of this and ongoing cost control, EBITDA before exceptionals
has increased by 20% to £492 million.
I am pleased to report a strong cash position at the year end
with Group cash and cash equivalents of £1,048 million and
net cash of £332 million: strong cash generation from our
International business and the sale of Batelco has more than
offset our continued investment in the turnaround in Europe,
Asia & US and the repayment of our loan from the European
Investment Bank.  Group financial performance review
Group performance
2006/07 2005/06
1
Pre-exceptional Exceptional
2
Total Pre-exceptional Exceptional
2
Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 3,348 – 3,348 3,230 – 3,230
Outpayments and network costs (2,024) – (2,024) (1,914) (1) (1,915)
Staff costs (excluding L TIP charge) (509) (41) (550) (527) (34) (561)
Other costs (323) (37) (360) (378) 14 (364)
Operating costs (2,856) (78) (2,934) (2,819) (21) (2,840)
EBITDA
3
492 (78) 414 411 (21) 390
LTIP charge (27) – (27) –– –
Depreciation and amortisation (256) (13) (269) (263) (232) (495)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (17) – (17) (11) (5) (16)
Net other operating income 11 2 13 –17 17
Operating profit/(loss) 203 (89) 114 137 (241) (104)
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures
4
18 (29) (11) 52 2 54
Total operating profit/(loss) 221 (118) 103 189 (239) (50)
Net finance (expense)/income (28) – (28) 6– 6
Gains on sale of non-current assets – 153 153 270 72
Gain on termination of operations 318 21 –72 72
Profit/(loss) before income tax 196 53 249 197 (97) 100
Income tax (expense)/credit (44) 1 (43) (29) 2 (27)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 152 54 206 168 (95) 73
Profit for the year from discontinued operations –28 28 288 90
Profit/(loss) for the year 152 82 234 170 (7) 163
Attributable to equity holders of the Company 92 82 174 118 (42) 76
Attributable to minority interests 60 – 60 52 35 87
Profit/(loss) for the year 152 82 234 170 (7) 163
The income statement of the Group, which is prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards applicable for use in the EU, and from 
which the information above is extracted, is included in the consolidated financial
statements on page 51.
1 Results adjusted to reflect revised accounting for Monaco T elecom and other
presentational points as set out on pages 55 and 56. 2005/06 results include
consolidation of Energis from date of acquisition on 11 November 2005.
2 Exceptionals comprise items considered exceptional by virtue of their size, nature or
incidence and include restructuring and impairment charges, and releases of certain
provisions and certain profits and losses on disposal of non-current assets. For
further details on exceptionals refer to page 72.
3 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation,  L TIP charge and 
net other operating income. For further details on the L TIP refer to page 39.
4 Associates and joint ventures include Batelco (Bahrain) to 16 January 2007 , 
the date of its disposal.
The Group’s financial performance is discussed in more
detail in the International and the Europe, Asia & US sections
that appear on pages 12 to 15 and 20 to 23 respectively .
Group results before exceptional items
The increase in Group revenue of £118 million to £3,348
million principally reflects the full year impact of the revenue
from customers acquired as part of the Energis transaction
on 11 November 2005. This has more than offset the impact
of the anticipated churn and erosion Europe, Asia & US
encountered in subsequently restructuring the business to
focus on larger , more profitable customers. In addition, this
growth was supported by a strong revenue performance
from International where further increases in mobile and
broadband revenue have compensated for the shift away
from fixed line voice services and the translation impact 
of a weaker US dollar .
The increase in operating costs of £37 million to £2,856
million was also predominantly driven by the impact of
servicing the customers acquired with Energis.
In International, operating costs have increased by £3 
million in comparison with 2005/06 due to the increase 
in costs associated with the acquisition of new mobile and
broadband customers, partially offset by savings in other
operating costs.
The operating costs of Central, equivalent to its EBITDA loss,
have reduced significantly from £50 million in 2005/06 to
£22 million in 2006/07 following the restructuring of the
Group. This is mainly driven by a reduction in consultancy
Business 
review
25 26
costs and a headcount decrease from 156 at 31 March 2006
to 75 at 31 March 2007 .
The trends in revenue and operating costs described above
resulted in a 20% (26% at constant currency) improvement
in EBITDA of £81 million to £492 million, compared with
2005/06.
In line with the increase in the total shareholder return 
from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 of approximately 59%,
the total L TIP charge for the year ended 31 March 2007 , 
in accordance with IAS 19, is £27 million. This does not
represent the committed amount to participants in the 
plan, as this will depend on performance over the life of 
the plan in accordance with the plan’s rules.
The depreciation and amortisation charge decreased by 
£7 million to £256 million reflecting the impact of the
impairment charge in Europe, Asia & US in 2005/06. 
This has more than offset the impact of increasing
depreciation in C&W Access and International.
Group other operating income of £11 million mainly relates 
to the profits on the disposal of properties within Europe,
Asia & US.
Our share of post-tax profits of associates and joint 
ventures decreased by £34 million to £18 million following
the disposal of Batelco, our associate in Bahrain, and the
poor performance of TSTT , our joint venture in T rinidad 
and T obago. Further analysis of the 2006/07 performance 
of these businesses can be found on page 14.
The £28 million net finance expense for 2006/07 compares
to an income of £6 million in 2005/06. Finance income has
decreased by £35 million to £52 million due principally to 
a reduced average cash balance. Finance expense of £80
million has decreased by £1 million compared with 2005/06.
The profit for the 2005/06 year from discontinued
operations includes the results of Cable & Wireless Spain
and the Sakhalin Operations up to the dates of disposal of 
£2 million.
Group exceptional items
In 2006/07 , we recognised an £82 million profit in respect 
of exceptional items.
Headcount reduction and property rationalisation
programmes resulted in a total charge of £78 million. 
The headcount reduction programmes took place across
International (£13 million) and Europe, Asia & US (£28 
million – net of a £6 million pension credit and including C&W
Access – £3 million). In addition, as a result of headcount
reduction in Europe, Asia & US, we have vacated a number of
buildings resulting in an exceptional property rationalisation
charge of £37 million, of which £28 million relates to the exit
from the former Energis headquarters in Reading.
The sale of the C&W Access retail customer base resulted in
a net loss of £11 million comprising net proceeds of £9 million
more than offset by the write off of £20 million of acquired
intangible assets and goodwill relating to the business sold.
Subsequently , we have also taken a £13 million charge
relating to the write off of redundant IT assets.
Group exceptional items
2006/07
£m
Operating items 
– Restructuring (78)
– Write off of redundant assets (13)
–  Net loss on sale of C& W A ccess customer base (11)
–  Insurance receipts and related accruals releases 13
–  T STT asset impairment (29)
Exceptional items within
total operating profit (118)
Non-operating items
Profit on disposal of our Bahrain associate, Batelco 153
Release of unused accruals related to our former
insurance operation, Pender 18
Exceptional items below total operating profit 171
Total exceptional items before tax 53
T ax on exceptional items 1
Total exceptional items from continuing operations 54
Exceptional items from discontinued operations:
–  Release of unused provisions related to former US business 
and other transactions 28
Total exceptional items 82
We also recognised £13 million of exceptional credits 
relating to insurance receipts and related provision releases
in International. As a result of the poor trading performance 
of our joint venture, TSTT , we have written down our share 
of TSTT's net assets by £29 million.
The sale of our Bahrain associate as announced in January
2007 for net proceeds of £256 million generated a profit 
on disposal of £153 million.
Following progress in resolving historical claims and other
risks, we have released £18 million of unused accruals
relating to Pender , our former insurance operation.
A £28 million credit from discontinued operations has arisen
from the release of unused provisions primarily associated
with the exit of our former US business and other
transactions.
Taxation 
2006/07 2005/06
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before
taxation
1
277 190
T ax charge on ordinary activities (43) (27)
Effective tax rate 15.5% 14.2%
1 Includes continuing and discontinued operations. 
Group financial performance review Group cash and debt
Our Group cash position remains strong with cash and 
cash equivalents of £1,048 million at 31 March 2007 , largely
unchanged compared to 31 March 2006 (£1,127 million). 
The Group net cash inflow before financing of £246 million
comprises outflows of £162 million in Europe, Asia & US 
and £110 million in C&W Access, offset by cash inflows of
£482 million in International and £36 million in Central.
Further details in respect of International, Europe, Asia & 
US and C&W Access cash flows are included on pages 15, 
22 and 23 respectively .
Reconciliation of Group EBITDA to net cash and
cash equivalents
2006/07 
1
£m
EBITDA
2
492
Exceptional items (78)
EBITDA less exceptionals 414
Movement in exceptional provisions (25)
Movement in working capital and other provisions (99)
Income taxes paid (46)
Finance income 66
Purchase of property , plant, equipment and 
intangible assets (378)
Acquisitions and disposals 305
Other income 9
Net cash inflow before financing activities 246
Cash flows from financing activities 
Cash used by continuing operations (303)
Cash used by discontinued operations –
Net cash used in financing activities (303)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (57)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 2006 1,127
Exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents (22)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2007 1,048
Less: Cash reflected as assets held for sale (5)
Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2007 1,043
1 Based on our management accounts.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, exceptionals, 
L TIP charge and net other operating income.
The £36 million net cash inflow before financing in Central
comprises interest income of £36 million and proceeds 
from the redemption of credit-linked notes (£40 million) 
for cash. This is offset by an EBITDA loss of £22 million 
and a movement in working capital of £3 million. In addition,
acquisitions and disposals include £15 million of dividends
paid to minority shareholders in Monaco.
The total tax expense for 2006/07 of £43 million comprises
an overseas tax expense of £53 million and a UK deferred
tax credit of £10 million. Including the impact of exceptional
items and discontinued activities, the effective tax rate for
2006/07 was 15.5% compared to a rate in 2005/06 of 14.2%.
The effective tax rates excluding the impact of exceptional
items and discontinued activities were 22.4% for 2006/07
and 14.7% for 2005/06. The principal reasons for the
difference in the rates are:
■ Mix of profits and losses between countries with different
tax rates;
■ Re-estimation and settlement at amounts different to
those provided of current and deferred tax items; and
■ Current year recognition of a UK deferred tax asset.
Group earnings per share
2006/07
Before
Exceptionals Exceptionals Reported
£m £m £m
Profit for the year from
continuing operations 152 54 206
Attributable to equity holders 92 54 146
Attributable to minority interests 60 – 60
Profit for the year from
discontinued operations –2828
Profit for the year 152 82 234
Attributable to equity holders 92 82 174
Attributable to minority interests 60 – 60
Earnings/(loss) per share from
continuing operations attributable
to equity holders of the Company
during the year (pence) 4.0p 2.3p 6.3p
2005/06
1
5.1p (5.7)p (0.6)p
Earnings/(loss) per share attributable
to equity holders of the Company
during the year (pence) 4.0p 3.5p 7.5p
2005/06
1
5.2p (1.9)p 3.3p
1 Restated – see page 55-56. 
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders during 
the year of 7 .5 pence more than doubled compared with
2005/06, due to the factors described in the Group
commentary above. Excluding the profit from exceptional
items, earnings per share was 4.0 pence, a decline of 23%
compared with the prior year .
Business 
review
27 28
Group financial performance review
We repaid a net £90 million of third party debt, which 
mainly relates to the repayment of the £106 million European
Investment Bank (EIB) loan and associated cross currency
swap (£15 million) during the year , partially offset by £60
million net proceeds of International external financing
activities. W e paid cash dividends of £83 million to our 
equity holders and £93 million to minority shareholders. 
The remaining £23 million outflow related mainly to 
Central and interest payments.
Group debt has reduced to £716 million at 31 March 2007
compared to £784 million at 31 March 2006. Europe, Asia 
& US debt has reduced by £9 million to £20 million following
scheduled payments on a finance lease.
We have increased the amount of debt in our International
subsidiaries in Panama and the Caribbean during the year by
£60 million to £143 million to optimise our cost of capital and,
in the case of Jamaica, to mitigate foreign exchange risk.
During 2006/07 , Central debt has reduced by £119 million 
to £553 million largely as a result of the repayment of the EIB
loan (£106 million) and the repurchase of the 2012 and 2019
bonds (£22 million), partially offset by the amortisation of
the premium on the convertible bond (£11 million). Following
the repayment of the EIB loan in September 2006, the £553
million (31 March 2006 – £672 million) external funding in
Central is now all in the form of publicly quoted bonds. These
bonds have either been issued or guaranteed by Cable and
Wireless plc. Their maturity profile is spread between 2010
and 2019. The £340 million 2012 and 2019 bonds are net 
of £58 million bonds which have been repurchased and are
held in treasury .
A convertible bond with a par value of £258 million (carrying
value of £213 million) matures in July 2010. Conversion is at
the option of bondholders at a share price of £1.45 (subject
to adjustment for certain corporate actions or a change of
control). We can give notice to redeem the bond from 17 July
2007 onwards at par should the share price exceed £1.885
for a total of 20 business days in a period of 30 consecutive
business days. Depending upon the performance of the
share price before maturity of the bond, the convertible bond
may be redeemed by the issue of shares rather than cash. 
Given the maturity profile of our debt and the substantial
cash resources still available to the Group, we are satisfied
that we can meet our working capital requirements for at
least the next 12 months.
Pensions
The IAS 19 surplus for the main UK defined benefit pension
scheme at 31 March 2007 is £43 million (31 March 2006 
– deficit £89 million). On an actuarial basis, the fund had 
a surplus of £92 million at 31 March 2007 , based on an
approximate update of the 2005 triennial valuation to reflect
changes in the value of the fund’s assets and liabilities since
that time. The next triennial valuation review will be based on
the position at March 2008.
We also have unfunded pension liabilities in the UK 
of £22 million (31 March 2006 – £23 million).
The net IAS 19 surplus of the overseas defined benefit
pension schemes is £7 million at 31 March 2007 (31 March
2006 – £10 million).
For further information on our pensions schemes see note
33 of our consolidated financial statements.
Risks to our future success
The risks specific to our International and Europe, Asia & 
US businesses and how we are managing them are detailed
on pages 11 and 18 respectively . The following section covers
Cable & Wireless Group-wide risks.
Over the last 12 months we have restructured the organisation
of the Group into two businesses with a Central team acting
as portfolio manager . We believe that this reorganisation
better positions the Group to deliver value to our shareholders.
There is a risk that the organisational structure and incentive
schemes that we have put in place do not deliver the strategic
goals that we have set out for our two businesses. We are
managing this risk through clear governance structures
within the Group, with business Operating Boards that formally
review strategy , its execution and business performance to
ensure that value is being added to the Group as a whole.
We currently maintain a number of defined benefit pension
plans in the UK and overseas; the principal scheme is in the
UK. This scheme is currently fully funded based on the 2005
triennial actuarial valuation and in surplus based on IAS 19.
There is a risk that actual experience in the short term,
regulatory changes, market movements affecting the value
of the scheme’s assets or an adverse change in the financial
position of Cable & Wireless could result in changes to the
long term assumptions on which the current position is
based. This may result in significant additional contributions
to the scheme. We manage this risk through ongoing
dialogue with the scheme trustees and appropriate
management of the scheme’s assets with external advice.
Our tax charge comprises current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of these charges involves a degree of
estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose
tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution
has been reached with the relevant tax authority . As the
Group operates in many countries worldwide, this process 
of estimation and judgement is especially complex and
issues can take many years to resolve. The resolution of
these items can give rise to material income statement
variances. We manage these risks by employing suitably
qualified employees and retaining professional advisers. 30 Board of Directors
32 Directors’ report
34 Corporate governance report
37 Report of the Audit Committee
38 Directors’ remuneration report
48 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Information on how we
manage our businesses
including Board committees
and Directors’ biographies
and remuneration.
Governance
Governance
29 30
Board of Directors
Richard
Lapthorne
N
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne was appointed Chairman in January 2003. 
From 1999 to May 2003 Richard was Chairman of Amersham plc
(now GE Healthcare) having joined its Board as a Non-executive
Director in 1988. He was Finance Director of British Aerospace plc
from July 1992 and then Vice Chairman from April 1998 until his
retirement in September 1999. Richard is Non-executive Chairman
of Morse plc and the New Look Group, a Non-executive Director 
of Calibre Audio Library and T ommy’s The Baby Charity and 
H M The Queen’s trustee at The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Tony Rice
Joint Group
Managing Director ,
Central and Finance
Director
T ony Rice was appointed Joint Group Managing Director , Central
and Finance Director on 30 March 2006, having previously been 
a Non-executive Director . T ony was Chief Executive of T unstall
Holdings Ltd, from March 2002 until its sale in September 2005
and he continues as a Non-executive Director of that company . 
Prior to T unstall, T ony was Group T reasurer and then Group MD,
Commercial Aircraft division of British Aerospace plc. T ony is a
trustee of Help the Aged and was Non-executive Director of 
British Mediterranean Airways up to its acquisition by bmi in
February 2007 . 
Harris Jones
Joint Group
Managing Director
and Chief Executive
International 
Harris Jones was appointed Joint Group Managing Director and
Chief Executive of International business on 1 April 2006 having
previously been Executive Director of the International business
since November 2004. Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, Harris 
was CEO of T-Mobile UK following its acquisition by Deutsche
T elekom and has prior experience as a senior executive with
Omnipoint Communications and Sprint Spectrum, a precursor to
Sprint PCS. Harris is a Non-executive Director of Caracal, Inc. USA.
John Pluthero
Joint Group
Managing Director
and Chairman
Europe, Asia & US
John Pluthero was appointed Joint Group Managing Director 
and Chairman of Europe, Asia & US (formerly UK) on 1 April 2006
having previously been Executive Director of that business. From
September 2002 until the acquisition by Cable & Wireless on 
11 November 2005, John was Chief Executive of Energis. Previously ,
he was founder and CEO of Freeserve (now part of Orange UK),
leading it to its flotation. Prior to this, John held various strategy 
and operations positions within the Dixons Group. John is a 
Director of Merville Ltd.
George Battersby
Executive Director ,
Human Resources
George Battersby was appointed Executive Director of Human
Resources in July 2004. Immediately prior to joining Cable &
Wireless, he was Group Human Resources Director and a member
of the Board of Amersham plc (now GE Healthcare). George is 
a Non-executive Director of Hogg Robinson Group plc where he 
is also chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Clive Butler
ANR
Non-executive 
Director; Senior
Independent
Director
Clive Butler was appointed as a Non-executive Director in May
2005 and became the nominated Senior Independent Director 
on 1 July 2006. Clive is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nominations Committees. Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, Clive
was Corporate Development Director at Unilever having served 
on the main board since 1992. During that period he also undertook
the roles of Personnel Director and Category Director for the Home
and Personal Care division. Clive joined Unilever in 1970 and worked 
in a variety of marketing and general management roles prior 
to his retirement in 2005. 
Governance
31
A
Denotes membership 
of Audit Committee
N
Denotes membership of
Nominations Committee
R
Denotes membership of
Remuneration Committee
Kate Nealon
ANR
Non-executive
Director; Chair of
the Remuneration
Committee
Kasper Rorsted
ANR
Non-executive
Director; 
Chairman of the
Audit Committee
Agnès Touraine
AR
Non-executive 
Director 
Simon Ball
AR
Non-executive 
Director 
Kate Nealon was appointed as a Non-executive Director in January
2005 and became Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a
member of the Nominations Committee on 1 April 2006. She is also
a member of the Audit Committee. Kate was Group Head of Legal
and Compliance at Standard Chartered plc until 2004 having
previously practised international banking and regulatory law in
New Y ork. Kate is a Non-executive Director of HBOS plc and Shire
plc, a senior associate of the Judge Business School at Cambridge
University and a member of the Advisory Council of the Institute 
of Business Ethics.
Kasper Rorsted was appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
May 2003 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee and a
member of the Nominations Committee on 30 March 2006. He is
also a member of the Remuneration Committee. Kasper is Deputy
Chairman of the Management Board and Executive Vice President
Human Resources & Infrastructure Services at Henkel KGaA. Prior
to joining Henkel in April 2005, Kasper was Senior Vice President
and General Manager , EMEA for Hewlett Packard and held various
senior management positions with Compaq. Kasper is a Non-
executive Director of Ecolab, Inc. USA. 
Agnès T ouraine was appointed as a Non-executive Director in
January 2005 and is a member of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees. Based in France, Agnès is Managing Partner of Act III
Consultants having previously been Chairman and CEO of Vivendi
Universal Publishing. She has held various senior executive
positions with the Lagardère Group and began her career with
McKinsey . Agnès is a Board member of Fondation de France 
and was appointed as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of
SAIP/Libération, the French newspaper , on 18 February 2007 .
Simon Ball was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 May
2006 and is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Simon is Group Finance Director for 3i Group plc, and has served 
on its main Board since April 2005. Prior to this, Simon held a series
of senior finance and operational roles over 15 years at Dresdner
Kleinwort Benson and Robert Fleming Group and, for two years,
served as Director General, Finance for the UK Government’s
Department for Constitutional Affairs. 32
Directors’ report
Directors
The names and biographical details of the present Directors
are set out on pages 30 to 31. With the exception of Simon
Ball, who was appointed on 1 May 2006, all these Directors
were in office throughout the year . 
During the year , the following Directors resigned from the
Board: Francesco Caio and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen 
on 1 April 2006, Charles Herlinger on 31 May 2006, Graham
Howe on 30 June 2006 and both Bernard Gray and Rob
Rowley on 21 July 2006.
Richard Lapthorne will retire by rotation at the 2007 AGM 
in accordance with article 90 of the Company’s articles of
association and will offer himself for re-appointment. In 
order to phase the re-election of Directors, it is also proposed 
that Clive Butler and Harris Jones seek re-appointment at
the 2007 AGM, notwithstanding the fact that they are not
yet due for re-election. 
The interests of the Directors and their immediate families 
in the shares of Cable and Wireless plc, along with details 
of Directors’ share options, are contained in the Directors’
remuneration report set out on pages 38 to 47 . 
At no time during the year did any of the Directors have 
a material interest in any significant contract with the
Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its
Directors against personal financial exposure that they 
may incur in the course of their professional duties. 
This is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the
purpose of the Companies Act 1985.
Charitable and political donations
During the year ended 31 March 2007 , the Group gave £1.4
million (2005/06 – £2.5 million) to charitable organisations.
More information about our support of the communities 
in which the Group operates is set out on pages 11 and 19.
The Group does not make political donations and has 
no intention of making donations to what are generally 
regarded as political parties within the European Union. 
As a precautionary measure and in the light of the wide
definitions of European Union political organisations in The
Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (the
Act), a resolution to permit the Company to make political
donations and incur political expenditure was passed at the
2004 AGM. The purpose of the resolution was to ensure 
that the Company did not unintentionally breach the Act. 
A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at 
the 2007 AGM.
Supplier payment policy
We agree payment terms with suppliers when we enter into
purchase contracts and we seek to abide fairly by these
agreed terms.
The Directors present their Annual Report to
shareholders, together with the audited financial
statements, for the year ended 31 March 2007 .
Principal activities, business review and results
Our principal activities are detailed on page 4 to 5. The 
Board seeks, through this Annual Report, including the
Chairman’s Statement and the Business Review section 
that precede this report (pages 6 to 28), to present a
balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s
activities, position and prospects. Each of these sections 
is incorporated by reference into this Directors’ report.
The Group’s results for the financial year are shown in 
the consolidated income statement on page 51. 
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.15 pence 
per ordinary share payable on 10 August 2007 to ordinary
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
15 June 2007 . An interim dividend of 1.7 pence was paid 
on 19 January 2007 , which makes a total of 5.85 pence 
per ordinary share for the financial year .
Share capital and treasury shares
The authorised and called-up share capital of the 
Company , together with details of the shares allotted 
during the year , are shown in note 34 of the consolidated
financial statements. The Company did not purchase any
treasury shares during the year . At 31 March 2007 , a total 
of 74.95 million ordinary shares were held representing 
3% of called up share capital.
Company’s shareholders
As at 23 May 2007 , we have been notified of the following
shareholdings of 3% or more in the issued share capital 
of the Company: 
Number of
shares held
1
Holding
2
Newton Investment Management 
Limited 232,850,500 9.759%
Standard Life Group 128,131,040 5.370%
The T rustees of BT Pension Scheme 119,145,642 4.993%
Barclays PLC 81,173,078 3.402%
Legal & General Investment
Management Limited 80,313,877 3.366%
Orbis Investment Management Limited 77,298,739 3.240%
Lloyds TSB Group Plc 72,789,364 3.051%
UBS AG 72,129,979 3.023%
1 As notified to the Company .
2 The denominator for these calculations is 2,386,223,073 being the total number of
voting rights in the Company as at 23 May 2007 . Governance
33
The average number of days between the invoice date 
and the date of payment by the Company (calculated by
reference to the amount owed to suppliers at the year end 
as a proportion of the amount invoiced by suppliers during
the year) was 79 days (2005/06 – 79 days).
Employees
Cable & Wireless’ employment policies comply with local
requirements and meet relevant standards on employment
of disabled people. Full and fair consideration is given to
disabled applicants for employment, training, and career
development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and
abilities. It is the policy of the Company to retain employees
who become disabled whilst in its service and to provide
specialist training where appropriate.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday 20 July 2007 at
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary ,
Westminster , London SW1P 3EE. Details of the resolutions to
be proposed at the AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
Auditor
Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as our external
auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine its
remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Internal control and risk management
Our Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing
basis. The Group’s system of internal control is designed to
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but 
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. The concept of reasonable assurance recognises
that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the
expected benefits. 
The Group operates a risk management process, under
which each business unit identifies the key risks to their
plans, their likelihood and impact and the actions being 
taken to manage those risks. Consolidated risk registers 
for International and Europe, Asia & US are reviewed by 
their respective Operating Boards and these risk registers,
together with a Central risk register , are presented to the
Audit Committee on a rolling 12-month basis. The principal
risks identified by the business are set out on pages 11, 18 to
19 and 28.
The Group’s Executive Directors also report to the Board, 
on behalf of management, significant changes in the Group’s
business and the external environment in which it operates. 
In addition, they provide the Board with monthly financial
information, which includes key risk and performance
indicators.
The Group’s key internal control and monitoring procedures
include the following:
■ Financial reporting: Each year , an annual budget is agreed
and approved by the Board. Then at each Board meeting,
monthly actual results are reviewed and reported against
budget and, when appropriate, revised forecasts.
■ Investment appraisal: We have clearly defined policies 
for capital expenditure. These include annual budgets 
and detailed appraisal processes for such expenditure.
■ Monitoring systems: We monitor our internal controls
through a programme of internal audits. The Internal 
Audit function reports to the Audit Committee on its
examination and evaluation of the effectiveness and
adequacy of our systems of internal control.
■ Financial controls: We have dedicated resource to embed
processes and controls across our businesses. We operate 
a number of additional self-assessment exercises, which
include monthly certification of compliance with key
financial controls and an annual controls self-assessment;
the latter exercise requires management to assess the
effectiveness of its fundamental operating controls over 
all aspects of its operations, in addition to the other 
financial controls covered by our Financial Controls T oolkit.
The results of this exercise are utilised by Internal Audit in
planning its work for the forthcoming year .
Effectiveness of internal control
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal control
systems in operation during the financial year in accordance
with the revised T urnbull guidance, through the processes set
out above which have been in place for the year under review
and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report. Where
appropriate, necessary action has been or is being taken 
to remedy any failings and weaknesses determined to be
significant from the review of the system of internal control. 
The responsibility for internal control procedures within
associates and joint ventures rests with the senior
management of these operations. We monitor our
investments and exert our influence through Board
representation.
Going concern
After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans, the
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
and Company have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board
Nick Cooper
Company Secretary
23 May 2007 34
Corporate governance report
Clive Butler was appointed as the Senior Independent
Director on 1 July 2006 following the retirement of Graham
Howe. Clive is charged with establishing a communication
channel between the Chairman and the Non-executive
Directors and ensuring that the views of each Non-executive
Director are given due consideration. He is also a contact
point for shareholders if they have reason for concern which
contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or
Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which 
contact is inappropriate. 
Role of the Board
The Board provides the leadership of Cable & Wireless and,
either directly or through the operation of its Committees 
and delegated authority , brings an independent judgement
on all matters of strategy , performance, resources (including
key appointments) and standards of conduct. The Board
Committees are constituted with appropriate written terms 
of reference that are reviewed annually and published on 
our website at www.cw.com. 
The Board sets the strategic aims which are then
implemented through the approval and regular monitoring 
of the budget and five-year plan prepared by the Executive
Directors. At its regular meetings, the Board deals with those
matters specifically reserved for its decision and any other
material matter . Reserved matters include Group strategy ,
financial reporting and control, acquisitions and disposals,
annual budgets and operating plans, customer contracts 
and expenditure over a certain financial limit, Board and
Committee membership and other senior appointments,
Director and senior executive remuneration, delegation 
of authority , and corporate governance. Further detail 
of the Board’s reserved powers may be found on our 
website at www.cw.com.
The Board and its Committees are provided with full and 
timely information prior to meetings, including detailed
financial information. The Chairman, in consultation with the
Company Secretary and Executive Directors, sets the agenda
for Board meetings. F ormal minutes recording decisions of all
Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated 
to each Director as appropriate. If a Director objects to a
particular proposal this will be recorded in the minutes of 
the relevant meeting. During the year ended 31 March 2007 ,
as for the previous year , there were no such objections.
The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that an
appropriate induction is given to new Board members. 
On an ongoing basis, Directors receive appropriate training,
briefings and information to enable them to perform their
roles both on the Board and its Committees. All Directors
have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and, 
in addition, the Board has established a procedure whereby
any Director , wishing to do so in the furtherance of their
duties, may take independent professional advice on any
matter at the Company’s expense.
During the year ended 31 March 2007 , responsibility for 
the day-to-day management of International and Europe,
Our Board is focused on achieving long term 
success for Cable & Wireless through the pursuit 
of sound business strategies whilst maintaining 
high standards of corporate governance. 
This report, along with the Audit Committee report on page
37 and the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 38 to 47 ,
describes our governing policies and practices. It provides 
an insight into how our Board and senior management run
the business for the benefit of our shareholders. 
Board membership and attendance
At 31 March 2007 , our Board comprised the Chairman, 
four Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors,
who are collectively responsible for the success of Cable 
& Wireless. Biographies of the Directors and their Board
committee memberships are shown on pages 30 to 31.
The Board met on eight occasions during 2006/07 , and 
in addition attended meetings to consider the strategic
direction of International and Europe, Asia & US. The total
number of meetings including Board Committees and
Directors’ attendance at these meetings are shown below.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills 
and experience to Cable & Wireless. They provide an
independent view on matters of strategy , performance, 
risk and people through their contribution at Board and
Committee meetings. The Board considers that all our 
Non-executive Directors are independent in character 
and judgement. Non-executive Directors are appointed 
for an initial three-year term with the expectation that a
further term will follow, subject to review by the Board. The
terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive
Directors are available for inspection at our registered 
office during normal business hours and at our AGM 
(for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting).
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 8–– 1
Executive Directors
George Battersby 8–––
Harris Jones 8–––
John Pluthero 8–––
T ony Rice 8–––
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball
1
754 –
Clive Butler 8650
2
Kate Nealon 7551
Kasper Rorsted 864
3
1
Agnès T ouraine 864
3
–
Meetings held during the year8651
1 Has attended all meetings since appointment on 1 May 2006.
2 No meetings have been held since appointment to the Committee.
3 Have attended all meetings since appointment to the Committee.
– Director is not a Committee member . Governance
35
Asia & US was delegated to the Executive Directors, Harris
Jones and John Pluthero respectively , and responsibility 
for management of the Central functions was delegated to 
the Executive Director , T ony Rice.
Operating Boards have been established for both
International and Europe, Asia & US. Lord Robertson of 
Port Ellen is the Non-executive Chairman of the International
Operating Board. Membership of the International Operating
Board includes Harris Jones and his senior management
team together with three Investor Directors. Membership 
of the Europe, Asia & US Operating Board includes John
Pluthero as Chairman, Jim Marsh as Chief Executive, and 
his senior management team together with three Investor
Directors. In each case, the Investor Directors are appointed
by the Board and are T ony Rice, George Battersby (Group 
HR Director) and Nick Cooper (Company Secretary and Group
General Counsel). Separate schedules of reserved matters
have been created for the two Operating Boards and the
Board may delegate power to the Investor Directors to grant
approval on any matter otherwise reserved for the Board.
Committees of the Board
Reports on the purpose and activities of the Audit Committee
and Remuneration Committee are included on pages 37 and
38 to 47 respectively . 
The Nominations Committee comprises Richard Lapthorne
(Chairman), the Senior Independent Director and the Chairs
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, the majority of
whom are independent Non-executive Directors. Its role is 
to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for the
nomination, selection, training and evaluation of Directors
and for succession planning. The Nominations Committee
reviews Board structure, size, composition and succession
plans, thereby keeping under review the balance of
membership and the required blend of skills, knowledge 
and experience of the Board. Members of the Committee
abstain when matters affecting their own appointments 
are discussed. The Committee’s full terms of reference 
are available on our website at www.cw.com. The Committee 
met once during the year under review.
The Board did not use an external search consultancy nor
advertised openly when considering the appointment of an
additional Non-executive Director in early 2006. Instead,
given the business model being put in place in the Group 
and the particular skills and experience he could offer given
his position as Finance Director of a publicly quoted private
equity and venture capital business, Simon Ball was
approached directly by the Board.
Performance evaluation
During the year ended 31 March 2007 , a full evaluation was
undertaken of the performance of the Board, its principal
committees and the Directors through individual discussions
with an external independent facilitator . The results of 
this exercise were presented to, and considered by , the
whole Board.
During the year , the Non-executive Directors met privately
both with and without the Chairman being present, to
consider management performance and succession issues.
As part of this exercise, the Non-executive Directors
appraised the Chairman’s performance and reviewed 
the relationship between the Chairman and the three 
Joint Group Managing Directors to ensure that the Board
structure and relationships were working to promote the
creation of shareholder value.
Compliance with the Combined Code
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2007 , we complied 
with all Code provisions set out in Section One of the 2003
FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance with one
exception. C.3.1 of the Code provides that the board should
satisfy itself that at least one member of the audit committee
has recent and relevant financial experience. Our Board
considers that there is a sufficient breadth of financial
expertise across the Audit Committee and that, collectively ,
the members have the requisite skills and attributes to
discharge its responsibilities properly . As a result, the Board
has decided not to identify any one member as having 
such experience.
Statement from the independent 
Non-executive Directors 
As from 1 April 2006, Cable & Wireless substantially
changed the manner in which it was managed. The activities
of the Group were divided into three – International, Europe,
Asia & US – and a Central function, each with a Joint Group
Managing Director in charge, reporting to the Chairman.
The role of the main plc Board is to enable the creation 
of shareholder value through a clear exposure to the
strategies of the three areas, to agree targets, to oversee 
the operational performance of the component parts of 
the Group, to exercise proper corporate governance and
thereby hold to account the Group Managing Directors 
and their teams. 
Each main Board meeting is divided into three sections 
– one for each Group Managing Director’s area of
responsibility . The minutes from the two subsidiary
Operating Board meetings are presented, together with
reports from each of the Group Managing Directors along
with papers addressing specific matters for consideration 
or reporting and which are regarded as appropriate for the
main Board.
The Central function acts as the sole owner of the two
operating businesses. From this function, the Group
Managing Director , Central, the Group HR Director and 
the Company Secretary (‘Investor Directors’) sit on the
Operating Boards of International and Europe, Asia & US and
have special voting rights or ‘reserved powers’. These Boards
also include key executives from each business. 
The Group Managing Directors responsible for International
and Europe, Asia & US have delegated powers from the 
main Board such that they have the authority to run their 36
Corporate governance report
The changes in senior management, and the powerful
influence of the Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan, has led 
to noticeable improvement in the systems of checks and
balances between Executive Directors reinforced by the
extensive definition of powers and responsibilities put 
in place. The role of the Chairman remains important in 
this, but much of the effort now lies in the relationship
between the Group Managing Director , Central and his 
team (including the Investor Directors) and each of the
Group Managing Directors of International and of Europe,
Asia & US. In addition, within their own Operating Boards,
these two Group Managing Directors also have executive
teams who operate within a system which is more formal
than hitherto and which takes place in front of ‘external’
observers. 
The Group Managing Directors are open with the Board 
and there is systemic support for this behaviour from the
insight into the running of their own boards through the
circulation of the minutes. There is a healthy competitive
tension between the operating businesses, but not one
causing disruption. The Investor Directors help in keeping
the atmosphere open and constructive, and there is no 
reason to believe that anything material is withheld.
Finally , the question of the relationship between the
Chairman and the Group Managing Directors is more
complex. First, the Chairman now has four direct reports 
– the three Group Managing Directors and the Group HR
Director . Second, he has a direct and an indirect relationship
with the Group Managing Directors for International and 
for Europe, Asia & US – direct as the equivalent of their
Chairman and indirect as the executive head of Central 
and hence of the Investor Directors on the Operating Boards.
These relationships are soundly based on mutual respect,
and are probably even more challenging outside the Board
than within it. 
From February to July 2006, the Chairman worked almost
full time leading the Board in the design of the new structure,
defining the balance sheet and Cash Long T erm Incentive
Plan structure, building support for the concepts with senior
management and shareholders and then in bedding down
necessary changes in behaviour inside the Company . From
the beginning of May 2006, there were signs that the system
was starting to work but it was only with approval of the
Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan at the AGM in July 2006 that
the new way of working became completely embedded and
working as intended. Subsequently the Cash Long T erm
Incentive Plan has provided the glue which binds together 
all the elements of the management system. 
The independent Directors are comfortable that they are
dealt with professionally and for the benefit of the Company
within the comprehensive framework established for
running Cable & Wireless. The Directors are satisfied that
the Company’s corporate governance controls have been
effective during the year ended 31 March 2007 .
operations within planning and budgetary frameworks
agreed at both their Operating Board and main Board.
However , the Investor Directors have the delegated authority
to agree resolutions at the Operating Boards, to veto or
postpone them, or to ensure that reference is made at the
main Board. In the first instance the resolution of any
conflicts rests with the Chairman.
All the Investor Directors attend the main Board and are able
to add elaboration to any issues arising from the Operating
Boards. No matters are presented to the main Board from
International or Europe, Asia & US which have not previously
passed through the relevant Operating Board.
The nature of the Chairman’s relationship with his key
managers varies. With the Group Managing Directors
responsible for International and Europe, Asia & US, his
direct relationship is one of sounding board and coach just
as would occur between any plc chairman and single chief
executive. With the Managing Director in charge of Central
and with the Investor Directors he acts in an executive
capacity with key actions and decisions requiring his 
specific agreement and/or involvement. 
The interpersonal relationships and the overall objectives 
of the two operating businesses and the Group as a whole
are supported and reinforced by the design and shape of 
the incentive schemes (the Cash Long T erm Incentive 
Plan for the operating businesses and options and share
schemes for Central). These schemes are all designed to
grow shareholder value but they vary in shape for each of 
the three areas of activity to address their specific priorities. 
Against this background, the independent directors have
prepared their views on the four questions posed to them
annually as part of Cable & Wireless’ approach to measuring
effective corporate governance. The questions have been
slightly restyled this year to take account of the new
structure and in particular the replacement of the Chief
Executive by three Joint Group Managing Directors. 
The four questions are:
1 What is the quality of the relationship between the
Chairman and the Joint Group Managing Directors?
2 How open are the Joint Group Managing Directors 
with the Board?
3 What is the visibility of checks and balances between 
the Executive Directors?
4 Have all questions asked by the independent Directors 
in Board and Committee Meetings been appropriately
addressed?
T aking these questions in reverse order , there is no
hesitation in a positive reply to question four . There is a 
good atmosphere for question and debate. Much effort is
made to respond to all questions raised by the independent
Directors. Often, several Executives give helpful views 
on any queries. Where answers cannot be immediately
given, written responses frequently follow.  Governance
37
Report of the Audit Committee
■ Review of risk management within the Central function,
Europe, Asia & US and International;
■ Review of insurance cover;
■ A review of the effectiveness of the internal and external
auditors; 
■ Review of health and safety in International and Europe,
Asia & US; 
■ Review of the Group’s tax policies; and 
■ Self-evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee.
Disclosure Committee
T o assist the Committee with its responsibilities, a Disclosure
Committee has been set up with responsibility for identifying
and considering disclosure matters in connection with the
preparation of all market releases containing material
financial information.
During the preparation of the Annual Report, the Disclosure
Committee requests and obtains confirmatory statements
from contributors prior to the document’s review by the
Committee and approval by the Board.
Internal audit
The Internal Audit function, headed by the Group Director 
of Internal Audit, is supported by a team of auditors based 
in the UK and Jamaica. The function has a formal charter
approved by the Board that describes its purpose, authority
and responsibility .
The function’s annual audit plan is approved by the 
Audit Committee. 
External audit
KPMG Audit Plc has acted as auditor since 1991. The Audit
Committee has established a policy which is intended 
to maintain the independence of the auditor . The policy
governs the provision of audit and non-audit services
provided by the auditor and its associates to Cable 
& Wireless. The policy clearly identifies permitted and
prohibited services. In addition, the policy clearly sets out 
the procedure to be followed for the approval of all audit 
and non-audit services; all engagements with an expected
value in excess of £250,000 require the prior approval of
the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2007 , fees for audit services of 
£2.8 million (including £0.5 million relating to the prior year)
were approved by the Committee. During the year , fees for
audit-related regulatory reporting of £0.4 million and non-
audit work of £1.0 million were approved. The nature of the
services provided is set out in note 6 to the consolidated
financial statements.
Kasper Rorsted
Chairman, Audit Committee
23 May 2007
This report sets out the membership, purposes and
activities of the Audit Committee during the year .
Membership and terms of reference
Membership of the Audit Committee consists solely of 
the Non-executive Directors. The Committee is chaired 
by Kasper Rorsted and the other members are Simon 
Ball, Clive Butler , Kate Nealon and Agnès T ouraine.
The Committee’s objectives include: assisting the Board 
in meeting its responsibilities to create an effective system 
of internal control and compliance; provision of accurate
external financial reporting; and assisting management 
in conducting and reporting effective risk management.
The Committee has agreed terms of reference which are
published on our website and which are summarised below:
■ T o review and, where necessary , challenge the actions and
judgements of management in relation to the preliminary ,
full year and interim financial statements before
submission to the Board. Particular attention is paid 
to critical accounting policies; clarity of disclosure and
compliance with accounting standards;
■ T o review compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements arising from our listing on the London 
Stock Exchange;
■ T o review material complaints regarding accounting,
internal controls and auditing raised by employees 
and generally monitor whistle blowing procedures;
■ T o review the internal audit programme and consider 
the effectiveness of the internal audit function; and
■ T o make recommendations to the Board on the
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external
auditor , to approve their remuneration and terms of
engagement and the process of approval of audit and 
non-audit services provided by the external auditor .
Meetings
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during
the year ended 31 March 2007 . An additional meeting was
also held in July to undertake training and a review of
Committee governance. The agenda for the year was set 
at the July meeting and is reviewed by the Committee
Chairman in conjunction with the Finance Director and
external auditors prior to each meeting. 
Standing reports from the Finance Director , the external
auditor , Group Director of Internal Audit and Group General
Counsel are presented at each scheduled meeting.
In addition, during the year under review, the Committee
considered and discussed the business set out below and
made recommendations to the Board where appropriate:
■ Financial results including preliminary results and press
release for the year ended 31 March 2006; the 2005/06
Annual Report together with the Directors’ statement on
compliance with T urnbull guidance on internal controls 
and risk management; and interim results and press 
release for the six months ended 30 September 2006; 38
Directors’ remuneration report
companies selected on the basis of relevant size, business
and geographic focus; 
■ Fixed salaries and benefits should be set with reference 
to the mid-market level compared with similar types of
company to ensure they remain appropriately competitive; 
■ The majority of total remuneration should only be
receivable as a result of achieving demanding
performance targets; 
■ An appropriate mix of short and long term incentives
should be set so that Directors are incentivised to
maximise performance over both the short and medium
term; and 
■ The remuneration structure for Directors should be
cascaded down to other senior management in a
consistent manner . 
Summary of Executive Directors’ remuneration 
As disclosed in last year’s remuneration report, to
complement the creation of two distinct businesses
(International and Europe, Asia & US) within Cable 
& Wireless, the remuneration structure for Executive 
Directors and other senior management was fully reviewed.
The revised remuneration structure resulting from this
review was implemented from 1 April 2006 and is intended 
to last for at least three years. Accordingly , no changes are
intended in 2007/08 or 2008/09. A key feature of this
revised structure was one-off long term incentive awards 
in 2006/07 with no further grants for at least three years.
Executive Directors’ remuneration in 2007/08 will,
therefore, comprise only base salary , annual bonus, 
pension and other benefits. 
As outlined above, the Committee believes that the majority 
of Executive Directors’ potential remuneration should be
performance related. The appropriate mix and level of
performance related awards may vary from year to year 
and between each Executive Director according to the
judgement of the Committee. The actual value delivered 
is dependent upon the achievement of stretching
performance conditions. 
The chart on page 39 illustrates the average proportion of
Executive Directors’ potential remuneration for 2007/08
that will be performance related (as explained above, there
will be no long term incentive awards paid in 2007/08 so the
long term incentives segment in this chart represents 
one-third of the value of the awards made in 2006/07).
Figures reflect ‘on-target’ payment potential under the
annual bonus plan and the expected value of long term
incentive awards at their time of grant. 
Base salary 
Base salaries are periodically reviewed by reference to the
mid-market of comparator groups of companies selected 
on the basis of comparable size, geographic spread and
business focus. Individual salary decisions take into 
account personal contribution and business performance.
This report sets out the policy and disclosures in
relation to Directors’ remuneration. This report 
will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM 
on 20 July 2007 .
Membership and terms of reference
During the year ended 31 March 2007 , the Committee
comprised the Non-executive Directors: Kate Nealon (Chair),
Simon Ball (since 1 May 2006), Clive Butler , Kasper Rorsted
(since 24 May 2006), Agnès T ouraine (since 24 May 2006),
Bernard Gray (until 21 July 2006) and Graham Howe (until
30 June 2006). 
The Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) makes
recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of
reference, on our framework of executive remuneration 
and on the specific remuneration of the Chairman, Executive
Directors and other senior executive management. During
the year , the Board approved all recommendations from the
Committee without amendment. The terms of reference for
the Committee may be found on our website at www.cw.com
or obtained from the Company Secretary . 
In forming their recommendations, the Committee received
input and information from the Chairman, the Group HR
Director and the Group Director of Performance and Reward.
The Committee has appointed independent consultants, 
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (NBSC), to provide
advice on remuneration and share plans both for Executive
Directors and the wider executive population. In addition they
provide us with measurement of our relative total shareholder
return (TSR) performance. NBSC’s terms of engagement 
are available on request from the Company Secretary . 
The Chairman, Executive Directors and any officers 
attending a meeting abstain from any discussion on their 
own remuneration. 
Remuneration philosophy 
As an international company operating in many countries
around the world, attracting, retaining and motivating high
quality people is key to our success. Remuneration
arrangements are designed to enable us to maintain a
competitive position in each country in a cost-effective 
way and are reviewed annually against best practice. 
Our remuneration philosophy for Executive Directors is
based upon creating a strong link between performance 
and reward, underpinned by the following guiding principles: 
■ The reward package should be aligned to our
organisational strategy; 
■ The reward structures should reflect the different
characteristics, and strategies of the two operating
businesses – International and Europe, Asia & US – 
and the Central function;
■ T otal reward levels should reflect the markets in which we
operate. Our competitive position is regularly monitored 
by independent analysis against comparator groups of Governance
39
Part of the terms of the revised remuneration structure
outlined above was that salaries for Executive Directors
would be fixed from 1 April 2006 with no further increases
for three years. Accordingly , salaries for 2007/08 will be
unchanged from 2006/07 at the following levels: 
Salary
George Battersby £420,000
Harris Jones £600,000
John Pluthero £600,000
T ony Rice £600,000
Executive Directors’ pensions are calculated only with
reference to their base salaries. 
Annual bonus 
Individual awards under the annual bonus scheme for
2007/08 will be based solely on financial performance,
using business-specific (Group, International or Europe, 
Asia & US as relevant to the Cable & Wireless Executive)
profit targets. The maximum bonus opportunity for all
Executive Directors will be unchanged from 2006/07 
at 100% of salary and ‘target’ financial performance will
continue to generate a bonus payment of 60% of maximum.
Bonuses will be paid in cash.
The financial measures and targets within the bonus plans
are reviewed annually by the Committee and reflect the
different operating environments. 
Long term incentive awards 
As outlined above, Executive Directors received one-off long
term incentive awards in 2006/07 (or , in the case of T ony Rice,
at the end of 2005/06) and there is no intention for them to
receive any further long term incentive awards in 2007/08 
or 2008/09. 
These awards were granted in the following three forms:
i) Restricted share plan (‘RSP’) 
In order to encourage executives’ investment in shares to
align their interests with shareholders, all of the Executive
Directors invested their own funds in either 2005/06 
(George Battersby , John Pluthero and T ony Rice) or 
2006/07 (Harris Jones) in Cable & Wireless shares and
received a matching award of restricted shares mostly
dependent on TSR performance conditions (see performance
conditions for share-based awards on page 40).
ii) Share option plan (‘SOP’) 
Executive Directors with Central functions (George
Battersby and T ony Rice) received a one-off award of share
options in either 2005/06 (T ony Rice) or 2006/07 (George
Battersby). The vesting of share options granted under the
SOP is subject to relative TSR performance conditions (see
performance conditions for share-based awards on page 40). 
iii) Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan (‘L TIP’) 
As Joint Managing Directors of International and Europe,
Asia & US respectively , Harris Jones and John Pluthero 
are participants in the L TIP , which was approved by
shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
The L TIP creates a reward pool for each of the two businesses
over a four year period from 1 April 2006 (or until a vesting
event, if earlier) depending on the extent to which the
businesses have grown in value from their base valuation 
at the start of the period (these base valuations are £2,041
million for International and £536 million for Europe, Asia 
& US). Base valuations are adjusted over the performance
period i) to reflect additional capital notionally treated as
borrowed by the business ii) to reflect capital notionally
treated as returned by the business and iii) increased by the
notional weighted average cost of capital of the business
(which will be at least 8% per annum compounded).
If a business’ value is lower than its adjusted base 
valuation at the end of the performance period, there will 
be no reward pool for that business. T o the extent that a
business’ value exceeds its adjusted base valuation at the
end of the performance period, 10% of the excess growth in
value goes into the reward pool. John Pluthero and Harris
Jones will each receive 20% of their business’ reward pool. 
75% of the reward pool will be payable to participants at
the end of year three (April 2009), and 100% payable (less
payments made at end of year three) to all participants at the
end of year four (April 2010). Measurement of the size of the
reward pool is carried out every six months to correspond
with the Company’s accounting periods. However , apart
from good leavers nothing vests to the participants until 
the end of year three.
The combined current value of the reward pools is 
£120 million (£46 million for International and £74 
million for Europe, Asia & US). This compares with the 
return for shareholders of £1.54 billion since the start of 
the performance period (£1.44 billion enhancement in the
market value of Cable & Wireless shares plus £104 million 
in dividends over the period assuming subsequent
reinvestment in the Company’s shares).
Split of potential total remuneration 
for 2007/08
Salary
Pension 
Performance-related 
annual bonus
Performance-related 
long term incentives 40
Directors’ remuneration report
Irrespective of the above, payments to Executive Directors
will be scaled back if the Committee is not satisfied that 
there has been an improvement in the underlying financial
performance of their business or if the Group’s TSR is not
positive over the performance period. 
Other share plans 
We operate a number of other executive share plans,
principally the Performance Share Plan, the Deferred 
Short T erm Incentive Plan and the Stock Appreciation 
Rights Plan. No awards have been granted under these 
plans to Executive Directors in the last year nor does the
Committee have any intention to make such awards in
2007/08 or 2008/09. 
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in all employee
share schemes and savings plans applicable in their home
countries. These include the Cable & Wireless Savings
Related Share Options Scheme and the Cable & Wireless
Share Purchase Plan – further details can be found in note
36 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Performance conditions for share-based awards 
T otal shareholder return (TSR) is the main performance
measure used in the Group’s share-based awards, as it
provides an objective external measure of financial
performance. 
TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital
actions. TSR performance is averaged over a three-month
period at the beginning and end of the performance period.
This moderates the effect of short-term share price volatility . 
The Committee believes that it is important to measure and
reward relative performance against an appropriate set of
companies. Our relative TSR performance is assessed
against the FTSE Global T elecoms Sector Index (‘FTSE
GTSI’), which provides a global benchmark of 
independently selected industry peers. 
Awards vest depending upon the Company’s TSR ranking
relative to the FTSE GTSI at the end of a single three-year
performance period. 
The following outlines the vesting schedule for awards
granted in 2006/07 under the SOP and RSP (where
performance conditions apply): 
Restricted share Share option
plan (RSP) plan (SOP)
Vesting % %
Below median 00
Median 25 33.33
Upper quartile 100 100
The vesting schedule for the SOP is based on a sliding scale
whereas for the RSP , vesting is on a staged basis. In order for
any share options or restricted shares (where performance
conditions apply) to vest, the Committee must also be
satisfied that the underlying financial performance 
of Cable & Wireless warrants the release of the shares
determined by our TSR performance. Specific Committee
decisions will be explained in future remuneration reports. 
Performance graphs 
The graph below shows the change in value of a £100
holding in Cable & Wireless ordinary shares over five 
years against the FTSE GTSI. 
The graph below shows the change in value of a £100
holding in the Company’s ordinary shares over five years
relative to a broad equity market index. The FTSE 100 
index was considered by the Committee to be the most 
relevant index for this purpose as Cable & Wireless has 
been a constituent of the index for the majority of the 
five-year period.
FTSE 100
2007 2006 2004 2003 2002 2005
Total shareholder return v FTSE 100
 Value in £ on 31 March
0
25
50
75
125
100
150
Cable & Wireless
Cable & Wireless FTSE Global
Telecoms Index
0
25
50
75
125
100
150
2007 2006 2004 2003 2002 2005
Total shareholder return v FTSE GTSI
 Value in £ on 31 March 41
Governance
Dilution 
The Committee ensures that at all times the number of new
shares which may be issued under any share option or
share-based plans, including all-employee plans, does not
exceed the dilution limit of 10% of the Company’s issued
share capital over any ten year rolling period. As at 31 March
2007 , 8.3% of the issued shared capital was available for
issue under our share-based plans. 
Awards under the various share plans are funded by a mix 
of purchased and newly issued shares, as determined by the
Committee. Newly issued shares are subject to the dilution
limit outlined above. Purchased shares, which are held by 
the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership T rust, are
subject to a limit of 5% of the issued ordinary share capital 
of the Company . 
Pension and other benefits 
The Executive Directors all receive a cash allowance 
worth 25% of base salary instead of being members of 
the pension scheme. 
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in
employee benefit programmes including life, disability and
health insurance plans and, where appropriate, receive
relocation expenses. The value of these benefits is included
in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 44. 
Executive Directors’ service contracts 
The Committee’s policy is that Executive Directors’ service
contracts should include a maximum notice period of one
year . However , a longer notice period may apply initially ,
where this is required to secure the services of executives 
in exceptional circumstances. In all cases the notice period
will reduce to one year or less after two years. 
Date of contract Notice period
George Battersby 27 July 2004 One year
Harris Jones 29 November 2004 One year
John Pluthero 14 November 2005 One year
T ony Rice 30 March 2006 One year
Directors’ service contracts continue until their normal
retirement date. 
Other Executive Directors who served during the year were
Francesco Caio, who had a contract dated 2 April 2003 
and a one-year notice period, Charles Herlinger , who had a
contract dated 26 July 2003 and a one-year notice period,
Lord Robertson who had a contract dated 1 February 2004
and had a one-year notice period and Rob Rowley , who had a
contract dated 1 F ebruary 2003 and a one-year notice period.
The Executive Directors’ contracts provide that, in the event 
of a change of control of the Company , and the Director’s
employment is adversely changed, then he will receive a
payment equal to the notice period and a time pro-rated
annual bonus. 
The Executive Directors’ service contracts contain no other
provisions for compensation payable on early termination. 
In the event of early termination, the Committee will, within
legal constraints, determine the approach to be taken
according to the circumstances of each individual case,
taking full account of the departing Executive Director’s
obligation to mitigate loss. Except in cases of early
termination for cause, the Committee will take into 
account the relevant Executive Director’s current salary ,
notice period and contractual benefits when calculating 
any liability of Cable & Wireless. The principal contractual
benefits provided in addition to salary are pension and life
insurance. Annual bonuses and long term incentives are
granted at the discretion of the Committee and therefore
would be dealt with in accordance with the rules of the
relevant schemes. A significant proportion of each Executive
Director’s total remuneration is subject to performance
conditions and therefore will not be payable to the extent
that the relevant targets are not met. 
Shareholding guidelines
Cable & Wireless operates a policy of encouraging 
Executive Directors to align their interests closely with those
of shareholders by requiring them to build up and maintain 
a holding of ordinary shares to the value of at least twice their
base salary . Where this target has not already been attained,
it is required to be achieved through the retention of any net
awards received from outstanding share awards.
Chairman 
The Chairman, Richard Lapthorne, has a fixed-term three-
year appointment until 10 January 2009. The appointment
is terminable by either party serving 12 months’ notice.
Richard Lapthorne receives an annual fee of £386,000,
which is fixed for the three-year term. These terms reflect 
the original appointment in 2003 and the Committee is
reviewing them in the light of the changing nature of his role. 
The Chairman is committed to retaining at least 500,000
ordinary shares throughout his service as a Director . 
If Richard Lapthorne’s appointment is terminated by reason
of death or by the Company otherwise than by due notice 
or if there is a change of control, he or his personal
representatives shall be entitled to an immediate payment
equivalent to his fee for the balance of the period ending on
the earliest date on which the appointment would have been
terminated if Cable & Wireless had given the requisite prior
written notice, unless in the case of a change of control he
remains a Chairman of the Company on similar terms.  42
Directors’ remuneration report
Non-executive Directors 
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts
with the Company , but instead have letters of appointment.
Their fees are determined by the Board, within the limits 
set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, with 
Non-executive Directors abstaining from any discussion 
or decision on their fees. Fee levels, which are periodically
reviewed, reflect their responsibilities, the committees on
which they serve and the general market conditions for their
services. The Non-executive Directors do not receive any
incentive payments or pension provision. 
Base fees paid to each continuing Non-executive Director 
for 2006/07 and 2007/08 are as follows:
Base fees
Simon Ball £65,000
Clive Butler £75,000
1
Kate Nealon £75,000
2
Kasper Rorsted £90,000
3
Agnès T ouraine £65,000
1 Includes £10,000 for role as Senior Independent Director .
2 Includes £10,000 for role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
3 Includes £25,000 for role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Kasper Rorsted was appointed for a second three year 
term commencing on 24 May 2006. Kate Nealon and Agnès
T ouraine were appointed for a three year term commencing
on 18 January 2005, Clive Butler was appointed for a three
year term on 1 May 2005 and Simon Ball was appointed for 
a three year term on 1 May 2006. 
After two three-year terms, the period may be extended 
on an annual basis at the invitation of the Chairman.
T ermination of the appointment may be earlier at the
discretion of either party on one month’s written notice.
None of the Non-executive Directors is entitled to any
compensation if their appointment is terminated. 
This report, including the tables on pages 43 to 47 , has 
been approved on behalf of the Board by:
Kate Nealon
Chair , Remuneration Committee
23 May 2007  Governance
43
Directors’ shareholdings 
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of Cable and Wireless plc 
were as follows: 
As at 
1 April 2006 
(or date of As at 
appointment Shares
2
31 March 
if later) acquired 2007
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 2,600,000 400,000 3,000,000
Executive Directors
1
George Battersby 353,476 3,086 356,562
Harris Jones 220,750 299,000 519,750
John Pluthero 1,000,000 62,402 1,062,402
T ony Rice 2,200,000 800,000 3,000,000
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball – 190,000 190,000
Clive Butler – 30,000 30,000
Kate Nealon 9,923 19,536 29,459
Kasper Rorsted 60,000 130,000 190,000
Agnès T ouraine – 5,000 5,000
External directorships 
The Company allows Executive Directors to hold Non-executive Directorships and retain the fees received from those roles. 
Details of directorships held and the annual fees received for the financial year 2006/07 are given below: 
Annual fees 
£
George Battersby 
Non-executive Director of SHL Group plc, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and Senior Independent Director (until October 2006) 26,325
Non-executive Director of Hogg Robinson and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee (from September 2006) 16,770
Harris Jones
Non-executive Director of Caracal Inc No fee
John Pluthero
Non-executive Director of Merville Ltd No fee
Tony Rice 
Non-executive Director of T unstall Holdings Ltd 20,000
Non-executive Director of British Med Airways Ltd 17,128
T rustee of Help the Aged (until February 2007) No fee
Rob Rowley
1
Non-executive Director of Prudential plc and Chairman of the Audit Committee (until May 2006) 1,238
Non-executive Directorship of Liberty International plc 13,750 
1 Fees to Rob Rowley are shown only for the period until he ceased to be an 
Executive Director of Cable & Wireless. 
1 As potential beneficiaries from outstanding awards, which may be satisfied by shares
held by the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership T rust, George Battersby ,
Harris Jones, John Pluthero and T ony Rice are deemed, by the Companies Act 1985,
to have an interest in all of the ordinary shares held by the T rust, which at 31 March
2007 , amounted to 36,792,655 shares. 
2 Included in the shares acquired during the year are dividend shares received 
on the purchased shares under the Deferred STIP which are converted into 
additional shares.
Between 31 March 2007 and 23 May 2007 George Battersby , Harris Jones and T ony Rice each acquired 791 ordinary shares
via the Company’s share purchase plan. 44
Directors’ remuneration 
The following sections of the remuneration report have been subject to audit. 
Compensation Pension
Salary Other for early cash Total T otal 
and fees Bonuses
2
benefits
3
termination allowance
4
2006/07 2005/06 
£££££ £ £
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 386,000 – 70,850 – – 456,850 402,165
Executive Directors
George Battersby 420,000 420,000 21,806 – 171,760 1,033,566 413,723
Harris Jones 600,000 525,600 394,699
5
– 150,000 1,670,299 1,788,391
John Pluthero 600,000 600,000 31,494 – 150,000 1,381,494 312,620
T ony Rice 600,000 600,000 27,399 – 150,000 1,377,399 95,521
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball (since 1 May 2006) 59,583–––– 59,583 –
Clive Butler 72,500 – 475 – – 72,975 59,583
Kate Nealon 75,000 – 475 – – 75,475 65,738
Kasper Rorsted 90,000 – 5,681 – – 95,681 70,979
Agnès T ouraine 65,000 – 4,485 – – 69,485 71,549
Sub-total 2,968,083 2,145,600 557,364 – 621,760 6,292,807 3,280,269
Former Directors
Franceso Caio (until 1 April 2006) 2,692 – 1,503 875,000
6
673 879,868 1,168,401
Bernard Gray (until 21 July 2006) 31,176 – 475 – – 31,651 75,000
Charles Herlinger (until 31 May 2006) 66,667 – 220 500,000
7
9,333 576,220 629,213
Graham Howe (until 30 June 2006) 31,164 – 475 – – 31,639 75,738
Lord Robertson (until 1 April 2006) 954– 57–– 1,011 262,978
Rob Rowley (until 21 July 2006) 202,381
8
– 2,464 250,000
9
– 454,845 272,714
Total 3,303,117 2,145,600 562,558 1,625,000 631,766 8,268,041 5,764,313
1 The aggregate emoluments of the Directors which include employer pension
contributions were £8,268,041 (2005/06 – £5,850,313 which include employer
pension contributions of £42,000 for George Battersby and £44,000 for 
Charles Herlinger). Ongoing costs for salaries/fees for the Board in 2007/08 
will be £2,976,000 and salary/fees for 2006/07 were £3,303,117 . 
2 Directors’ bonuses for the 2006/07 financial year were based on a mixture of profit
and cash flow measures relevant to the individual Director’s area of responsibility
together , in the case of John Pluthero, with the achievement of key strategic
milestones for the C&W Access business. All cash flow measures were fully satisfied
and the key strategic milestones for C&W Access were all met. Profit measures for
Europe, Asia & US and for the Company overall were fully satisfied. The profit
measure for International was partially satisfied. These outcomes resulted in the
bonus payments outlined above. The maximum bonus potential available was 100%
of salary for full satisfaction of all measures.
3 In compliance with the Companies Act 1985, ‘Other benefits’ includes the
reimbursement of costs associated with accommodation, relocation, including
schooling, and the value of benefits in kind relating to Company provided life
assurance, professional advice, chauffeur travel and accommodation. 
4 Company pension contributions in 2006/07 have been paid to the Director as an
annual cash allowance. Included in the total remuneration above, George Battersby
received a £66,760 contribution refund from the Cable & Wireless Lifetime Benefits
Plan. An amount of £14.6 million (2005/06 – £14.5 million) is included in provisions
to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
5 Harris Jones received reimbursement in respect of relocation, accommodation 
and schooling-related expenses.
6 Francesco Caio (former Chief Executive Officer) received an early termination
payment of £875,000 in respect of one year’s salary and one year’s pension
contribution. 
7 Charles Herlinger received his contractual entitlement of one year’s salary and 
one year’s pension contribution, in relation to early termination of his contract. 
8 Rob Rowley was paid a payment of £125,000 to reflect his full time commitment 
for the second half of 2005/06 year . This payment was paid in April 2006.
9 Rob Rowley received one year’s base salary in relation to early termination 
of his contract. 
Directors’ remuneration report Governance
45
Directors’ share options
Shares under Granted Shares under
option at between option at 31
1 April 2006 1 April 2006 March 2007
Date from Date Exercise (or date of and Lapsed, (or date
which first of expiry price appointment 31 March cancelled or of leaving
Name and scheme Grant date exercisable of option (pence) if later) 2007 Exercised forfeited if earlier)
George Battersby
SOP Approved 03/08/04 03/08/07 02/08/11 108.00 27,777 – – – 27,777
SOP Unapproved 03/08/04 03/08/07 02/08/11 108.00 783,223 – – – 783,223
SOP Unapproved 25/08/05 25/08/08 24/08/12 153.90 568,551 – – – 568,551
SOP Unapproved 02/06/06 02/06/09 01/06/13 101.25 – 4,148,148 – – 4,148,148
1,379,551 4,148,148 – – 5,527,699
Harris Jones
SOP Approved 01/12/04 01/12/07 30/11/11 113.55 26,420 – – – 26,420
SOP Unapproved 01/12/04 01/12/07 30/11/11 113.55 1,734,918 – – – 1,734,918
SOP Unapproved 25/08/05 25/08/08 24/08/12 153.90 812,215 – – – 812,215
2,573,553 – – – 2,573,553
John Pluthero
SOP Approved 03/03/06 03/03/09 02/03/13 107.40 27,932 – – – 27,932
SOP Unapproved 03/03/06 03/03/09 02/03/13 107.40 1,135,941 – – – 1,135,941
1,163,873 – – – 1,163,873
Tony Rice
SOP Approved 30/03/06 30/03/09 29/03/13 110.50 27,260 – – – 27,260
SOP Unapproved 30/03/06 30/03/09 29/03/13 110.50 5,424,807 – – – 5,424,807
5,452,067 – – – 5,452,067
F ormer Directors
Francesco Caio
SOP Approved 26/06/03 26/06/06 30/06/07 103.70 28,929 – – – 28,929
SOP Unapproved 26/06/03 26/06/06 30/06/07 103.70 2,671,167 – – – 2,671,167
SOP Unapproved 03/08/04 03/08/07 03/08/09 108.00 1,946,000 – – 756,778 1,189,222
SOP Unapproved 25/08/05 25/08/08 25/08/10 153.90 1,364,522 – – 985,488 379,034
SAYE 04/07/03 01/07/06 31/12/06 89.00 10,393 – – – 10,393
6,021,011 – – 1,742,266 4,278,745
Charles Herlinger
SOP Approved 15/12/03 01/06/06 15/06/07 135.70 22,107 – – – 22,107
SOP Unapproved 15/12/03 01/06/06 31/05/07 135.70 1,156,964 – – – 1,156,964
SOP Unapproved 03/08/04 03/08/07 03/08/09 108.00 927,000 – – 386,250 540,750
SOP Unapproved 25/08/05 25/08/08 25/08/10 153.90 649,772 – – 487,329 162,443
SAYE 30/06/04 01/06/06 30/11/06 102.60 9,186 – – 2,303 6,883
2,765,029 – – 875,882 1,889,147
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen
SOP Approved 06/02/04 06/02/07 05/02/11 143.25 20,942 – – – 20,942
SOP Unapproved 06/02/04 06/02/07 05/02/11 143.25 537,522 – – – 537,522
SOP Unapproved 03/08/04 03/08/07 02/08/09 108.00 463,000 – – – 463,000
SOP Unapproved 25/08/05 25/08/08 24/08/12 153.90 406,107 – – – 406,107
1,427,571 – – – 1,427,571
Rob Rowley
SOP Approved 26/06/03 26/06/06 21/07/07 103.70 28,929 – – – 28,929
SOP Unapproved 26/06/03 26/06/06 21/07/07 103.70 935,391 – – – 935,391
SOP Unapproved 03/08/04 03/08/07 03/08/09 108.00 579,000 – – 209,083 369,917
SOP Unapproved 25/08/05 25/08/08 25/08/10 153.90 406,107 – – 282,019 124,088
SAYE 04/07/03 22/07/06 21/01/07 89.00 17,893 – – 5,986 11,907
1,967,320 – – 497,088 1,470,232
Notes
These are Inland Revenue approved and unapproved grants made under the SOP 
(see note 36 of the consolidated financial statements for details). The vesting of options
awarded under the SOP is subject to relative TSR performance conditions, see page 40
for details. 
SA YE – Cable & Wireless Save As Y ou Earn share option scheme. These options are not
subject to performance conditions because this is an all-employee scheme governed by
specific tax legislation.
Nil price was paid by Directors for the award of the options listed in the table above. 
The closing mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2007 was 166.60 pence. 
The highest closing mid market price of an ordinary share during the year was 179.5
pence and lowest closing mid-market price was 97 .5 pence. 
No Directors had any gains on the exercise of share options in the years ended 31 March
2006 or 31 March 2007 . 
All Directors share options awarded prior to July 2004 will vest in full upon leaving and
the date of expiry of the option is subject to the rules of the Share Incentive Plan 2001.
For share options awarded after this date, the share options will be time pro rated up to
the termination date and will continue to be subject to TSR performance conditions up 
to the end of the performance period.  46
Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ share awards
Shares under Awarded Shares under
award at between award at 31
Market price 1 April 2006 1 April 2006 Shares March 2007
on date of (or date of and lapsed, (or date of
Award V esting award appointment 31 March Shares cancelled or leaving if
Name and scheme date date (pence) if later) 2007 vested forfeited earlier)
George Battersby
Performance Share Awards 25/08/05 30/06/08 153.90 113,710
1
––– 113,710
Deferred STIP
MS
30/09/05 01/10/08 146.30 258,373
2
––– 258,373
Deferred STIP
MDS
27/01/06 01/10/08 114.80 3,046––– 3,046
Performance Share Awards
DS
27/01/06 30/06/08 114.80 1,340––– 1,340
Restricted Shares 30/03/06 29/03/09 108.98 917,570
3
––– 917,570
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/08/06 01/10/08 109.20 – 7,334 – – 7,334
Performance Share Awards
DS
11/08/06 30/06/08 109.20 – 3,228 – – 3,228
Deferred STIP
MDS
19/01/07 01/10/08 158.35 – 2,773 – – 2,773
Performance Share Awards
DS
19/01/07 30/06/08 158.35 – 1,220 – – 1,220
1,294,039 14,555 – – 1,308,594
Harris Jones
Restricted Shares
MS
01/12/04 01/12/07 113.55 220,750
4
––– 220,750
Performance Share Awards 01/12/04 01/12/07 113.55 441,500
5
––– 441,500
Performance Share Awards 25/08/05 30/06/08 153.90 162,443
1
––– 162,443
Performance Share Awards
DS
27/01/06 30/06/08 114.80 1,915––– 1,915
Restricted Shares 26/05/06 26/05/09 100.25 – 997,506
6
–– 997,506
Performance Share Awards
DS
11/08/06 30/06/08 109.20 – 4,611 – – 4,611
Performance Share Awards
DS
19/01/07 30/06/08 158.35 – 1,743 – – 1,743
826,608 1,003,860 – – 1,830,468
John Pluthero
Restricted Shares
MS
03/03/06 03/03/09 107.40 1,000,000
7
––– 1,000,000
Performance Share Awards 03/03/06 02/03/09 107.40 232,774
1
––– 232,774
Performance Share Awards
DS
11/08/06 02/03/09 109.20 – 6,608 – – 6,608
Performance Share Awards
DS
19/01/07 02/03/09 158.35 – 2,498 – – 2,498
1,232,774 9,106 – – 1,241,880
Tony Rice
Restricted Shares
MS
30/03/06 29/03/09 108.98 1,000,000
8
––– 1,000,000
Restricted Shares
MS
30/03/06 29/03/09 108.98 2,000,000
8
––– 2,000,000
3,000,000––– 3,000,000
Former Directors
Francesco Caio
Restricted Shares 04/06/03 04/06/06 97.75 383,632 – 383,632 – –
Deferred STIP
MDS
13/08/04 25/06/07 102.25 2,340 – – 780 1,560
Deferred STIP
MS
17/08/04 25/06/07 105.75 80,182
2
– – 26,728 53,454
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/02/05 25/06/07 130.00 812 – – 286 526
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/08/05 25/06/07 161.25 1,450 – – 484 966
Performance Share Awards 25/08/05 30/06/08 153.90 227,420
1
– – 151,614 75,806
Deferred STIP
MS
30/09/05 01/10/08 146.30 583,732
2
– – 437,799 145,933
Deferred STIP
MDS
27/01/06 25/06/07 114.80 945 – – 315 630
Performance Share Awards
DS
27/01/06 30/06/08 114.80 2,681 – – 1,788 893
Deferred STIP
MDS
27/01/06 01/10/08 114.80 6,883 – – 5,163 1,720
1,290,077 – 383,632 624,957 281,488
Charles Herlinger
Restricted Shares 15/12/03 31/05/06 135.70 250,000 – 250,000 – –
Deferred STIP
MDS
13/08/04 25/06/07 102.25 1,691 – – 611 1,080
Deferred STIP
MS
17/08/04 25/06/07 105.75 57,944
2
– – 20,925 37,019
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/02/05 25/06/07 130.00 586 – – 222 364
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/08/05 25/06/07 161.25 1048 – – 379 669
Performance Share Awards 25/08/05 30/06/08 153.90 129,954
1
– – 90,246 39,708
Deferred STIP
MS
30/09/05 01/10/08 146.30 145,818
2
– – 113,414 32,404
Deferred STIP
MDS
27/01/06 25/06/07 114.80 683 – – 247 436
Deferred STIP
MDS
27/01/06 01/10/08 114.80 1,719 – – 1,337 382
Performance Share Awards
DS
27/01/06 30/06/08 114.80 1,532 – – 1,064 468
590,975 – 250,000 228,445 112,530 Governance
47
Directors’ share awards continued
Shares under Awarded Shares under
award at between award at 31
Market price 1 April 2006 1 April 2006 Shares March 2007
on date of (or date of and lapsed, (or date of
Award V esting award appointment 31 March Shares cancelled or leaving if
Name and Scheme date date (pence) if later) 2007 vested forfeited earlier)
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen
Deferred STIP 
MDS
13/08/04 25/06/07 102.25 169––– 169
Deferred STIP 
MS
17/08/04 25/06/07 105.75 5,792
2
––– 5,792
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/02/05 25/06/07 130.00 58––– 58
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/08/05 25/06/07 161.25 104––– 104
Performance Share Awards 25/08/05 30/06/08 153.90 81,221
1
––– 81,221
Deferred STIP 
MS
30/09/05 01/10/08 146.30 184,552
2
––– 184,552
Deferred STIP 
MDS
27/01/06 01/10/08 114.80 2,176––– 2,176
Performance Share Awards
DS
27/01/06 30/06/08 114.80 957––– 957
Deferred STIP
MDS
27/01/06 25/06/08 114.80 68––– 68
275,097––– 275,097
Rob Rowley
Restricted Shares 04/06/03 04/06/06 97.75 383,632 – 383,632 – –
Deferred STIP
MDS
13/08/04 25/06/07 102.25 3,360 – – 1,120 2,240
Deferred STIP
MS
17/08/04 25/06/07 105.75 115,104
2
– – 38,368 76,736
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/02/05 25/06/07 130.00 1,166 – – 411 755
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/08/05 25/06/07 161.25 2,082 – – 694 1,388
Performance Share Awards 25/08/05 30/06/08 153.90 81,221
1 1
– – 54,148 27,073
Deferred STIP
MS
30/09/05 01/10/08 146.30 27,804
2
– – 20,853 6,951
Deferred STIP
MDS
27/01/06 25/06/07 114.80 1,357 – – 453 904
Performance Share Awards
DS
27/01/0630/06/08114.80 957 – – 638 319
Deferred STIP
MDS
27/01/06 01/10/08 114.80 327 – – 246 81
617,010 – 383,632 116,931 116,447
DS Dividend Shares
MDS Matching Dividend Shares
MS Matching Shares
1 These Performance Share awards will be delivered by the Company to the Director on
the third anniversary of grant if the Director is still an employee and full vesting of the
performance shares, and any associated dividend reinvestment shares, occurs only 
if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile when
compared against the FTSE GTSI during the performance period. Where TSR meets
the median, 33% of the performance shares vest and a sliding scale operates between
median and upper quartile. No performance shares vest for TSR performance below
the median. 
2 These Deferred STIP matching awards will be delivered to the Director on the third
anniversary of grant if the Director is still an employee of the Company, if the Director
has retained beneficial ownership of the required number of ordinary shares and if the
Company’s TSR performance against the FTSE GTSI has been at least upper quartile.
The matching shares are based on one matching share for two purchased shares for
median TSR performance, rising to two matching shares for one purchased share for
performance at upper quartile or above. No matching shares are awarded for below
median performance. A dividend award supplement also operates on the plan.
Dividends that would have been paid on purchased shares and the actual award of
matching shares during the performance period are reinvested in additional shares.
3 Subject to George Battersby remaining an employee of the Company and retaining
beneficial ownership until 29 March 2009 of the 275,000 ordinary shares he
acquired on 30 March 2006, the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him.
Performance conditions apply to these shares and full vesting will occur only if the
TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile measured
against the FTSE GTSI. 
4 Subject to Harris Jones remaining an employee of the Company and retaining
beneficial ownership until 1 December 2007 of the 220,750 ordinary shares he
acquired on 1 December 2004, the Company will deliver these restricted shares 
to him. No performance conditions are attached to this award, as it was part of the
terms felt to be necessary to secure his employment with the Company.
5 These performance share awards will be delivered by the Company to Harris Jones 
on the third anniversary of grant if he is still an employee of the Company, if he has
retained beneficial ownership of the 220,750 ordinary shares he acquired on 
1 December 2004 and if the Company’s TSR performance against the FTSE GTSI 
has been at least upper quartile. If TSR performance has been median, 25% of the
shares will be delivered, for performance between median and upper quartile, shares
will be delivered on a pro-rata basis. No shares will be delivered for below median
performance. No dividend award supplement applies to this award.
6 Subject to Harris Jones remaining an employee of the Company and retaining
beneficial ownership until 26 May 2009 of the 299,000 ordinary shares he acquired
on 26 May 2006, the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him.
Performance conditions apply to these shares and full vesting will occur only if the
TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile measured
against the FTSE GTSI.
7 Subject to John Pluthero remaining an employee of the Company and retaining
beneficial ownership until 3 March 2009 of the 1,000,000 ordinary shares he
acquired on 3 March 2006, the Company will deliver these restricted shares to him. 
8 Subject to Tony Rice remaining an employee of the Company and retaining beneficial
ownership until 29 March 2009 of the 1,000,000 ordinary shares he acquired on 
30 March 2006, the Company will deliver these 1,000,000 restricted shares to him.
At the same time, a further 2,000,000 restricted shares were awarded. Performance
conditions apply to these shares and full vesting will occur only if the TSR
performance of the Company meets or exceeds the upper quartile measured 
against the constituents of the FTSE GTSI.
9 For all retiring Directors, with the exception of restricted shares awarded prior to 
July 2004, shares awarded will be time pro rated up to the termination date and 
will continue to be subject to TSR performance conditions up to the end of the
performance period. 48
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of 
the preparation of the Annual Report and financial statements
The Directors are also responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose, with reasonable
accuracy at any time, the financial position of the parent
Company and enable them to ensure that its financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They 
are also responsible for the system of internal control, 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are 
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’
remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the
above requirements in preparing the Annual Report, and
having a reasonable expectation that the Company has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future, continue to adopt a going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors
are aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined
by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985) of which the
Company’s auditor is unaware, and the Directors have taken
all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is 
posted on the Cable and Wireless plc website (www .cw .com).
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and
integrity of the corporate and financial information included
on the website. Information published on the Company’s
website is accessible in many countries with different 
legal requirements. Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and the Group and Company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable
laws and regulations.
UK Companies law requires the Directors to prepare Group
and Company financial statements for each financial year .
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare the
Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union (EU) and applicable 
law and have elected to prepare the parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK accounting
standards and applicable law (UK GAAP). The Group
financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as
adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position 
and performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985
provides in relation to such financial statements that
references in the relevant part of that Act to financial
statements giving a true and fair view are references 
to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company’s financial statements are required by law 
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company . In preparing each of the Group and Company
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
■ Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently; 
■ Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
■ For the Group’s financial statements, state whether they 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU;
■ For the Company’s financial statements, state whether
applicable UK accounting standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the financial statements; and
■ Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group or the
Company will continue in business.  49
Cable & Wireless Group
50 Independent auditor’s report
51 Consolidated financial statements
55 Notes to the financial statements 
Cable and Wireless plc
108 Independent auditor’s report
109 Company financial statements
111 Notes to the financial statements
Financial statements for 
the Group and Company
including a report from the
independent auditor .
Financial
statements
Financial statements
Company Group 50
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the
consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of
recognised income and expense and the related notes. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein. 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and
on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body , in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members as a body , for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 48. 
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated
financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements. The
information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the
Directors’ report. In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority , and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness
of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements. 
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately
disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
■ the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group’s
affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended;
■ the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation; and
■ the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor  London  23 May 2007
Cable & Wireless Group
Independent auditor’s report to the members 
of Cable and Wireless plc 51
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items T otal
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 3,348 – 3,348 3,230 – 3,230
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 6 (2,883) (78) (2,961) (2,819) (21) (2,840)
Amortisation 16, 18 (39) (11) (50) (46) (60) (106)
Depreciation 16, 19 (234) (2) (236) (228) (177) (405)
Other operating income 7 13 13 26 –1717
Other operating expenses 8 (2) (11) (13) –––
Group operating profit/(loss) 203 (89) 114 137 (241) (104)
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures 20 18 (29) (11) 52 2 54
T otal operating profit/(loss) 221 (118) 103 189 (239) (50)
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 10 – 153 153 27072
Gain on termination of operations 11 31821 –7272
Finance income 12 52 – 52 87 – 87
Finance expense 12 (80) – (80) (81) – (81)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 196 53 249 197 (97) 100
Income tax (expense)/credit 13 (44) 1 (43) (29) 2 (27)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 152 54 206 168 (95) 73
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 14 –2828 28890
Profit/(loss) for the year 152 82 234 170 (7) 163
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 92 82 174 118 (42) 76
Minority interest 60 – 60 52 35 87
152 82 234 170 (7) 163
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of 
the Company during the year (pence per share) 15
– basic 7.5 p 3.3p
– diluted 7.4 p 3.3p
Earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company during 
the year (pence per share) 15
– basic 6.3 p (0.6)p
– diluted 6.2 p (0.6)p
Earnings per share from discontinued operations 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company during 
the year (pence per share) 15
– basic 1.2 p 3.9p
– diluted 1.2 p 3.9p
The notes on pages 55 to 107 are an integral part of these financial statements. Further detail on exceptional items is set out in the 
relevant notes.
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2007
Financial statements
Group 52
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 2007
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
(restated)
Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 18 745 722
Property , plant and equipment 19 1,465 1,489
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 117 176
Available for sale assets 21 15 15
Deferred tax asset 31 28 17
Retirement benefit asset 33 75 41
Other receivables 22 62 43
Other non-current assets 24 11 15
2,518 2,518
Current assets
Inventories 23 23 31
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 21 – 39
T rade and other receivables 22 855 931
Cash and cash equivalents 24 1,043 1,127
1,921 2,128
Assets held for sale 25 52 105
1,973 2,233
Total assets 4,491 4,751
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 26 1,221 1,381
Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement 28 60 –
Current tax liabilities 122 123
Loans and obligations under finance leases 27 77 143
Derivative financial instruments 29 – 15
Provisions 32 72 89
1,552 1,751
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 25 10 –
1,562 1,751
Net current assets 411 482
Non-current liabilities
T rade and other payables 26 65 –
Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement 28 75 106
Loans and obligations under finance leases 27 639 641
Deferred tax liabilities 31 59 51
Provisions 32 154 193
Retirement benefit obligations 33 47 143
1,039 1,134
Net assets 1,890 1,866
EQUITY
Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity shareholders
Share capital 34 615 605
Share premium 35 56 24
Reserves 35 1, 010 956
1,681 1,585
Minority interest 37 209 281
Total equity 1,890 1,866
The notes on pages 55 to 107 are an integral part of these financial statements. These financial statements on pages 51 to 107 were
approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne Chairman Tony Rice Group Managing Director , Central and Finance Director 53
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
Note £m £m
Actuarial gains/(losses) in the value of defined benefit retirement plans 33 105 (9)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (172) 68
F air value gains on available for sale assets 21 – 10
F air value gains on available for sale assets recycled to income statement on sale – (70)
T ax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity (5) (2)
Total income and expense recognised directly in equity (72) (3)
Profit for the financial year 234 163
Total recognised income and expense for the year 162 160
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 138 85
Minority interest 24 75
162 160
Impact of restatement on reserves at 1 April 2006:
Retained earnings (5)
Minority interest (61)
(66)
The notes on pages 55 to 107 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses
For the year ended 31 March 2007
Financial statements
Group 54
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2007
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from continuing operations 38 299 100
Cash generated from discontinued operations 38 – 3
Income taxes paid (46) (47)
Net cash from operating activities 253 56
Cash flows from investing activities
Continuing operations
Finance income 43 107
Other income 9 5
Dividends received 23 34
Proceeds on disposal of trade investments – 89
Proceeds on disposal of property , plant and equipment 15 35
Proceeds on disposal of intangible assets – 2
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (338) (412)
Purchase of intangible assets (40) (22)
Disposal of credit linked notes 40 40
Proceeds on disposal of associates and joint ventures 256 1
Acquisition of associates and joint ventures – (1)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash received) 41 (15) (618)
Net cash from continuing operations (7) (740)
Discontinued operations
Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries 14 – 27
Net cash from discontinued operations – 27
Net cash used in investing activities (7) (713)
Net cash flow before financing 246 (657)
Cash flows from financing activities
Continuing operations
Dividends paid to shareholders (83) (80)
Dividends paid to minority interests (93) (51)
Repayments of borrowings (212) (46)
Loan to minority interest – (43)
Interest paid (55) (61)
Proceeds from borrowings 122 38
Purchase of treasury shares – (17)
Net proceeds on share awards 3 –
Proceeds on issue of ordinary share capital 15 11
Net cash used in continuing operations (303) (249)
Discontinued operations – –
Net cash used in financing activities (303) (249)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (57) (906)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 1,127 2,021
Exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents (22) 12
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 1,048 1,127
Less: Cash reflected as assets held for sale (5) –
Net cash and cash equivalents 24 1,043 1,127
The notes on pages 55 to 107 are an integral part of these financial statements. 55
1  General information
Cable and Wireless plc (‘the Company’) and its subsidiaries (together ‘Cable & Wireless’ or ‘the Group’) is an international
telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. It operates through two standalone businesses –
International  and Europe, Asia & US.
International operates integrated telecommunications companies in 33 countries offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international
fixed line services to residential and business customers. It has  principal operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the
Channel Islands.
Europe, Asia & US provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US, continental Europe
and Asia. This business includes C&W Access (formerly Bulldog) which provides wholesale broadband and telephony services to
commercial and residential end users through wholesale agreements.
2  Summary of significant accounting policies
2.1  Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. They comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and as adopted by the European Union (‘ Adopted IFRS’). Adopted IFRS are similar to
IFRSs issued by the IASB, except for certain provisions concerning hedge accounting that have no impact on the financial statements 
of the Group. 
The financial statements are presented in sterling (£) and rounded to the nearest million. They are prepared on the historical cost basis
except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates and associated
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is
significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities, except where indicated below. These changes in accounting
policy have been applied retrospectively and comparative amounts have been restated.
Monaco put option
As part of the Group’s acquisition of Monaco T elecom on 18 June 2004, the Principality of Monaco acquired an option to put its 45% holding
in the shares of Monaco T elecom to the Group at a future date. In the light of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and developing
accounting practice, the Group has decided to amend its accounting policy for this transaction. Previously , the 45% holding of the
Principality of Monaco was accounted for as a minority interest. It is now accounted for as a liability representing the potential obligation of
the Group for its purchase, even though this outcome is considered remote. As a result, the investment is now accounted for as if the Group
held 100% of the shares. The effect on the reserves and minority interests of the Group at 1 April 2005 was £13 million and £59 million
respectively . The effect of the change to the 31 March 2006 financial statements is tabulated below. Basic and diluted earnings per share 
for 31 March 2006 have been reduced by 0.2p.
Change in 2005/06 results
£m
Balance sheet
Increase in intangible assets
1
40
Increase in non-current financial liabilities (106)
Decrease in minority interest 61
Decrease in reserves (5)
Income statement
Increase in finance expense 12
Decrease in profit for the year 12
Decrease in profit attributable to minority interests 9
Decrease in profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 3
1 Represents an adjustment of £53 million increase in 2004/05 offset by £13 million decrease in 2005/06.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
Financial statements
Group 56
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
2.1  Basis of preparation continued
Reclassification of income statement items
The Group has revised the format of its income statement in the current period to reflect better the classification of certain items between
operating and non-operating profit. These items have not changed the profit for the year ended 31 March 2006. The impact on the
previously reported income statement is as follows:
■ £11 million, representing the exceptional gain on the sale of Coventry College (the Group’s training centre) has been reclassified from
gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets to other operating income; and
■ £6 million, representing exceptional insurance proceeds relating to restoration work after Hurricane Ivan has been reclassified from other
non-operating income to other operating income; and 
■ £7 million of dividend income has been reclassified from other non-operating income to finance income.
Reclassification of balance sheet items
During the current period, we have reclassified a balance of £11 million from trade and other receivables to other non-current assets. This
balance represents cash held in jurisdictions where there are restrictions on the repatriation of cash and has been reclassified to better reflect
the nature of the balance. The corresponding balance of £15 million in the prior period balance sheet has been adjusted in order to be consistent.
Earnings per share
The Group has amended the reported diluted earnings per share in the comparative period to reflect the fact that there was no dilution 
in this period. Diluted earnings per share for discontinued operations was also amended to reflect this fact. The effect of these changes 
is to align diluted earnings per share with basic earnings per share. 
2.2  Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards
The Group has considered the following amendments to IFRSs in these financial statements.
New Interpretations effective at 1 April 2006 adopted by the Group that did not have a material impact 
Title Description
IFRIC 4
Determining whether an 
Arrangement contains a Lease
IFRIC 5 
Rights to Interests arising from
Decommissioning, Restoration and
Environmental Rehabilitation Funds
IFRIC 6 
Liabilities arising from Participation in a 
Specific Market – Waste Electrical and
Electronic Equipment
IFRIC 7
Applying the Restatement Approach 
under IAS 29 Financial Reporting 
in Hyperinflationary Economies
New Interpretations effective for the Group from 1 April 2007 adopted early that did not have a material impact 
IFRIC 8 
Scope of IFRS 2
IFRIC 9 
Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives
IFRIC 10 
Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment
IFRIC 11 
IFRS 2 – Group and T reasury 
Share T ransactions
New Standard effective for the Group from 1 April 2007 not adopted early that will not have a material impact 
IFRS 7 
Financial Instruments: Disclosure
Provides guidance on how to determine whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease; when assessment 
or reassessments or arrangements should be made; and how payments for leases should be separated from
payments for other elements of an arrangement.
Provides guidance on contributions to funds for decommissioning, restoration and environmental
rehabilitation funds. Specifically , it addresses how a contributor should account for its interest in a fund 
and how obligations to make additional contributions should be accounted for .
Provides guidance on the recognition, in the financial statements of producers, of liabilities for waste
management under the EU Directive of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WE&EE) in respect 
of sales of historical household equipment.
Provides guidance on how to apply the requirements of IAS 29 in a reporting period in which an entity
identifies the existence of hyperinflation in an economy of its functional currency , when that economy was not
hyperinflationary in the prior period, and the entity restates its financial statements in accordance with IAS 29.
Provides guidance on situations where the entity cannot specifically identify some or all of the goods or
services received as part of a share-based payment transaction.
Provides guidance on the reassessment of embedded derivatives subsequent to the entity becoming party 
to the contract.
Provides guidance on the reversal of impairment losses recognised in a previous interim period in respect 
of goodwill or an investment in either an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost.
Provides guidance on share-based payment arrangements involving an entity’s own equity instruments 
or equity instruments of the parent.
The IFRS requires the disclosure of the significance of financial instruments for an entity’s financial position
and performance. It also requires qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from
financial instruments. 57
Financial statements
Group
2.3  Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the
Group’s share of the results and net assets of its associates and joint ventures. The accounts of the Group’s main trading subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures have been prepared to align with the Group’s reporting date.
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that 
are currently exercisable are considered. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until 
the date that control ceases. Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at
the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s
share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the
subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are
also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
(b) Associates and joint ventures
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies. This
generally accompanies a shareholding of between 20% and 50%. Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Group’s investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on
acquisition. Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the
policies adopted by the Group.
The Group’s share of its associates’ and joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement. Its share 
of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against 
the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture exceeds its interest or participation (including any other unsecured 
long term receivables), the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of 
the investee.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s
interest or participation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset
transferred.
2.4  Segmental reporting
The Group discloses its primary segment reporting by business segment. The Directors consider that this is the most appropriate distinction
between the source and nature of risks and returns associated with its activities. A business segment is defined as a component of the
Group engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to business segments based on the type of service to which they relate. Assets, liabilities and capital
expenditure are allocated to particular business segments if they substantially relate to a single identifiable segment. Assets and capital
expenditure that relate to a range of services falling under different business segments are reported as unallocated.
The Group discloses its secondary segment reporting by geographical segment. A geographical segment is defined as a component of the
Group engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns different from those 
of segments operating in other economic environments. Revenues are allocated to geographical segments based on the location where 
the telecommunication services are delivered. Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to geographical segments based 
on their location.
2.5  Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). 
(b) Foreign currency translation
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement. 58
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
2.5  Foreign currency translation continued
(c) F oreign operations
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are
translated into sterling as follows:
(i) assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date;
(ii) income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions; and
(iii) resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity .
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders’
equity . Since 1 April 2004, the Group’s date of transition to IFRS, exchange differences have been recognised in a Foreign Currency
T ranslation Reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and
translated at the closing rate. On disposal of a foreign entity , accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in
the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
There are no material Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy .
2.6  Property , plant and equipment
Property , plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property , plant
and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the site on which it is located are included in the cost of property ,
plant and equipment. The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision under IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and
contingent assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable
that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably . All other
subsequent costs (primarily repairs and maintenance) are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they 
are incurred.
Interest costs of borrowings made specifically to finance separately identifiable major capital projects incurred up to the time that those
projects are ready for service are also capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic
benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably .
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction. On other property , plant and equipment, depreciation is
recognised on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over the estimated 
useful lives of the assets as follows: 
Lives
Cables up to 20 years
Network equipment 3 to 25 years
Ducting 40 years
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is
written down to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Gains and losses on the sale of property , plant and equipment are determined by reference to the proceeds and net book values. These are
recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction. They are stated 
at cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads. The cost is determined on a weighted average basis. Provision is
made for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7  Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and
receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available for sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the
assets are held. The basis of determining fair values are set out in note 2.12.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and reevaluates this designation at every reporting
date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through income statement. 59
Financial statements
Group
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at
inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated
by management. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are
classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within a year of the balance sheet date.
Receivables
Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise
when the Group provides money , goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable. They are included in
current assets, except for those with maturities greater than a year after the balance sheet date; these are classified as non-current assets.
Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within twelve months 
of the reporting date.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Available for sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through income statement are subsequently carried at fair value. Loans
and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial assets not
carried at fair value through the income statement are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the
Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Gains and losses (both realised and unrealised) arising from
changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period 
in which they arise. 
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised
in equity . When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the
income statement as gains and losses from investment securities. 
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active (or for unlisted
securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions,
reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models refined to reflect
the issuer’s specific circumstances.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is
impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security
below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial
assets, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss
on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement – is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the instrument
increases in a later period.
2.8  Trade and other receivables
T rade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined using 
the effective interest method less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of
the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (discounted at the
effective interest rate). The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
2.9  Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the
acquired subsidiary , joint venture or associate. It is not amortised. 
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included
in those investments. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is
allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
(b) Other intangible assets
Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are
recognised as intangible assets. Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programmes beyond their
original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software. 60
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
2.9  Intangible assets continued
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts have been obtained as part of the Group’s business combinations. They are
recorded initially at their fair values.
Other intangible assets are amortised over their respective lives. The useful lives of licences (including concessions to provide
telecommunication services) are determined based on the terms of the underlying agreements (including renewal periods if there 
is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost). 
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight-line basis over the following periods:
Lives
Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter
Software 3–5 years
Customer contracts 4–15 years
Other 3–5 years
2.10  Impairment of assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. All other non-current assets
are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgmental and susceptible to change. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows
(cash-generating units). The expected cash flows generated by the assets are discounted using asset specific discount rates that reflect 
the risks associated with the groups of assets. These risks vary with the nature and the location of the cash generating units.
2.11  Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured to fair value at each
reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging
instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates derivatives as either:
■ hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or 
■ hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedges).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk
management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes
in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
F air value hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity .
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss 
(for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However , when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the
recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, network assets) or a liability , the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are
transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability .
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or
loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income
statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur , the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately
transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives that are not designated and effective hedging instruments 
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated as or are not effective hedging instruments are recognised
immediately in the income statement.  61
Financial statements
Group
2.12  Fair value estimation for financial instruments 
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available for sale
securities) is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the 
Group is the current bid price. The appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Group uses 
a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. 
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The
fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date. The fair value 
of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest
rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments. Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the
majority of remaining financial instruments. 
2.13  Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost. 
Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the
period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds issued by the Group are initially recognised at fair value. The bond is separated into liability and equity components. 
The liability component is recognised at amortised cost. The equity component represents the residual of the fair value of the bond less the
liability . The liability portion is subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bond. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
12 months after the reporting date.
2.14  Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is based on the first-in, first-out (FIFO) principle. For inventories
held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less selling expenses. 
For materials and consumables, provision is made for obsolete and slow moving inventories as required.
The cost of inventory held for resale comprises acquisition costs and associated expenses determined on a weighted average basis.
2.15  Cash and cash equivalents
Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an
insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost. Cash and cash equivalents
comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, marketable securities and overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are included within
borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
In some jurisdictions, there are restrictions on the repatriation of cash. Funds in excess of operating requirements in these jurisdictions are
recognised as non-current assets. Further , where the cash held is surplus to operating and investing requirements, a provision is applied 
to these balances to adjust the carrying amount to its estimated recoverable amount. 
2.16  Share capital
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or stand alone options are recognised in equity as a deduction from the
issue proceeds. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options for the acquisition of a business are included 
in the cost of acquisition.
2.17  Leases
Leases of property , plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of
minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are
included in other long term payables. These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method. The
property , plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term. 
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts. Each component
part is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly .
All other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the balance sheet. Payments made under operating leases, 
net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 62
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
2.18  Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets whose value is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage are classified 
as held for sale. These assets are classified as current and are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction. They are recognised as held
for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. 
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges but
separately disclosed.
2.19  Employee benefits
Defined contribution pensions 
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity . The Group pays
contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory , contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has
no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense
when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments 
is available.
Defined benefit obligations
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually
dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. These schemes are generally funded through payments
to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. 
The asset (or liability) recognised in the balance sheet in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan
assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date. Assets are only recognised if they are recoverable.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. 
The present value of these obligations are determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid. The bonds used will have terms to maturity
approximating to the terms of the related pension liability .
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions in the period 
in which they occur directly in the statement of recognised income and expenses. Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income,
unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting
period). In these cases, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Other post-employment obligations
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to these benefits is usually
conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs
of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension
plans. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way
as for defined benefit pension schemes. Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually . Current service costs are charged
to the income statement.
Share-based compensation
The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange
for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference
to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales
growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to become
exercisable. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable. 
It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any , in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment 
to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options
are exercised.
Where continuing employees withdraw from share-based compensation plans the remaining charge is recognised immediately .
T ermination benefits
T ermination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts
voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to 
the action leading to the employee’s termination. T ermination benefits falling due more than a year after balance sheet date are discounted
to present value. 63
Financial statements
Group
Bonus plans
The Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan
The Group operates a Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan. The plan rewards Executive Directors responsible for , and certain senior employees
in, International and Europe, Asia & US. The plan is accounted for as an ‘other long term employee benefit’ in accordance with IAS 19. 
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date.
2.20  Tax
T ax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. T ax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that
it relates to items recognised directly in equity , in which case it is recognised in equity .
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year , using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at
the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from:
■ the initial recognition of goodwill; or
■ the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor 
taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates
that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures,
except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.21  Provisions
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation 
as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can 
be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the balance sheet at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the
obligation. The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date. Provision charges and reversals are
recognised in the income statement as operating costs. Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments representing the difference between the rentals due and any income expected 
to be derived from the vacant properties being sub-let. Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued operations,
comprise employee termination payments. Legal provisions comprise legal fees and expected settlement costs.
2.22  Revenue recognition
Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services
provided to customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis. It includes sales to associated companies and joint ventures but does not
include sales by associated companies and joint ventures or sales between Group companies. Revenue is recognised only when payment 
is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided. Revenue from service contracts that cover periods of greater than 
twelve months is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the services delivered at the reporting date. In respect of services
invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided. Charges are negotiated
separately and are subject to continual review. Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any
amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile revenue comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, and the
provision of other mobile telecommunications services. This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale 
of equipment (including handsets).
Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle. Airtime, either from contract customers as part
of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid top-up cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer
uses the service. Unbilled revenue resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of
each period is accrued. Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred. 64
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
2.22  Revenue recognition continued
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content on its network originated by third-party providers. The Group assesses whether
revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following indicators:
■ whether the Group holds itself out as an agent;
■ establishment of the price;
■ provision of customer remedies;
■ performance of part of the service; and
■ assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer .
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue-generating activities (generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing
service) is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the estimated fair value of the components. 
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the
service is provided.
2.23  Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Dividend income is included within finance income.
2.24  Interest income
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable. 
2.25  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are
identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
2.26  Puttable instruments on minority interests
Puttable instruments on minority interests issued as part of a business combination are accounted for by the acquirer as a financial liability .
The liability is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the balance sheet
date. Movements in the value of the liability together with dividends paid to minority interests are recognised as adjustments to goodwill with
the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised in the income statement.
3  Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the
reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group. Results may differ significantly from those estimates under
different assumptions and conditions. The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Group’s most critical accounting
policies, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results. These particular
policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are
uncertain.
3.1  V aluation of assets for purchase accounting
The cost of acquisition of entities in a business combination is allocated to tangible and other identifiable intangible assets and liabilities
acquired by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition. The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill. Any value
assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal, or estimated by management
based on cash flow projections. The latter situation include estimates and judgements regarding expectations for the economic useful 
lives of the products and technology acquired. In this situation, where appropriate, third party valuation specialists are involved. 
3.2  Depreciation of property , plant and equipment
The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property , plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the
intended use for those assets. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical
condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates. Where the Group
determines that the useful life of property , plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book
value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense. Any change in asset
lives or residual value is reflected in the Group’s financial statements when the change in estimate is determined. 65
Financial statements
Group
3.3  Impairment of property , plant and equipment and intangible assets
The Directors assess the impairment of property , plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
F actors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following:
■ obsolescence or physical damage;
■ significant changes in technology and regulatory environments;
■ significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;
■ significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy for its overall business;
■ significant negative industry or economic trends; and
■ significant decline in its stock price for a sustained period and its market capitalisation relative to net book value.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill, which is not amortised, at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets
or cash generating units requires significant judgement concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, the timing and
amount of expected cash flows and applicable discount rates.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Group’s cash generating units to their recoverable
amounts which is the higher of net realisable value and the value in use. Net realisable value represents market value in an active market
less cost to sell. V alue in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset (or the cash generating unit to which it
refers). Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Group’s own projections using discount rates which represent the estimated
weighted average cost of capital for the respective businesses. The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out 
in note 16.
3.4  Revenue recognition
Revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax or other sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services provided
to customers and is accounted for on the accruals basis to match revenue with the provision of service. Revenue is recognised monthly as
services are provided. Revenue in respect of services invoiced in advance is deferred and recognised on provision of the service. Revenue 
in respect of unbilled services is accrued.
Judgement is required in assessing the application of these principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenues, including the
presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third parties.
3.5  Interconnection with other operators and similar supply arrangements
As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators. In certain instances it uses
estimates to determine the amount of income receivable from or payments to these other operators. The prices at which these services 
are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment. Estimates are used in assessing the likely impact 
of these adjustments.
In a similar way , the Group enters into supply arrangements. In certain instances it uses estimates of price or usage to determine the
expense charged in any period. These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such information becomes
available or is agreed with suppliers.
Credits and charges on adjustments to both interconnect and other supply arrangements are taken to operating profit in the period in which
the adjustments are made.
3.6  Impairment of receivables
The allowance for impairment of trade receivables reflects the Group’s estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Group’s
customers to make required payments. The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the
Group’s historical write-off experience. Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of its customers improves or
deteriorates. An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs. Historically , changes to the estimate of losses 
have not been material to the Group’s financial position and results.
3.7  Taxation
The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges. The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge necessarily involves 
a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution
has been reached with the relevant tax authority or , as appropriate, through a formal legal process. The final resolution of some of these
items may give rise to material income statement and/or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of Cable & Wireless and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative
and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items. 
As a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments. 66
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
3.8  Recognition of deferred tax assets
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the
future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted. Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future
financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.9  Provisions
A provision is recognised when there is a present (legal or constructive) obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting
policy in note 2.21. Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.10  Pensions
The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees. The asset (or liability) recognised in the balance sheet in
respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present values of the defined benefit obligations 
at the reporting date. The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as:
■ the life expectancy of the members;
■ the length of service;
■ the rate of salary progression;
■ the rate of return earned on assets in the future;
■ the rate used to discount future pension liabilities; and
■ future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in note 33 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions
which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other FTSE 100
companies. Changes to these assumptions could materially impact the size of the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities and assets disclosed 
in note 33.
3.11  Fair value estimation
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.12. Where market values are not available fair values are based on valuation
methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made. Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions
underlying those inputs and forecasts.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Group uses 
a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long term debt. Other techniques, such as estimated discounted
cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as 
the present value of the estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward
exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The
fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market
interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
3.12  Cash Long Term Incentive Plan (L TIP)
The charge calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits requires estimates of the future valuation of International and Europe,
Asia & US to determine the obligation for the L TIP . The estimations require the use of a number of assumptions which, by their nature, 
are subjective. 67
Financial statements
Group
4  Segment information
Primary reporting format – business segments
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications service provider . During the year Cable & Wireless operated three primary
business segments:
■ International;
■ Europe, Asia & US corporate business (formerly the ‘UK business’); and
■ C&W Access (formerly Bulldog).
The International business operates integrated telecommunications companies in 33 countries offering mobile, broadband, domestic 
and international fixed line services to residential and business customers. It has principal operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau,
Monaco and the Channel Islands.
The Europe, Asia & US business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services across the UK, US,
continental Europe and Asia. This business includes C&W Access (formerly Bulldog) which provides wholesale broadband 
and telephony services to commercial and residential end users through wholesale agreements.
Continuing operations
The segment results for the years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are presented below:
Europe, C&W Other
2
and
International Asia & US
1
Access eliminations T otal
2006/07 £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 1,228 2,119 43 (42) 3,348
Pre-exceptional operating costs (951) (2,073) (142) 21 (3,145)
Exceptional operating costs – (60) (29) – (89)
Group operating profit/(loss) 277 (14) (128) (21) 114
Share of post-tax (loss)/profit of associates and joint ventures (8) (3) – – (11)
Total operating profit/(loss) 269 (17) (128) (21) 103
Other income 174
Net finance expense (28)
Profit before income tax 249
Tax (43)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 206
2005/06
Continuing operations
Revenue 1,212 2,028 33 (43) 3,230
Pre-exceptional operating costs (937) (2,002) (153) (1) (3,093)
Exceptional operating costs (14) (234) – 7 (241)
Group operating profit/(loss) 261 (208) (120) (37) (104)
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures 60 (6) – – 54
Total operating profit/(loss) 321 (214) (120) (37) (50)
Other income 144
Net finance income 6
Profit before income tax 100
Tax (27)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 73
1 Excludes C&W Access.
2 Other includes Central revenues and expenses. 68
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
4  Segment information continued
Inter segment sales are not significant and are charged at arm’s length prices.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 and for the year ended on
these dates are:
Europe, C&W Other
2 
and
International Asia & US
1
Access eliminations T otal
2006/07 £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Segment assets 1,578 1,737 103 956 4,374
Associates and joint ventures 129 (12) – – 117
Total assets 1,707 1,725 103 956 4,491
T otal liabilities (717) (1,053) (21) (810) (2,601)
Capital expenditure (168) (204) (31) – (403)
Acquisitions – – – 15 15
Depreciation and amortisation (145) (104) (26) 2 (273)
Assets written off – – (13) – (13)
Movement on provisions (3) (74) (2) 1 (78)
2005/06
Continuing operations
Segment assets 1,849 1,629 138 959 4,575
Associates and joint ventures 186 (10) – – 176
Total assets 2,035 1,619 138 959 4,751
T otal liabilities (472) (965) (48) (1,400) (2,885)
Capital expenditure (142) (207) (70) 3 (416)
Acquisitions 2 608 – 8 618
Depreciation and amortisation (142) (123) (15) 6 (274)
Impairment charge – (237) – – (237)
Movement on provisions (20) (8) – 2 (26)
1 Excludes C&W Access.
2 Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities.
Goodwill of £421 million (2005/06 – £384 million) relating to Energis is included in the Europe, Asia & US segment. Goodwill of £102 million
(2005/06 – £69 million) relating to Monaco T elecom is included in the International segment. Goodwill of £nil (2005/06 – £20 million)
relating to Bulldog is included in the C&W Access segment.
In 2005/06, the £237 million impairment charge against assets in the Europe, Asia & US was primarily due to the change in the Europe,
Asia & US strategy to focus on larger , more profitable customers, supporting them with the migration from legacy to IP solutions, and
duplication arising from the combination with Energis. The impairment was recorded as an exceptional item within operating expenses 
in the income statement. The basis of calculation of the impairment is set out in note 16.
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating
items including tax balances. 69
Financial statements
Group
Discontinued operations
Details of those businesses categorised as discontinued are set out in note 14. The segment results of the discontinued operations for the
year ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are presented below:
Europe,
International Asia & US Other T otal
2006/07 £m £m £m £m
Discontinued operations
Reversal of unutilised provisions – – 28 28
Profit for the year from discontinued operations – – 28 28
2005/06
Discontinued operations
Revenue 5–– 5
Operating costs (3) – – (3)
Group operating profit 2–– 2
Reversal of unutilised provisions – – 68 68
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 17 3 – 20
Profit before income tax 19 36890
Tax ––––
Profit for the year from discontinued operations ––– 90
Other includes amounts recognised in respect of previously discontinued operations not included in the current segments. These are
primarily transactions arising from the Group’s exit from its former US operations in prior years. The movement in unutilised provisions 
was a release of £28 million (2005/06 – £68 million) in the Other segment relating to the US exit.
Discontinued operations represent those businesses discontinued and disposed of or held for sale at the year end. There were no
discontinued operations held for sale at 31 March 2007 .
In 2005/06, the Group had discontinued operations relating to Sakhalin in the International segment and Cable & Wireless Spain in the
Europe, Asia & US segment.
Secondary reporting format – geographical segments
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company with continuing operations in six geographical segments: Europe, Asia 
& US (including the United Kingdom, Europe, US and Asia), Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World.
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are presented below:
Europe, Other
1 
and
Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Asia & US eliminations T otal
2006/07 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 554 289 143 136 106 2,139 (19) 3,348
Operating costs (428) (211) (102) (116) (94) (2,192) (2) (3,145)
Exceptional operating (costs)/income – (1) – – 1 (89) – (89)
Group operating profit/(loss) 126 77 41 20 13 (142) (21) 114
Share of post-tax (loss)/profit of associates 
and joint ventures (41) – – 2 31 (3) – (11)
Total operating profit/(loss) 85 77 41 22 44 (145) (21) 103
Other income 174
Net finance costs (28)
Profit before income tax 249
Tax (43)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 206
1 Other includes Central revenue and expense. 70
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
4  Segment information continued
Europe, Other
1 
and
Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Asia & US eliminations T otal
2005/06 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 564 284 136 124 104 2,040 (22) 3,230
Operating costs (440) (214) (99) (105) (79) (2,134) (22) (3,093)
Exceptional operating costs (10) – – (3) (1) (234) 7 (241)
Group operating profit/(loss) 114 70 37 16 24 (328) (37) (104)
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of associates 
and joint ventures 11 – – 544 (6) –54
Total operating profit/(loss) 125 70 37 21 68 (334) (37) (50)
Other income 144
Net finance income 6
Profit before income tax 100
Tax (27)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 73
1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at and for the year ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are:
Europe, Other
1 
and
Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Asia & US eliminations T otal
2006/07 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Segment assets 697 317 104 283 177 1,840 956 4,374
Joint ventures 73 – – 5 51 (12) – 117
Total assets 770 317 104 288 228 1,828 956 4,491
T otal liabilities (267) (143) (36) (195) (76) (1,074) (810) (2,601)
Capital expenditure (77) (31) (19) (10) (31) (235) – (403)
Acquisitions –––––– 15 15
Depreciation and amortisation (61) (38) (15) (14) (17) (128) – (273)
Assets written off ––––– (13) – (13)
Movement on provisions – (2) – 11 (12) (76) 1 (78)
2005/06
Continuing operations
Segment assets 808 376 128 277 260 1,767 959 4,575
Associates and joint ventures 127 – – 7 52 (10) – 176
Total assets 935 376 128 284 312 1,757 959 4,751
T otal liabilities (169) (63) (26) (186) (28) (1,013) (1,400) (2,885)
Capital expenditure (78) (25) (11) (10) (18) (277) 3 (416)
Acquisitions –––– 2 608 8 618
Depreciation and amortisation (63) (35) (16) (13) (15) (138) 6 (274)
Impairment charge ––––– (237) – (237)
Movement on provisions (18) – – (2) – (8) 2 (26)
1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
Revenue is based on the location where the telecommunication services were delivered. It does not follow necessarily that the international
telecommunication traffic transiting the Group’s networks originates in that location. The Group does not have access to information on the
original source or ultimate destination of international telecommunication traffic.
Segment assets include goodwill related to the acquisition of Energis arising in the year ended 31 March 2006. 71
Financial statements
Group
Goodwill of £421 million (2005/06 – £384 million) relating to Energis is included in the Europe, Asia & US segment. Goodwill of £102
million (2005/06 – £69 million) relating to Monaco is included in the Monaco segment. In 2005/06, £20 million of goodwill relating to
Bulldog was included in the Europe, Asia & US segment.
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating
items including tax balances.
Discontinued operations
2006/07 2005/06
ROW Total ROW T otal
£m £m £m £m
Discontinued operations
Revenue –– 55
T otal segment assets –– 11
5  Revenue
2006/07 2005/06
Note £m £m
Continuing operations
Sales of telecommunication services and related operations 3,266 3,145
Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 82 85
3,348 3,230
Revenue from discontinued operations 4 – 5
Total revenue 3,348 3,235
6  Operating costs
The split of the operating costs incurred by the Group, in accordance with the nature of cost, is presented below:
2006/07 2005/06
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Outpayments 1,364 – 1,364 1,365 – 1,365
Employee and other staff expenses 536 41 577 527 34 561
Operating lease rentals
– networks 51 – 51 47 – 47
– property 46 – 46 38 – 38
– plant and equipment 1– 1 3– 3
Other administrative costs 195 – 195 261 12 273
Foreign exchange gains (1) – (1) (8) – (8)
Network costs 242 – 242 226 1 227
Property taxes and utility costs 82 37 119 83 (7) 76
Cost of equipment sold 366 – 366 274 – 274
Other operating expenses/(income) 1– 1 3 (19) (16)
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 2,883 78 2,961 2,819 21 2,840
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 39 11 50 46 60 106
Depreciation and impairment of property , plant and equipment 234 2 236 228 177 405
Operating costs 3,156 91 3,247 3,093 258 3,351
Certain costs included in network costs in 2005/06 have been represented within outpayments to reflect better their nature.
Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals. The nature of the
telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier commitments, 
the final outcome of which may not be known for some time. As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate
– the net impact of this is included in operating costs within the relevant line item.  72
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
6  Operating costs continued
2006/07 2005/06
Note £m £m
Exceptional items
Staff costs (i) 41 34
Hurricane related charges (ii) – 6
Other costs (iii) – (12)
Property costs (iv) 37 (7)
78 21
Asset impairment (v) – 237
Assets written off (vi) 13 –
Total exceptional operating costs 91 258
(i) Staff costs principally relate to redundancy costs arising from the restructuring of the Group’s operations in continuing businesses. 
The expenses related to International (£13 million net of a £2 million provision release – note 32, 2005/06 – £9 million), Europe, Asia & 
US (£28 million, 2005/06 – £14 million) and Central (£nil, 2005/06 – £11 million). The Europe, Asia & US charge is net of a redundancy
related pension curtailment credit of £6 million.
(ii) Hurricane Ivan adversely affected the Group’s operations in the Caribbean in 2005/06. As a result, exceptional restoration costs of 
£6 million were incurred in rectifying damage caused to the network. 
(iii) In 2005/06 other costs included £4 million of restructuring costs and £2 million of other costs in International, Energis integration
costs of £8 million, £5 million provided to a joint venture to assist with T sunami related restoration costs and £2 million corporate
restructuring costs. These were offset by provision releases of £33 million.
(iv) Property costs includes provisions relating to vacant property in Europe, Asia & US and is net of £16 million of provision releases (note
32). In 2005/06 the property costs included provision releases relating to prior period restructuring in Europe, Asia & US of £6 million and
£1 million in Central.
(v) In 2005/06, an impairment charge of £237 million was recognised relating to property , plant and equipment (£177 million) and
intangible assets (£60 million) arising in Europe, Asia & US. Refer to note 16 for further information on the impairments.
(vi) Redundant IT assets totalling £13 million (£11 million software, £2 million fixed assets) were written off following the change in C&W
Access strategy from a consumer to wholesale business. 
Auditor’s remuneration
The remuneration of the auditor and its associates provided to the Group during the year was £4.7 million including £0.5 million relating 
to the prior year (2005/06 – £5.9 million including £1.1 million relating to 2004/05). 
In 2005/06, the audit remuneration in respect of prior years resulted from additional audit work in the Cayman Islands following Hurricane
Ivan and additional work in respect of our previous NYSE listing.
2006/07 2005/06
£m £m
Audit services
Statutory audit services – in respect of Group accounts 1.9 2.0
Audit services in respect of prior years – in respect of Group accounts 0.2 1.1
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 2.1 3.1
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of: 
Statutory audit services – in respect of other statutory accounts 0.9 0.8
Audit services in respect of prior years – in respect of other statutory accounts 0.3 –
Audit-related regulatory reporting 0.4 0.8
3.7 4.7
T ax services – compliance 0.6 0.5
T ax services – advisory services 0.1 0.2
Other services 0.3 0.5
4.7 5.9
Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are
required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. 73
Financial statements
Group
7  Other operating income
Other operating income primarily relates to gains on disposal of property , plant and equipment. Exceptional other operating income relates
to cash received in respect of hurricane insurance claims of £8 million and the reversal of £5 million unused provisions relating to natural
disaster costs recognised in a prior year .
In 2005/06 exceptional other operating income included cash received in respect of hurricane insurance claims of £6 million and a gain 
of £11 million on the disposal of the former training centre of the Europe, Asia & US business.
8  Other operating expenses
The other operating expense of £2 million relates to losses on disposal of property , plant and equipment. Exceptional other operating
expenses reflect the net loss on disposal of the retail customer base of C&W Access to Pipex. Proceeds of £9 million were offset by a 
write-off of the £20 million related goodwill.
9  Employee and other staff expense 
Costs of employees of the Group and contract staff
2006/07 2005/06
£m £m
Wages and salaries 455 459
Social securities costs 39 41
Share-based payments 25 14
Cash long term incentive plan 27 –
Pension (credit)/expense
– defined benefit plans (11) 6
– defined contribution plans 13 9
T emporary labour and recruitment 31 41
579 570
Less: Staff costs capitalised (43) (43)
Staff costs 536 527
Wages and salaries and staff cost capitalised have been amended in 2005/06 to reflect the full amount of staff cost capitalised.
Average number of employees
The average monthly number of persons, including Executive Directors employed by the Group in continuing operations during the 
year was:
2006/07 2005/06
International 
– International headquarters 145 21
– Caribbean 3,697 4,083
– Panama 1,846 1,825
– Macau 944 960
– Monaco 487 477
– Rest of the World 773 700
T otal International 7,892 8,066
Europe, Asia & US (excluding C&W Access) 5,430 5,604
C&W Access 446 511
Other
1
83 144
T otal Group – continuing operations 13,851 14,325
1 21 persons classified as Other in 2005/06 have been re-presented as International headquarters for consistency with the current year allocation. 74
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
9  Employee and other staff expense continued
Key management’s remuneration
Included in staff costs are key management expenses, including £8 million (2005/06 – £6 million) aggregate Directors’ emoluments, as
follows:
2006/07 2005/06
£m £m
Salaries and short-term employment benefits 12 9
T ermination and relocation benefits 2 3
Share-based payments 2 4
Cash 1ong term incentive plan 16 –
32 16
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on page pages 38 to 47 .
10  Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets – 153 153 27072
Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets arose on the sale of businesses that do not meet the definition of discontinued
operations or investments. There were no gains and losses on disposals of non-current assets before exceptional items in the year
(2005/06 – £2 million). The tax charge attributable is £nil (2005/06 – £nil) and the minority interest share is £nil (2005/06 – £nil).
In 2006/07 , exceptional gains on disposals of non-current assets of £153 million reflects the gain on the sale of the Group's interest of
Bahrain T elecommunications Company BSC (Batelco). The cash proceeds received were £256 million net. The tax charge attributable and
minority interest share were both £nil. 
In 2005/06,  £70 million reflected the gain on the sale of the Group’s stake in MobileOne. The tax charge attributable was £nil and the
minority interest share was £35 million. The cash proceeds on disposal of MobileOne were £87 million, of which £43 million was attributed
to the minority interest. This amount was loaned to the minority interest during the year .
11  Gain on termination of operations 
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gain on termination of operations 31821 –7272
The pre-exceptional gain of £3 million represents the results of the activities of the the Group’s former insurance operation, Pender
Insurance Limited (‘Pender’), which ceased taking on new business in April 2003.
The exceptional gain of £18 million in 2006/07 (2005/06 – £72 million) arose from the resolution of claims and other matters in respect 
of Pender . The gain in 2006/07 resulted from a release of £15 million from payables and the receipt of £3 million cash. 75
Financial statements
Group
12  Finance income and expense
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
£m £m
Finance income
Interest on cash and deposits 51 80
Investment income 1 7
Total finance income 52 87
Finance expense
Interest on bank loans 2 9
Interest on other loans 61 58
Finance charges on leases 3 2
Unwinding of discounts on provisions 6 3
Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 10 12
82 84
Less: Interest capitalised (2) (3)
Total finance expense 80 81
T ax relief of £1 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2007 (2005/06 – £nil). Interest has been capitalised
within property , plant and equipment at a rate of 7% of interest charged in certain business units (2005/06 – 9%).
13  Income tax expense
2006/07 2005/06
£m £m
Current tax charge
UK tax at 30% 39 35
Double tax relief (39) (35)
– –
Overseas tax 52 48
Adjustments relating to prior years (6) (34)
T otal current tax charge 46 14
Deferred tax charge
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 9 8
Effect of change in tax rates 1 (1)
10 7
Adjustments relating to prior years (13) 6
T otal deferred tax (credit)/charge (3) 13
Total tax charge 43 27
Continuing operations 43 27
Discontinued operations – –
43 27
The £52 million (2005/06 – £48 million) overseas tax expense is net of a £1 million (2005/06 – £2 million) credit in respect of the
exceptional operating costs. 76
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
13  Income tax expense continued
The Group’s effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows:
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
% %
UK statutory tax rate 30.0 30.0
Effect of overseas tax rates (3.3) (21.1)
Effect of accounting for associates 1.5 (1.5)
Effect of branches and intra-group dividends less double tax relief 14.8 6.3
Effect of income not taxable (20.3) –
Effect of other temporary differences 11.6 0.5
Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets (12.3) 15.3
Adjustments relating to prior years (6.5) (15.3)
Effective tax rate 15.5 14.2
14  Discontinued operations
There were no businesses classified to discontinued operations during the current year . In 2005/06, the businesses classified 
to discontinued operations were as follows:
Gain on  
disposal
Businesses Disposal date £m
Cable & Wireless SLU (‘C&W Spain’) 8 April 2005 3
The Sakhalin Operations 13 July 2005 17
20
The profit for the 2006/07 year from discontinued operations comprises the reversal of £28 million of unutilised provisions primarily
relating  to the US operations discontinued in a prior financial year .
The profit for the 2005/06 year from discontinued operations includes the results of Cable & Wireless Spain and the Sakhalin 
Operations up to the dates of disposal (£2 million) as well as the gain on their disposal (£20 million) and the reversal of unutilised 
provisions (£68 million) relating primarily to US operations discontinued in a prior financial year .
2006/07 2005/06
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue ––– 5– 5
Operating expenses ––– (3) – (3)
Operating profit ––– 2– 2
Gain on disposals of discontinued operations ––– –2020
Reversal of unutilised provisions –2828 –6868
Profit for the year from discontinued operations –2828 28890
In 2005/06, Cable & Wireless Spain and Sakhalin Operations contributed £27 million to net cash from investing activities. 77
The aggregate assets and liabilities at the disposal dates were as follows:
2005/06
Spain 
and Sakhalin
carrying amount
£m
Property , plant and equipment 5
Current assets 11
T rade and other payables (3)
Net assets 13
Minority interests (3)
Net assets disposed 10
Total disposal consideration received 30
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of (3)
Net cash inflow on disposal of discontinued operations 27
15  Earnings per share
Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number
of ordinary shares outstanding.
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
£m £m
Profit (and adjusted profit) for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 174 76
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (millions) 2,324 2,286
Dilutive effect of share options 36 –
Number of  ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 2,360 2,286
Basic earnings per share (pence per share) 7.5 p 3.3p
Diluted earnings per share (pence per share) 7.4 p 3.3p
Continuing operations
Profit/(loss) (and adjusted profit/(loss)) from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 146 (13)
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (pence per share) 6.3 p (0.6)p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (pence per share) 6.2 p (0.6)p
Discontinued operations
Profit (and adjusted profit) from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 28 89
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (pence per share) 1.2 p 3.9p
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations (pence per share) 1.2 p 3.9p
The convertible bond and certain share options (2005/06 – the convertible bond and all  share options) were excluded from the number of
ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share in the period as they were anti-dilutive. 
Financial statements
Group 78
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
16  Impairment review
The Group assesses the impairment of property , plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards. F actors that are considered
important, which could trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill
As required by IFRS 3, a review of the carrying value of goodwill was performed as at 31 March 2007 and at 31 March 2006. In performing
the reviews, the recoverable amount of goodwill was determined by reference to the value in use of the continuing operations of the related
businesses. No impairments were required.
Europe, Asia & US
Europe, Asia & US comprised one cash generating unit in 2006/07 following the integration of Energis in the business and goodwill of 
£421 million is allocated to this business at 31 March 2007 . A discounted cash flow analysis using the business' approved five year business
plan reflecting a terminal value growth rate of 1.2% and a discount rate of 10% indicated that the carrying value of the goodwill was supported
and no impairment charge was required. The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth, operating margin
and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level.
Monaco T elecom
Goodwill of £102 million is allocated to Monaco T elecom. Three relevant cash generating units were identified for the purposes of assessing
the carrying value of Monaco T elecom's network assets, namely , domestic including cable television business, international business and
other services. Goodwill has been allocated to this group of cash generating units as permitted by IAS 36.
The value in use was determined for each cash generating unit by discounting future cash flows (based on management's five year
projections extrapolated at long term growth rates of between 2% and 2.5%) at discount rates of between 9% and 13% (dependent on the
risk adjusted cost of capital of different parts of the business). The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue
growth, operating margin and the level of maintenance capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level. Monaco
T elecom operates under an exclusive concession in Monaco and management's forecasts were based on historical experience for the
business. No impairment was considered necessary . 
Other non-current assets and other intangibles
Y ear ended 31 March 2007
There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property , plant and equipment and
intangible assets had been impaired, except as noted below. The Group reviewed the carrying value of its investment in its joint venture
T elecommunications Services of T rinidad and T obago Limited at the year end in the light of the poor trading performance in the year and
following the introduction of competition in 2006/07 . 
The value in use was determined for each of the three cash generating units of the business (fixed line, GSM mobile and CDMA mobile) 
by discounting estimated future cash flows (based on the Group’s view) at a discount rate of 14.2%. The key assumptions in the calculation
of value in over five years relates to:
■ Revenue – a decline of 18% has been assumed to reflect the impact of competition;
■ Maintenance capital expenditure – this has been assumed at 7% of revenue
■ Operating costs – these have been estimated to remain at broadly the same level throughout the projection (before inflation). 
As a result, the Group’s share of the impairment charge that has been reflected in the Group income statement is £29 million. 
Y ear ended 31 March 2006
Europe, Asia & US comprises two cash generating units (CGUs) – Energis acquired during the year ended 31 March 2006  and the legacy
Cable & Wireless Europe, Asia & US business. As the performance and cash flows are separately identifiable in this year , these are treated
as separate CGUs for the purpose of impairment review as permitted by IAS 36.
The change in focus and strategy of Europe, Asia & US and the performance of the legacy C&W Europe, Asia & US corporate business
triggered a review of the carrying value of that legacy business' assets.
A number of these assets are of continuing strategic value to the combined business and have a market value in excess of their carrying
value. These include the core network, the investment in the next generation network (NGN) and certain properties. 79
The impaired assets relate primarily to technologies that are becoming obsolete as customers move towards IP network solutions, support
customers falling outside Europe, Asia & US corporate business' future strategy or are duplicated as the business combines with Energis. 
A discounted cash flow analysis using the business' approved business plan reflecting a negative growth rate of 1% (as these businesses
migrate to the NGN) and a discount rate of 10.6% indicated that the carrying value of these remaining assets should be written off, which 
is reflected in the impairment charge of £237 million.
The Directors consider the recoverable amount of Energis exceeds its carrying value. The Directors have updated discounted cash flow
forecasts from the recent acquisition to satisfy themselves of this. 
The Group reviewed the carrying values of its interests in joint ventures at the end of the year . An impairment totalling £4 million has been
considered appropriate being £3 million in a Chinese joint venture, CITIC Cable & Wireless Broadband, and £1 million in a Solomon Islands
joint venture, Solomon T elecom Company Limited.
17  Dividends declared and paid
2006/07 2005/06
£m £m
Final dividend in respect of the prior year 71 60
Interim dividend in respect of the current year 40 32
Total dividend paid 111 92
During the year ended 31 March 2007 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 3.1 pence per share (2005/06 – 2.6 pence per 
share) in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006. The Group has also declared and paid an interim dividend of 1.7 pence per share
(2005/06 – 1.4 pence per share) in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007 .
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 4.15 pence per share (2005/06 – 3.1 pence per share), totalling £97 million (2005/06 – 
£71 million) for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 20 July 2007 in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007 . These
financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of
retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2008.
The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend. 13,009 shareholders
(2005/06 – 13,644 shareholders) owning 370 million shares (2005/06 – 528 million shares) elected to take the interim dividend wholly or
partly in shares. 13,278 shareholders (2005/06 – 13,795 shareholders) owning 689 million shares (2005/06 – 180 million shares) elected
to take the final dividend wholly or partly in shares. T otal shares were issued with a value of £28 million (2005/06 – £12 million). The Cable
& Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan T rust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust.
Financial statements
Group 80
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
18  Intangible assets
Customer
Goodwill Licences and contracts and T otal
(restated) Software concessions relationships Other (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 as previously reported 59 608 66 – 16 749
Business combinations prior year adjustment (note 2.1) 53 –––– 53
Reassessment in 2005/06 of business combinations (note 41(c)) (8) –––– (8)
Balance at 1 April 2005 as restated 104 608 66 – 16 794
Business combinations (note 41(b)) 384 16 3 132 – 535
Business combinations prior year adjustment (note 2.1) (13) –––– (13)
Acquired – 265 –5 36
T ransfers from property , plant and equipment – 21––– 21
Disposals – (2) – – – (2)
Exchange adjustments (2) 3 – – – 1
At 1 April 2006 473 672 74 132 21 1,372
Business combinations (note 41(a)) 71–––– 71
Additions –37 – – 340
Disposals (20) (2) – – (1) (23)
T ransfers between categories – (12) 1 –11 –
T ransfers to property , plant and equipment – (10) – – – (10)
Exchange adjustments (1) (7) (1) – (1) (10)
At 31 March 2007 523 678 74 132 33 1,440
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2005 – 536 3 – 4 543
Charge for the year – 32455 46
Impairment – 60––– 60
Exchange adjustments – 1––– 1
At 1 April 2006 – 629759 650
Charge for the year – 16 4 12 18 50
Exchange adjustments – (5) – – – (5)
At 31 March 2007 – 640 11 17 27 695
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 523 38 63 115 6 745
At 31 March 2006 (restated) 473 43 67 127 12 722
The goodwill recognised during 2006/07 relates to Monaco (£34 million) and Energis (£37 million) (see note 41(a)). 
Intangible assets recognised in business acquisitions made during 2005/06 represent:
Amortisation
Company acquired Intangible asset Useful life method
Energis Customer contracts and relationships 4–15 years Straight line
Energis Software 3 years Straight line
Atlas Customer contracts and relationships 6 years Straight line
Other than goodwill, there are no intangible assets with an indefinite life. 81
19  Property , plant and equipment
2006/07 2005/06
Land and Plant and Assets under Land and Plant and Assets under
buildings equipment construction Total buildings equipment construction T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At beginning of the period 533 6,570 333 7,436 453 6,052 247 6,752
Additions 5 40 318 363 977 294 380
Business combinations –––– 25 172 41 238
Disposals (1) (120) (64) (185) (17) (24) (8) (49)
T ransfers 19 358 (377) – 53 175 (228) –
T ransfer from/(to) intangibles – – 10 10 – – (21) (21)
T ransfer to held for sale assets (68) (4) – (72) ––––
Exchange differences (27) (261) (16) (304) 10 118 8 136
At end of the period 461 6,583 204 7,248 533 6,570 333 7,436
Depreciation
At beginning of the period 345 5,550 52 5,947 268 5,216 – 5,484
Charge for the year 15 221 – 236 15 213 – 228
Impairment –––– 49 76 52 177
Disposals (1) (120) (52) (173) (9) (22) – (31)
T ransfers –––– 17 (17) – –
T ransfer to held for sale assets (34) (3) – (37) ––––
Exchange differences (10) (180) – (190) 584 –89
At end of the period 315 5,468 – 5,783 345 5,550 52 5,947
Net book value at the end of the year 146 1,115 204 1,465 188 1,020 281 1,489
Included in the cost of plant and equipment at 31 March 2007 is £16 million (2005/06 – £16 million) relating to assets held under finance
leases. Accumulated depreciation on these assets is £5 million (2005/06 – £4 million).
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of £2 million (2005/06 – 
£3 million) and £48 million (2005/06 – £45 million) respectively .
Financial statements
Group 82
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
20  Investments in associates and joint ventures
2006/07 2005/06
Interest in Interest in Interest in Interest in
associates joint ventures Total associates joint ventures T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gross carrying amount
At beginning of the period
– Cost –6868 21 59 80
– Equity loans 1– 1 1– 1
– Share of post-acquisition reserves (1) 158 157 64 146 210
– 226 226 86 205 291
Investment during the year
– Net assets ––– 67 13
Share of after tax profit 12 (27) (15) 25 29 54
Dividends (7) (16) (23) (20) (20) (40)
Disposals (5) – (5) – (1) (1)
T ransfer to non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale ––– (105) – (105)
Exchange differences – (20) (20) 86 14
At end of the period – 163 163 – 226 226
Impairment provision
At beginning of the period (4) (46) (50) (4) (42) (46)
Impairment charge ––– – (4) (4)
Provision release 4– 4 –––
At end of the period – (46) (46) (4) (46) (50)
Net carrying amount at the end of the period – 117 117 (4) 180 176
The disposal on 16 January 2007 of the Group's investment in Batelco resulted in a profit on disposal of £153 million as set out in note 10. 83
Financial statements
Group
Investments in associates and joint ventures (see note 45) are accounted for using the equity method. The investment comprises the 
cost of the investment together with Group’s share of post acquisition profit or loss less any impairments. The Group’s total interest in its
associates and joint ventures is presented below:
Associates Joint Ventures
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Non-current assets – – 217 225
Current assets – – 75 104
Non-current liabilities – (5) (110) (92)
Current liabilities – – (65) (57)
Share of net (liabilities)/assets – (5) 117 180
Loan to associates – 1––
Carrying amount – (4) 117 180
Revenue 52 63 200 199
Operating costs (40) (40) (193) (165)
Exceptional impairment relating to T STT – – (29) –
Operating profit/(loss) 12 23 (22) 34
Net interest income – 2––
Net interest financing costs _ _ (3) (1)
Share of profit/(loss) before tax 12 25 (25) 33
T axation charge – – (2) (4)
Dividends paid to Group companies (7) (20) (16) (20)
Share of retained profit/(loss) 5 5 (43) 9
There are no significant restrictions on associates’ or joint ventures’ ability to transfer funds to the Group.
The associates and joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant
contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in associates and joint ventures .
The Group’s associates and joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2007 (2005/06 – nil).
21  Investments
2006/07 2005/06
Fair value F air value
through income Available through income Available
statement for sale Total statement for sale T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At beginning of the period 39 15 54 78 90 168
Disposals (39) – (39) (40) (15) (55)
F air value gain to income statement ––– 1– 1
F air value gain to equity ––– –1010
Recycling of fair value changes to the income statement ––– – (70) (70)
At end of the period –1515 39 15 54 84
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
21  Investments continued
Y ear-end financial investments comprise the following:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Listed securities
UK Government gilts 15 15
Unlisted securities
Credit linked notes – 39
The credit linked notes sold during the year were originally issued by two AA-rated banks and were aligned with the Group’s 2012 bond. These
transactions had a similar economic effect to repurchasing the bonds for the period of the investment. They were sold during the year .
22  Trade and other receivables
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
(restated)
£m £m
T rade receivables 616 661
Other receivables 128 131
Prepayments and accrued income 262 248
T axation and social security receivables 7 7
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 2 8
Total gross amounts 1,015 1,055
Less: provision against receivables (98) (81)
Total trade and other receivables 917 974
Less: non-current portion (62) (43)
Trade and other receivables – Current portion 855 931
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
The provision comprises £98 million (2005/06 – £81 million) related to trade receivables. An impairment charge of £29 million 
(2005/06 – £19 million) incurred in the normal course of business is recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2007 .
All trade transactions with associates and joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of 
Cable & Wireless products and services, network and access charges. There were no material transactions with associated companies 
and joint ventures during the year .
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of receivables at 31 March 2007 .
23  Inventories
Inventories of £23 million (2005/06 – £31 million) are presented net of a provision of £5 million (2005/06 – £13 million) made against slow
moving or obsolete items.
The cost of consumables and accessories held for sale included in operating costs is £366 million (2005/06 – £274 million). During the
year , the Group recorded £1 million additional inventory provisions (2005/06 – £3 million).
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Group’s borrowings. 85
Financial statements
Group
24  Cash and cash equivalents and other non-current assets
Cash and cash equivalents typically include bank deposits, money market funds, commercial paper and government securities. These
deposits generally have maturities not exceeding one year .
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash in bank and hand 116 371
Short-term bank deposits 927 756
Cash and cash equivalents 1,043 1,127
Short-term bank deposits include money market and fixed income instruments, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice. 
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits is 4.9% (2005/06 – 4.6%). These deposits have an average maturity of 68 days 
(2005/06 – 71 days).
Included within cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year is an amount of £9 million (2005/06 – £17 million) held by the Group’s
former insurance operation, Pender . This amount is pledged against potential future claims arising from insurance policies written in prior
years. As such, it is not readily available for the general purposes of the Group. Included within short-term deposits is £9 million (2005/06 –
£33 million) which is pledged as cash collateral against bank letters of credit .
Other non-current assets
In certain jurisdictions in which the Group operates foreign exchange reserves are not readily available. As such, cash totalling £11 million
(2005/06 – £15 million) subject to these restrictions has been classified as other non-current assets.
25  Assets held for sale
Certain freehold property was identified as non-current assets held for sale at year end (2005/06 – Investments in associates – Bahrain
T elecommunications Company BSC (“Batelco”)).
In addition, at the end of the year Cable & Wireless Allnet Ltd had been identified as a disposal group held for sale. The assets and liabilities
of this business were carried in the balance sheet at the lower of their carrying value or the expected proceeds less cost to sell. 
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Non-current assets held for sale
Investments in associates – 105
F reehold property 34 –
Total non-current assets held for sale 34 105
Assets of disposal groups held for sale
Property , plant and equipment 1 –
Other current assets 12 –
Cash and cash equiv alents 5 –
Total assets of disposal groups held for sale 18 –
Total assets held for sale 52 105
Liabilities directly associated with disposal groups held for sale
T rade and other payables (10) –
Total liabilities of disposal groups held for sale (10) –
The above assets and liabilities represent those which the Group is committed to dispose of at 31 March 2007 , and were available for
immediate sale at that date. 
The Group’s interest in Batelco was sold on 16 January 2007 . The proceeds and gain on disposal are disclosed in note 10. 86
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
26  Trade and other payables
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
T rade payables 403 475
Payments received on account 4 4
Other taxation and social security 46 61
Other payables 113 142
Accruals 547 501
Deferred income 173 198
Total trade and other payables 1,286 1,381
Less non-current portion (65) –
Trade and other payables – current portion 1,221 1,381
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables at 31 March 2007 .
27  Loans and obligations under finance leases
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Loans and bonds
4% convertible unsecured bond due 2010 213 202
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 340 364
US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 125 82
Euro loan (repaid in 2006) – 106
Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2012 18 1
696 755
Less current portion (68) (134)
Non-current portion of loans and bonds 628 621
Finance lease payables
Obligations under finance leases 20 29
Less current portion (9) (9)
Non-current portion of obligations under finance leases 11 20
Total non-current portion of loans and obligations under finance leases 639 641
Total current portion of loans and obligations under finance leases 77 143
The Group’s borrowings are not secured, except for £18 million of the US dollar loans (2005/06 – £33 million).
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group. 87
Financial statements
Group
The repayment profile of loans and obligations is:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Loans and bonds
Due in less than one year 68 134
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 10 11
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 265 228
Due in more than five years 353 382
Total loans and bonds 696 755
Interest is payable on loans and obligations falling due after more than five years at rates of between 6.55% and 8.75%.
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Finance leases – minimum lease payments
Due in less than one year 11 11
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 12 11
Due in more than two years but not more than five years – 12
Total obligations under finance leases 23 34
Less future finance charges on finance leases (3) (5)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 20 29
The present value of net finance lease liabilities is as follows:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Due in less than one year 9 9
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 11 9
Due in more than two years but not more than five years – 11
Due in more than five years – –
Present value of finance lease liabilities 20 29
Convertible unsecured bond
On 16 July 2003, £257 ,714,000 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par . Each bond entitles the holder to convert the amount 
of such bond into fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each at an amended rate of 689.655 ordinary shares for each £1,000 held at an
initial conversion price of £1.45 per ordinary share at any time prior to 9 July 2010. Full conversion of the bonds would result in an additional
177 ,733,748 shares being issued. The bond also has a takeover protection clause, which adjusts the share conversion price, in the event of a
change of control. Also, if Cable & Wireless’ share price exceeds £1.885 for 20 out of 30 consecutive trading days, Cable & Wireless has the
right to give not less than 30 days’ and not more than 90 days’ notice that it will redeem all unconverted bonds still outstanding on a given
date at par plus accrued interest. If the bonds have not been converted, purchased and cancelled or redeemed by 16 July 2010 they will be
redeemed at par on that date.
On the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 April 2005 the fair value of the liability component and the equity conversion component was
determined as at the date of issue of the bond. The fair value of the liability component, included in long term borrowings, was calculated
using an interest rate of 10.7% for an equivalent non-convertible bond. The debt element is accounted for on an amortised cost basis. The
conversion option and takeover protection feature were marked to market at 1 April 2005 and recognised on the balance sheet giving rise 
to a derivative liability of £62 million. As at this date, the derivative elements were carried on a fair value basis with changes in value being
taken to the income statement. This was required by IAS 39 because, when originally issued, the convertible bonds included a cash
settlement option whereby the Company had the right to settle part of any conversion with cash rather than shares. Subsequent to 1 April
2005 this cash settlement option was removed and the conversion option reclassified as a component of equity hence it is no longer
revalued through the income statement. 88
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
27  Loans and obligations under finance leases continued
The convertible bond is recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
£m
F ace value of convertible bond issued on 16 July 2003 258
Issue costs (6)
Equity conversion component on initial recognition (75)
Previous years’ amortisation of the liability component 15
Liability component on 1 April 2005 192
Interest expense 20
Interest paid (10)
Liability component at 31 March 2006 202
Interest expense 21
Interest paid (10)
Liability component at 31 March 2007 213
Interest expense on the bond is calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate (10.7%) for an equivalent 
non-convertible bond to the liability component of the convertible bond. The cash coupon paid on the convertible bond is unchanged 
at 4% per annum.
Sterling bonds
The Group has the following sterling bonds:
(a) £200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance at 31 March 2007 , net of costs, of £161 million (2005/06 – £184 million). Interest is
payable at 8.75% per annum. During the year ended 31 March 2007 , the Group repurchased but did not cancel £20 million of this bond at an
average price of 104.9 pence.
(b) £200 million listed bond due in 2019 with a balance at 31 March 2007 , net of costs, of £179 million (2005/06 – £180 million). Interest 
is payable at 8.625% per annum. During the year ended 31 March 2007 , the Group repurchased but did not cancel £1 million of this bond at
an average price of 105.25 pence.
US dollar loans
V arious US dollar-based loans of approximately £125 million (2005/06 – £82 million) are held by various subsidiaries across the Group.
Interest on these loans ranges between 0% and 7 .53%. The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
Euro loans
The European Investment Bank loan with a balance of £106 million at 31 March 2006, net of costs, was repaid during the year . This loan
bore interest at LIBOR minus 0.15% and interest was payable quarterly . 
28  Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Monaco T elecom put option liability
Current 60 –
Non-current 75 106
The balance within financial liabilities held at fair value through the income statement represents the fair value of the put option held by 
the minority shareholders of Monaco T elecom. Although the Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being
exercised, IAS 32 requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, 
as this is not within the Group's control. As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, any change in remeasuring the
derivative to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill (refer to note 41(c)). 
The put option held by the Principality is exercisable in two tranches. The first tranche enables the Principality to put 20% of the shares 
of Monaco T elecom to the Group from 1 January 2008. The second tranche enables the Principality to put 25% of the shares of Monaco
T elecom to the Group six months after the first has been exercised. 89
Financial statements
Group
29  Derivative financial liabilites
The fair value of the Group’s derivative financial liabilities is presented below.
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Liabilities – current
Cross currency swaps – 15
Cross currency swaps
The Group had a euro denominated loan (the ‘loan’) and a related euro-sterling cross currency swap (the ‘swap’) with terms matching those
of the loan. The loan and swap matured in September 2006. At 31 March 2006 the loan was translated into sterling at the closing rate. 
The swap was marked to market at the same date. The Group did not apply hedge accounting to the loan and swap. Gains and losses on 
the swap materially offset the interest expense and exchange movements on the loan. 
Forward exchange contracts
The Group held forward exchange contracts of US$83 million at 31 March 2007 (2005/06 – US$44 million) hedging currency exposures
in US and Jamaican dollars. The Group did not apply hedge accounting to the forward exchange contracts. The contracts are revalued to
fair value at each reporting date. Gains and losses on the contracts are recognised in the income statement. 
30  Fair values
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s loans and obligations under finance
leases. Refer to note 46 for further information.
Market values obtained from third parties have been used to determine the fair value of the convertible bond and sterling bonds. For all 
other financial liabilities the carrying amount has been used as it closely approximates fair value.
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
£m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities
Convertible bond due in 2010 213 311 202 228
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 340 355 364 371
US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 125 125 82 82
Euro loan (repaid in 2006) –– 106 106
Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2012 18 18 11
Obligations under finance leases 20 20 29 29
Cross-currency swap –– 15 15
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate
% %
4% convertible unsecured bond due in 2010 GBP 10.7 GBP 10.7
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 GBP 8.7 GBP 8.7
US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 USD 6.3 USD 5.6
Other currencies repayable at various dates up to 2012 Other 5.3 Other 10.0
Obligations under finance leases GBP 9.2 GBP 9.2
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and short-term investments and loans and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Financial Financial Financial Financial
assets liabilities assets liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Sterling 551 553 783 581
US dollar 338 125 115 82
Euro 112 – 114 106
Other currencies 47 18 115 1
1,048 696 1,127 770 90
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
31  Deferred tax
The movements in deferred tax asset and liabilities during the year are as follows:
Capital
allowances on Balance
non-current sheet
assets T ax losses Pensions Other offset T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax assets 21 –26 – 29
Deferred tax liabilities (42) – (5) (2) – (49)
At 1 April 2005 (21) – (3) 4 – (20)
Profit and loss (charge)/credit (17) 12 (5) (3) – (13)
T ax charged to equity – – (2) – – (2)
Exchange adjustments (1) 1– 1– 1
At 31 March 2006 (39) 13 (10) 2 – (34)
Deferred tax assets 17 13 1 7 (21) 17
Deferred tax liabilities (56) – (11) (5) 21 (51)
At 31 March 2006 (39) 13 (10) 2 – (34)
Profit and loss credit/(charge) 14 – (6) (5) – 3
T ax charged to equity – – (4) (1) – (5)
Exchange adjustments 5 (1) 2 (1) – 5
At 31 March 2007 (20) 12 (18) (5) – (31)
Deferred tax assets 34 12 – 3 (21) 28
Deferred tax liabilities (54) – (18) (8) 21 (59)
At 31 March 2007 (20) 12 (18) (5) – (31)
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences:
Capital
allowances on
non-current
assets T ax losses Pensions Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 3,666 12,330 121 91 16,208
At 31 March 2007 3,796 14,769 6 125 18,696
T ax losses of £18 million (2005/06 – £17 million) expire within one year , £28 million (2005/06 – £16 million) expire within three years, 
£14 million (2005/06 – £48 million) expire within five years, £72 million (2005/06 – £19 million) expire within ten years and £23 million
(2005/06 – £64 million) expire after more than ten years. Other deferred tax assets are not subject to expiry .
The £14,769 million (2005/06 – £12,330 million) tax losses include UK capital losses of £2,746 million arising in the year (2005/06 – £nil).
Other losses principally arise in overseas holding companies and the opportunity to realise benefits from them is considered remote.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing 
of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unremitted earnings on which no provision has been made is £475 million (2005/06 – £2,829 million) reflecting a Group
reorganisation during the year . 91
Financial statements
Group
32  Provisions for other liabilities and charges
2006/07 2005/06
Network Network
and asset and asset
Redundancy retirement Redundancy retirement
Property costs obligations Other Total Property costs obligations Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At beginning of the year 55 36 91 100 282 119 59 112 177 467
Charged to income statement
–  additional provision 53 39 7 17 116 443231989
–  amounts used (8) (65) (7) (28) (108) (43) (57) (27) (53) (180)
–  unused amounts reversed (19) (2) (14) (28) (63) (28) (9) (41) (53) (131)
Acquisitions ––––– 3 – 21 10 34
Discount adjustment 1 –113 –– 3– 3
Exchange adjustments – (1) (1) (2) (4) –––––
At end of the year 82 7 77 60 226 55 36 91 100 282
Less current portion 25 7122872 636113689
Non-current portion 57 – 65 32 154 49 –80 64 193
Property
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant
properties being sub-let. The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Property provisions released in the year relate to Europe, Asia & US (£16 million – note 6) following the reassessment of its property
portfolio and a release in respect of the Group’s former US operation (£3 million – note 14). 
Redundancy
Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date. Agreement had been
reached with the local employee representatives that specified the number of staff involved and quantified the total amounts payable to
those made redundant. The provision is expected to be used within one year .
Redundancy cost provisions released in the year relate to International (note 6).
Network and asset retirement obligations
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity . The provision is
expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic
and sub-sea cabling. This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises.
Network and asset retirement obligations provision releases in the year relates to International (£13 million) following the resolution of
contractual disputes and Europe, Asia & US (£1 million).
Other
Other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group, the disposal of the previously discontinued US
businesses, amounts relating to specific claims held against the Group’s former insurance operation, Pender , and amounts relating to
acquisitions and disposals of Group companies and investments. The release of unused amounts reflect the resolution of claims and 
other risks during the year .
Other provisions released in the year include an amount of £25 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions made in respect 
of the Group’s former US operation (note 14), £2 million in Europe, Asia & US and £1 million in International.
33  Retirement benefits obligations
The Company and its principal subsidiaries operate pension and other retirement schemes, which cover the majority of employees in the
Group. These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on the employee’s remuneration and
length of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid
by , and in respect of, employees. Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of
independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Defined contribution schemes
The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes was £13 million (2005/06 – £9 million). 92
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
33  Retirement benefits obligations continued
Defined benefit schemes
UK main scheme – funding valuation
The latest triennial actuarial valuation was carried out by Watson Wyatt Limited as at 31 March 2005. The projected unit credit method 
was used and the principal actuarial assumptions adopted were that the annual rate of inflation would be 2.7% and that future increases in
pensionable earnings would be 3.7% per annum; investments held in respect of pensions before they become payable would average 6.6%
annual rate of return; investments held in respect of pensions after they become payable would average 5.25% annual rate of return; and
pensions would increase at an annual rate of 3% for fixed guarantee pensions and 2.7% for inflation related pensions. As at 31 March 2005,
the value of the assets represented approximately 95% of the actuarial value of benefits due to members calculated on the basis of
pensionable earnings and service at 31 March 2005 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected increases in pensionable earnings.
The latest generally adopted mortality tables were used for the funding valuation, adjusted to reflect the scheme’s actual experience, 
and including an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy . Under these assumptions the average life expectancy in 2005 
was 26.5 years for a man aged 60 and 28.1 years for a woman aged 60. 
The actuarial valuation showed that based on long term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet future benefit 
accrual was 25% of pensionable earnings (20.3% employer’s and 4.7% employee’s). This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next
independent actuarial valuation is carried out, which will be based on the position at 31 March 2008. The terms of the Cable & Wireless
Superannuation Fund T rust Deed also allow the T rustees or the Company to call for a valuation at any time. The future service contribution
rate does not include an allowance for administration expense or the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) levy . The PPF levy due for 2006/07
was £259,000. Contributions to meet these costs are reviewed periodically . From 1 April 2005 contributions equal to 2% of pensionable
earnings have been paid to cover administration expense and PPF levy . Employers therefore paid a total contribution rate of 22.3% in
2006/07 , or £10.5 million.
The actuarial valuation revealed that the deficit at 31 March 2005 was £81 million in the defined benefit scheme on the basis of the funding
assumptions adopted by the actuary . On 31 March 2006, Cable & Wireless contributed £98 million, fully funding the scheme on an ongoing
basis at that date. The fund has a surplus of £92 million at 31 March 2007 , based on an approximate update of the 2005 triennial valuation
to reflect changes in the value of the fund’s assets and liabilities since that time. The next triennial valuation takes place based on the
position at 31 March 2008.
The Occupational Pension Schemes (scheme funding) Regulations 2005 did not apply to the 31 March 2005 valuation, but will apply 
to future funding valuations.
UK main scheme and other schemes – IAS 19 valuation
The actuarial valuations of the major defined benefit schemes and medical plans operated by the Group have been updated to 
31 March 2007 by qualified independent actuaries for all subsidiaries. Watson Wyatt Limited prepared the valuation for the UK main
scheme and unfunded schemes, and reviewed the actuarial valuations prepared for subsidiaries. Other schemes include unfunded 
liabilities in the UK relating to pension provisions for former Directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess 
of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap. Also included are the Group’s overseas schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados, Guernsey, 
Hong Kong, Ireland and the US. The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes’ assets are as follows.
2006/07 2005/06
UK main scheme Other schemes UK main scheme Other schemes
Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption
£m % £m % £m % £m %
Inflation assumption 3.0 4.3 2.8 4.4
Salary increases 3.5 6.0 3.3 6.3
Pension increases 2.2-3.0 4.2 2.8-3.0 3.0
Discount rate 5.3 7.5 4.9 7.5
Medical cost trends for post retirement 
medical plans 10.3 11.5
Long term expected rate of return on plan assets
■ Equities 1,113 7.8 87 7.9 995 7.5 83 8.2
■ Bonds and gilts 777 5.0 69 5.0 715 4.5 39 5.4
■ Property 164 6.5 37 7.0 131 6.0 31 6.9
■ Cash 25 4.5 17 4.4 137 4.3 83 5.2
2,079 210 1,978 236
The UK main scheme assumptions used by the actuary are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not
necessarily be borne out in practice. The assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions
used for the individual schemes, which similarly may not be borne out in practice. 93
Financial statements
Group
The latest generally adopted mortality tables were used for the IAS 19 valuation, adjusted to reflect the scheme’s actual experience, and
including an allowance for future improvements in life expectancy . Under these assumptions the average life expectancy is 26.7 years for 
a man aged 60 and 28.3 years for a woman aged 60 in 2007 .
A one year increase or decrease in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased or decreased the scheme liabilities by around
£52 million. A 0.25% change in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased or decreased the liabilities by
around £113 million. A 0.25% change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have increased or decreased the liabilities required by
around £6 million.
The overall expected rate of return for each pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class. The
expected asset return for each asset class has been set as a best estimate of the long term return that will be achieved for the particular
asset class in the country in question having regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
The UK main defined benefit scheme is closed to new entrants. Under the projected unit credit method used for the valuation of liabilities,
the current service cost will increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit schemes and post retirement medical plans operated by the Group are presented below:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006 31 March 2005
UK main Other UK main Other UK main Other
scheme schemes Total scheme schemes T otal scheme schemes T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
T otal fair value of plan assets 2,079 210 2,289 1,978 236 2,214 1,611 215 1,826 
Present value of funded obligations (2,036) (162) (2,198) (2,067) (200) (2,267) (1,787) (175) (1,962)
Excess of assets/(liabilities) of funded 
obligations 43 48 91 (89) 36 (53) (176) 40 (136)
Present value of unfunded obligations – (40) (40) – (38) (38) – (31) (31)
Effect of asset ceiling – (23) (23) – (11) (11) – (34) (34)
Net surplus/(deficit) 43 (15) 28 (89) (13) (102) (176) (25) (201)
Liabilities
Defined benefit pension plans in deficit – (33) (33) (89) (39) (128) (176) (40) (216)
Post retirement medical plans (unfunded) – (14) (14) – (15) (15) – (11) (11)
Total – (47) (47) (89) (54) (143) (176) (51) (227)
Assets
Defined benefit pension plans in surplus 43 32 75 – 41 41 – 26 26 
Actuarial gain/(loss) on plan liabilities 77 3 80 (224) (14) (238) 36 (9) 27 
Actuarial gain on plan assets 32 5 37 206 – 206 43 15 58
Included within these liabilities is an amount of £15 million (2005/06 – £15 million) to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension
entitlements.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
UK main UK main
scheme Other Total scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 14 6 20 16 5 21
Interest cost 101 16 117 95 14 109
Expected return on plan assets (121) (21) (142) (105) (19) (124)
Gains on curtailment or settlement (6) – (6) –––
Total (income)/expense (12) 1 (11) 6– 6
The defined benefit expense has been included in employee benefit expenses (note 9).
The actual return on plan assets was £179 million (2005/06 – £330 million). 94
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
33  Retirement benefits obligations continued
Net actuarial gains amounting to £117 million (2005/06 – losses of £32 million) have been recognised directly in equity and are presented 
in the statement of recognised income and expenses. In addition a loss of £12 million (2005/06 – gain of £23 million) has been recognised
in the statement of recognised income and expenses due to the change in the effect of the asset ceiling. The total amount recognised in the
statement of recognised income and expenses in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2007 is an income of £105 million
(2005/06 – an expense of £9 million) and income of £172 million (2005/06 – £67 million) respectively .
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2006/07 2005/06
UK main UK main
scheme Other Total scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Obligation at beginning of the period (2,067) (238) (2,305) (1,787) (206) (1,993)
Service cost (14) (6) (20) (16) (5) (21)
Interest cost (101) (16) (117) (95) (14) (109)
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in equity 77 3 80 (224) (14) (238)
Employee contributions (2) (2) (4) (3) (2) (5)
Settlement/curtailments 62834 –––
Exchange differences on foreign plans –1919 – (6) (6)
Benefits paid 65 10 75 58 9 67
Obligation at end of the period (2,036) (202) (2,238) (2,067) (238) (2,305)
Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows:
2006/07 2005/06
UK main UK main
scheme Other Total scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
F air value of assets as at beginning of the period 1,978 236 2,214 1,611 215 1,826
Expected return 121 21 142 105 19 124
Actuarial gains recognised in equity 32 5 37 206 – 206
Contributions by employer 11 7 18 111 4 115
Employee contributions 224 325
Settlement/curtailments – (28) (28) –––
Exchange differences on foreign plans – (23) (23) –55
Benefits paid (65) (10) (75) (58) (9) (67)
Fair value of assets as at end of the period 2,079 210 2,289 1,978 236 2,214
Experience gains for the period:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
UK main UK main
scheme Other scheme Other
£m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligation (2,036) (202) (2,067) (238)
Plan assets 2,079 210 1,978 236
Surplus/(deficit) excluding the effects of the asset ceiling 43 8 (89) (2)
Experience (loss)/gain on plan liabilities (7) 5 (15) (14)
Experience gain adjustments on plan assets 32 5 206 – 95
Financial statements
Group
The best estimate of contributions for the following year is:
2007/08
UK main scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m
Employer contributions excluding one-off contributions 9 3 12
Employee contributions 224
The pension disclosures above include three post-retirement medical plans, one in Jamaica and two in Barbados.
An increase/(decrease) in the assumed medical cost trend of 1% would have no material effect on the aggregate of current service costs and
interest costs, and would increase/(decrease) the accumulated defined benefit obligation by £3 million/£(2) million (2005/06 – £7 million/
£(1) million).
34  Share capital
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Authorised 875 875
2006/07 – 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each
(2005/06 – 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each)
Issued, called up and fully paid 615 605
2006/07 – 2,460,483,642 ordinary shares of 25p each
(2005/06 – 2,421,046,668 ordinary shares of 25p each)
Number of
shares £m
Issued, called up and fully paid
At 1 April 2005 2,394,822,240 599
Allotted under share options scheme 16,731,953 4
Allotted under scrip dividends 9,492,475 2
At 31 March 2006 2,421,046,668 605
Allotted under share options scheme 15,906,014 4
Allotted under scrip dividends 23,530,960 6
At 31 March 2007 2,460,483,642 615
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was £10 million (2005/06 – £6 million). The Company repurchased 
no shares in 2006/07 (2005/06 – 14 million shares, representing 0.6% of issued share capital at 31 March 2006 for consideration of 
£17 million). No treasury shares have been cancelled as at 31 March 2007 . The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 
31 March 2007 was £19 million (2005/06 – £19 million) and £125 million (2005/06 – £82 million), respectively . In accordance with the
Company’s Articles of Association, each share (other than those held in treasury) entitles the holder to one vote at General Meetings of
Cable & Wireless. The Company’s shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed
the amount recommended by the Directors.
Allotments of ordinary shares of 25p each were made during the year in respect of the following:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Gross Gross
Number of consideration Number of consideration
allotted shares received allotted shares received
£ £
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 4,839,092 3,561,002 8,699,598 3,574,305
Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2,129,125 1,154,318 2,463,200 1,221,971
Share Option Plan – Approved 569,680 626,337 78,495 90,001
Share Option Plan – Unapproved 8,368,117 9,325,263 5,490,660 5,908,034
Scrip dividends
1
23,530,960 – 9,492,475 –
Total 39,436,974 14,666,920 26,224,428 10,794,311
1 Scrip dividends with a cash equivalent value of £28 million (2005/06 – £12 million) were issued during the year . This represents a non-cash transaction. 96
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
35  Share premium and other reserves
Foreign
currency
Share T reasury Special Other F air value translation Retained
premium shares reserve reserves reserve reserve earnings T otal
(restated) (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 (as previously stated) 8 (224) 1,736 105 32 (36) (705) 916
Prior year adjustment (see note 2.1) –––––– 13 13
At 1 April 2005 (as restated) 8 (224) 1,736 105 32 (36) (692) 929
Premium on shares issued during the year 16 – (22) – – – 22 16
Own shares purchased – (17) ––––– (17)
ESOP T rust shares issued to satisfy share awards – 10–––– (10) –
Conversion element of convertible bond 
transferred to equity ––– 47––– 47
Profit for the year –––––– 76 76
F air value gain on available for sale assets –––– 7–– 7
F air value gain on available for sale assets recycled 
to income statement –––– (36) – – (36)
Actuarial gains recognised – net of deferred taxation–––––– (10) (10)
Foreign currency translation reserves ––––– 46– 46
Share-based payment costs –––––– 14 14
Dividends –––––– (92) (92)
At 31 March 2006 24 (231) 1,714 152 3 10 (692) 980
Premium on shares issued during the year 32 – (42) – – – 42 32
ESOP T rust shares issued to satisfy share awards – 3––––– 3
Profit for the year –––––– 174 174
Actuarial gains recognised – net of deferred taxation–––––– 103 103
Foreign currency translation reserves ––––– (140) – (140)
Share-based payment costs –––––– 25 25
Dividends –––––– (111) (111)
At 31 March 2007 56 (228) 1,672 152 3 (130) (459) 1,066
Treasury shares
T reasury shares relate to shares held in the Company directly or indirectly by the Group and include those shares held by the Group’s
Employee Share Ownership Plan T rust (ESOP T rust).
Special reserve
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account at February 2004 which was approved by the Company at the
2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court in February 2004. It is reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid up share
capital and share premium account of the Company after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new
consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves. The special reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the Company
until any debt or claim against the Company outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
F oreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other 
than that of the Company .
Other reserves
Other reserves include a capital redemption reserve of £105 million (2005/06 – £105 million) and an equity reserve of £47 million
(2005/06 – £47 million) resulting from the transfer of the conversion element of the Group’s convertible bond from derivative financial
instruments to equity . 97
Financial statements
Group
36  Share-based payments
Share option schemes
The share option schemes operating as at 31 March 2007 or having options outstanding as at this date, are as follows:
Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme
Under the Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme (‘SA YE scheme’), UK employees can enter a savings contract with a bank
to save regular monthly sums of between £5 and £250 for a period of either three, five or seven years. At the end of the savings contract,
the participant receives interest from the bank on their savings. The savings and the interest may then be used to exercise an option over
ordinary shares of the Company , which are issued at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Company’s ordinary shares at the date 
of grant. The Company has extended the SA YE scheme to its overseas employees by the Cable & Wireless Global savings related share
option scheme (‘GSA YE scheme’). The GSA YE scheme is offered in various of the Group’s territories (excluding the UK) and it operates
along similar lines to the SA YE scheme with local variations to accommodate local legal and tax consideration.
The SA YE was last offered in June 2004 and GSA YE was last offered in December 2004.
Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Senior employees’ share option scheme
Prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless granted share options under the Cable & Wireless Senior employees’ share option scheme (‘SESOS’)
and the Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme (‘RESOS’). Options awarded under these plans between June 1999 and
July 2001 are subject to performance conditions based on Cable & Wireless’ TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index, underpinned
by real growth in EBITDA and turnover . TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions. TSR performance is averaged
over a three-month period at the beginning and end of the performance period. This moderates the effect of short-term share price volatility .
For full vesting, Cable & Wireless’ TSR must achieve at least upper quartile level against the FTSE 100 between the third and fifth
anniversaries of the date of grant. Half vesting applies for TSR at the median level, with a sliding scale between median and upper quartile. 
If the performance conditions are not met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse. As at the date of this report, none 
of these options have achieved their performance conditions.
Options granted under RESOS and SESOS before June 1999 became exercisable if growth in Company’s published earnings per share
(excluding exceptional items) measured over any period of three consecutive financial years, commencing not earlier than the financial year
in which the option was granted, exceeded by not less than 6% of the percentage growth of the Retail Price Index over the same three-year
period. All such options became exercisable in full.
No further grants will be made under the RESOS and SESOS plans.
Cable & Wireless Share option plan (approved and unapproved)
The level of any share option award is determined by the Remuneration Committee each year by reference to total remuneration within a
market peer group, subject to an overriding annual limit of ten times salary for Executive Directors.
The vesting of share options awarded to the Executive Directors and to all employees outside the US is subject to relative TSR performance
conditions. For options granted before May 2004, full vesting occurs only if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the
upper quartile between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. Where TSR performance meets the median, 50% of the initial
award vests. A sliding scale operates between median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median. If
performance conditions have not been met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse. For options granted from May
2004, the re-testing of performance conditions for share options granted from that date will cease. If performance conditions for these
options have not been met by the third anniversary of the date of grant the option lapses. For options granted from June 2005, 33.33% 
of options vest where TSR performance meets the median and if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the underlying financial
performance of the Group warrants the release of the shares.
Performance conditions are applied in determining the level of awards to employees in the US, but do not normally apply to the vesting of
such awards. In addition, 25% of awards to employees in the US vest on the first anniversary of the date of the grant with a further 25% on
each subsequent anniversary . These terms reflect normal practice in the US.
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust
The Cable & Wireless ESOP T rust is a discretionary trust, which has been funded by loans from the Company to acquire shares in Cable 
and Wireless plc. At 31 March 2007 the T rust holds 36,792,665 shares with a cost of £100 million and a market value of £61 million.
The costs of running the T rust are included in the profit and loss account as they accrue. The T rustees of the plan may notionally allocate
ordinary shares in the Company annually to Executive Directors or other senior executives and other key staff. Shares are held in trust until
such time as they may be transferred to employees in accordance with the terms of the Performance share plan, the Restricted share plan, 
the Deferred short-term incentive plan and the Share option plan, details of which are given below. The shares will be provided from existing
ordinary shares in issue acquired by the T rustees. Surplus shares may be held to satisfy future awards. The T rust has waived its rights to
dividends. At 31 March 2007 , there were 1,752,744 shares under contingent awards in relation to the Performance share plan, 20,058,081
shares under restricted share awards in relation to the Restricted share plan, 108,029 shares under the Deferred bonus plan, 1,349,252
shares under the deferred short-term incentive plan, 276,657 shares under the stock appreciation rights plan, and 14,673,250 shares
under options in relation to the share option plan. 98
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
36  Share-based payments continued
Other equity instrument awards
Deferred short-term incentive plan (‘Deferred STIP’)
The Deferred STIP is designed to encourage participants to invest in shares to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
Under this plan any bonus deferred is used to purchase shares in the Company , which are held in trust for three years before being released
to the participant.
Participants may also be awarded up to two matching shares for every one purchased share based on the relative TSR performance of the
Company measured over a three-year period (see Performance conditions for share-based awards). A dividend award supplement also
operates on the Deferred STIP . Dividends that would have been paid on the purchased shares and the actual award of matching shares
during the performance period are reinvested in additional shares.
For the 2005/06 financial year , Executive Directors were able to elect to pay up to two-thirds of any net annual bonus and senior executives
could elect to pay up to one-third of any net bonus into the Deferred STIP . Conditional matching shares were awarded on a gross basis, i.e.
for every £100 of net bonus invested in the Deferred STIP , participants have the potential to receive matching shares with a face value on
grant of £333.
Deferred bonus scheme
Executive Directors and selected senior executives were able voluntarily to defer between 10% and 50% of their post-tax senior
management bonus to purchase shares in the Company , which will be held in T rust. Half of the purchased shares will be held in T rust for a
two-year deferral period and the remaining half will be held in T rust for a three-year deferral period. Participants will be awarded matching
shares when the purchased shares vest at the end of the deferral periods.
No award has been made under the deferred bonus scheme since June 2004.
Performance share plan (‘PSP’)
Under the PSP , Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The plan rules limit the value of shares that can be granted to an individual in any year to 100% of salary .
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative TSR performance conditions (see Performance conditions for share-based
awards). A dividend award supplement operates on the PSP . Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares, which 
vest, will be regarded as having been re-invested in additional shares.
Restricted share plan (‘RSP’)
The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares to executives and selected employees below the Executive Directors, primarily as a
retention or a recruitment tool to compensate for the forfeiture of long term incentive arrangements when transferring to the Company.
Generally , 50% of any restricted shares awarded under this plan vest after one year with the remaining 50% vesting after three years.
During the year , the restricted share plan was also used to award matching shares with performance conditions to Executive Directors who
invested their own funds into Company shares. Attainment of these matching shares is dependent on the Executive continuing to hold the
invested shares and on meeting the required TSR performance conditions. 100% of any shares awarded under this plan vest after three years.
Performance conditions for share-based awards
TSR is the main performance measure used in the share option plan, the Deferred STIP and the PSP as it provides an objective external
measure of financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is important to measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set of
companies. The Company’s relative TSR performance is assessed against a comparator group comprising the FTSE Global T elecoms 
Sector Index (‘FTSE GTSI’), which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers.
Awards vest depending upon the Company’ s TSR ranking relative to the comparator group at the end of a single three-year performance period.
Cash-based awards
Stock appreciation rights plan (‘SARs’)
The SARs is used to exactly replicate the plans described above but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent. It is used in exceptional
cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
Other schemes
Cable & Wireless share purchase plan
The Company also offers its employees who are chargeable to income tax, under Section 15 Income T ax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003,
the Cable & Wireless share purchase plan (‘the Plan’) which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan. Under the Plan, employees can
contribute up to a value of £1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year (whichever is the lower), to buy partnership shares in the Company.  99
Financial statements
Group
Shares are held in a UK resident trust and can be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but there may be pay as you earn taxation and
national insurance contributions payable in such events if the shares have not been held in the trust for five years. Dividends on the
partnership shares are reinvested in additional dividend shares.
High Performance Incentive Plan (HPIP)
The HPIP provides for share awards at nil cost to senior managers in International. It is a three-year incentive plan and the scheme is worth
up to 100% of a participant’s salary at the grant date.
The awards are based on performance periods years one and two that then vest after years two and three respectively , with the financial
year 2006/07 being year one. The performance targets are based on EBITDA and cash flow. On vesting the shares are worth the maximum
of the prevailing market value and the grant price.
A relatively small element of the HPIP is formed as a ‘Phantom’ HPIP whereby the payments under the plan are made in cash rather than 
in shares. 
UK Share Award
On 25 July 2006, all permanent employees and fixed-term contractors based in the UK were awarded £1,000 in Cable & Wireless shares
as a one-off gift.
Share options
Options are exercised on a regular basis throughout the year . Options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2007 resulted in 
18.6 million shares (31 March 2006 – 18.7 million shares) being issued at the average exercise price of 94 pence each (31 March 2006 – 
69 pence each). The related market weighted average share price at the time of the exercise was 141 pence per share (31 March 2006 – 
125 pence per share).
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are presented below:
2006/07 2005/06
Average Average
exercise exercise
prices Options prices Options
(pence/share) (thousands) (pence/share) (thousands)
At beginning of the period 164.41 101,322 204.25 135,747
Granted 103.13 13,315 130.86 14,184
Forfeited 151.99 2,927 221.51 15,692
Exercised 93.83 18,632 68.67 18,702
Expired 284.55 29,853 577.68 14,215
At end of the period 116.36 63,225 164.41 101,322
Exercisable 174.50 14,321 289.10 32,964
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Number of Weighted Number of Weighted
options Weighted average options Weighted average
outstanding average remaining life outstanding average remaining life
at 31 March exercise (rounded to at 31 March exercise (rounded to
Range of exercise prices (pence) 2007 price nearest year)
1
2006 price nearest year)
1
0-49 7,360,879 36.96 2 12,148,661 36.96 2
50-99 2,721,814 90.06 2 6,119,340 89.52 2
100-149 42,964,492 107.63 5 47,486,732 109.82 5
150-199 3,682,982 155.45 5 6,734,696 155.09 6
200-249 4,739,422 204.44 2 7,863,845 204.40 3
250-299 282,699 274.64 1 335,157 274.64 2
300-349 1,064,439 339.72 1 18,258,827 339.88 2
350-399 42,588 353.58 2 610,847 359.10 2
400-449 –– – 124,183 420.50 0
450-499 –– – 156,113 470.66 2
500-549 –– – 5,469 548.50 2
550-599 284,180 553.30 0 424,024 553.62 1
600-1,250 81,445 762.09 1 1,058,789 863.54 3
1 Weighted average remaining life relates to legal life of options not expected life. 100
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
36  Share-based payments continued
The weighted average fair value, at measurement date, of the 13 million (2005/06 – 14 million) options granted during the year ended 
31 March 2007 was 22.14 pence (2005/06 – 34.41 pence). The Company computes the fair value of its share option awards using the
Black-Scholes-Merton formula model for the Savings related and Global savings related share option schemes and the Monte Carlo 
pricing model for the share option plans (Approved, Unapproved and US).
The following assumptions were used in the fair value exercise as at 31 March 2007 for the options granted during 2006/07:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Monte Carlo Black Scholes Monte Carlo Black Scholes
Weighted average share price 134.94 – 128.83p –
W eighted a verage exercise price 103.13 – 130.86p –
Dividend yield 3.9% – 4.3% – 3.4% –3.9% –
Expected volatility 30.4% –31.4% – 27.9% –39.6% –
Risk -free interest rates 4.7% – 4.1% – 4.4% –
Expected lives of the options 4– 4–
The expected volatility was determined based on the statistical analysis of daily shares prices over a historical period equal to the expected
lives of the options.
During 2002 and 2003, significant restructuring was carried out at Cable & Wireless and the Directors consider the share price volatility
over that period is unrepresentative of future volatility . Accordingly , for the purposes of calculating historical volatility and share price
correlations Cable & Wireless’ share price movements from 1 August 2002 to 31 December 2003 have been replaced with a ‘synthetic stock’.
This synthetic stock takes as a starting point the share price of Cable & Wireless on 31 July 2002. The daily share price movements 
then track the average daily share price movements of six companies from the FTSE GTSI from that time until 31 December 2003. 
From 31 December 2003 onwards the daily share price movements track the actual daily share price movements of Cable & Wireless. 
The companies used to derive this synthetic share price were selected as those whose daily share price returns were most closely
correlated with those of Cable & Wireless prior to and immediately after the synthetic period.
The synthetic Cable & Wireless share price was not used other than for calculating share price volatility and share price correlations. 
Share price correlations and volatilities were calculated using daily return data for Cable & Wireless (including the synthetic data for 
the relevant period) and, where relevant, other comparator companies.
Performance and other market conditions attached to awards were reflected in the calculation of fair value as part of the Monte Carlo
simulations.
Other awards
Awards granted during 2006/07
Weighted average Features incorporated
Award Shares fair value in schemes
DSTIP –––
RSP 11,242,072 116.98 –
PSP –––
HPIP 10,579,140 123.08 –
Cash Settled ‘Phantom’ HPIP 1,512,806 160.26 –
UK share a w ard 4,039,895 111.00 –
Awards granted during 2005/06
Weighted average Features incorporated
Award Shares fair value in schemes
DSTIP 1,361,186 119.00 TSR conditions
RSP 17,694,393 118.52 –
PSP 2,102,358 56.41 TSR conditions
No share-based payment arrangements were modified during the period.
The total expense relating to share-based payments which are all equity settled transactions was £25 million (2005/06 – £14 million). 
As the Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2, the charge only includes grants made after 7 November 2002
that had not vested by 1 January 2005. 101
Financial statements
Group
37  Minority interests
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
£m £m
Balance at beginning of the year as previously reported 281 326
Prior year adjustment – (65)
Balance as at beginning of the year as restated 281 261
Share of total recognised income and expenditure for the year 24 75
Dividends paid (96) (51)
Disposals – (4)
Balance as at end of the year 209 281
38  Cash flows from operating activities
Reconciliation of net profit to net cash inflow from operating activities:
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
Note £m £m
Continuing operations
Profit for the year 206 73
Adjustments for:
T ax expense 13 43 27
Depreciation 19 236 228
Amortisation 18 50 46
Impairment 16 – 237
Gain on termination of operations 11 (15) (34)
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 10 (153) (72)
Gain on disposal of property , plant and equipment (11) (11)
Net loss on sale of Bulldog brand and retail broadband customer base 11 –
Finance income 12 (52) (87)
Finance expense 12 80 81
Decrease in provisions (28) (135)
Share-based payments 36 25 14
Defined benefit pension scheme (credit)/expense 33 (11) 6
L TIP charge 27 –
Defined benefit pension scheme top-up contributions – (98)
Defined benefit pension scheme other contributions 33 (18) (17)
Share of results after tax of associates and joint ventures 20 11 (54)
Operating cash flows before working capital changes 401 204
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisitions and disposal of subsidiaries)
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 8 (4)
Decrease in trade and other receivables 76 8
Decrease in payables (186) (108)
Cash generated from continuing operations 299 100
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year 28 90
Adjustments for:
Profit on disposal of investments – (20)
Profit on disposal of property , plant and equipment – (4)
Changes in working capital – 1
Decrease in provisions (28) (64)
Cash generated from discontinued operations – 3
Cash generated from operations 299 103 102
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
39  Commitments
Capital commitments at the end of the financial year , for which no provision has been made, are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Property , plant and equipment 75 77
Total capital commitments 75 77
In addition to the capital commitments above, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the
Group’s business. The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs. In the event of default of another 
party , the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
Of the above, £11 million (2005/06 – £33 million) relates to the Group’s share of the capital commitments of its associates and
joint ventures.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses 
and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2007 is disclosed in note 6. The future aggregate minimum lease
payments under operating leases are:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
No later than one year 95 97
Later than one year but not later than five years 140 206
Later than five years 147 128
Total minimum operating lease payments 382 431
40  Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
T rading guarantees 117 184
Other guarantees 59 61
Total guarantees 176 245
T rading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds or contracts issued in the normal course of business, guaranteeing the Group
will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The guarantees also enable the
customer to obtain repayment of any advance payment in the event of the relevant subsidiary failing to carry out its contractual obligations
in full. Some of these guarantees are uncapped.
Other guarantees include guarantees in respect of financial obligations principally in respect of leases, borrowings and letters of credit.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and
transportation of materials. The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under 
the contract.
Whilst Pender , the Group's former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003 it has in the past written
policies in favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain 
of these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers. Detail of these insurance
claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims. 103
Financial statements
Group
Other matters
In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a
number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally , liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales
proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
In relation to the sale of CWC ConsumerCo in May 2000, the Company gave a number of standard warranties and indemnities. There is no
time limit or cap that applies generally , the Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility
sharing agreements. Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund in 1999, it may be liable for future contributions to fund 
a portion of any future funding deficits. Currently , the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.
41  Business combinations
There were no aquisitions of subsidiaries made during 2006/07 . A cash dividend of £15 million (2005/06 – £8 million) was paid to the
Principality of Monaco during the year which has been reflected as an increase in the Group’s investment in Monaco T elecom. 
(a) 2006/07 goodwill 
Additional goodwill of £34 million has been recognised in connection with the Group’s investment in Monaco T elecom SAM. This reflects
the effect of the change in the fair value of the put option issued as part of the business combination. This change in the fair value is treated
as contingent consideration.
The Directors have reassessed the probability of the contingent consideration payable as part of the the acquisition of Energis. The present
value of the contingent consideration payable has been calculated as £37 million based upon the Group share price at 31 March 2007 . 
(b) 2005/06 acquisition of Energis
On 11 November 2005, Cable & Wireless purchased the entire share capital of Chelys Limited, the parent company of the Energis Group
(‘Energis’), for a total consideration of £705 million. The consideration was made up of £675 million debt repayment, £15 million to acquire
the share capital of Chelys Limited and £15 million of direct costs incurred to acquire Energis.
The acquisitions made during 2005/06 are summarised below:
2005/06
Energis Atlas T otal
£m £m £m
Consideration paid 705 2 707
Goodwill arising on acquisitions 384 – 384
F air value of net assets acquired 321 2 323
Cash outflows on acquisitions 705 2 707
Less: cash acquired in subsidiaries (97) – (97)
Net cash outflow on acquisitions 608 2 610
As part of the Energis acquisition, Cable & Wireless agreed to pay contingent consideration of between nil and a maximum of £80 million.
The amount of contingent consideration is tied to the Company’s share price and may be satisfied, at the Group’s option, in either cash 
or shares of the Company . Payments will be based on a ratio of £1.25 million for every one penny by which the maximum three month
volume weighted average Cable & Wireless share price in the third year following completion exceeds the reference price of 135 pence. 
Any payments would begin in March 2008, would be payable once a month until December 2008 and will be based upon Cable & Wireless’
volume weighted average share price for the three months prior to any relevant payment date.
The terms and conditions of the contingent consideration include anti-dilution mechanisms similar to those in the 4% convertible bond
issued by Cable & Wireless (due 2010). In addition, in the event of a change of control of Cable & Wireless, or in the event of its shares
ceasing to be admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed securities, a sum calculated in
accordance with the terms of the contingent consideration will be payable in cash within ten business days.
In 2005/06, Energis contributed £266 million to revenues, £35 million to EBITDA and £2 million to profit from the date of acquisition. 
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2005 the contribution to Group revenue would have been £709 million, the contribution to 
EBITDA would have been £93 million and the contribution to Group profit would have been a loss of £56 million. 104
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
41  Business combinations continued
Net assets and acquired goodwill are:
Energis
acquisition
£m
Purchase consideration:
–  Cash paid 690 
–  Contingent consideration –
–  Direct costs related to acquisitions 15
F air value of assets acquired (321)
Goodwill as at 31 March 2006 384
Additional goodwill from contingent consideration 37
Goodwill as at 31 March 2007 421
The Directors have assessed the fair values of the assets and liabilities as follows:
Alignment of
accounting 
Book value policy Revaluations F air value
£m £m £m £m
Software –19 –19
Customer contracts and relationships – – 130 130
Property , plant and equipment 402 (28) (136) 238
T rade and other receivables 124 6 – 130
Cash and cash equivalents 97–– 97
T rade and other payables (250) – (9) (259)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges (13) (21) – (34)
Total 360 (24) (15) 321
The acquiree’s carrying amounts were recorded under UK GAAP .
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Energis includes expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing UK corporate
business, workforce valuations and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets. 
Cash and cash equivalents is stated net of amounts paid in respect of Energis’ management incentive plan.
(c) Monaco acquisition  
Cable & Wireless purchased the Monaco T elecom business in the financial year 2004/05, when the  transaction was recorded at
provisional values. A reassessment of the fair values at the date of acquisition was performed during the 2005/06 financial year , within one
year of the acquisition date. This adjustment was made to the goodwill balance in 2004/05. Additional adjustments to goodwill have been
made as a result of fair value movements in the put option held by the Principality of Monaco. These adjustments are made in the year the
reassesment of fair value is made.
The adjustments to the goodwill balance are as follows:
£m
(restated)
Goodwill on acquisition 36
Reassessment of fair value adjustments (8)
Prior year adjustment (note 2.1) 53
Exchange rate adjustment 3
Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2005 84
Exchange rate adjustments (2)
Additional goodwill from contingent consideration (note 2.1) (13)
Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2006 69
Additional goodwill from contingent consideration 34
Exchange rates adjustments (1)
Carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2007 102 105
Financial statements
Group
42  Related party transactions
Transactions with associates and joint ventures
All trade transactions with associates and joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable 
& Wireless products and services, network and access charges. There were no material trade transactions with associated companies and
joint ventures during the year .
The Group received £7 million (2005/06 – £20 million) dividends from associates and £16 million (2005/06 – £20 million) from joint
ventures for the year ended 31 March 2007 as set out in note 20.
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures in respect of trading balances are set out in note 22.
Transactions with key management personnel
There were no material transactions with key management personnel, including loans advanced to Directors or other key managers, except
for those relating to remuneration, disclosed in notes 9 and 36, and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties
There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There were no material transactions with Directors, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company . Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no
other material related parties.
43  Licences and concessions
In a number of countries the Group holds licences or concessions to operate. These licences take a variety of forms and their terms, rights
and obligations vary significantly . The Group assumes that it will renew licences as they expire as it has done in the past. Were renewal not
to occur , in most cases the business or its assets would be transferred to the new operator or government at market value or net book value.
In a small number of locations, transfer is at a value below carrying value; in these places the Group monitors closely the likelihood of licence
renewal in order to ensure that should a licence not be renewed, the business’ assets have been written down to their recoverable value at
the point of transfer .
There were no significant changes to the terms of the Group’s licences in the year .
44  Legal proceedings
In the ordinary course of business, Cable & Wireless is engaged in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
Cable & Wireless consider adequate allowance has been made in respect of these matters and does not expect the ultimate resolution 
of the actions to which it is a party to have a materially adverse impact on the financial position of the Group. 
45  Subsidiaries and joint ventures
Ownership
Issued
share
Local capital Via Class of Country of Area of
currency (million) Direct subsidiaries shares incorporation operation
Subsidiaries
Cable & Wireless UK GBP 3,033 – 100% Ordinary England UK
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 – 82% Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica
Cable & Wireless Panama, SA
1
Balboa 316 – 49% Ordinary Panama Panama
Companhia de T elecomunicacoes de Macau, SARL
2
Pataca 150 – 51% Ordinary Macau Macau
and China
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Ltd B$ 72 – 81% Ordinary Barbados Barbados
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Ltd GBP 5 – 100% Ordinary England Caribbean
Monaco T elecom SAM 
3 4
Euro 2 – 49% Ordinary Monaco Monaco
Joint ventures
T elecommunications Services of T rinidad and T obago Ltd 
3
T$ 283 – 49% Ordinary T rinidad T rinidad
and T obago and T obago
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd 
2
Rufiya 190 – 45% Ordinary Maldives Maldives
1 The Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement.
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders’ agreement.
3 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms.
4 The Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco T elecom SAM via a subsidiary . 106
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007
45  Subsidiaries and joint ventures continued
On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55% of Monaco T elecom, a Monaco based telecommunication service provider , from Vivendi
Universal. Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco T elecom to 
an unrelated third party . Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In
addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full
management control of Monaco T elecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions,
a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality (subject to certain limited exceptions) selling their shares in Monaco T elecom 
for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality . The Principality
has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco T elecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008. 
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco T elecom.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes
those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial
statements.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, associates, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual
Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
46  Financial risk management
Treasury policy
The Group’s treasury operations are managed on the basis of policies and authorities approved by Cable and Wireless plc’s Board of
Directors. Day-to-day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Finance Director and the  Director of T reasury and Corporate
Finance, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty .
T o the extent that subsidiary operating companies undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated
authorities. Material subsidiary positions are monitored by the Central treasury function. Where appropriate, transactions are reported 
to the Board. All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash, debt and hedging positions to Central treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of the treasury function include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and
foreign currency risk. The majority of the Group’s funding and cash resources are managed centrally .
Wherever possible individual companies in the Group are funded in, and operate in, their functional currency .
Cable & Wireless only uses derivatives and financial instruments including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, 
cross-currency swaps and options in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures in accordance with strategies
agreed from time to time by the T reasury Management Committee (comprising of the Finance Director , Financial Controller , Director 
of T reasury and Corporate Finance and other senior financial managers as required) and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported 
to the Board on a monthly basis.
Exchange rate risk
Cable & Wireless trades in many countries and much of its revenue is generated in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency payments, dividend income from foreign subsidiaries,
reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange
contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the
short term. Where it is deemed appropriate the Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create
significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group. In addition, overseas subsidiaries are generally financed in their domestic currency 
to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As at 31 March 2007 , the Group had in place forward foreign exchange contracts amounting to US$83 million. The contracts mitigate risk 
in both investments and forecast cash receipts.
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year . Overseas earnings are
predominantly in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar . In broad terms, based on the 2006/07 mix of profits, the impact of a
unilateral 1% weakening of sterling would have been to increase the operating profit before exceptional items by approximately £2 million.
The Group does not undertake profit translation hedging activities. 107
Financial statements
Group
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of
overseas investments, the Group may , from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of
foreign investments. Currently there are no external foreign currency liabilities matched against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The Group currently does not undertake any hedges of long term currency trading flows.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to movements of interest rates on its debt and surplus cash balances. The treasury function may seek to reduce
volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate. There
were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2007 .
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Group’s fixed rate debt. However , no debt is held
for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity , hence the exposure to fair value loss has not been modelled.
Credit risk
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty
failed to perform as contracted. The counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Group’s financial instruments are entities rated A1
short term and/or AA- long term by Standard and Poor’s (or equivalent by Moody’s and/or Fitch). The credit rating of these counterparties 
is monitored on an ongoing basis. The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved
by the Board with limits on the exposure to any one counterparty .
Liquidity risk
At 31 March 2007 , Cable & Wireless had cash, current asset investment and short-term deposits of £1,048 million. This amount included 
£18 million of cash pledged against liabilities, some contingent. The surplus cash is a significant component of the Group’s overall liquidity 
and capital resources.
Approximately 83% of the Group’s cash is held centrally and is predominantly invested in short-term bank deposits and AAA-rated money
market funds.
During 2005/06 the Group sold at par £40 million of credit linked notes issued by AA-rated banks and referenced to the Company’s 
£200 million bond, which matures in 2012. During 2006/07 , the remaining £40 million of these credit linked notes were sold at par. 
Further information on these transactions is given in note 21.
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the parent company . Where restrictions 
are severe, local cash balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents. 108
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise
the Company balance sheet, the reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds for the Company and the related notes. 
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited 
the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 .
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body , in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body , for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set 
out in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 48.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the 
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report is
consistent with the parent company financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific information
presented in the Annual Report that is cross referenced from the Business review section of the Directors’ report. We also report to you if,
in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company
financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. 
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates
and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order 
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . 
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
■ the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, 
of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2007;
■ the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
■ the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor  London  23 May 2007
Independent auditor’s report to the members 
of Cable and Wireless plc
Cable and Wireless plc 109
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
(restated)
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
T angible assets 6 9 12
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiaries 7 19,950 21,342
Investments in associates and joint ventures 7 3 25
Loans to associates and joint ventures 7 – 1
Available for sale assets 9 15 15
19,977 21,395
Current assets
Debtors
– due within one year 8 60 66
– due after more than one year 8 8 3
68 69
Financial assets at fair value through the profit and loss 9 – 39
Available for sale financial assets 9 870 655
Cash at bank and in hand 6 162
944 925
Current liabilities
Creditors 10 15,519 18,576
Loans 11 – 106 
Derivative financial instruments 12 – 15 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 15,519 18,697
Net current liabilities 14,575 17,772 
Total assets less current liabilities 5,402 3,623
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Creditors 10 37 – 
Convertible debt 11 213 202
Loans 11 161 184 
411 386 
Provisions for liabilities and charges 14 62 87
Retirement benefit obligations 17 22 23
495 496 
Net assets 4,907 3,127
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 15 615 605
Share premium account 16 56 24
Reserves 16 4,236 2,498
Equity shareholders’ funds 4,907 3,127
The accompanying notes on pages 111 to 126 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company .
The financial statements of the Company on pages 109 to 126 were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2007 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne Chairman Tony Rice Managing Director , Central and Finance Director
Company balance sheet 
As at 31 March 2007
Financial statements
Company 110
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’
funds for the Company 
For the year ended 31 March 2007 
2006/07 2005/06 
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 246 120
Dividends – interim in respect of the current year (40) (32) 
– final in respect of the prior year (71) (60)
Profit for the year carried forward 135 28
Other recognised gains relating to the year 3 2
Actuarial loss in the value of defined benefit retirement plans – (2)
Revaluation 1,569 –
New share capital issued 42 22
Unrealised gain on disposal of investments 20 –
Purchase of own shares – (17)
Share-based payments 11 5
Conversion element of convertible bond transferred to equity – 47
Increase in equity shareholders’ funds 1,780 85
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 3,127 3,042
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 4,907 3,127
The accompanying notes on pages 111 to 126 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company .  111
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007 
1  Statement of accounting policies 
1.1  Basis of preparation 
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally accepted
accounting principles in the United Kingdom (UK) and the provisions of the Companies Act. It has been prepared on the historical cost basis
where appropriate. 
These financial statements set out the position of the Company and not Cable & Wireless Group (the ‘Group’) which it heads. 
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the
Company’s financial statements, except as detailed in note 10.
1.2  Use of estimates 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
FRS 18 Accounting policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the
change has a material impact on the reported results for the period. 
1.3  Tangible fixed assets and depreciation 
T angible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation. The cost of fixed assets includes directly attributable labour and overhead costs.
Interest incurred up to the time that separately identifiable major capital projects are ready for service is also capitalised as part of the cost
of assets. Where the Company has a legal or constructive obligation to dismantle and remove its assets and restore the relevant sites, a
provision is made for the estimated costs of the asset retirement obligation. The present value of the asset retirement obligation is
capitalised as part of the initial cost of the asset. 
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or projects under construction. On other tangible fixed assets, depreciation is provided on the
difference between the cost of tangible fixed assets and the estimated residual value, in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful
lives of the assets. Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for use. These lives are:  
Lives
Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years 
Freehold buildings 40 years 
Leasehold land and buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less 
Profits and losses on disposals of tangible fixed assets are determined by reference to sale proceeds and net book values. 
1.4  Asset impairment 
Intangible and tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of the fixed asset may not be recoverable. Where an impairment indicator is identified, the carrying value of the income-generating
unit is compared with its recoverable amount. Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value an impairment is recognised.
1.5  Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at valuation. Investments in associates and joint ventures are included in the
balance sheet at cost. 
1.6  Financial investments 
The Company classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the profit and loss, loans and
receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available for sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the
assets are held. The basis of determining fair values are set out in note 1.13.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting
date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the profit and loss. 
Financial assets at fair value through the profit and loss 
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the profit and loss at
inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated
by management. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are
classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within a year of the balance sheet date.
Receivables 
Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise
when the Company provides money , goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable. They are included 
Financial statements
Company 112
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007 
1.6  Financial investments continued
in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than a year after the balance sheet date; these are classified as non-current
assets. Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet. 
Available for sale financial assets 
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the
reporting date. 
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date – the date on which the Company commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Available for sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through the profit and loss are subsequently carried at fair value. Loans
and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial assets not
carried at fair value through the profit and loss are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the
Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. 
Gains and losses (both realised and unrealised) arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the profit and
loss are included in the profit and loss in the period in which they arise. 
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised
in equity . When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the
profit and loss as gains and losses from investment securities. 
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active (or for unlisted
securities), the Company establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions,
reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models refined to reflect
the issuer’s specific circumstances.
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is
impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security
below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial
assets, the cumulative loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss 
on that financial asset previously recognised in the profit and loss – is removed from equity and recognised in the profit and loss. Impairment
losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the profit and loss if the fair value of the instrument increases in a later period.
1.7  Tax 
The charge for tax is based on the result for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment 
of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to
the extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from
which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted. 
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have
arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
1.8  Pensions 
The Company is a member of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme but is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and
liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 , accounts for the scheme as if it were 
a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the Company’s profit and loss account represents the contributions
payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period. 
The Company also operates an unfunded pension plan to cover the costs of former Directors’ and other senior employees’ pension
entitlements. Provision is made in the Company’s financial statements for the expected costs of meeting the associated liabilities. 
Costs in respect of the Company’s defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis 
as contributions become payable. 
1.9  Share-based compensation
The Company operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by
reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability
and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to
become exercisable. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become 113
Financial statements
Company
exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any , in the profit and loss, and a corresponding
adjustments to equity over the remaining vesting period. The expense recognised in the Company relates only to the Company employees.
Share-based expenses relating to grants of the Company’s equity made to employees of subsidiary companies are recognised in the profit
and loss of the subsidiary and the parent company does not record any entries on the award of these options except when the options 
are exercised.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options
are exercised.
Where continuing employees withdraw from share-based compensation plans the remaining charge is recognised immediately .
1.10  Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost. 
Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss over the period
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds issued by the Company are initially recognised at fair value. The bond is separated into a liability and equity component.
The liability component is recognised at amortised cost. The equity component represents the residual of the fair value of the bond less the
liability . The liability portion is subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bond. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
12 months after the reporting date (see note 10).
1.11  Trade and other receivables 
T rade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined using 
the effective interest method less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is
objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The
amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows
(discounted at the effective interest rate). The amount of the provision is recognised in the profit and loss. 
1.12  Derivative financial instruments 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are re-measured to fair value at 
each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging
instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Company designates derivatives as either:
■ hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or  
■ hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedges).
The Company documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its
risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Company also documents its assessment, both at
hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting
changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
F air value hedges 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss, together with
any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedges 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity .
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the profit and loss in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss (for instance
when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However , when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a
non-financial asset (for example, network assets) or a liability , the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity
and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability .
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or
loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit 
and loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur , the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately
transferred to the profit and loss.
Derivatives that are not designated and effective hedging instruments 
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated as or are not effective hedging instruments are recognised
immediately in the profit and loss.  114
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007 
1.13  Fair value estimation
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available for sale
securities) is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the
Company is the current bid price. The appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Company
uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. 
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The
fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date. The fair value of
financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate
that is available to the Company for similar financial instruments. Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority
of remaining financial instruments.  
1.14  Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) and purchase of own shares by the Company  
The financial statements of the Company include the assets and related liabilities of the Group’s Employee Share Ownership Plan T rust 
(‘the T rust’), which holds shares for the Group’s ESOP . Under the requirements of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, the shares held by
the T rust are stated at cost and deducted from shareholders’ funds. 
Shares purchased by the Company are held as treasury shares at cost and deducted from shareholders’ funds until they are cancelled, sold
for cash or transferred out of treasury pursuant to an employees’ share scheme. T reasury shares do not carry voting rights and no dividends
will be paid on these shares.
2  Company’s profit and loss account and cash flow statement 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not presented its 
own profit and loss account. The profit for the year of the Company amounted to £246 million (2005/06 – £120 million). 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 1 (revised) and has not presented its own cash flow statement, 
as its cash flows are included in the consolidated cash flow of the Group, set out on page 54. 
3  Remuneration of Directors 
Information covering Directors’ remuneration, interests in shares, share options and pension benefits is set out in the Directors’
remuneration report on pages 38 to 47 . 
4  Staff numbers and costs 
The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year , was as follows: 
2006/07 2005/06 
Average number of persons employed by the Company 298 287
2006/07 2005/06 
£m £m
Costs for the year
Wages and salaries 31 24
Share-based payments 11 5
Social securities costs 2 2
Other pension costs 2 42
46 73 115
5  Employee share schemes 
The details of share option schemes and other share-based plans are disclosed in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The cost of such options and awards is borne by participating businesses and the Company has borne its charge as set out in note 4. 
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are presented below: 
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Weighted Weighted 
average Number of average Number of
exercise price options exercise price options 
(p) ‘000 (p) ‘000
Outstanding at the start of the period 132.69 31,550 139.35 28,114
Granted in the period 101.92 13,023 127.25 10,233
Forfeited in the period 99.70 84 122.68 226
Exercised in the period 111.11 6,655 101.85 3,449
Lapsed in the period 196.15 6,505 209.65 3,122
Outstanding at the end of the period 111.39 31,329 132.69 31,550
Exercisable at the end of the period 130.85 3,628 287.61 2,997
The Company has applied the requirement of FRS 20 and has elected to adopt the exemption to apply FRS 20 only to awards made after
7 November 2002. 
6  Tangible fixed assets
Land and Plant and Projects under
buildings equipment construction Total 
£m £m £m £m 
Cost/valuation
At 1 April 2006 230 436
Additions –189
Disposals (2) (32) (2) (36)
T ransfers – 2 (2) –
At 31 March 2007 –1 8 9
Depreciation
At 1 April 2006 123 –24
Charge for the year –2 –2
Disposals (1) (25) – (26)
At 31 March 2007 ––––
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 –1 8 9
At 31 March 2006 174 12
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
Land and buildings at net book value
Freeholds – 1
Financial statements
Company 116
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007 
7  Fixed asset investments 
Associates 
and joint Subsidiary
ventures undertakings T otal
£m £m £m
Cost/valuation
At 1 April 2006 31 16,314 16,345
Additions –9090
Disposals (23) (76) (99)
Revaluations – 1,569 1,569
At 31 March 2007 8 17 ,897 17 ,905
Loans
At 1 April 2006 1 14,344 14,345
Loans repaid and transferred (1) (2,974) (2,975)
At 31 March 2007 – 11,370 11,370
Provisions and amounts written off
At 1 April 2006 (6) (9,316) (9,322)
Disposals 1 (1) –
At 31 March 2007 (5) (9,317) (9,322)
Net book value 
At 31 March 2007 3 19,950 19,953
At 31 March 2006 26 21,342 21,368
On 11 November 2005, the Company purchased the entire share capital of Chelys Limited, the parent company of the Energis Group
(‘Energis’), for a total consideration of £705 million. The consideration was made up of £675 million debt repayment, £15 million to acquire
the share capital of Chelys Limited and £15 million of direct costs incurred to acquire Energis. 
As part of the Energis acquisition in November 2005, the Company agreed to pay contingent consideration of between nil and a maximum
of £80 million. The amount of contingent consideration is tied to the Company’s share price and may be satisfied, at the Company’s option,
in either cash or shares of the Company . Payments will be based on a ratio of £1.25 million for every one penny by which the maximum 
three month volume weighted average Cable & Wireless share price in the third year following completion exceeds the reference price 
of 135 pence. Any payments would begin in March 2008, would be payable once a month until December 2008 and will be based upon
Cable & Wireless’ volume weighted average share price for the three months prior to any relevant payment date. 
On 11 December 2005, the entire shareholding in Chelys Limited was sold to another Group company at no gain or loss. However , liability 
for the contingent consideration still remains with the Company .
At 31 March 2007 , an additional £37 million consideration was recognised reflecting the present value of the contingent consideration
estimated to be payable by the Company .
Associates and joint ventures
2006/07 2005/06 
£m £m
Investments at net book value
Listed shares – 23
Unlisted shares 3 2
Loans – 1
3 26
The market value of the Company’s holdings in listed shares of associates and joint ventures was £nil (2005/06 – £335 million). A list of
the Company’s significant subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures is disclosed in note 19.  117
8  Debtors 
2006/07 2005/06 
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
T rade debtors – 3
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 45 41
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures – 4
Other taxation and social security 4 5
Other debtors 3 6
Prepayments and accrued income 8 7
60 66
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Other debtors 8 3
Total debtors 68 69
The fair value of all debtors is not materially different from their carrying value. 
9  Investments 
F air value through Available 
profit and loss for sale 
£m £m 
At 31 March 2006 39 670
Net disposals (39) 215
At 31 March 2007 –885
Less current portion –870
Non-current portion –15
Y ear-end financial investments comprise the following:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Listed securities
UK Government Gilts 15 15
Unlisted securities
Credit linked notes – 39
Short-term deposits 870 655
The credit linked notes were issued by two AA-rated banks and were aligned with the Company’s 2012 bond. These transactions had 
a similar economic effect to repurchasing the bond for the period of the investment. They were sold during the year .
Financial statements
Company 118
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007 
10  Creditors 
2006/07 2005/06 
(restated)
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
T rade creditors 1 3
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings (reclassified) 15,374 18,394
Other taxation and social security 97 102
Other creditors 23 47
Accruals and deferred income 24 30
15,519 18,576
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Accruals and deferred income 37 –
Management have reassessed the classification of intercompany loans during the current year to reflect the terms of the loans, which state
they are repayable on demand. It is considered remote that the requirement to actually repay the loans within one year would be exercised.
The comparative has been adjusted in order to be consistent.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group. There is no
material difference between the carrying value and fair value of creditors at 31 March 2007 . 
11  Convertible debt, bonds and loans 
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
Note £m £m
4% convertible unsecured bond due end 2010 (a) 213 202
Sterling bond due in 2012 (b) 161 184
Euro loan paid in 2006 (c) – 106
Derivative financial instrument 12 – 15
374 507
Less: current portion – (121)
Non-current portion of loans, bonds and convertible bonds 374 386
The payment profile of loans and obligations is: 
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Due in less than one year – 121
Due in more than one year but not more than two years – –
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 213 202
Due in more than five years 161 184
Total loans and convertible bonds 374 507
(a) Convertible unsecured bond 
On 16 July 2003, £257 ,714,000 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par . Each bond entitles the holder to convert the
conversion amount of such bond into fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each at an amended rate of 689.655 ordinary shares for 
each £1,000 held at an initial conversion price of £1.45 per ordinary share at any time prior to 9 July 2010. Full conversion of the bonds
would result in an additional 177 ,733,748 shares being issued. The bond also has a take-over protection clause, which adjusts the share
conversion price, in the event of a change of control. Also, after 16 July 2007 , if Cable & Wireless’ share price exceeds £1.885 for 20 out 
of 30 consecutive trading days, Cable & Wireless has the right to give not less than 30 days’ and not more than 90 days’ notice that it will
redeem all unconverted bonds still outstanding on a given date at par plus accrued interest. If the bonds have not been converted,
purchased and cancelled or redeemed by 16 July 2010 they will be redeemed at par on that date. 119
The finance costs charged in the profit and loss accounts comprise the aggregate of the interest expense and the proportion of issue costs
that relate to the financial year . 
The convertible bond is recognised on the balance sheet as follows: 
£m
F ace value of convertible bond issued on 16 July 2003 258
Issue costs (6) 
Equity conversion component on initial recognition (75) 
Previous years’ amortisation of the liability component 15 
Liability component on 1 April 2005 192
Interest expense 20
Interest paid (10)
Liability component on 1 April 2006 202
Interest expense 21
Interest paid (10)
Liability component at 31 March 2007 213
Interest expense on the bond is calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate 10.7% for an equivalent 
non-convertible bond to the liability component of the convertible bond. 
(b) Sterling bond 
The sterling bond consists of a £200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance at 31 March 2007 , net of costs, of £161 million (2005/06
– £184 million). Interest is payable at 8.75% per annum. During 2006/07 the Company repurchased but did not cancel £20 million of this
bond at an average price of 104.9 pence. 
(c) European Investment Bank loan with a balance at 31 March 2006, net of costs of £106 million was repaid during the year .
12  Derivative financial liabilities 
The fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments is presented below. 
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Liabilities – current
Cross currency swaps – 15
Cross currency swaps 
The Company had a euro denominated loan (the ‘loan’) and a related euro-sterling cross currency swap (the ‘swap’) with terms matching
those of the loan. The loan and swap matured in September 2006. At 31 March 2006 the loan was translated into sterling at the closing
rate. The swap was marked to market at the same date. The Company did not apply hedge accounting to the loan and swap. Gains and
losses on the swap materially offset the interest expense and exchange movements on the loan. 
Forward exchange contracts 
The Company held forward exchange contracts of US$83 million at 31 March 2007 (2005/06 – US$44 million) hedging currency
exposures in US and Jamaican dollars. The Company did not apply hedge accounting to the forward exchange contracts. The contracts 
are revalued to fair value at each reporting date. Gains and losses on the contracts are recognised in the profit and loss. 
Financial statements
Company 120
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007 
13  Fair values 
Set out below is a comparison of carrying amounts and fair values of the financial liabilities of the Company that are not measured at fair
value at the reporting date.
Market values obtained from third parties have been used to determine the fair value of all financial liabilities. 
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
£m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities
Convertible bond 213 311 202 228
Sterling repayable due in 2012 161 170 184 189
Euro loan repayable in 2006 –– 106 106
Cross currency swap –– 15 15
374 481 507 538
At 31 March 2007 , the effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate
%%
4% convertible unsecured bond due end 2010 GBP 10.7 GBP 10.7
Sterling repayable due in 2012 GBP 8.7 GBP 8.7
The carrying amounts of the Company’s cash and short-term investments and loans and borrowings are denominated in the following
currencies: 
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
Financial Financial Financial Financial
assets liabilities assets liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Sterling 532 374 790 401
US dollar 286 – 39 –
Euro 58 – 27 106
876 374 856 507
14  Provisions for liabilities and charges 
At 1 April  Amounts At 31 March
2006 Additions Releases used 2007 
Note £m £m £m £m £m 
Deferred taxation (i) – ––– –
Redundancy (ii) 10 3 (8) (4) 1
Property (iii) 5 8 (5) – 8
Network (iv) 2 – – (2) –
Other (v) 70 9 (25) (1) 53
87 20 (38) (7) 62
(i) Deferred taxation 
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. Due to the availability of
losses and other reliefs, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future. 
As at 31 March 2007 , the Company had unrecognised deferred tax timing differences in the UK relating to capital allowances of £13 million
(2005/06 – £13 million), losses of £nil (2005/06 – £31 million) and other timing differences of £75 million (2005/06 – £94 million).  121
(ii) Redundancy 
Provisions have been made for the cost of redundancies announced during the year . These are expected to be utilised within one year. 
(iii) Property 
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant
properties being sub-let. The provision is expected to be utilised over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life. 
(iv) Network 
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity . The provision is
expected to be utilised over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life. 
(v) Other 
Other provisions include amounts relating to the disposal of the previously discontinued US businesses, amounts relating to specific claims
held against the Group’s former insurance operation Pender , amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Company and amounts
relating to acquisitions and disposals of Group companies and investments. The reversal of unused amounts reflect the resolution of claims
and other risks during the year . 
15  Called up share capital 
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
Authorised
3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each
(2005/06 – 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each) 875 875
Allotted, called up and fully paid
2,460,483,642 ordinary shares of 25 pence each
(2005/06 – 2,421,046,668 ordinary shares of 25 pence each) 615 605
Purchases and allotments of ordinary shares of 25 pence each were made during the year in respect of the following: 
Gross 
Number of consideration
shares received
allotted £
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 4,839,092 3,561,002
Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2,129,125 1,154,318
Share Option Plan – Approved 569,680 626,337
Share Option Plan – Unapproved 8,368,117 9,325,263
Scrip dividends
1
23,530,960 –
Total 39,436,974 14,666,920
1 Scrip dividends with a cash equivalent value of £28 million (2005/06 – £12 million) were issued during the year . This represents a non-cash transaction. 
For more information on called up share capital refer to note 34 in the consolidated financial statements.
Financial statements
Company 122
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007 
16  Reserves 
Profit 
Share T reasury Special Revaluation Other F air value and loss
premium shares reserve reserve reserves reserve account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2006 24 (231) 1,714 – 152 3 860 2,522
Premium on shares issued 32 – (42) – – – 42 32
Profit for the year retained –––––– 246 246
Unrealised gains on disposal –––– 20–– 20
ESOP trust shares issued to satisfy share awards – 3––––– 3
Revaluation of investments in subsidiaries – – – 1,569––– 1,569
Share-based payment costs –––––– 11 11
Dividends –––––– (111) (111)
At 31 March 2007 56 (228) 1,672 1,569 172 3 1,048 4,292
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was £10 million (2005/06 – £7 million). The nominal value and market value
of treasury shares held by the Company at 31 March 2007 was £19 million and £125 million, (2005/06 – £19 million and £82 million)
respectively . Also included in treasury shares are 37 million (2005/06 – 51 million) shares acquired by the Cable & Wireless ESOP T rust
(the T rust) for consideration of £100 million (2005/06 – £139 million). The nominal value and market value of the T rust’s shares held at 
31 March 2007 was £9 million and £61 million (2005/06 – £13 million and £56 million) respectively . All shares in the T rust are held to
satisfy the Company’s obligation in respect of share options granted. 
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of share premium account approved at the 2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court in
February 2004. It will be reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid up share capital and share premium account
after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration. The special reserve will not be treated
as realised profits until any debt or claim outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied. 
Other reserves includes £105 million (2005/06 – £105 million) capital redemption reserve, £47 million (2005/06 – £47 million) relating to
the transfer of the convertible element of the convertible bond to equity and £20 million (2005/06 – £nil) relating to unrealised gains on
the disposal of investments.
The Company has a policy of carrying investments in subsidiary undertakings at valuation. During the year the Directors have considered
the value of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings which has resulted in a revaluation reserve of £1,569 million being recognised. 123
17  Pension scheme 
The Company is a member of a Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay . Because the Company is
unable to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, as permitted by FRS 17 Retirement
benefits, the scheme has been accounted for in these financial statements as if the scheme was a defined contribution scheme. 
The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2005 and was updated for FRS 17 purposes to 31 March 2007 by a qualified
external independent actuary . The contribution for the year was £10.5 million (2005/06 – £110.8 million). It has been agreed that an
employer contribution rate of 22.3% (2005/06 – 22.3%) of pensionable pay will apply from 1 April 2006. Further details of the scheme 
are set out in note 33 of the consolidated accounts. 
The Company also operates unfunded pension plans to cover the costs of former Directors’ and other senior employees’ pension
entitlements. Provision is made in the Company’s financial statements for the expected costs of meeting the associated liabilities 
and is disclosed as the retirement benefit obligation on the Company’s balance sheet. 
The major assumptions used in this valuation at the end of the year were:
2006/07 2005/06 
% % 
Inflation assumption 3.0 2.8
Rate of increase in salaries 3.5 3.3
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.2  or  3.0 2.8 or 3.0
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities 5.3 4.9
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the
timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. 
Scheme assets and liabilities 
The fair value of the schemes assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant change before
they are realised, and the present value of the schemes liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and thus
inherently uncertain, were: 
Unfunded Unfunded Funded Funded
value value value value 
2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
At 31 March
Equities – – 1,115 997
Bonds and gilts – – 777 715
Property – – 167 133
Cash – – 25 137
T otal market value of assets – – 2,084 1,982
Present value of scheme liabilities (22) (23) (2,030) (2,059)
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme – pension (liability)/asset (22) (23) 54 (77)
Related deferred tax liability/asset – – – –
Net pension (liability)/asset (22) (23) 54 (77)
Financial statements
Company 124
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007 
17  Pension scheme continued
Long term rate of return 
2006/07 2005/06
% %  
Equities 7.8 7.5
Bonds and gilts 5.0 4.5
Property 6.5 6.0
Cash 4.5 4.3
Movement in deficit during the year
Unfunded Unfunded Funded Funded
2006/07 2005/06 2006/07 2005/06
£m £m £m £m
Deficit in scheme at beginning of year (23) (20) (77) (160)
Current service cost – – (14) (17)
Contributions paid 1 – 11 111
Curtailment surplus – – 4 –
Other finance (cost)/income – (1) 19 11
Actuarial (loss)/gain – (2) 111 (22)
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme at the end of the year (22) (23) 54 (77)
18  Related party transactions 
Under FRS 8 Related party disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions with entities that are part 
of the Cable & Wireless Group, or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties, as all of the Company’s voting rights are controlled
within the Group.
Transactions with associates and joint ventures 
All trade transactions with associates and joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable 
& Wireless products and services, network and access charges. There were no material trade transactions with associated companies and
joint ventures during the year . 
The Company received £7 million (2005/06 – £20 million) dividends from associates and £3 million (2005/06 – £2 million) from joint
ventures for the year ended 31 March 2007 . 
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures are set out in note 8. 
Transactions with other related parties
There are no controlling shareholders of the Company . 
There were no material transactions with Directors, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings. 
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company . Other than the parties disclosed above, the Company has
no other material related parties.  125
19  Subsidiaries and joint ventures 
Ownership
Issued 
share
Local capital Via Class of Country of Area of
currency (million) Direct subsidiaries shares incorporation operation
Subsidiaries
Cable & Wireless UK GBP 3,033 – 100%OrdinaryEngland UK
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 – 82% Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica
Cable & Wireless Panama, SA
1 
Balboa 316 – 49% Ordinary Panama Panama
Companhia de T elecomunicacoes de Macau, SARL
2
Pataca 150 – 51%Ordinary Macau Macau
and China 
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Ltd B$ 72 – 81% Ordinary Barbados Barbados
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Ltd GBP 5 – 100% Ordinary England Caribbean
Monaco T elecom SAM
3 4
Euro 2 – 49% Ordinary Monaco Monaco
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd
2
Rufiya 190 – 45% Ordinary Maldives Maldives
Joint ventures
T elecommunications Services of T rinidad and T obago Ltd
3
T$ 283 – 49% Ordinary T rinidad T rinidad
and T obago and T obago
1 The Company regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement.
2 This company had a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders’ agreement.
3 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its International member firms.
4 The Company holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco T elecom via a subsidiary .
The list above only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures
shown in the financial statements.
On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55% of Monaco T elecom, a Monaco-based telecommunication service provider , from 
Vivendi Universal. 
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco T elecom to an unrelated
third party . Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In addition, the 6%
interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management
control of Monaco T elecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions,
a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality (subject to certain limited exceptions) selling their shares in Monaco T elecom 
for five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality . The Principality
has a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco T elecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008. 
The exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco T elecom.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, associates, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual
Return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
20  Dividends
Please refer to note 17 in the consolidated financial statements.
21  Commitments 
The Company had no capital commitments at the end of the financial year or previous year . 
Financial statements
Company 126
22  Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Guarantees given by the Company at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as
follows: 
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£m £m
T rading guarantees 117 184
Other guarantees 204 310
Total guarantees 321 494
T rading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds or contracts issued in the normal course of business, guaranteeing the Group
company will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The guarantees also enable
the customer to obtain repayment of any advance payment in the event of the relevant subsidiary failing to carry out its contractual
obligations in full. Some of these guarantees are uncapped. 
Other guarantees comprise guarantees for financial obligations of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of borrowings,
leases and letters of credit. Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies
within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company
treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make
payment under the guarantee.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and
transportation of materials. The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under 
the contract. 
Whilst Pender , the Group’s former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003 it has in the past written
policies in favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of
these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers. Detail of these insurance claims
and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
Other matters 
In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a
number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally , liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales
proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given. 
In relation to the sale of CWC ConsumerCo in May 2000, the Company gave a number of standard warranties and indemnities. There is no
time limit or cap that applies generally , the Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility
sharing agreements. Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps. 
The principal guarantee by the Company is for the £200 million 2019 bond issued by Cable & Wireless International Finance BV .
Whilst the Company ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund in 1999, it may be liable for future contributions to
fund a portion of any future funding deficits. Currently , the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2007  127
Shareholder
information
Shareholder
information
Everything shareholders
need to know about 
how to administer 
their shareholding 
in Cable & Wireless. 128
Shareholder information
Company Secretary and registered office
Nick Cooper is the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel. 
The Company’s registered office and address for correspondence is:
7th Floor
The Point
37 North Wharf Road
London W2 1LA
T el: +44 (0)20 7315 4000 
Registrar
The Company has appointed Lloyds TSB Registrars as its share registrar . All queries about your shareholding should be addressed to:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T el: 0870 600 3975 (UK shareholders)
+44 121 415 7047 (overseas shareholders)
Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their shareholding by viewing Shareview (www.shareview.co.uk).
Electronic communication
As an alternative to receiving documents through the post, Cable & Wireless offers shareholders the option to elect to receive
communications from the Company electronically . T o make use of this facility , please register at www.shareview.com following 
the on-screen instructions.
Unsolicited mail
Company law requires the Company to make its share register publicly available. As a consequence, shareholders may receive unsolicited
mail, including mail from unauthorised investment firms. For more information on unauthorised investment firms targeting UK investors, 
you should visit the website of the Financial Services Authority (www.fsa.gov .uk/consumer).
Capital Gains Tax
The market value of an ordinary share of the Company at 31 March 1982, for the purpose of capital gains tax indexation allowance, was 
243 pence (40.5 pence when adjusted for capitalisation or rights issues). 
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date 13 June 2007
Record date 15 June 2007
Last date for election to join scrip dividend 13 July 2007
AGM 20 July 2007
Payment of final dividend 10 August 2007
Announcement of interim results 2007 8 November 2007
Dividends
The table below sets out the sterling amounts of interim, final and total gross dividends paid per ordinary share.
Pence per ordinary share
Y ear ended 31 March Interim Final T otal
2006 1.40 3.10 4.50
2007 1.70 4.15 5.85
A scrip dividend scheme will be offered in respect of the final dividend. Those shareholders who have already elected to join the scheme 
need do nothing since the final dividend will be automatically applied to the scheme. Shareholders wishing to join the scheme for the final
dividend (and all future dividends) should return a completed mandate form to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway , Worthing, West
Sussex BN99 2DZ by 13 July 2007 . Copies of the mandate form, and the scrip dividend brochure, can be obtained from Lloyds TSB
Registrars (UK callers: 0870 600 3975, overseas callers: +44 121 415 7047 or from the Company’s website (www.cw.com). ShareGift
If you have a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to donate them to ShareGift, the share
donation charity (registered charity 1052686). ShareGift collects and sells unwanted shares and uses the proceeds to support a wide range
of UK charities. Further information about ShareGift and the charities it has supported is available from their website www.sharegift.org or
you may contact them at 5 Lower Grosvenor Place, London SW1W 0EJ (+44 (0)20 7828 1151).
Trading market
The table below details the high and low middle market quotations for the ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange as reported on 
its Daily Official List.
Pence per ordinary share
High Low
Y ear ended 31 March 2006 164.8 97.5
Y ear ended 31 March 2007 179.5 97.5
Y ear ended 31 March 2007
First quarter 115.00 97.50
Second quarter 138.50 106.25
Third quarter 164.75 136.50
Fourth quarter 179.50 156.75
Distribution and classification of ordinary shareholdings
Number of 
At 31 March 2007 Number of accounts % of total shares % of total
Up to 1,000 shares 79,338 68.63 34,637,838 1.40
1,001 – 10,000 33,786 29.23 83,289,981 3.39
10,001 – 100,000 1,760 1.52 42,412,377 1.72
100,001 – 1,000,000 453 0.39 160, 349,956 6.52
1,000,001 and over 269 0.23 2,139,803,253 86.97
Total 115,606 100.0 2,460,493,405 100.0
At 23 May 2007 , the Company had 114,119 shareholders of record.
Investor Relations
Enquiries may be directed to:
Director , Investor Relations
7th Floor
The Point
37 North Wharf Road
London W2 1LA
or email: investor-relations.c&wplc@cw.com
LSE ticker: CW .
ISIN: GB0001625572
Documents on display
Shareholders can view the service contracts of Executive Directors and letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors at the Company’s
registered office. Shareholders may also obtain copies of the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association at the Company’s
registered office. Designed by Pauffley .
Printed by Royle Corporate Print, a CarbonNeutral
®
company.
The paper used is Revive 100 Offset made from 100% FSC 
certified recycled fibre sourced from de-inked post consumer 
waste. The printer and manufacturing mill are both credited 
with ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard
and both are FSC certified.
When you have finished with this Report, please dispose 
of it responsibly .
Cert no. TT-COC-002228 W e have a clear
vision of where 
we’re going.
This is a review 
of our progress.
2006/07 Annual Review & 
Summary Financial Statements 01 Cable & Wireless at a glance
02 Chairman’s statement
03 Group financial overview
04 International 
10 Europe, Asia & US
16 Board of Directors
18 Summary financial statement and independent auditor’s statement
19 Summary consolidated income statement
20 Summary consolidated balance sheet
21 Summary consolidated cash flow statement
22 Summary remuneration report
24 Summary Directors’ report
25 Understanding your investment
Cable & Wireless is one 
of the world’s leading
telecommunications groups. Cable & Wireless at a glance
International
Operating in 33 countries across five
continents, we aim to be the telecoms
provider of choice in all of our markets. 
We'll do that by offering our customers
attractive products and services using high
quality networks coupled with a superior
customer experience.
We are the only full service provider in 
most of our markets, providing mobile,
broadband, domestic and international 
fixed line services to both residential and
business customers. 
Europe, Asia & US
*
Providing enterprise and carrier solutions 
to the largest users of telecoms services
around the world, we intend to be the 
first customer-defined communications 
services business. We also provide
wholesale broadband services in the 
UK through C&W Access.
We’ve set our sights firmly on a worldwide
target market of around 3,000 corporates,
carriers and public institutions and on
providing a superior level of service to 
our customers.
Two businesses with one goal:
providing an excellent customer
experience.
*Formerly known as the UK
#
Includes C&W Access
2005/06 £1,212m
2006/07
Revenue
£1,228m
2005/06 £417m
2006/07
EBITDA
£430m
2005/06 £2,040m
2006/07
Revenue
#
   £2,139m
2005/06 £44m
2006/07
EBITDA
#
£84m Highlights
■
Over five million mobile customers; 
market leader in 20 out of 24 markets 
■
Over 400,000 broadband customers;
market leader in all 26 markets
■
Revenue increased 7% (at constant
currency) to £1.2 billion, with mobile
revenue up 19% and broadband revenue 
up 45%
■
EBITDA up 8% (at constant currency) 
to £430 million, EBITDA margin of 35% 
■
Cash repatriation of over £0.5 billion
Highlights
■
Turnaround under way – integration
completed and recovery ahead of schedule
■
EBITDA of £84 million nearly double 
last year
■
Cash for the turnaround well within
expectations
■
Rollout to over 800 exchanges complete;
LLU capability in place for wholesale
broadband and future enterprise services 
■
We have set our platform to achieve 
our ambition of £2 billion revenue and
double-digit operating margin
The company we keep
31 March 2006 3,485,000
31 March 2007
Mobile customers
   5,033,000
31 March 2006 288,000
31 March 2007
Broadband customers
   401,000 01
A year after our decision to
operate as two standalone
businesses, EBITDA is up
20% to £492 million.
Good news.
But this is just the start.
There is more change 
to come and more value 
to unlock.
Group revenue 
up 4%
£3.3
bn
Group cash
£1.0
bn
Full year dividend 
per share up 30% to
5.85
p 02
Chairman’s statement
While I’m pleased with our
progress, I must underline that
we’re only at the start – there’s 
a great deal more value to 
create and deliver .
It’s been a good year . The success of the 
structural changes of a year ago is there for all 
to see. The International business has performed
well delivering growth in customers and revenues 
and, as a result, improved EBITDA. We have made
a very encouraging start to the Europe, Asia & US
turnaround and we now have sufficient visibility to
believe that we’ll deliver on our ambitious targets.
A year ago, I was absolutely clear about our priorities 
– namely delivery and execution. That has not changed;
what I did not anticipate was the scale and pace of
operational improvements that we would see in this 
first year of the new approach.
So, while I'm pleased with our progress, I must underline
that we're only at the start – there's a great deal more
value to create and deliver .
The move to separate our businesses into two 
discrete operating arms both absolutely focused 
on their customers’ needs – and the resulting smaller 
Central division acting as a portfolio manager for the 
two – has proved itself to be the right one. This is
evidenced by improving financial performance and 
a strong balance sheet with shareholder value rising 
by £1.5 billion this year .
Likewise, with a slimmed down main Board and 
Operating Boards for International and Europe, Asia & US,
our new Board structure is working well. As part of this
new structure, we were delighted to welcome Simon Ball
as a Non-executive Director who brings with him a wealth
of financial acumen and investment experience. 
All of this reinforces our confidence in our future
prospects which is reflected in the dividend. I'm 
delighted to recommend a 34% rise in the final dividend 
to 4.15 pence which, with the interim of 1.7 pence, gives 
a full year dividend of 5.85 pence, an increase of 30% 
over last year .
Looking to the future, it's a case of more of the same. 
With delivery and execution remaining our number 
one priority , the coming year will see us building on the
success and accomplishments of the last and remaining
focused on creating value for our shareholders.
Finally , I would like to take this opportunity to mention our
people. Specifically , I want to express my sincere thanks 
to each and every one of them for the significant effort
they put in and commitment they show day in, day out.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman 03
Group financial overview
Our performance over the last 
12 months has shown marked
improvement. However , there 
is more to do.
Our 20% improvement in EBITDA reflects 
ongoing progress. This performance is supported
by a strong cash position which gives us the
flexibility we need to invest in our business.
Revenue has increased by 4% to £3,348 million driven by
inclusion of Energis for a full year which more than offset
the impact of the anticipated churn and erosion Europe,
Asia & US encountered in restructuring the business to
focus on larger , more profitable customers. In addition, this
growth was supported by a good revenue performance 
in International where further increases in mobile and
broadband revenue have compensated for the shift away
from fixed line voice services and a weaker US dollar .
Operating costs before the Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan
charge of £27 million increased by £37 million to £2,856
million, predominantly driven by the impact of servicing
customers acquired with Energis. The operating costs of
Central reduced from £50 million to £22 million following
the restructuring of the Group resulting in a reduction in
consultancy costs and a headcount decrease from 156 
at 31 March 2006 to 75 at 31 March 2007 .
The trends in revenue and operating costs described
above and in more detail on pages 8 to 9 and 14 to 15
resulted in a 20% improvement in EBITDA of £81 million 
to £492 million.
Net finance expense was £28 million and our share 
of post-tax profit of joint ventures and associates was 
£18 million.
We recognised a £53 million profit in respect of
exceptional items before taxation and discontinued
operations. This was primarily due to the sale of our
Bahrain associate for net proceeds of £256 million
and a profit of £153 million, offset by headcount reduction
and property rationalisation programmes of £78 million
and an impairment of our investment in T rinidad and
T obago of £29 million.
As a result of all of the above, our profit before income 
tax more than doubled to £249 million.
Cash and cash equivalents
We ended the year with Group cash and cash 
equivalents of £1,048 million. Strong cash generation 
from International and the sale of Batelco has more 
than offset our continued investment in the turnaround 
in Europe, Asia & US and the repayment of our loan 
from the European Investment Bank. 
Pensions
The IAS 19 surplus for the main UK defined benefit
pension scheme at 31 March 2007 is £43 million 
(31 March 2006: deficit £89 million). The aggregate 
IAS 19 surplus for all our schemes is £28 million at 
31 March 2007 (31 March 2006: £102 million deficit).
Tony Rice
Finance Director and Joint Group 
Managing Director , Central 04
Falkland
Islands
Caribbean
& Bermuda 
Panama
Our International business
operates in 33 countries around
the world, serving residential 
and business customers. 
International 05
Vanuatu, Fiji &
the Solomon Islands
Monaco
Afghanistan
Diego Garcia,
Maldives 
& the Seychelles
Macau
Tunisia
& Algeria
Saint 
Helena & 
Ascension
Isle of Man
& Channel 
Islands 
International has performed well. We have started
to see the rewards of putting the customer at the
centre of everything we do. In fact, as the leading
telecommunications provider in nearly all our
markets, we’re a company to be reckoned with.
We aspire to be the telecoms provider of choice wherever
we operate. How? By offering our customers attractive
products and services using high quality technology and
coverage coupled with a superior customer experience.
So, we’re building a dynamic organisation that ensures 
our customers benefit from the new services, expertise
and efficiencies achieved since market liberalisation. 
For the good of our customers, there’s a shared purpose 
to be the best we can as we improve processes, remove
duplication and focus on creating enhanced and more
resilient services. We’re working as a team better than
ever before.
In a nutshell, we’re prepared not just to meet our
competition, but to beat it. As such, we’ve made 
significant progress over the past year , particularly 
in Panama, Jamaica, Macau and Barbados.
We saw strong growth in Panama – where low mobile 
and broadband penetration and plans to expand the
Panama canal should continue to drive growth – and
likewise, in Macau, the gaming industry is driving demand. 
I’m particularly pleased that the turnaround in Jamaica 
is clearly underway and delivering results with mobile
customers up nearly 50% and growing market share, 
and broadband customers almost doubling since 
March 2006. 
We continue to invest in mobile and broadband to improve
network quality and coverage and take advantage of low
market penetration – next year , we’re aiming to enable
90% of our network for at least 8Mbps broadband.
But despite our good progress, I’m far from satisfied and
there is always room for improvement. In particular , we
must do better in our joint venture in T rinidad and T obago
where we don't have management control.
We have what it takes to drive our business forward 
and I'd like to thank everyone in the team. Without them,
none of the achievements of the past 12 months would
have been possible.
Harris Jones
Chief Executive of International
and Joint Group Managing Director 06
International continued
W e’re the market leader 
in nearly all of our markets, 
offering mobile, broadband 
and fixed line services. 
W e treat each business
individually while 
taking advantage
of our global reach. 07
W e have over five million 
mobile customers…
…and over 400,000 
broadband customers. 08
International continued
Our focus on mobile and broadband has paid
dividends with customer numbers growing to 
over five million for mobile and over 400,000 
for broadband. Our EBITDA has increased 
by 8% to £430 million, with an EBITDA 
margin of 35%.
We had over five million mobile customers at the end 
of 2006/07 across 24 markets, an increase of 44%
compared with 31 March 2006. We are the market leader
in all but four of these markets. Our total broadband
customers increased by 39% to over 400,000 customers
in 2006/07 . We are the market leader in all 26 of our
broadband markets.
T otal revenue increased 7% to £1,228 million compared
with 2005/06. Growth in mobile and broadband
contributed an additional £67 million of revenue in
2006/07 and these two products now represent almost
40% of our total revenue.  
Mobile revenue grew £46 million to £406 million in
2006/07 , a 19% increase compared with 2005/06. 
Mobile is our largest segment representing about a third 
of our total revenue. Our broadband revenue increased 
by 45% compared with 2005/06 to £77 million, with
growth in all our regions. 
Operating costs increased £3 million to £798 million. 
As a percentage of revenue, operating costs have 
declined reflecting the restructuring of our businesses 
and cost control, with a 3% decrease in headcount to
7 ,876 at 31 March 2007 .
EBITDA increased from £417 million to £430 million 
in 2006/07 . Our reported EBITDA margin was 35.0% 
in 2006/07 compared with 34.4% in 2005/06. 
International income statement
2006/07 2005/06
£m £m
Mobile 406 360
Broadband 77 56
Voice 475 526
Enterprise, data and other 270 270
Total revenue 1,228 1,212
Operating costs (798) (795)
EBITDA
1
430 417
L TIP charge (10) –
Depreciation and amortisation (145) (142)
Net other operating income 2 –
Share of post-tax profit of 
joint ventures and associates 21 58
Exceptional items (29) (12)
Total operating profit 269 321
1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation,
exceptionals, Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) charge 
and net other operating income.
All percentage comparisons in the narrative year-on-year are at 
constant currency . 09
We finish this year stronger 
than we began and have set the
foundation for an even better
performance in 2007/08.
The charge for the Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP)
introduced in 2006/07 was £10 million, in line with the
59% increase in total shareholder return. Depreciation 
and amortisation increased by £3 million compared with
2005/06 to £145 million driven mainly by our investment
in mobile and broadband. 
Our share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and
associates was £21 million compared with £58 million 
in 2005/06. The main reasons for this reduction are the
disposal of our stake in our associate in Bahrain (Batelco)
and the poor performance of our joint venture in T rinidad 
and T obago (TSTT).
As a result of the poor trading performance of TSTT , we
have made an exceptional write down of £29 million to 
our share of net assets. International exceptional items 
also include £13 million of expenses following headcount
reduction programmes offset by £13 million exceptional
credits relating to insurance receipts and related 
provision releases.
Capital expenditure
We increased our capital expenditure by £26 million
compared with 2005/06 to £168 million with a focus 
on extending our mobile networks and improving the
speed and coverage of our broadband networks.
Cash flow
We generated £482 million net cash flow in the year ,
including £256 million from the sale of our associate
Batelco. We repatriated £530 million to Central. 
2005/06 £1,212m
2006/07
Revenue
£1,228m
2005/06 £417m
2006/07
EBITDA
£430m
2005/06 £363m
2006/07
Cash inflow before financing
£482m Our success rests on our ability 
to deliver great service to our
customers – and that relies
heavily on our people.
Europe, Asia & US
10
Integration
Create a single 
business
Recovery
Create a turnaround mindset 
and a new starting position
Transformation
Create a new business for
the new environment The last year’s been almost entirely without
glamour – as it should be. Eighteen months 
ago, when we set out our intention to deliver 
a matchless service experience to our top end
corporate and public sector customers worldwide,
we were clear that our turnaround would take
three to five years. So we’ve had our heads 
down and our sleeves rolled up.
We’ve achieved a great deal, but there’s plenty more 
to do. Whilst we’re almost through our recovery phase 
– delivering solid performance – we’re also ready to begin
our transformation phase where we’ll realise our ambition
of being the first customer-defined communications
services business.
Our enduring success will rest on our ability to deliver
great service and that relies heavily on the efforts of our
people. The success we’ve achieved thus far has been 
due to the efforts of everyone in the business so I’d like to
express my gratitude to my colleagues. Their calibre and
energy – especially through tough times – is impressive.
They are our best asset.
So what have we been up to? Put simply , we’ve built a
reliable business. We’re two-thirds of the way through our
customer reduction programme; winning more business
than we anticipated and with a more reasonable mix of
more sustainable revenues; service is improving and 
we’re creating a customer-centric culture that values 
its people. We’ve exited consumer broadband with 
the sale of the Bulldog retail customer base and moved 
to a wholesale approach for our local loop capability 
– an asset which gives us a competitive advantage.
The culture in our business today is materially different.
Customer focus and service obsession are back at the 
top of our agenda and colleagues’ sentiment improves
with each new success.
Our work is starting to show in a good set of results 
that still only hint at our future strength. Whilst there’s 
no shortage of new opportunities, it’s important we 
don’t get distracted as these are still early days.
The time I’ve spent in the business has shown me 
clearly what Cable & Wireless means, and could mean, 
to customers, colleagues and shareholders. Helping 
to create the Cable & Wireless they truly deserve is 
our simple goal – we won’t fail them.
John Pluthero
Chairman Europe, Asia & US
and Joint Group Managing Director
+
We serve the largest 
telecoms users both here 
and internationally
+
With high quality managed 
IP services
+
Famous for a great 
service experience
+
V aluable for customers 
and economic for us
11
Our strategy 12
Europe, Asia & US continued
Telecoms customers have
been forced to suffer poor
service from our industry
for too long. Our ambition
is to change that.
W e’re investing
in our people.
We’re all about giving good service to
customers. Delivering that ambition relies 
on having happy , motivated people. 
We’re putting all our energy into ensuring
our people can do their jobs well and we’re
busy creating a company where people
aspire to work.
A new start, 
a new way .
21st century businesses require new and
different things from their communications
suppliers. We’re leading by example. 
Under our banner of ‘ A New Way
Everywhere’, we’re re-designing every
aspect of our business based on what 
our customers want. 13
W e have a clear vision
of where we’re going.
Our mission is to be
famous for delivering
great service.
That’s going to happen.
W e’re not there yet – 
but we are getting better .
Providing enterprise and carrier 
solutions to the largest users of telecoms
services worldwide, we intend to be the 
first customer-defined communications 
services business. 14
Europe, Asia & US continued
This year we have done exactly what we said we
would do, and the results speak for themselves.
We have built a reliable business and there is 
more to come.
Europe, Asia & US (excluding C&W Access)
Our programme to reduce the number of customers is
progressing well and we now have fewer than 10,000
customers. We expect to reduce the overall number of
customers to about 3,000, comprising large corporates,
carriers and public institutions.
And we are seeing growth in our global enterprise
customers, and have expanded our dedicated services
portfolio. The proportion of revenue from our services
customers has increased from 44% in the second half 
of 2005/06 to 48% for the same period this year . 
We expect to see further growth in this area as a 
result of winning three additional dedicated services
customers in 2006/07 .
The proportion of IP , data and hosting revenue (our
strategic product set) has increased from 27% in the
second half of 2005/06 to 37% for the same period this
year . This is a result of organic growth in our services
customers, migration of customers from legacy data
products to IP and a reduction in traditional voice.
T otal revenue increased by £91 million to £2,119 million 
in 2006/07 . This is largely due to the inclusion of a full
year of Energis in 2006/07 . This has more than offset the
impact of the anticipated churn and erosion encountered
in restructuring the business to focus on larger , more
profitable customers. 
T otal operating costs of £1,960 million are £81 million
higher than in 2005/06 as a result of the increased cost
base following the Energis acquisition, but have reduced
as a proportion of revenue.
EBITDA has increased by 7% to £159 million.
The Cash L TIP charge of £17 million was in line with our 
59% increase in shareholder return.
Europe, Asia & US
1
2006/07 2005/06
£m £m
IP , data and hosting 727 513
Legacy products 191 227
T raditional voice 1,201 1,288
C&W Access 43 33
Eliminations (23) (21)
Total revenue 2,139 2,040
T otal operating costs (2,055) (1,996)
EBITDA
2
84 44
L TIP charge (17) –
Depreciation and amortisation (128) (138)
Net other operating income 8 –
Share of post-tax loss of 
joint ventures and associates (3) (6)
Exceptional items (89) (234)
Total operating loss (145) (334)
1 Including C&W Access.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation,
exceptionals, L TIP charge and net other operating income. 15
Depreciation and amortisation of £104 million in 
2006/07 is lower than in 2005/06, mainly as a result 
of an impairment of our fixed assets at the end of
2005/06.
We recognised exceptional charges of £60 million
principally related to the ongoing restructuring of 
our business.
In 2006/07 , total capital expenditure was £204 million.
We continued to invest according to our customers’ needs
and spent £63 million on customer-specific projects,
representing a relative increase in customer capital
expenditure compared to 2005/06 (from 29% to 31%). 
Our net cash outflow before financing for the year was
£162 million. The cash outflow for the year principally
reflects EBITDA of £159 million, exceptional items and
provisions relating to restructuring costs of £60 million,
working capital and other provisions movement of 
£74 million and capital expenditure of £186 million. 
C&W Access
Following the sale of our retail customer base to Pipex in
September 2006, our revenue is now primarily generated
from our wholesale agreements. 
Revenue of £43 million in 2006/07 is £10 million 
higher than 2005/06 and reflects the increase in our
average end user base over the year . Operating costs 
fell by £22 million to £116 million in line with our cost
reduction programmes. EBITDA improved by £32 million
to a loss of £73 million. Exceptional costs of £29 million
include £5 million for restructuring activities, a £13 million
write off of redundant IT assets, and the write off 
of £20 million of the Bulldog intangible assets offset 
by £9 million of net cash proceeds from the sale of the
Bulldog retail customer base. This resulted in a net
operating loss of £128 million for the year . 
Our net cash outflow for the year was £110 million.
Our turnaround is showing 
good progress. But we are only
part way through our journey .
2005/06 £2,040m
2006/07
Revenue
£2,139m
2005/06 £44m
2006/07
EBITDA
£84m
2005/06 25%
2006/07
IP , data and hosting revenue*
   34%
*Excludes C&W Access 16
Board of Directors
Richard Lapthorne
N
Chairman
Richard was appointed Chairman in January 2003. 
Previously Chairman of Amersham plc (now GE Healthcare)
joining its Board as a Non-executive Director , he was British
Aerospace plc’s Finance Director and then Vice Chairman 
until his 1999 retirement. Richard is Non-executive Chairman 
of Morse plc and the New Look Group, a Non-executive Director 
of Calibre Audio Library and T ommy's the Baby Charity and 
H M The Queen's trustee at The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Tony Rice
Joint Group Managing
Director , Central and
Finance Director
T ony was appointed Joint Group Managing Director , 
Central and Finance Director on 30 March 2006 having
previously been a Non-executive Director . He was Chief 
Executive of T unstall Holdings Ltd until its sale and continues 
as a Non-executive Director . Previously , T ony was Group 
T reasurer and then Group MD, Commercial Aircraft division 
of British Aerospace plc. T ony is a trustee of Help the Aged 
and was a Non-executive Director of British Mediterranean 
Airways until its acquisition by bmi.
Harris Jones
Joint Group Managing
Director and Chief
Executive International
Harris was appointed Joint Group Managing Director and 
Chief Executive of International business on 1 April 2006 having
previously been Executive Director of the International business
since November 2004. Before that, Harris was CEO of T-Mobile
UK following its acquisition by Deutsche T elekom and has also
held senior executive positions with Omnipoint Communications
and Sprint Spectrum. Harris is a Non-executive Director of
Caracal, Inc. USA.
John Pluthero
Joint Group Managing
Director and Chairman,
Europe, Asia & US
John was appointed Joint Group Managing Director and
Chairman of Europe, Asia & US (formerly UK) on 1 April 2006
having previously been Executive Director . From September 
2002 until the acquisition by Cable & Wireless in November
2005, John was Chief Executive of Energis. Previously , he 
was founder and CEO of Freeserve (now Orange UK) and held
various strategy and operations positions within Dixons Group.
John is a Director of Merville Ltd.
George Battersby
Executive Director ,
Human Resources
George was appointed Director of Human Resources in 
July 2004. Prior to that, he was Group Human Resources 
Director and a member of the Board of Amersham plc 
(now GE Healthcare). George is a Non-executive Director 
at Hogg Robinson Group plc where he is also Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee. 17
Clive Butler
ANR
Non-executive Director;
Senior Independent
Director
Kate Nealon
ANR
Non-executive Director;
Chair of the
Remuneration
Committee
Kasper Rorsted
ANR
Non-executive Director;
Chairman of the Audit
Committee
Agnès Touraine
AR
Non-executive Director
Simon Ball
AR
Non-executive Director
Clive was appointed as a Non-executive Director in 2005. 
Prior to this, he was Corporate Development Director at Unilever
having served on the main Board since 1992. During that period 
he also undertook the roles of Personnel Director and Category
Director for the Home and Personal Care division. Clive joined
Unilever in 1970 and worked in a variety of marketing and 
general management roles prior to his retirement in 2005.
Kasper was appointed as a Non-executive Director in 2003. 
He is Deputy Chairman of the Management Board and Executive
Vice President Human Resources & Infrastructure Services at
Henkel KGaA. Prior to that, Kasper was Senior Vice President 
and General Manager , EMEA for Hewlett Packard and held
various senior management positions with Compaq. Kasper 
is a Non-executive Director of Ecolab, Inc. USA.
Agnès was appointed as a Non-executive Director in 2005. 
Based in France, Agnès is Managing Partner of Act III Consultants
having previously been Chairman and CEO of Vivendi Universal
Publishing. She has held various senior executive positions with
the Lagardère Group and McKinsey . Agnès is a Board member 
of Fondation de France and was appointed as Chairman of the
Supervisory Board of SAIP/Libération, the French newspaper , 
on 18 February 2007 .
Simon was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 May 2006.
Simon is Group Finance Director for 3i Group plc. Previously ,
Simon held a series of senior finance and operational roles over 
15 years at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and Robert Fleming Group
and served as Director General, Finance for the UK Government's
Department for Constitutional Affairs.
Kate was appointed as a Non-executive Director in 2005. 
Kate was Group Head of Legal and Compliance at Standard
Chartered plc having previously practiced international banking
and regulatory law in New Y ork. Kate is a Non-executive Director 
of HBOS plc and Shire plc, a senior associate of the Judge
Business School at Cambridge University and a member 
of the Advisory Council of the Institute of Business Ethics.
A
Denotes membership of 
Audit Committee
N
Denotes membership of
Nominations Committee
R
Denotes membership of
Remuneration Committee 18
Summary financial statement 
and independent auditor’s statement
This summary financial statement is a summary of
information contained in the Group’s Annual Report 
on which the Group’s auditor expressed an unqualified
opinion. The auditor’s report did not include any 
statement under sections 237(2) or 237(3) of the
Companies Act 1985. The summary financial statement
does not contain sufficient information to allow as 
full an understanding of the results of the Group and state
of affairs of the Company or of the Group, and of their
policies and arrangements concerning Directors’
remuneration, as would be provided by the full Annual
Report. For further information the full Annual Report
should be consulted. Requests to receive, free of charge,
copies of the full 2006/07 Annual Report (and elections
to receive the full Annual Report in place of the Annual
Review for all future years) should be sent to the
Company’s registrar whose address is shown on page 25.
Information relating to a review of the activities of the
Group and its subsidiaries and future developments in 
the business is given in the Chairman’s statement, the
Group financial overview, the International section and 
the Europe, Asia & US section on pages 2 to 15 inclusive. 
The Directors of Cable and Wireless plc who served 
during the year and their remuneration for the year 
to 31 March 2007 (or , where relevant, part thereof) 
are shown on pages 16 to 17 and 22 to 23 respectively .
Statement of the independent auditor to 
the members of Cable and Wireless plc
Pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, we
have examined the summary financial statement which
comprises the summary consolidated income statement,
summary balance sheet, summary consolidated cash flow
statement, summary remuneration report and summary
Directors’ report as set out on pages 19 to 24.
This statement is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body , in accordance with section 251 of 
the Companies Act 1985. Our work has been undertaken
so that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in such 
a statement and for no other purpose. T o the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body , for our work, for 
this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of the Directors 
and the auditor
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom 
law. Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion 
on the consistency of the summary financial statement
within the Annual Review with the full Annual Accounts,
Directors’ report and the Directors’ remuneration report,
and its compliance with the relevant requirements of
section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations
made thereunder . We also read the other information
contained in the Annual Review and consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies 
with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin
1999/6 ‘the auditor’s statement on the summary financial
statement’ issued by the Auditing Practices Board for 
use in the United Kingdom. Our report on the Group’s full
Annual Accounts describes the basis of our audit opinion
on those accounts, the Directors’ report and the Directors’
remuneration report.
Opinion
In our opinion the summary financial statement is
consistent with the full Annual Accounts, the Directors’
report and the Directors’ remuneration report of Cable 
and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and
complies with the applicable requirements of section 
251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations 
made thereunder .
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor , London
23 May 2007 19
Summary consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2007
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
Pre- Pre-
exceptionals Exceptionals
1
Total exceptionals Exceptionals
1
Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3,348 – 3,348 3,230 – 3,230
Operating costs before depreciation 
and amortisation (2,883) (78) (2,961) (2,819) (21) (2,840)
Amortisation (39) (11) (50) (46) (60) (106)
Depreciation (234) (2) (236) (228) (177) (405)
Other operating income 13 13 26 –1717
Other operating expenses (2) (11) (13) –––
Operating profit/(loss) 203 (89) 114 137 (241) (104)
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 
and associates 18 (29) (11) 52 2 54
Total operating profit/(loss) 221 (118) 103 189 (239) (50)
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets – 153 153 27072
Gain on termination of operations 318 21 –7272
Net finance (expense)/income (28) – (28) 6– 6
Profit/(loss) before income tax 196 53 249 197 (97) 100
Income tax (expense)/credit (44) 1 (43) (29) 2 (27)
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
continuing operations 152 54 206 168 (95) 73
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations –28 28 28890
Profit/(loss) for the year 152 82 234 170 (7) 163
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 92 82 174 118 (42) 76
Minority interests 60 – 60 52 35 87
Profit/(loss) for the year 152 82 234 170 (7) 163
1 Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as
exceptional by virtue of their size, nature or incidence. The items are explained in the Annual Report.
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders 
of the Company during the year (pence per share)
Basic 7.5p 3.3p
Diluted 7.4p 3.3p
Earnings/(loss) per share attributable to the equity 
holders of the Company from continuing operations 
during the year (pence per share) 
Basic 6.3p (0.6)p
Diluted 6.2p (0.6)p
Dividends per ordinary share – interim (paid) 1.70p 1.40p
Dividends per ordinary share – final (proposed/paid) 4.15p 3.10p
Dividends paid during the year were £111m (2005/06 – £92m) 20
Summary consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 2007
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
(restated)
£m £m
Assets
Non-current assets 2,518 2,518
Current assets (excluding assets held for sale) 1,921 2,128
Assets held for sale 52 105
Total assets 4,491 4,751
Current liabilities
Current liabilities (excluding liabilities associated with assets held for sale) 1,552 1,751
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 10 –
1,562 1,751
Net current assets 411 482
Non-current liabilities 1,039 1,134
Net assets 1,890 1,866
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 615 605
Share premium 56 24
Reserves 1,010 956
1,681 1,585
Minority interests 209 281
Total equity 1,890 1,866
The summary financial statements on pages 19 to 21 were 
approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2007 and 
are signed on its behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne Chairman
Tony Rice Finance Director 21
Summary consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2007
2006/07 2005/06
(restated)
£m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Net cash generated from continuing operations 299 100
Net cash generated from discontinued operations – 3
Income taxes paid (46) (47)
Net cash from operating activities 253 56
Cash flows from investing activities
Net cash used in continuing operations (7) (740)
Net cash from discontinued operations – 27
Net cash used in investing activities (7) (713)
Cash flows from financing activities
Net cash used in continuing operations (303) (249)
Net cash used in discontinued operations – –
Net cash used in financing activities (303) (249)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (57) (906)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,127 2,021
Exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents (22) 12
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,048 1,127
Less: Cash reflected as assets held for sale (5) –
Net cash and cash equivalents 1,043 1,127 22
Summary remuneration report
Notes
The aggregate emoluments of the Directors were £8,268,041 (2005/06 –
£5,850,313).
Included in the pension cash allowance figure above, George Battersby
received a £66,760 contribution refund from the Cable & Wireless  Lifetime
Benefits Plan. None of the Directors accrued benefits under the defined
benefit pension scheme.
Former Chief Executive Officer Francesco Caio received an early termination
payment of £875,000 which accounted for one year’s salary and one year’s
pension contribution.
Charles Herlinger received a contractual entitlement of one year’s salary 
and one year’s pension contributions in relation to early termination.
Rob Rowley was paid a payment of £125,000 to reflect his full- time
commitment for the second half of 2005/06 year , which was paid in 
April 2006.
No Directors had any gains on the exercise of share options in the years
ended 31 March 2007 or 31 March 2006.
Directors’ bonuses for 2006/07 financial year were based on a mixture of
profit and cash flow measures (International and Central Directors) plus key
strategic milestones for the C&W Access business (Europe, Asia & US
Director). With the exception of the profit measure for International, which
was partially met, all measures were fully satisfied. These outcomes resulted
in the bonus payment outlined above. The maximum potential bonus was
100% of salary .
Ongoing costs for salaries/fees for the Board in 2007/08 will be
£2,976,000 (2006/07 – £3,303,117).
Directors’ remuneration
Compensation Pension
Salary Other for early cash Total Total
and fees Bonuses benefits termination allowance 2006/07 2005/06
Name of Director ££ £ £ £ £ £
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 386,000 – 70,850 – – 456,850 402,165
Executive Directors
George Battersby 420,000 420,000 21,806 – 171,760 1,033,566 413,723
Harris Jones 600,000 525,600 394,699 – 150,000 1,670,299 1,788,391
John Pluthero 600,000 600,000 31,494 – 150,000 1,381,494 312,620
T ony Rice 600,000 600,000 27,399 – 150,000 1,377,399 95,521
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball (since 1 May 2006) 59,583 – – – – 59,583 –
Clive Butler 72,500 – 475 – – 72,975 59,583
Kate Nealon 75,000 – 475 – – 75,475 65,738
Kasper Rorsted 90,000 – 5,681 – – 95,681 70,979
Agnès T ouraine 65,000 – 4,485 – – 69,485 71,549
Sub total 2,968,083 2,145,600 557,364 – 621,760 6,292,807 3,280,269
Former Directors
Francesco Caio (until 1 April 2006) 2,692 – 1,503 875,000 673 879,868 1,168,401
Bernard Gray (until 21 July 2006) 31,176 – 475 – – 31,651 75,000
Charles Herlinger (until 31 May 2006) 66,667 – 220 500,000 9,333 576,220 629,213
Graham Howe (until 30 June 2006) 31,164 – 475 – – 31,639 75,738
Lord Robertson (until 1 April 2006) 954 – 57 – – 1,011 262,978
Rob Rowley (until 21 July 2006) 202,381 – 2,464 250,000 – 454,845 272,714
Total 3,303,117 2,145,600 562,558 1,625,000 631,766 8,268,041 5,764,313 23
Remuneration philosophy
Our remuneration philosophy for Executive Directors is
based upon creating a strong link between performance
and reward, underpinned by the following guiding
principles:
■
The reward package should be aligned to the
organisational strategy;
■
The reward structures should reflect the different
characteristics and strategies of the two operating
businesses – International and Europe, Asia & US – 
and the Central function;
■
T otal reward levels should reflect the markets in 
which we operate. Our competitive position is regularly
monitored by independent analysis against comparator
groups of companies selected on the basis of relevant
size, business and geographic focus; 
■
Fixed salaries and benefits should be set with reference
to the mid-market level compared with similar types 
of company to make sure they remain appropriately
competitive;
■
The majority of total remuneration should only 
be receivable as a result of achieving demanding
performance targets;
■
An appropriate mix of short and long-term incentives
should be set so that Directors are incentivised 
to maximise performance over both the short and
medium term; and
■
The remuneration structure for Directors should be
cascaded down to other senior managers in a consistent
manner.
T o complement the creation of the two distinct 
businesses (International and Europe, Asia & US), a
revised remuneration structure for Executive Directors
and other senior management was implemented from 
1 April 2006 and is intended to last for at least three years.
A key feature of the revised structure was a one-off long
term incentive award in 2006/07 with no further grants
for at least three years. Executive Directors’ remuneration 
in 2007/08 will, therefore, comprise only base salary , 
annual bonus, pension and other benefits.
Annual bonus
Potential maximum opportunity are set at 100% of salary
for all Executive Directors and awards for 2007/08 will 
be based solely on financial performance, using business-
specific (Group, International or Europe, Asia & US as
relevant to the Cable & Wireless Executive Director) 
profit targets. Bonuses will be paid in cash.
Long-term incentive awards
T o encourage investment in shares to align their interests
with shareholders, all of the Executive Directors have
invested their own funds in Cable & Wireless shares and
received a matching award of restricted shares mainly
dependent on T otal Shareholder Return (TSR)
performance conditions. 
Executive Directors within Central functions (George
Battersby and T ony Rice) received a one-off award 
of share options. The vesting of share options granted 
is subject to relative TSR performance conditions.
As Joint Managing Directors of the International 
and Europe, Asia & US businesses respectively , 
Harris Jones and John Pluthero participate in the 
Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP), which was
approved by shareholders at the 2006 AGM. The L TIP
creates a reward pool for each business over a four-year
period from 1 April 2006. The pool is dependent on the
extent to which the businesses have grown in value 
from their base valuation at the start of the period. If the
businesses grow by less than the hurdle rate (of at least
8% compounded), then no reward pool will be generated
for that business, if a business grows by more than the
hurdle rate then 10% of the growth in value, in excess of
the hurdle rate, goes into that reward pool. The current
combined total reward pool measured at 31 March 
2007 is £120 million (£46 million for International 
and £74 million for Europe, Asia & US).
Performance graph
The graph below shows the change in value of a £100
holding in the Company’s ordinary shares over five years
relative to a broad equity market index. The FTSE 100
index was considered by the Committee to be the most
relevant index for this purpose as the Company has been 
a constituent of the index for the majority of the five-year
period.
This looks at the value, by 31 March 2007 , of £100
invested in Cable & Wireless on 31 March 2002 compared
with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 index. 
The other points plotted are the values at intervening
financial year-ends.
Cable & Wireless FTSE 100
0
25
50
75
100
150
2007 2006 2004 2003 2002 2005
Total shareholder return v FTSE 100
 Value in £ on 31 March
125 24
Summary Directors’ report
Principal activities
Cable & Wireless is one of the world’s leading international
communications companies. It operates through two
standalone businesses – ‘International’ and ‘Europe, 
Asia & US’ (formerly known as the ‘UK’).
The International business operates telecommunications
companies in 33 countries offering mobile, broadband,
domestic and international fixed line services to residential
and business customers. It has principal operations 
in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the
Channel Islands.
The Europe, Asia & US business provides enterprise and
carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services
across the UK, Asia, continental Europe and the US – 
and wholesale broadband services in the UK.
Dividend
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.15 pence
per ordinary share payable on 10 August 2007 to ordinary
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
15 June 2007 . An interim dividend of 1.7 pence was paid 
on 19 January 2007 , which makes a total of 5.85 pence
per ordinary share for the financial year .
Directors
The names and biographies of the present Directors are
set out on page 16 and 17 . With the exception of Simon Ball,
who was appointed on 1 May 2006, all these Directors
were in office throughout the year .
During the year , the following Directors resigned from 
the Board: Francesco Caio and Lord Robertson of Port
Ellen on 1 April 2006, Charles Herlinger on 31 May 2006,
Graham Howe on 30 June 2006 and both Bernard Gray
and Rob Rowley on 21 July 2006.
Committees
We have three standing Board committees: the 
Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee and 
the Remuneration Committee. A summary of the
Remuneration report can be found on pages 22 to 
23 of this Annual Review. Further information on the
standing committees and the full Remuneration report 
are contained within the full Annual Report. The
composition and terms of reference of the standing
committees are also available at www.cw.com.
Internal control and risk management
Our Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The system 
is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives and can only
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss. The concept of reasonable
assurance recognises that the cost of control procedures
should not exceed the benefits.
The Group operates a risk management process, under
which each business identifies the key risks to their plans,
their likelihood and impact and the actions being taken to
manage them. Consolidated risk registers for International
and Europe, Asia & US are reviewed by their respective
Operating Boards and these, together with a Central risk
register , are presented to the Audit Committee on a rolling
12 month basis.
The Group’s Executive Directors also report to the 
Board, on behalf of management, significant changes 
in the Group’s business and the external environment 
in which it operates. In addition, they provide the Board
with monthly financial information, which includes key 
risk and performance indicators.
The Group’s key internal control and monitoring
procedures include the following:
■
Financial reporting: Each year , an annual budget 
is agreed and approved by the Board. Then at each
Board meeting, monthly actual results are reviewed 
and reported against budget and, when appropriate,
revised for forecasts.
■
Investment appraisal: We have clearly defined policies 
for capital expenditure. These include annual budgets 
and detailed appraisal and review processes for such
expenditure.
■
Monitoring systems: We monitor our internal controls
through a programme of internal audits. The Internal 
Audit function reports to the Audit Committee on its
examination and evaluation of the effectiveness and
adequacy of our systems.
■
Financial controls: We have dedicated resource to
embed processes and controls across our business. 
We operate a number of additional self-assessment
exercises which include monthly certification of
compliance with key financial controls and an annual
controls self-assessment; the latter exercise requires
management to assess the effectiveness of its
fundamental operating controls over all aspects of its
operations, in addition to the other financial controls
covered by our Financial Controls T oolkit. The results 
of this exercise are used by Internal Audit in planning 
its work for the forthcoming year .
Going concern
After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans, 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Group and Company have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they have adopted the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 25
Understanding your investment
How much dividend will I get?
The Directors propose a final dividend for 2006/07 of 
4.15 pence per share for shareholders on the register at
the close of business on 15 June 2007 . This is subject to
approval at the 2007 Annual General Meeting (AGM).
When will I receive my dividend?
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 
10 August 2007 . The total dividend for the year is 
5.85 pence per share.
Do I pay tax on my dividend?
T ax has been deducted at a rate of 10% from your dividend. 
This is not reclaimable from HM Revenue and Customs. 
If you are a higher rate tax payer , you will have further tax
to pay on your dividend via the Inland Revenue’s Self
Assessment system.
What is a scrip dividend and how can I receive one?
A scrip dividend is where you receive your dividend in the
form of additional shares in Cable and Wireless plc, rather
than money . Full details on the scrip dividend and how 
to receive it are available in the Scrip Dividend brochure
which can be obtained from the Company’s Registrar , 
from the Company Secretary or from our website at
www.cw.com. 
Where can I see my shareholding?
Lloyds TSB Registrars offers a facility for you to view
information on your shareholding electronically . This
service can be accessed at www.shareview.co.uk.
When is the AGM?
The AGM takes place on Friday 20 July 2007 
at 11.00am at the Queen Elizabeth Conference Centre,
Broad Sanctuary , Westminster , London SWIP 3EE.
Who administers my shareholding?
The Company’s share register is administered by Lloyds
TSB Registrars. All queries about your shareholding
should be addressed to them by calling 0870 600 3975
(UK shareholders) or +44 121 415 7047 (overseas
shareholders). Or you can write to them at: 
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway , Worthing, 
West Sussex, BN99 2DZ.
What is the Annual Review?
This Annual Review is a summary of information in the
Annual Report, and as such, does not contain sufficient
information to allow a complete understanding of the
results and state of affairs of the Group. The 2006/07
Annual Report is available from our website at
www.cw.com where it can be viewed or printed.
Company Secretary and registered office
Nick Cooper is our Company Secretary .
Our registered office is:
7th Floor
The Point
37 North Wharf Road
Paddington Basin
London
W2 1LA
T el +44 (0) 20 7315 4554
Investor Relations
Enquiries may be directed to 
investor-relations.c&wplc@cw.com
Does Cable & Wireless give out my details?
As we are a registered company , the law requires us 
to make our share register publicly available. As a
consequence, shareholders may receive unsolicited 
mail, including mail from unauthorised investment firms.
For more information on unauthorised investment firms
targeting UK investors, you should visit the website of the
Financial Services Authority (www.fsa.gov.uk/consumer). Designed by Pauffley .
Printed by Royle Corporate Print, a CarbonNeutral
®
company.
The paper used is Revive 100 Offset made from 100% FSC 
certified recycled fibre sourced from de-inked post consumer 
waste. The printer and manufacturing mill are both credited 
with ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard
and both are FSC certified.
When you have finished with this Review, please dispose 
of it responsibly .
Cert no. TT-COC-002228
