 2008/09 Annual report
Two businesses. One goal.
Cable & Wireless 2008/09 Annual report CWI
We’re transforming our
business and delivering
improving results.
T o find out more go to:
> Page 08
(formerly International)
WORLDWIDE
OUR FOCUS ON GREAT 
CUSTOMER SERVICE IS
CONTINUING TO DELIVER.
T o find out more go to:
> Page 20
(FORMERL Y EUROPE, ASIA & US) 01
delivering
£822m +36%
EBITDA
£422m +37%
Group profit before tax and exceptional items
8.50p +13%
Recommended full year dividend per share
We have one goal – to create 
sustainable shareholder value.
We’ve continued our progress 
this year –our two businesses 
have performed well and are
growing in profitability . Definitions
This Annual Report of Cable and Wireless plc has been prepared in
accordance with English legal and Listing Rules requirements. The Annual
Review for the year ended 31 March 2009 is published as a separate
document. 
Unless otherwise stated in this Annual Report, the terms ‘Cable & Wireless’,
the ‘Group’, ‘Cable & Wireless Group’, ‘it’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Cable 
and Wireless plc and its subsidiaries collectively . The term ‘Company’ refers 
to Cable and Wireless plc. 
Cable & Wireless prepares its financial information in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) applicable for use in 
the European Union (EU). The Company prepares its financial information 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(UK GAAP). Unless otherwise indicated, any reference in this report to
financial statements is to the consolidated financial statements of Cable 
& Wireless on pages 63 to 119 of this report.
References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references
to the Company’s financial year ending 31 March of that year . In this report,
financial and non-financial information is, unless otherwise indicated, stated 
on the basis of the Company’s financial year .
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation, Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) charge and net other 
operating income and expense. Unless otherwise stated, EBITDA excludes
exceptional items.
Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that
fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional
items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
As the US dollar is the dominant currency for the CWI business, its results 
are reported in the CWI section in US dollars to give a better reflection of its
underlying performance. The average US$:£ exchange rate for 2008/09 
was 1.7581 compared to 2.0041 for 2007/08. T o aid understanding of trading
performance, some CWI commentary refers to changes in terms of constant
currency . Constant currency change is based on the restatement of
comparatives at 2008/09 average exchange rates.
Information has been updated to the most practical date prior to the approval
date of the document, being 20 May 2009.
Cautionary statement regarding forward looking statements 
This Annual Report contains forward looking statements that are based on
current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do 
not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward looking statements often
use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’,
‘believe’, ‘will’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘would’, ‘could’ or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their
very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties
and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and Cable
& Wireless’ plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or
implied in the forward looking statements. Furthermore, nothing in this Annual
Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially
from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. Among the
factors are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive,
market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes 
in tax rates and future business combinations or disposals. Summaries of 
the potential risks faced by Cable & Wireless are set out on pages 37 to 38.
Cable & Wireless cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity ,
performance or achievements.
Cable & Wireless undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward
looking statement contained within this Annual Report, regardless of whether
those statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise, save as required by applicable laws or regulation.
Companies Act 2006
Pages 6 to 38 constitute the Chairman’s statement and business review of 
Cable and Wireless plc and, for the purposes of section 463 of the Companies 
Act 2006, are incorporated by reference into the Directors’ report set out on
pages 42 to 45 and shall be deemed to form part of that report.
Addressees of the Annual Report
This Annual Report is addressed solely to the members of Cable and Wireless
plc as a body , to assist them in assessing the strategies adopted by the
Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed. Neither the
Company nor its Directors accept or assume responsibility to any person 
for this Annual Report (beyond the responsibilities arising from the production
of this Annual Report under the requirements of English company law) 
or any responsibility to update any statements in this Annual Report, save 
as required by applicable laws or regulation.
English law
Pages 6 to 60 inclusive consist of a Directors’ report that has been drawn 
up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company
law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be
subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law. 03
Introduction
04 Cable & Wireless at a glance
06 Chairman’s review
CWI
09 Chief Executive’s review
10 Business overview
14 Performance review
18 Corporate responsibility
Worldwide
21 Executive Chairman’s review
22 Business overview
26 Performance review
30 Corporate responsibility
Cable & Wireless Group
32 Group Finance Director’s review
33 Financial performance review
37 Risk overview
40 Board of Directors
42 Directors’ report
46 Corporate governance report
48 Statement from the independent 
Non-executive Directors
49 Report of the Audit Committee
50 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Cable & Wireless Group
62 Independent auditor’s report
63 Consolidated financial statements
67 Notes to the financial statements
Cable and Wireless plc
120 Independent auditor’s report
121 Company financial statements
123 Notes to the financial statements
136 Useful shareholder information
Business
review
Governance Financial 
statements
Shareholder
information
Introduction
A snapshot of our 
two businesses and
their performance
including a review 
by our Chairman. 04
Cable & Wireless at a glance
Two businesses
Cable & Wireless is one of the 
world’s leading telecommunications
companies. We operate through 
two standalone businesses –  
CWI and Worldwide – with a small
Central team as portfolio manager . 05
Introduction
At a glance
We are the leading telecommunications
provider in the majority of our markets. We
offer mobile, broadband and domestic and
international fixed line services to homes, 
small and medium-sized enterprises,
corporate customers and governments.
Mission and strategy
Our mission is to own and operate world 
class telecoms businesses through our 
four self-sustaining and profitable regional
operations, with the added scale of a strong
central owner. 
We are focused on generating even more
value from our operations through four levers 
– transformation; performance improvement;
synergies and expertise; and growth.
Highlights of the year
■ EBITDA up 1 1% to US$921 million
■ An increasingly efficient business 
with improving gross margin and
EBITDA margin
■ ‘One Caribbean’ transformation
programme delivering
■ Panama mobile market share 
growing despite further competition
■ Macau concession renewal agreed
subject to the ratification process
CWI owns and operates full service telecommunications 
businesses through four regional operations in the
Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands. 
CWI > Page 08
At a glance
We specialise in providing high quality
communication services such as IP , data,
voice and hosting to the largest users of
telecoms services. We provide connectivity 
to 153 countries. Our core markets are 
the UK, Asia, Middle East and Africa.
Mission and strategy
Our mission is to be the first choice 
for providing mission critical telecoms 
services to the largest organisations in 
our chosen markets.
We aim to deliver this strategy by 
specialising in large customers; delivering
market-leading capability; giving the best
customer service; and offering customers 
the best value.
Highlights of the year
■ Acquisition and successful
integration of Thus
■ Increased share of the UK
enterprise market to 1 9%
■ EBITDA growth of 49% including
Thus and 36% excluding Thus
■ Positive trading cash flow, 
the first for many years
■ More than 150 customers 
now using our Multi Service
Platform
WORLDWIDE IS A GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS BUSINESS
PROVIDING MISSION CRITICAL TELECOMS TO LARGE ORGANISATIONS.
WORLDWIDE > Page 20 06
Chairman’s review
Whilst our trading position is in good health, the current
volatility of the financial markets provides no basis 
for proper financial planning. Consequently , we have
postponed, but not cancelled, our plans for value
realisation until we can foresee a sustained period 
of normality returning to the financial markets.
Our Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) has been a key
ingredient in our success over the last three years as
the fifth best performer in the FTSE 100 and the second
best performer in the FTSE Global T elecoms Sector
Index. It has proven to be effective in motivating our
senior management and aligning their interests with 
our shareholders. The Board has recently proposed
new executive incentive arrangements to ensure we
retain our best managers and keep them focused on
delivering for shareholders beyond 2009. Under these
proposals, the L TIP will be extended by one year to 2011.
In these markets, corporate governance has also proved
to be a key differentiator . The dislocation in credit and
equity markets is bringing about a major rethink of
corporate governance in Western markets. This is 
a process the Board of Cable & Wireless welcomes. 
Our Board has applied a rigorous system of governance
for several years. In addition to reporting against 
the guidelines of the Combined Code for corporate
governance, our Senior Independent Director also
prepares a report describing the corporate governance
and behaviours of the Board (on page 48), something
we believe adds significant transparency in our
reporting to shareholders.
Finally , I would like to thank all of my fellow 
Board Directors for their service this year and, 
most importantly , extend my congratulations to 
all employees. Their work has delivered for our
shareholders, of which they should all feel proud.
2008/09 has been a year in which 
Cable & Wireless has stood out from the 
pack. Amid difficult economic conditions 
for all businesses we have achieved a 
healthy set of results.
The economic conditions and state of the credit 
and equity markets over the past 12 months are
unprecedented. I have seen several recessions, 
but none that has affected each region of the world
simultaneously . In these situations, management 
quality becomes an even greater differentiator 
between companies than usual. 
I am pleased to report that the management teams 
of both our businesses have performed well. Our
Worldwide business has increased its EBITDA by 
49% (36% from the underlying business before the
Thus acquisition). It has moved into positive trading
cash flow and is successfully executing the integration
of Thus. CWI has also taken a substantial step forward
in terms of profitability , producing double-digit growth
in EBITDA. It is tackling the cost base of its Caribbean
operation through its ‘One Caribbean’ programme, 
and has grown its market-leading mobile position in
Panama despite further competition. Both Worldwide
and CWI have been prepared to take difficult decisions
in these challenging times, ensuring that we continue to
deliver for our shareholders. And so, I am delighted to be
able to recommend a 13% increase in our full year
dividend to 8.50 pence per share.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
Healthy performance,
strong governance.
We are
delivering
Our profitability is growing
EBITDA up 36% to £822 million
We are delivering for our shareholders
Fifth best performer in the FTSE 100 over the last three years
Our dividend is increasing
Recommended full year dividend of 8.50 pence per share, up 13% Introduction Business 
review
Governance Financial 
statements
Shareholder
information
04 Cable & Wireless at a glance
06 Chairman’s review
CWI
09 Chief Executive’s review
10 Business overview
14 Performance review
18 Corporate responsibility
Worldwide
21 Executive Chairman’s review
22 Business overview
26 Performance review
30 Corporate responsibility
Cable & Wireless Group
32 Group Finance Director’s review
33 Financial performance review
37 Risk overview
40 Board of Directors
42 Directors’ report
46 Corporate governance report
48 Statement from the independent 
Non-executive Directors
49 Report of the Audit Committee
50 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Cable & Wireless Group
62 Independent auditor’s report
63 Consolidated financial statements
67 Notes to the financial statements
Cable and Wireless plc
120 Independent auditor’s report
121 Company financial statements
123 Notes to the financial statements
136 Useful shareholder information
07
Business review
A review of our two
businesses – CWI 
and Worldwide – 
and our financial
performance during
the year . 08
CWI
We own and operate full service
telecommunications businesses 
through four regional operations:
1 Caribbean
2 Panama 
3 Macau
4 Monaco & Islands 09
Business 
review
Tony Rice
Chief Executive 
CWI
Cable & Wireless International, now rebadged 
as CWI Group, enters the new financial year as 
a business in strong shape with a clear vision 
for the future.
Over the past eighteen months we have arranged
CWI into four distinct regional operations – 
Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
This structure has enabled us to empower the 
local management teams, with the centre acting 
as a portfolio manager focused on delivering the 
best value for our shareholders. Each business has
developed a strategy tailored to its local marketplace
and from the centre we aim to provide the businesses
with the tools and support they need to achieve 
their goals. I am very pleased to report that all four
operations have embraced this approach. This is
evident in our results with an 11% increase in EBITDA,
13% in constant currency terms.
In the Caribbean, the progress we have made 
since launching our ‘One Caribbean’ transformation
programme is gratifying. In bringing 13 individual
businesses together under one management
structure, the programme has delivered reductions 
in operating costs and complexity as well as, more
recently, service improvements. Over the coming 
year, the programme is focused on further
performance improvements. 
Cable & Wireless Panama has maintained its leading
market position and grown revenue and profits
despite the entry of two new mobile competitors. 
This is testament to how well prepared we were for
the new entrants – we will continue to be as vigilant 
as the new financial year progresses.  
In Macau, a slowdown in the local economy due to the
restriction of tourist visitors from China and continuing
competition has not prevented CTM from once again
delivering good margins. I am delighted that we have
agreed an extension of our concession agreement,
subject to ratification.
And finally, across the diverse portfolio of our Monaco
& Islands operation, we have seen strong local financial
performance, particularly from Monaco domestic 
and Seychelles, as the regional management team 
has got to grips with the intricacies of a diverse
geographic portfolio. 
All four regional operations are also responding to 
my challenge of identifying future growth opportunities.
While the current economic climate poses issues to all
marketplaces in some way, the opportunities in each of
our businesses significantly outweigh these challenges.
Each business is examining initiatives to reduce costs
further and extend their existing services and products.
A recent example has been the mobile broadband
service developed by our Macau business, successfully
exploiting our 3G network in the territory. 
In all, as the new Chief Executive of CWI, I am pleased
to be leading a business in strong shape into the new
financial year. 
+13%
EBITDA at 
constant currency
CWI
Chief Executive’s review
A business 
in strong
shape 10
CWI
Business overview
Our mission is to own and operate world class telecoms businesses. 
Our businesses will be world class in terms of:
■ the products we offer;
■ the service levels we provide;
■ the training, career development and engagement 
of our people; and
■ our financial performance.
What we do
CWI (formerly International) owns and operates full service
telecommunications businesses providing mobile, broadband and domestic
and international fixed line services to homes, small and medium-sized
enterprises, corporate customers and governments. 
The business is managed as four regional operations – Caribbean, Panama,
Macau and Monaco & Islands – each of which is self-sustaining, profitable and
cash-generative in its own right. From our centre in London, we provide the
businesses with the tools and support they need to achieve their goals, while
driving improvements and identifying synergies as well as developing new
growth opportunities.
Caribbean
Our Caribbean operation covers: Jamaica, Barbados, the Leeward Islands
(Anguilla, Antigua, Montserrat, St Kitts & Nevis), Windward Islands (Dominica,
Grenada, St Lucia, St Vincent and the Grenadines) and the Offshore Financial
Centres (British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands and Turks & Caicos Islands). 
We are the market leader in fixed line and broadband in all 13 markets and 
the leading mobile operator in nine. 
In 2008 we launched our ‘One Caribbean’ transformation programme, bringing
together our 13 Caribbean subsidiaries under one management structure with a
new common brand, LIME (Landline, Internet, Mobile, Entertainment). LIME is the
only full service telecommunications provider across the Caribbean, providing
customers with mobile, broadband, and domestic and international fixed line
services, as well as supplying several of the region’s largest enterprises with 
all their telecom needs. Our single-business structure allows us to deliver cost
savings, better service and regional pricing and propositions. The opportunity 
to offer customers a single bill and, where we are able, bundled propositions 
is a significant competitive advantage.
20
of 
26
mobile markets
27
of 
34
broadband markets
25
of 
34
fixed line markets
Market leader in
Our mission… world class
telecoms businesses 11
Business 
review
Panama
Our Panama operation is the standout telecoms provider in its market. Our
mobile market leadership position has grown over the past year, despite the
introduction of further competition. We are the market leader in fixed line with
approximately 90% market share and in broadband with approximately 60%
market share. We are also the market leader in the enterprise telecom sector,
winning several large government contracts in the past year, including the
contract to supply the communications platform for a new 911 emergency
service. We are also the regional leader in carrier services, helping to make
Panama a hub of telecommunications in the Latin America region. 
Macau 
CTM, our operation in Macau, delivers the full suite of telecommunications
services, including the exclusive provision of broadband and domestic fixed 
line services. With approximately 40% market share and nearly 400,000
customers, we continue to lead what is one of the world’s most competitive
mobile markets. During 2007/08, we launched Macau’s first 3G mobile network
and by 31 March 2009, 40% of our mobile customer base was using our 3G
services. We have recently agreed a renewal of CTM’s concession agreement
with the Macau Government, subject to the ratification process.
Monaco & Islands
Our Monaco & Islands operation has four distinct clusters – Monaco Telecom
(MT); Channel Islands, Isle of Man & Bermuda (CIIMB); Indian Ocean including
the Seychelles and Maldives; and South Atlantic & Diego Garcia. The operation
has businesses in 22 markets at varying stages of development. 
MT enjoys a strong position in Monaco, including the exclusive rights to provide
fixed line and broadband services. MT has also expanded its operations
internationally into developing markets such as Afghanistan, Algeria and West
Africa and is a partner in On Air, the world’s first in-flight mobile phone service
launched by Ryanair in 2009.
In CIIMB we are continuing to develop our enterprise services – for example, 
in 2008/09 we built our tenth data centre in Bermuda in response to high
global demand for these services. In December 2008, our business in 
the Maldives was granted a 15 year extension to its operating licence by the
Communications Authority of the Maldives.
Our growth drivers
We are well positioned to take advantage of a number of key growth trends
across our markets and product segments.
As the leading mobile operator in the majority of our markets, we benefit 
from the development of mobile technology and the increased level of mobile
usage and network traffic this generates. Devices such as the BlackBerry 
and iPhone are leading to the creation of new mobile broadband and mobile
software applications, many of which are able to be downloaded online, over 
a mobile network. 
In some of our markets, particularly in the Caribbean, broadband penetration
to homes and small businesses is still relatively low. Penetration in most of these
markets is expected to grow in the coming years, in line with increasing access
to computers and the introduction of mobile broadband services. As demand
grows in these markets, our business will benefit significantly as the primary
broadband provider and a leading mobile player.
We also have a number of natural defences against any downturn in our
markets. Our revenue by product, geography and customer type are well
diversified ensuring that the business is not heavily exposed to any single
business line. By geography, the largest portion of revenue – about 40% – is
drawn from our Caribbean operation, which is undergoing a transformation
programme targeted at improving cost, efficiency and service. This
programme is already starting to improve our financial performance,
demonstrated by the US$29 million (at constant currency) reduction in
operating costs in that operation in the last year with further improvement
expected in the coming years.
11m
subscribers 12
CWI
Business overview
Our competitive position
CWI is a strong competitor in all of our markets. We are the market leader in 20
of the 26 markets in which we offer mobile services, 27 of the 34 markets in which
we offer broadband and 25 of the 34 in which we offer fixed line services. In our
smallest markets we are often the sole provider of telecoms.
We have actively embraced the entry of competition in our former monopoly
markets. We have altered our business model and strategy in line with liberalising
markets to ensure we continue to provide customers with the best products and
services available in each territory. Our competitors tend to be local or regional
in nature, such as Jersey Telecom in the Channel Islands or Digicel in the
Caribbean and Panama. Unlike these competitors, we are able to bring global
scale and experience to bear in these markets as well as the competitive
advantage of a bundled proposition. We also compete effectively against major
global telecoms companies in a small number of our markets, such as Telefónica
in Panama. 
In 2008/09, our Panama operation faced the entry of two new mobile
competitors but, through superior service and operations, it has grown its
market leadership position and increased revenue and profits as the market
has expanded with the new competition.
Our strategy and objectives
Our strategy is to manage four self-sustaining and profitable operations, with 
a strong centre to drive outstanding levels of performance from each one.
Individual businesses aim to be world class, competitive enterprises in their
own right, with the added scale of a strong central owner.
The evolution of this strategy began 18 months ago, with a focus on ‘fixing the
basics’ – transforming our underperforming businesses and ensuring all
businesses had the tools to compete in a liberalised market. Over the past
year we have progressed this strategy while ensuring that we are ready for 
any impact of the current economic climate. 
Looking ahead, we will generate further value from our existing operations,
driving our strategy through the following four levers:
Transformation Each individual business will operate as a fully competitive
enterprise, focused on meeting customer demand with excellent service and
efficient operations. Transformation programmes will be undertaken to ensure
our people, culture, processes and technology are all geared towards these aims.
Performance improvement Constant performance improvement measures
will be put in place in each of our operations and in our London centre to meet
the twin goals of increasing revenue and reducing costs.
Synergies and expertise We will seek synergies between the businesses and
identify opportunities to share knowledge and expertise. This will enable us to
compete more effectively and take advantage of our global scale.
Growth We will develop organic growth opportunities in our existing businesses
and in time consider expanding beyond our existing businesses into other value-
creating opportunities.
These levers will apply differently to each of our businesses reflecting the
different stages they are at in their journey to becoming world class
telecommunications businesses.
Our strategy
is driven by 
four levers
■
Transformation
■
Performance
improvement
■
Synergies 
and expertise
■
Growth 13
One Caribbean – 
13 islands, one business
In September 2008, we launched 
our ‘One Caribbean’ transformation
programme to bring together our 13
subsidiaries in the region and create 
the first full service telecoms provider 
in the Caribbean. 
We rebranded the single business as LIME
(Landline, Internet, Mobile, Entertainment) and
the new brand was launched in November
2008 with an extensive marketing campaign
and the launch of a new regional website.
The new branding is one of many initiatives 
of the ‘One Caribbean’ programme which
brings our businesses together into a single
operating structure, with pan-Caribbean
customer propositions and a single set of
results. We’ve launched our first regional
services like Home Rate Roaming, are
developing a regional shared services centre
for finance and technology and consolidated
our call centre services.
Our initiatives are focused on improving our
cost, efficiency and customer service levels,
leveraging our economies of scale. The
benefits we can achieve from working as one
business instead of 13 are great – not only will
they lead to a reduced cost base but a more
efficient business means faster response
times for our customers.
It’s still early days for what is a long term
programme but we are already seeing the
benefits in our results – both financially and 
in our customer service metrics. And things
will continue to improve.
www.time4lime.com 14
Our strategy is clear 
and we’re delivering
CWI
Performance review
CWI income statement
Constant
currency
2008/09 2007 /08 Change
1
change
1,2
US$m US$m % %
Caribbean 975 1,021 (5) (3)
Panama 667 61788
Macau 302 29144
Monaco & Islands
3
506 526 (4) 0
Other
4
(3) 7nmnm
Total revenue 2,447 2,462 (1) 1
Cost of sales (791) (847) 7 5
Gross margin 1,656 1,615 3 4
Operating costs (excluding LTIP charge) (735) (785) 6 4
EBITDA
5
921 830 11 13
LTIP charge – (16) nm nm
Depreciation and amortisation (294) (284) (4) (5)
Net other operating (expense)/income (3) 3nmnm
Operating profit before joint ventures 624 533 17 18
Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 60 77 (22) (20)
Operating profit before exceptional items 684 610 12 13
Exceptional items (87) (101) 14 7
Total operating profit 597 509 17 17
Capital expenditure (337) (381) 12 9
Headcount (full time equivalents at 31 March) 6,962 8,048 13 13
nm represents % change not meaningful.
1 Positive percentages represent improvement.
2 Constant currency change is based on the restatement of comparatives at 2008/09 average exchange rates.
3 Islands comprises operations in Bermuda, the Channel Islands, Isle of Man and the Indian, Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans.
4 Other includes intra CWI revenue adjustments and movements in centrally held accruals.
5 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, L TIP charge, net other operating income and
exceptional items.
CWI customer numbers
As at As at
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
(000) (000)
Total active
1
GSM mobile customers 8,688 6,350
Subsidiaries 4,141 3,342
Joint ventures 4,547 3,008
Total broadband customers 553 466
Subsidiaries 476 434
Joint ventures 77 32
Total fixed line connections 1,825 1,875
Subsidiaries 1,476 1,522
Joint ventures 349 353
1 An active customer is defined as one having performed a revenue-generating event in the previous 60 days. Business 
review
Our EBITDA increased to US$921 million with EBITDA growth in all 
four operations. To aid understanding of the trading performance, 
the commentary focuses on changes at constant currency.
Caribbean
Our Caribbean operation has delivered EBITDA growth of 16% to US$337 million
led by the significant progress of our ‘One Caribbean’ transformation programme.
This programme is bringing together our 13 Caribbean subsidiaries under 
one management structure with a new common brand called LIME (Landline,
Internet, Mobile, Entertainment). The aim is to improve service to customers,
reduce costs and improve efficiency. This project began in 2008/09 and 
we are making good progress, including a headcount reduction of 21% by
31 March 2009.
Revenue decreased by 3% to US$975 million in 2008/09 due to lower traffic,
particularly in prepaid mobile and international voice, reflecting a softening of
demand and lower tourist numbers in the Caribbean islands. 
Despite this fall in revenue, gross margin grew by 2% to US$718 million,
representing a four percentage point increase to 74% of revenue. We reduced
cost of sales by 15% following the fall in interconnect and mobile termination
rates, as well as lower customer equipment costs.
We also reduced our operating costs by 7% to US$381 million as a result of the
‘One Caribbean’ programme, including savings generated from an integrated
pan-Caribbean advertising and marketing approach and the decrease in
headcount. Our aim is to reduce headcount to 2,500 by March 2010.
The EBITDA increase of 16% to US$337 million represents a six percentage
point increase in EBITDA margin to 35%. This includes a 34% increase in
Jamaica’s EBITDA to US$63 million, as gross margins were restored and
operating costs reduced after the poor performance in 2007/08.
Panama
Our operation in Panama has continued to perform strongly with EBITDA up
9% to US$276 million as we grew our mobile market share in an expanding
market despite increased levels of competition. According to the IMF World
Economic Outlook published in April 2009, Panama’s gross domestic product
is expected to grow by 3% in 2009, despite the global recession.
Revenue grew by 8% to US$667 million driven by mobile and enterprise
services. Mobile revenue increased by 12% to US$301 million following the
addition of nearly 700,000 customers in the year reflecting our superior
customer service and enhanced product offerings. 
Enterprise, data and other revenue increased by 30% to US$125 million as we
rolled out large government contracts including those for video surveillance, 
e-learning and the 911 emergency services centre.
+13%
at constant currency
EBITDA
38%
of revenue, up from 34% 16
CWI
Performance review
Gross margin increased by 10% to US$441 million and improved by one
percentage point to 66% of revenue reflecting the growth in revenue and
improvements in the product mix.
Panama’s operating costs increased by 13% to US$165 million as we invested 
in service and distribution in preparation for the entry of additional mobile
competition. US$5 million of non-recurring cost occurred in the first half of
2008/09 and our operating costs returned to more sustainable levels in the
second half as cost saving initiatives (including a 4% reduction in headcount)
began to take effect.
As well as increasing EBITDA by 9% to US$276 million in 2008/09, we have
maintained our EBITDA margin at 41%.
Macau
CTM, our business in Macau, has continued to perform strongly with EBITDA up
12% to US$139 million, largely driven by improving product mix. We have agreed
an extension of our concession agreement with the government, which is now
going through the ratification process. 
Total revenue increased by 4% to US$302 million, despite the economy
slowing due to the restriction in visitor numbers to the region. The revenue
growth was driven by increases in mobile and broadband revenue of 9% and
13% respectively.
The growth in mobile and broadband revenue was partially offset by a 
US$4 million decline in enterprise revenue to US$51 million as a number 
of high profile hotel and casino projects were put on hold. 
Our gross margin increased by 8% to US$192 million representing 64% of
revenue, up from 61% in 2007/08, largely driven by the increased demand for
our mobile data and value added services – 40% of our mobile customers 
in Macau are using 3G compared with 14% in 2007/08.
We reduced our operating costs by 2% to US$53 million and by one percentage
point to 18% of revenue.
EBITDA grew by 12% to US$139 million representing 46% of revenue compared
with 43% in 2007/08.
Monaco & Islands
At constant currency, EBITDA in our Monaco & Islands portfolio increased by
5% to US$137 million as the businesses increased their focus on improving
margins. Monaco & Islands includes Monaco, the Channel Islands and Isle of Man,
Bermuda, Seychelles, the South Atlantic Region and Diego Garcia, which operate
in a number of non-US dollar currencies. This operation has therefore been 
the most affected by the movements in foreign exchange rates during the year.
Revenue was stable at US$506 million in 2008/09 as the growth in mobile
(12%) and broadband revenue (16%) was offset by a decline in international
voice and enterprise, data and other revenue. 
Gross margin grew by 3% to US$305 million as we benefited from a shift 
in product mix from lower margin international management contracts within
enterprise, data and other towards higher margin mobile and broadband
products. 
Operating costs increased by 1% to US$168 million mainly due to the costs
associated with the launch of residential fixed line services in the Isle of Man 
in August 2008. 
The EBITDA increase of 5% to US$137 million represents a one percentage
point increase in EBITDA margin to 27%.
We’ve
continued 
to improve
service and
reduce costs Exceptional items
We incurred net exceptional charges of US$87 million in 2008/09, comprising
US$101 million of restructuring costs, partially offset by a US$14 million credit
primarily from the restructuring of the Jamaican retirement funds.
Capital expenditure and depreciation and amortisation
Capital expenditure was US$337 million, a 9% reduction from 2007/08 
and below 14% of revenue. Our investment focused on supporting our
transformation activities, including investments in our IT systems to ensure that
the cost and headcount efficiency programmes are sustainable. We also
continued to upgrade and expand our networks to enable improved mobile,
broadband and enterprise services. 
Depreciation and amortisation increased by 5% in 2008/09 to US$294 million
due to the increase in our capital expenditure in recent years.
CWI exchange rate movements
During the year, there was extreme volatility in foreign exchange rates with
strengthening of the US dollar against sterling and other currencies. About a
quarter of CWI’s EBITDA arises from non-US dollar currencies, most of which
have depreciated against the US dollar notably sterling, the Seychelles rupee
and the Jamaican dollar. Translation of these currencies into US dollars gave
rise to an adverse foreign currency translation of US$12 million in 2008/09. 
Reconciliation of CWI EBITDA to net cash flow before financing
2008/09
1
US$m
EBITDA
2
921
Exceptional items (87) 
EBITDA
2
less exceptional items 834
Movement in exceptional provisions (4)
Movement in working capital and other provisions (18)
Income taxes paid (110)
Purchase of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (357)
Investment income 37
Trading cash inflow 382
Acquisitions and disposals (16)
Contribution to pension buy-in (4)
Net cash inflow before financing activities 362
1 Based on our management accounts.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, L TIP charge and net other operating income.
We generated a trading cash inflow of US$382 million in 2008/09. Following a
US$16 million outflow from acquisitions and disposals, predominantly dividends
paid to minority shareholders in Monaco Telecom, and a US$4 million
contribution to the pension buy-in for the main UK defined benefit scheme, 
our net cash inflow before financing was US$362 million.
The US$91 million outflow for exceptional items and provisions relates largely 
to restructuring charges associated with business transformation, primarily the
‘One Caribbean’ programme.
We reported a US$18 million outflow due to the movement in working capital
and other provisions, a US$41 million improvement on our position in the first
half of 2008/09. 
We paid US$110 million of income tax in 2008/09 and invested US$357 million
in capital expenditure.  
Investment income of US$37 million includes US$30 million of dividends
received from joint ventures and US$8 million of interest from third parties.
17
Business 
review
In February 2009, our team in 
Panama completed a US$28 million
project to develop the platform for 
the first 911 emergency services call
centre in Panama.
In partnership with MER Security and
Communications Systems, Cable & Wireless 
Panama won the bid for the project 
against four other international companies
and developed the entire system in just 
five months. 
Cable & Wireless Panama has a long history
of supporting medical services in Panama,
including the T elemedicine service launched
in 2007 /08.
In 2008/09 this contract helped to grow 
Cable & Wireless Panama’s enterprise
services revenue to US$125 million from 
US$96 million in the prior year. 
911 emergency 
services
launched 
in Panama
CWI exchange rate movements
2008/09 2007 /08
Sterling:US dollar
Average 0.5688 0.4990
Year end 0.6898 0.5001 18
CWI
Corporate responsibility
Making a positive
contribution locally
Our corporate
responsibility activities
generally take place
at a local level, based
on the needs of our
individual markets
This report demonstrates our progress against the four corporate
responsibility principles we agreed in 2007/08 and highlights just a 
few examples of how these principles were implemented at a local level
across our various markets. 
1 Contribute positively to the social and economic development of the
communities in which we operate 
As one of the largest businesses in many of the countries in which we operate,
we play an important role in the local economy as a whole. So whilst our
services directly contribute to the economic conditions of these countries, we
also invest in social development, such as health, education, sport and culture.
In the past 12 months, we have given US$3.5 million to community initiatives
through an array of different activities, for example:
Health In 2008/09 our Panama operation contributed specialised
telemedicine equipment, this time to the Chicho Fábrega Hospital in the
province of Veraguas. This equipment is used by neonatal units at hospitals 
in the interior of Panama. Telemedicine uses telecommunication networks 
to transfer medical information and to examine patients remote from the 
main hospital.
Education This year we gave scholarships to 15 students at the Macau
University of Science and Technology, the Macau Polytechnic Institute and the
University of Macau in recognition of the students’ outstanding performance. 
Sport Continuing our three year sponsorship, LIME has given almost J$7 million
to the Inter-schools Secondary Schools Association Athletic Championships.
2 Seek continuous improvement in our environmental performance
As a major energy consumer in our markets, we’re conscious of our use 
of this vital resource. Across our business, our annual carbon footprint is
estimated to be 122,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions (scope one 
and two). And in calendar year 2008 we used approximately 200 million kWh
of electricity, 5.4 million litres of fuel and 95 million litres of water. 
Alternative energy In more remote areas of our business such as the 
Maldives, we use self-powering energy units to extend our network coverage.
During the year, we’ve conducted further alternative energy studies in the
Caribbean and identified suitable sites for wind turbines with payback periods
of up to three years for 500kW wind turbines and up to five years for smaller
5kW remote wind powered units. All of which will help us work towards
reducing our power consumption. 19
Business 
review
Recycling In the Caribbean we’ve introduced targets to reduce paper 
wastage by 15%, improve our recycling volumes each year and we are 
raising environmental awareness through our ‘LIME Go Green’ programme. 
We’re encouraging our customers to switch to online billing and to recycle 
their old mobile phones and telephone directories. 
Reducing travel We have a programme underway to look at the travel
patterns of our employees across CWI. Last year our short-haul flights
contributed 700 tonnes of CO
2e
and our long-haul flights a further 2,500
tonnes. Our aim is to reduce travel during 2009/10 by introducing high
definition video conferencing and encouraging our colleagues to change 
their travel patterns.
The paperless office In Macau we are extending our paperless office
programme, providing customers with direct access to their accounts 
with nearly 20,000 customers opting to receive electronic bills. 
3 Respect cultures, values and human rights throughout 
our operations
We aim to conduct our operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and
with respect for the human rights and interests of our employees and the
communities in which we operate. 
Integrity award In 2008 we received ‘The Hong Kong and Macau Merchants 
of Integrity Award’ for the ongoing charitable work of our Macau business. The
activities of our community volunteer team include collecting and recycling
clothes for distribution to the poor in China and providing Christmas gift packs
to local children and the underprivileged.
Internet safety Cable & Wireless Panama Foundation, ASSA, Microsoft and the
Ricky Martin Foundation launched a ‘Surf the web safely’ campaign in Panama
in October 2008. This campaign is especially designed for children and their
parents and focuses on three major areas of internet safety – basic security,
personal security and family security. 
Membership of the UN Global Compact In Panama we continue to be
members of the UN Global Compact, a worldwide voluntary policy initiative 
for businesses committed to upholding principles in the areas of human rights,
labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are also on the Board of
Directors of the UN Global Compact Panama Network. 
4 Nurture best practice in our activities
CWI operates telecoms businesses around the world. A key role of the London
headquarters is to ensure that we share best practice around the businesses,
developing further what is good and removing what isn’t. This principle applies
to all aspects of our business, for example: 
Colleague engagement Our annual Gallup poll of all CWI employees has
shown substantial improvement. In particular our colleague engagement 
ratio has increased to 44%, up from 33% last year. Improving colleague
engagement further is a key element of our ‘One Caribbean’ transformation
programme.
Supply chain resilience In 2007/08, we introduced a comprehensive supply
chain audit process of our Tier One and Tier Two suppliers using international
standards. More recently, we have introduced a risk assessment process of
our strategic suppliers to extend our understanding of their operations and
measure solvency and financial health in the light of the current economic
downturn. 
RIDDOR Our 2008 RIDDOR (Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous
Occurrences Regulations) total for colleagues taking three days off for minor
work related injuries was 19. There were no serious injuries or fatalities. 
Our focus 
for 2009/10
Improving our
environmental
performance 
and enhancing 
our community 
involvement 20
WORLDWIDE
WORLDWIDE PROVIDES GREAT CUSTOMER
SERVICE AND TAILORED SOLUTIONS TO MANY
OF THE WORLD’S LARGEST ORGANISATIONS 21
Business 
review
Worldwide
Executive Chairman’s review
John Pluthero
Executive Chairman
Worldwide
We’ve come a long way in the last three years.
We’ve reached the point where we’re providing
mission critical telecoms for many of the world’s
largest organisations.
Back in November 2005, when Cable & Wireless
acquired Energis, nobody could have predicted 
the conditions we find in today’s marketplace: a
global downturn, a new competitive landscape and
customers looking to us as the industry’s safe pair 
of hands.
Y et this is where we are, and we’re well positioned 
to take advantage of the opportunities that these
conditions present. We’ve now completed the bulk 
of our turnaround and are a far fitter, leaner and more
competitive business as a result. We now have
market-leading capability – our Multi Service Platform
is live and being used by more than 150 customers –
whilst our fixed mobile convergence product gives 
our customers a powerful new telecoms solution 
with the potential to help drive down their costs.
We’re expanding in key areas around the globe 
in response to customer demand, which is why 
we’ve changed our name to Worldwide – it better
reflects both our reach and our aspirations. And 
our acquisition of Thus during the year has given 
us additional scale in the UK enterprise market 
and significant cost saving opportunities from 
the integration.
All of our work has delivered EBITDA growth in
2008/09 of £107 million to £326 million, of which 
£29 million is from Thus. Our EBITDA margin
continues to expand and now stands at 14%, up 
at least two percentage points in each of the last 
four half years. And we shouldn’t forget that we 
have achieved a full year of positive trading cash 
flow, despite the cost of integrating Thus – the first 
for many years. 
However, none of our success means we’re immune
to the current economic environment. During the
coming year our attention will be on discipline,
prudence and controlling our costs – something
we’ve had a lot of practice at over the last three 
years. Some of our customers are having to resize
their aspirations, and when they feel pain, so do we. 
But with the plans that we have in place – a firm hand
on costs and a business model our customers love – 
we’re better placed than many to weather the current
economic climate.
My aim for the future of this business is clear – we’re
going to be the first choice for providing mission
critical telecoms to large organisations. 
Finally, I must thank our colleagues. Their dedication,
talent and commitment is what drives us forward.
Their ingenuity and innovation allow us to offer new
capability, and their knowledge and foresight keep 
us ahead of the competition around the world. Three
years of delivery have restored their ambition and
belief in our business, and that’s an asset that will
provide a handsome return in the years to come.
WE’VE COME A LONG WAY IN
THE LAST THREE YEARS... AND
THERE’S MORE TO GO FOR 22
Worldwide
Business overview
What we do
Worldwide (formerly Europe, Asia & US) specialises in providing high 
quality communications services such as IP , data, voice and hosting to 
large enterprise and global carrier customers. This focus allows us to tailor 
our services to address their needs, making sure we deliver what these
customers need – day in, day out.
We operate around the globe, providing connectivity to 153 countries. Our
core markets are the UK, Asia, Middle East and Africa. We have a particular
strength in helping UK and European businesses expand into emerging
markets, including India and South East Asia, as well as helping many of the
rapidly growing businesses in these markets expand into developed markets
in Europe and the US. 
In January 2009, we became the first international telecoms provider to gain 
all the required security clearances from the Indian Government’s Department
of T elecommunications, allowing us to deliver our IP-based solutions directly
in India. During the year, we also increased our capability in the Middle East,
responding to customer demand with new points of presence in Dubai, 
Abu Dhabi and Bahrain. 
Whilst many of the economies we operate in have been slowing recently, our
leading indicators of recession remain healthy as the work we’ve done over
the past three years has positioned us well - we have a high proportion of long
term contracted revenue, a powerful product portfolio and a large market to
shoot for. Our strength across Asia is playing a part in our continued success,
as businesses look to capitalise on the growth still present in these developing
economies. 
Many of our customers are household names such as Adidas, the BBC and
Morrisons. Our acquisition of Thus in October 2008 gave us even greater 
scale with a number of new enterprise and Government customers including
Scottish Power and HSBC. 
Since this acquisition, we have transformed Thus into a business focused
entirely on the £5.5 billion a year mid market sector and transferred around
600 enterprise customers to Worldwide. The integration is delivering
significant cost savings from network and property rationalisation, removal 
of duplicate capabilities and one set of product development. Thus now
operates as a separate business, with Worldwide providing network services. 
153
COUNTRIES
CONNECTED 
BY OUR GLOBAL
NETWORK
GREAT SERVICE,
TAILORED SOLUTIONS 
WORLDWIDE IS A GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS
BUSINESS THAT PROVIDES MISSION CRITICAL
TELECOMS TO MANY OF THE WORLD’S LARGEST
ORGANISATIONS. 23
Business 
review
As the complexity of communications technology increases, customers are
increasingly looking to consolidate their disparate telecoms activity into fewer
suppliers. Our focus and experience with large businesses means we’re the
partner of choice for Chief Information Officers and Chief T echnology Officers
who want to get on with improving their businesses. Certain customers like
T esco and Aviva trust us to run their entire telecoms estate.
Our Multi Service Platform (MSP) is at the core of many of our customer
solutions. It’s a highly advanced IP-based network supporting more than 150
customers. Customers’ competitive advantage often relies on bandwidth-
hungry, business critical applications such as Oracle and SAP . Our MSP has
been designed to work with these applications, allowing customers to replace
their legacy networks with a single, responsive, flexible and scalable solution –
which also takes cost out of their businesses.
Our capability also includes the only operational GSM-based fixed mobile
convergence (FMC) solution in the UK. Simply put, FMC allows mobile phone
calls made on a company’s premises to be routed through their data network,
rather than via a mobile operator’s. There are a number of advantages for
businesses in doing this: it means customers will only receive one bill from one
partner; it allows them to keep their existing handsets and BlackBerrys; and
most importantly, with 50% of all business mobile calls made in the office, it
offers the opportunity for considerable cost savings.
Hosting continues to be another important part of the wide range of services
we offer, with customers increasingly asking us to manage their data centres
on their behalf. 
Our growth drivers
Since we set out our strategy more than three years ago, our vision to be the
first choice for mission critical telecoms for the world’s largest organisations 
is at the heart of everything we do. In this economic environment, success
comes from being able to stand head and shoulders above the competition –
offering customers compelling service and capability. This has driven our
success and it’s what will continue to drive us forward as we seek to be the
number one in our chosen markets.
Consistently great customer service
In an industry that often emphasises technology rather than customers, no
wonder ‘telecoms’ is sometimes a byword for poor service. We’re changing
that, because we know that large organisations demand and need high quality
service from the telecoms that we provide. 
We’ve done a lot in the last three years and our customers tell us they like what
they see. For example, with many of our customers, a key measure of our
service is how we deal with any issues that arise. We’ve been working hard to
make sure that, when there’s a problem, we fix it quickly and keep our
customer informed. Over the last year, we’ve increased the amount of faults
fixed within our service level agreement to 88% and the number of faults fixed
at first point of contact by 65%. 
But we know our customers are looking for more. They want a
communications provider that’s not just looking to maintain delivery times, 
but actively looking to reduce them. That’s why our CEO announced to the
business in November 2008 that we’re re-engineering the way we deliver 
new orders, to give us a better, more scalable process.
And we’re not just changing our structure and processes. Our colleagues are
the most important part of great customer service. We have a culture where
everyone is encouraged to ‘think customer’, where they understand how
critical our services are to customers and where they’ll go the extra mile to
make sure they give a consistently great service experience. 24
Worldwide
Business overview
Customer-driven global growth
In the current economic environment, many customers are looking to emerging
markets for their future success. Our capability in many of these markets across
Asia, but particularly in India, is perfectly placed to help them do this.
We’ve also continued to expand our partnerships with local telecoms suppliers.
For example, during the last year we’ve signed an agreement with T elecom Italia
Sparkle, giving us enhanced reach around the Mediterranean Basin, and
strengthened our partnership with Vietnam Data Communication.
Like our recent expansion in the Middle East, we’re adding capability where our
customers need it and where we know there will be a return on our investment.
Capability that solves customers’ business issues
Our innovative capability will continue to attract new customers and win more
business from existing ones. Our ability to offer products like the UK’s first ‘on
demand’ IP contact centre for Thames Water will continue to differentiate us
from our competitors. Our FMC solution is unique to the UK market and has
been adopted by customers such as T esco. It offers customers the chance to
develop more productive ways of working and opens up to us a corporate
mobile market that’s estimated to be worth £500 million per year.
Many of our solutions can be used by our customers to reduce the amount 
of money they’re spending, for example, our managed video conferencing
solution offers the chance to reduce travel costs and increase productivity.
Our competitive position
We operate both in the UK and in markets across the globe. Internationally, we
compete against the domestic telecoms incumbent in each country, as well as
a number of other global competitors, like AT&T , BT , Orange and Verizon. In the
UK, whilst there are a number of competitors, the choice for large customers
often comes down to us or BT .
We continue to be well positioned in our chosen markets. Our market
specialisation gives us a focus that most of our competitors, operating across
a variety of market segments, cannot match. It allows us to develop network,
product and service solutions specifically tailored to large organisations.
Our brand is strong and recognisable to decision makers around the globe, 
but particularly in markets like the UK and India where we’ve been serving
customers for more than 100 years. More importantly, our brand stands for 
one thing above all else – a commitment to great service. 
Finally, our ability to supply connectivity into 153 countries, our MSP IP-based
network and our capability to route traffic both ways around the world gives us
a competitive advantage over many of our rivals.
Our strategy and objectives
The success of our business during the last three years is down to the
consistent focus on our strategy – we want to be the first customer-defined
communications services business in the world with the ambition to be the
number one in our chosen markets. We aim to do this by:
Specialising in large customers
Our focus on large enterprise, carrier and reseller customers means we have
knowledge and experience of our customers that few can match. By focusing
only on this market, we can deliver an unparalleled customer experience. This
market provides us with the richest product set, has high operational barriers
to entry for our competitors and is one we’ve many years’ experience in serving.
Delivering market-leading capability
Our capability is customer, rather than technology, led. It’s designed to help our
customers solve their business issues and make sure they can succeed, even
in the challenging markets they’re experiencing today.
Giving the best customer service
We’re changing the game in an industry that’s been synonymous with poor
service. Customer service is our number one priority and we’re continuing to
develop a service-focused culture throughout our business.
Offering customers best value
We’re creating a proposition that’s valued by our customers and economic for
us. Our aim is to give our customer the choice between great service – and
everyone else.
OUR 
STRATEGY 
■
SPECIALISING 
IN LARGE CUSTOMERS
■
DELIVERING MARKET-
LEADING CAPABILITY
■
GIVING THE BEST
CUSTOMER SERVICE
■
OFFERING CUSTOMERS
BEST VALUE 25
Business 
review
THUS ACQUISITION
ACCELERATING
OUR STRATEGY
The acquisition of Thus in October 2008 was a way of 
accelerating our strategy by acquiring a significant number 
of large enterprise customers.
These customers include major enterprises like: 
■ HSBC We manage their IP virtual private network to connect 
2,600 sites, including data centres, their head office and branches
across the UK; and 
■ Scottish Power We provide them with managed solutions 
to deliver voice and data throughout the UK. 
Our acquisition is also producing savings in outpayments, operating
costs and capital expenditure. In 2008/09, we have delivered EBITDA
synergies of £8 million and by 2011/12 we expect total EBITDA and
capital expenditure synergies of £90 million per annum. 
These savings will be achieved though greater integration of the 
two businesses, for example, by interconnecting the two networks 
to increase our direct presence in Scotland and expand our capacity. 
We’ll also make substantial savings by closing down some of Thus’
platforms, systems and processes and migrating customers on to 
our Multi Service Platform (MSP). In turn, this will allow us to focus 
on a single MSP-driven product set and processes that will help 
drive further operating efficiencies. 
600
LARGE CUSTOMERS
ACQUIRED
£90M
TOTAL ANNUAL 
SYNERGIES EXPECTED 26
Worldwide
Performance review
Worldwide key performance indicators
2008/09 2007/08
IP , data and hosting as a percentage of revenue 45%
1
40%
Gross margin percentage 42% 41%
Operating costs as a percentage of revenue 27% 30%
EBITDA margin percentage 14% 11%
EBITDA synergies achieved following the acquisition 
of Thus £8m n/a
Exceptional costs incurred to achieve synergies £30m n/a
1 Calculated on the basis of total Worldwide enterprise revenue.
Worldwide income statement
Change
(excluding
2008/09 2007/08 Change
1
Thus)
1
£m £m % %
IP , data and hosting 987 774 28 17
Traditional voice 1,121 1,071 5 (2)
Legacy products 81 96 (16) (18)
T otal Worldwide enterprise revenue 2,189 1,941 13 5
Mid market 79 –nmnm
T otal revenue 2,268 1,941 17 5
Cost of sales (1,323) (1,138) (16) (4)
Gross margin 945 803 18 5
Operating costs 
(excluding LTIP charge) (619) (584) (6) 6
EBITDA
2
326 219 49 36
LTIP charge (17) (19) 11 11
Depreciation and amortisation (212) (157) (35) (23)
Net other operating income – 2nmnm
Operating profit before 
joint ventures 97 45 116 93
Share of loss after tax of joint ventures – (1) nm nm
Operating profit before 
exceptional items 97 44 120 98
Exceptional items (76) 13 nm nm
T otal operating profit 21 57 (63) (39)
Capital expenditure (265) (221) (20) (9)
Headcount (full time equivalents 
at 31 March) 6,717 5,019 (34) (5)
nm represents % change not meaningful.
1 Positive percentages represent improvement.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating income and
exceptional items.
CAPITALISING ON OUR
TURNAROUND SUCCESS 
49%
EBITDA GROWTH
INCLUDING THUS 27
Revenue
We grew our revenue in 2008/09 by 17% to £2,268 million compared 
with 2007/08. This increase comprises £90 million of revenue growth and
£237 million from Thus (after £11 million of eliminations).
Excluding Thus, revenue in 2008/09 increased by 5%. We continue to see
good demand for our higher margin IP , data and hosting products from our
core market of large enterprise customers with this revenue increasing by
£132 million compared with 2007/08. This growth has been partially offset 
by lower revenue from traditional voice and legacy products.
During 2008/09 we successfully implemented a number of major contracts
including fixed mobile convergence for T esco, the roll out of local loop
unbundling for Virgin Media and the deployment of Microsoft Exchange for
NHSMail which went live in February 2009.
Since our interim results announcement in November, we have won a number
of significant contracts including: 
■ Centrica A five year £79 million contract to provide a next generation
telecoms network for their UK operations; 
■ Lloyds TSB Asset Finance A three year multi-million pound contract to
deliver a next generation call centre;
■ Morrisons A three year multi-million pound contract to provide a managed
voice and data network solution to connect 114,000 employees at over
430 UK sites;
■ Regus A five year joint initiative to install our market-leading high definition
video conferencing suites for Regus in its premier locations around the
world. We expect this joint initiative to generate revenue of approximately
£32 million over five years; and
■ UK Government We are a key member of the consortium of companies, 
led by Lockheed Martin UK, providing services to the Office for National
Statistics to support the 2011 Census.
In January 2009 we became the first overseas carrier in India to obtain full
network security clearance from the Indian Government allowing us to deliver
our IP-based solutions directly in India. 
IP , data and hosting
IP , data and hosting grew by £213 million to £987 million in 2008/09,
representing 45% of our total enterprise revenue, excluding mid market
revenue, of £2, 189 million.
Excluding revenue from Thus and eliminations, IP , data and hosting revenue
grew by 17% to £906 million. Our Multi Service Platform (MSP) is now used 
by over 150 customers and extends well beyond the UK having been launched
in the Middle East, India, the Far East and North America. 
A number of our market-leading products are delivered over the MSP
including our managed high definition video conferencing, IP contact centres,
IP voice and fixed mobile convergence. The MSP also enables our customers
to run and manage their own business applications such as EPOS, CRM,
Oracle and SAP .
Traditional voice
Traditional voice revenue increased by £50 million to £1,121 million. Excluding
eliminations and revenue from Thus of £75 million, traditional voice revenue fell
by £25 million. This reduction reflects some price erosion and our customers’
continuing migration to IP voice services.
Business 
review 28
Worldwide
Performance review
Legacy products
Revenue from our legacy products declined by £15 million to £81 million.
Excluding revenue from Thus of £2 million, revenue from legacy products
reduced by 18%. 
Mid market
This represents the revenue from our Thus mid market business which
amounted to £79 million. 
Gross margin
Gross margin increased by £142 million in 2008/09 to £945 million, comprised of
£42 million of growth and £100 million from Thus. Excluding Thus, the increase
of £42 million is due to revenue growth and continued improvement in product
mix. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 42% from 41%
reflecting a growing proportion of higher margin IP , data and hosting revenue. 
Operating costs
Operating costs in 2008/09 increased by £35 million to £619 million. The
increase comprises £71 million from Thus, partially offset by a £36 million
reduction in costs in our existing business.
Excluding Thus, the operating cost fall of £36 million to £548 million is due 
to the delivery of a number of cost saving initiatives including the renegotiation 
of network maintenance contracts and rationalisation of our network. These
cost reductions have been partly offset by an increase in energy charges of
£1 1 million in the second half of the year. 
At 31 March 2009, there were 6,717 colleagues in the business.  Excluding
Thus colleagues, the total was 5,248, an increase of 5% compared with 
the 2007/08 level. This increase reflects colleagues transferred to us from
customers as we win more managed service contracts as well as a significant
move towards insourcing key service activities.
EBITDA
EBITDA before exceptionals increased by £107 million to £326 million in
2008/09. The increase comprises £78 million from improved performance 
and £29 million from Thus (including £8 million of integration synergies).  
Though we are not immune to the current economic climate, most of our
recession indicators remain healthy and any declines have been offset by growth
in demand for our cost out propositions, for example high definition video
conferencing and fixed mobile convergence, and our increasing market share.
During the year, our EBITDA margin improved by three percentage points to
14% compared with 2007/08.  Excluding Thus, EBITDA margin rose by four
percentage points to 15%. 
Exceptional items
Net exceptional charges in 2008/09 were £76 million.
Excluding Thus integration costs of £30 million, net exceptional charges
totalled £46 million compared with net exceptional income of £13 million 
in 2007/08. The £46 million charge relates to redundancies, property
rationalisation and other transformation costs as we continue to 
restructure the Worldwide business.
OUR FOCUS ON LARGE
ENTERPRISE CUSTOMERS IS
DELIVERING GREAT RESUL TS
MORRISONS
We provide a managed voice and
data network solution across
Morrisons’ 430 UK sites. 
Our managed IP virtual private network
solution, running on our Multi Service
Platform (MSP), connects Morrisons
stores, petrol stations, distribution
centres and data centres to its
corporate headquarters. It’s more than
quadrupled their previous capacity and
enabled the deployment of a suite of
business critical applications. We also
provide Morrisons with our Applications
Performance Management suite giving
Morrisons a clear view of their network
performance which helps them manage
bandwidth use and reduce cost.
Gary Barr, IT Director, Morrisons, 
said: “When we were looking to
upgrade our network, we wanted a
supplier who demonstrated not only 
an understanding of our business, 
but also had innovative and flexible
solutions to give us the tools to
streamline our processes and
operations – Cable & Wireless 
met these criteria exactly.”
“CABLE & WIRELESS 
MET OUR CRITERIA
EXACTL Y” 29
Business 
review
Capital expenditure and depreciation and amortisation 
Capital expenditure of £265 million is £44 million higher than 2007/08 and
represents 12% of revenue. This increase over our guidance of approximately
10% of revenue is predominantly due to the purchase of additional international
capacity and the £9 million of cost to achieve the Thus integration from
investment in additional capacity required for the migration of Thus’ enterprise
customers onto Worldwide’s network. 
Capital expenditure related to customer specific contracts was 44% of total
capital expenditure, reflecting our recent success in winning IP , data and
hosting contracts. 
Depreciation and amortisation was £212 million for 2008/09, compared with
£157 million in 2007/08. Excluding Thus, depreciation was £193 million in
2008/09, an increase of £36 million reflecting the level of capital expenditure 
in recent years. 
Reconciliation of Worldwide EBITDA to net cash flow 
before financing
2008/09
1
£m 
EBITDA
2
326
Exceptional items (76) 
EBITDA
2
less exceptional items 250
Movement in exceptional provisions 5 
Movement in working capital and other provisions (4)
Purchase of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (245) 
Investment and other income 7
Trading cash inflow 13
Acquisitions and disposals (331)
Contribution to pension buy-in (8)
Net cash outflow before financing activities (326) 
1 Based on our management accounts.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge and net other operating income.
We generated a trading cash inflow of £13 million in 2008/09 – a trading cash
inflow of £35 million excluding Thus.
After the £330 million expenditure to acquire Thus and an £8 million outflow in
respect of the pension buy-in for the main UK defined benefit scheme, we had
a net cash outflow before financing of £326 million.
Exceptional items and the movement in exceptional provisions of £71 million, are
largely attributable to restructuring costs and the costs of the Thus integration. 
Cash capital expenditure of £245 million reflects a mix of investments in both
customer and infrastructure projects.  
WE GENERATED POSITIVE TRADING
CASH FLOW FOR THE FIRST FULL
YEAR IN MANY YEARS
EBITDA UP
£78M
EXCLUDING THUS 30
Worldwide
Corporate responsibility
1 Seek continual improvement of our environmental performance
We continue to focus on reducing the effects of our operations on the
environment. Our calendar year 2007 carbon footprint was 190,000 tonnes 
of carbon dioxide (scope one and two and some scope three greenhouse 
gas emissions) as externally verified by The Edinburgh Centre for Carbon
Management. For 2008/09, we are preparing for the UK Government’ s 
Carbon Reduction Commitment Reporting process and will continue to 
disclose our footprint through the Carbon Disclosure Project once the
assessment is complete.
In calendar year 2008 we used approximately 331 million kWh of electricity
and 18 million kWh of natural gas, compared with 310 million kWh and 
15 million kWh respectively in calendar year 2007. This increase primarily
reflects the growth of our business, particularly in hosting and managed
services. We have recently engaged Waterscan to monitor our water use.
Major energy efficiency programmes Our continuing programme to introduce
more energy efficient equipment into our operating infrastructure should yield
energy savings of 23 million kWh by 2009/10. 
Travel Last year we worked with the Energy Saving Trust to review our 
fleet including company owned vehicles, grey fleet (business miles driven 
in colleague-owned cars) and hire vehicles. We identified that we used
approximately 420,000 litres of fuel for business travel in 2008. Using the
results of this review, a task force has been set up to help reduce our travel
emissions. We now encourage car sharing via our Lift Share scheme with
guaranteed car parking spaces. 
We estimate that during calendar year 2008 our short-haul business 
flights contributed 100 tonnes of CO
2e
and our long-haul business flights 
contributed a further 1,250 tonnes. 
Reuse and recycling Last year we introduced a new process to assess 
all recovered equipment for reuse or resale through an approved partner –
96% of the 33.5 tonnes of electrical waste were recycled. This cuts down 
our waste and generates an income from the resale market. In calendar 
year 2008 we recycled or reused 384 tonnes of office waste which equates 
to about 15% of our total 2,600 tonnes of office waste.
FOCUS ON
SUSTAINABILITY
THIS YEAR WE HAVE CONTINUED TO INVEST IN A
RANGE OF SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PROGRAMMES
DIRECTED BY OUR FOUR PRINCIPLES INTRODUCED
LAST YEAR. WE HIGHLIGHT OUR PROGRESS
AGAINST EACH PRINCIPLE.
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
384
TONNES OF OFFICE
WASTE REUSED OR
RECYCLED
90%
OF COLLEAGUES
ACCESSED OUR 
AWARD-WINNING 
E-LEARNING FACILITY
The data in this section refers primarily to the UK and Ireland. 31
Business 
review
2 Facilitate and encourage responsible and innovative product and
service design
We are a leading provider of innovative new capabilities which aim to 
improve business performance, reduce carbon emissions and lower 
costs for our customers.
Helping to reduce our customers’ carbon footprint Increasingly, 
customers want to reduce their costs as well as their carbon emissions. 
Our high definition video conferencing services are a very effective way 
to communicate without travelling, lowering both cost and emissions. 
Similarly, fixed mobile convergence eliminates duplication from needing 
to manufacture both mobile and fixed line equipment while digital signage 
for retailers does away with the traditional paper approach. 
3 Contribute to the positive social and economic development of the
communities in which we operate
Our community agenda is primarily driven by our colleagues. This creates 
a positive relationship with our local communities and means that many 
of these activities are led by colleague volunteers. A few examples are
described below.
Community support Children in Need is a regular event for us, when we
provide not only our telephone services but also volunteers to man the 
phones throughout the event. During our Christmas charitable appeal,
colleagues voted to support Crisis, Great Ormond Street Children’s 
Hospital, The Muscular Dystrophy Campaign and World Vision. A particularly
successful community programme was delivered by field engineering
colleagues who gave six weeks of computer training to women from the
Westminster Children’s Society nurseries.
We continue to support Télécoms Sans Frontières, a partnership now in its
seventh year. And this is our third year working with Christel House, a learning
centre for underprivileged children in Bangalore, India, where we provide
funding for their computer laboratory and the students’ IT education. 
Internet safety Our contribution to the Get Safe Online programme supports 
a UK Government initiative promoting online safety awareness to children and
their parents. We also continue to donate to the Internet Watch Foundation, 
a specialist charity helping to police the internet against abusive content. 
4 Uphold fundamental human rights and respect cultures, customs 
and values in dealing with colleagues and others who are affected by 
our activities
We aim to conduct our operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and
with respect for the human rights and interests of our colleagues and the
communities in which we operate. 
Suppliers Sustainable procurement is now integral to our supplier tendering
process and our procurement policy has been updated to reflect this. Our
procurement questionnaire reflects international standards and covers a 
range of important issues such as human rights, climate change and integrity. 
Education This year we launched our Advanced Apprenticeship scheme 
and were pleased with the high level of skills demonstrated by applicants.
Each apprentice will spend two years with us, receive a nationally recognised
qualification and be offered a permanent position. Our apprenticeship 
scheme is supported and recognised by the Learning and Skills Council.
In 2008/09, 5,300 colleagues accessed our online learning facility, gaining 
us awards from E-Learning Age and World of Learning.
RIDDOR Under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous
Occurrences Regulations we can report a figure of zero for calendar 
year 2008.
Photograph taken by Lee Thorne, as part 
of a colleague involvement initiative. 32
Group Finance Director’s review
We have made significant improvements in our
financial performance over the last few years 
and this year , despite the economic environment,
has been no exception.
During the year , revenue increased from £3,152 million
to £3,646 million, pre-exceptional EBITDA from 
£605 million to £822 million and profit before
exceptional items and income tax was up 37% to 
£422 million.
Three factors have had an impact on our results. 
Firstly , we acquired Thus, adding £248 million 
(£237 million after eliminations) to revenue and 
£29 million to EBITDA whilst adding a new dimension
to our Worldwide business. Secondly , we benefited
from the unprecedented volatility in currencies during
the year , with foreign currency translation increasing
CWI revenue by £150 million and EBITDA by 
£50 million. 
Thirdly , our performance continues to improve. Our
underlying revenue grew by £107 million during the
year . Underlying gross margin increased due to rising
sales, improving product mix and from programmes 
to reduce cost of sales. Our focus on reducing our cost
base in both businesses has been very successful with
£55 million taken out of our operating costs in the year .
Worldwide’s underlying operating costs decreased 
by £36 million from further efficiencies and CWI
reduced their operating costs by £19 million as the 
‘One Caribbean’ transformation programme started 
to kick in. 
Group EBITDA before exceptional items increased 
by £217 million (36%) to £822 million in the year . 
There was a £138 million increase due to improved
performance in Worldwide (£78 million) and CWI 
(£60 million), £50 million from the beneficial effect 
of foreign currency translation in CWI and £29 million
from the acquisition of Thus. Our pre-exceptional
EBITDA margin has increased by four percentage
points to 23%.
The Group had a trading cash inflow of £207 million.
After taking into account the acquisition of Thus, the
payment of dividends to shareholders and currency
effects, the Group moved from a net cash position of
£243 million to a net debt position of £377 million. 
Nevertheless, our liquidity and balance sheet 
remain strong.
During the year , we worked with our pension fund
T rustees to successfully complete a buy-in of the
pensioner element of our main UK pension scheme 
with Prudential Insurance. This buy-in effectively
removed the risks relating to the UK pensioner element
of the scheme, representing approximately half of the
scheme’s liabilities.
Our pre-exceptional earnings per share increased 
from 7 .9 pence to 13.0 pence as a result of the improved
performance of the business and the factors outlined
above. Post-exceptional earnings per share decreased
from 6.8 pence to 5.8 pence as performance was 
offset by exceptional restructuring costs together 
with the mark to market effect of forward foreign
exchange contracts.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 5.67 pence
per share, which together with the interim dividend 
of 2.83 pence per share, represents a 13% increase 
on the 2007/08 full year dividend.
Tim Pennington
Group Finance Director
At a time when the economic
environment is challenging, 
our performance has 
continued to improve. 33
Financial performance review
Business 
review
The commentary that follows refers to the Group's results
before exceptional items, highlighting the effect on the
results from performance, the acquisition of Thus and
the impact of foreign currency translation on the results
of CWI (the impact of foreign currency translation on 
the results of Worldwide and Central was not material). 
Group results before exceptional items
Group revenue grew by £494 million (16%) to £3,646 million 
in 2008/09 due to growth in both Worldwide and CWI (£107
million), Worldwide’s acquisition of Thus (six months revenue to
31 March 2009 of £237 million after £11 million of eliminations)
and the beneficial effect of foreign currency translation on CWI
revenue (£150 million).
Of the £107 million growth in underlying revenue, Worldwide’s
revenue grew by £90 million, as we continue to win and deliver
significant new IP , data and hosting contracts to our enterprise
customers. CWI’s revenue grew by £13 million, predominantly
due to Panama as our mobile revenue grew despite the entry 
of two additional mobile competitors in the year . 
The £278 million increase in Group gross margin to £1,887
million is due to £83 million of growth from Worldwide and 
CWI, £100 million of additional gross margin from Thus and 
£95 million from the beneficial effect of foreign currency
translation on CWI gross margin. 
We improved Group gross margin as a percentage of revenue 
by one percentage point to 52%.
In 2008/09, Group operating costs increased by 6% (£61 million)
to £1,065 million. This masks a £55 million reduction in operating
costs in Worldwide and CWI. Worldwide’s acquisition of Thus
increased operating costs by £71 million and the adverse effect
of foreign currency translation on CWI operating costs was an
increase of £45 million. 
Of the £55 million reduction in underlying operating costs, there
was a £36 million decrease in Worldwide as a result of our focus
on improving efficiency through key initiatives such as optimising
our network costs. We reduced our operating costs in CWI by
£19 million as the ‘One Caribbean’ transformation programme
started to take effect. 
The consolidated income statement of the Group, which is prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs applicable for use in the EU, from which the information above is extracted 
is included in the consolidated financial statements on page 63.
1 Exceptional items comprise items considered exceptional by virtue of their size, nature
or incidence and include restructuring and impairment charges, provision charges
and credits and profits and losses on disposal of non-current assets and foreign
exchange contracts. 
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, Long T erm Incentive Plan
(L TIP) charge and net other operating income/expense.
Group performance
2008/09 2007/08
Pre-exceptional Exceptional Pre-exceptional Exceptional
items items
1
Total items items
1
Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 3,646 – 3,646 3,152 – 3,152
Cost of sales (1,759) – (1,759) (1,543) – (1,543)
Gross margin 1,887 – 1,887 1,609 – 1,609
Operating costs (excluding L TIP charge) (1,065) (133) (1,198) (1,004) (53) (1,057)
EBITDA
2
822 (133) 689 605 (53) 552
L TIP charge (17) – (17) (27) – (27)
Depreciation and amortisation (379) – (379) (299) (37) (336)
Net other operating (expense)/income (2) – (2) 5 53 58
Group operating profit/(loss) 424 (133) 291 284 (37) 247
Share of profit after tax of joint ventures 34 – 34 37 – 37
Total operating profit/(loss) 458 (133) 325 321 (37) 284
Net finance expense (46) (56) (102) (22) (10) (32)
Gain on sale of non-current assets 7– 7 1 – 1
Gain on termination of operations 3– 3 8 6 14
Profit/(loss) before income tax 422 (189) 233 308 (41) 267
Income tax (expense)/credit (24) 7 (17) (56) 9 (47)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 398 (182) 216 252 (32) 220
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 10 – 10 –––
Profit/(loss) for the year 408 (182) 226 252 (32) 220
Attributable to equity holders of the Company 322 (179) 143 191 (27) 164
Attributable to minority interests 86 (3) 83 61 (5) 56
Profit/(loss) for the year 408 (182) 226 252 (32) 220  34
Financial performance review
In the year , we reduced Group operating costs as a percentage
of revenue by three percentage points to 29%.
In 2008/09, our operating costs benefited from an IAS 19 
net pension credit of £12 million in relation to the main 
UK defined benefit scheme; £8 million in Worldwide and 
£4 million in CWI compared with £14 million and £5 million 
in 2007/08 respectively . 
EBITDA
Group EBITDA increased by £217 million (36%) to £822 million
with the £138 million improvement in the performance of
Worldwide (£78 million) and CWI (£60 million) being the largest
contributing factor . Worldwide’s acquisition of Thus and the first
six months of integration synergies contributed an additional
£29 million of EBITDA and the beneficial effect of foreign
currency translation in CWI increased EBITDA by £50 million.
We have improved the Group EBITDA margin by four
percentage points to 23% reflecting rising profitability in 
both businesses.
Long Term Incentive Plan (L TIP) charge
The L TIP charge for 2008/09 is £17 million, all of which was
incurred by Worldwide. The 2009 payment of £32 million
(£30 million in Worldwide and £2 million in CWI) will be made 
to participants in the plan. For more details on the calculation 
of the L TIP pool, please refer to pages 52 to 53.
Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation and amortisation has increased by £80 million in
the year to £379 million. This includes a £45 million increase
following the recent levels of capital expenditure, a £19 million
depreciation charge on the acquired Thus fixed assets and the
effect of foreign currency translation on CWI of £16 million.
Share of profit after tax of joint ventures
Our share of profit after tax of joint ventures decreased by
£3 million to £34 million. 
Net finance expense
The £46 million net finance expense for the year is £24 million
higher than 2007/08 and consists of finance income of 
£29 million (£53 million in 2007/08) and finance expense of
£75 million (£75 million in 2007/08). The decrease in finance
income relates to lower average cash balances and reduced
interest rates.
Profit from discontinued operations
The profit of £10 million from discontinued operations includes
the reversal of unutilised provisions relating to previously
discontinued businesses including the Group’s former US
operations.
Group exceptional items
2008/09
£m
Operating items
CWI and Worldwide restructuring (95)
Thus integration charges (30)
Onerous property lease obligation (8)
Exceptional items within total operating profit (133)
Non-operating items
Losses on foreign exchange contracts (56)
Exceptional items below total operating profit (56)
Total exceptional items before tax (189)
T ax credit on exceptional items 7
Total exceptional items (182)
The CWI transformation programme continued with gross
restructuring costs of £57 million primarily relating to our
‘One Caribbean’ transformation programme, the streamlining 
of our London office including a 27% reduction in headcount,
and efficiency programmes in Panama and Monaco & Islands.
These costs were partially offset by a £8 million exceptional net
gain primarily from the restructuring of the Jamaican retirement
funds. A £7 million tax credit was recorded against the CWI
restructuring charges. 
Restructuring costs of £46 million relating to Worldwide’s
transformation programme were recognised in the period.
These primarily comprised property and network rationalisation
(£32 million) and redundancies (£12 million). Exceptional 
costs of £30 million were incurred in relation to the integration
of Thus into our Worldwide business, £24 million of these 
were recognised in Thus and £6 million in the existing
Worldwide business.
During the period, Central recognised a one-off charge of
£8 million in relation to an onerous property lease.
The Group recognised an exceptional finance expense of 
£56 million from the IAS 39 marking to market of forward
exchange contracts used for hedging purposes. In 2008/09, 
we entered into US$815 million of forward contracts at average
US dollar to sterling exchange rates of between 1.72 and 1.86 
to lock in the sterling value of our forecast cash repatriation 
from overseas operations and drawdowns on the Group’s
US$415 million bank facility . £31 million of the finance expense
results from the expiry of US$590 million of contracts in
2008/09, offsetting some of the foreign currency translation
benefit in 2008/09. The remaining £25 million relates to the
marking to market at the year end US dollar to sterling exchange
rate of 1.4498 of US$225 million of open forward contracts 
to hedge 2009/10 cash repatriation. In accordance with 
the Board’s policy on hedging and derivatives, we hedge 
only transaction exposure at the point we have good visibility 
of the transaction flows. 35
Business 
review
Taxation
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Taxation before exceptional items
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 422 308 
T ax charge on ordinary activities (24) (56)
Effective tax rate 6% 18% 
Taxation after exceptional items
1
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 233 267 
T ax charge on ordinary activities (17) (47)
Effective tax rate 7% 18% 
1 Excluding discontinued operations.
The principal reason for the movement in the effective tax 
rate is an increased UK deferred tax asset recognition in the
current year .
The Group charge of £17 million (2007/08 – £47 million)
comprises a £37 million credit in respect of previously
unrecognised UK deferred tax assets (£7 million for 2007/08), 
a charge of £61 million (£63 million in 2007/08) for overseas
taxes and a credit of £7 million on exceptional items (2007/08
– credit of £9 million). During the year we paid £65 million of
income taxes to governments around the world. This amount 
is different to the charge for overseas taxation principally due 
to the timing of current tax payments under overseas tax laws. 
Group exchange rate movements
2008/09 2007/08
US$:£ 
Average 1.7581 2.0041
Y ear end 1.4498 1.9997
During the year , we saw extreme volatility in foreign exchange
rates with strengthening of the US dollar against sterling and
other currencies. These movements have had a significant
effect on our 2008/09 financial performance.  
2008/09 Group EBITDA includes £50 million net benefit from
foreign currency translation of CWI’s EBITDA, predominantly
due to the 12% depreciation of the average sterling rate against
the average US dollar rate for 2008/09, as approximately three
quarters of CWI’s EBITDA comes from US dollar or US dollar
linked economies. The majority of this strengthening of the US
dollar occurred in the last six months of the financial year with
the consequence that the average translation rate was 1.7581
whilst the closing rate was 1.4498. 
The strengthening of the dollar against sterling also resulted 
in an exceptional charge of £56 million relating to US dollar
forward contracts and an increase in reported net debt of 
£46 million, primarily from revaluing US dollar cash and debt 
in sterling. 
Group earnings per share
Before
exceptional Exceptional
items items Total
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 
attributable to equity 
holders of the Company 322 (179) 143
Profit for the year from 
continuing operations
attributable to equity 
holders of the Company
excluding L TIP charge 329 (179) 150
Earnings/(losses) per share 
attributable to the equity 
holders of the Company 
during the year (pence) 13.0p (7.2)p 5.8p
2007/08 (pence) 7.9p (1.1)p 6.8p 
Earnings/(losses) per share 
from continuing operations 
attributable to the equity holders
of the Company during the year
excluding L TIP charge (pence) 13.2p (7.2)p 6.0p
2007/08 (pence) 9.0p (1.1)p 7.9p
Reconciliation of Group EBITDA to net cash flow 
before financing activities
2008/09
1
£m
EBITDA
2
822
Exceptional items (133)
EBITDA
2
less exceptional items 689
Movement in exceptional provisions 11
Movement in working capital and other provisions (21)
Income taxes paid (65)
Investment income 39
Purchase of property , plant, equipment and 
intangible assets (449)
Other income 3 
Trading cash inflow 207
Acquisitions and disposals (340)
Contribution to pension buy-in (10)
Net cash outflow before financing activities (143)
1 Based on our management accounts.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, L TIP charge and net
other operating income. 36
Financial performance review
The Group trading cash inflow was £207 million including a
£218 million inflow from CWI and a £13 million inflow from
Worldwide, partially offset by a £24 million outflow in Central. 
The net cash outflow in Central of £24 million predominantly
relates to operating costs and working capital outflows, offset 
by interest income.
The Group net cash outflow before financing activities was
£143 million following £340 million of cash outflow on
acquisitions, principally relating to the acquisition of Thus, 
and the £10 million cash contribution to the pension buy-in. 
Group cash and debt
As at As at
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 545 699
Debt due in:
less than 1 year (90) (59)
more than 1 but less than 2 years (64) (24)
more than 2 but less than 5 years (615) (215)
more than 5 years (153) (158)
Total debt (922) (456)
Total net (debt)/cash (377) 243
The Group’s net debt at 31 March 2009 of £377 million can be
analysed between our businesses as follows:
As at 31 March 2009
CWI Worldwide Central
£m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 113 144 288
Debt due in:
less than 1 year (72) (18) –
more than 1 but less than 2 years (20) (9) (35) 
more than 2 but less than 5 years (43) (99) (473) 
more than 5 years (5) (2) (146)
Total debt (140) (128) (654)
Total net (debt)/cash (27) 16 (366)
The movement in Group’s net cash and debt can be reconciled
as follows:
£m
At 31 March 2008 243
T rading cash flow 207
Dividends (224)
Acquisitions and disposals (459)
Third party debt and interest (91)
Pension contribution and other (7)
Exchange movements (46)
At 31 March 2009 (377)
In the year , the Group moved from a net cash position of
£243 million to a closing net debt position of £377 million.
During the year , we had a trading cash inflow of £207 million
and paid £224 million in dividends (£147 million to shareholders
and £77 million to minorities). The £459 million movement in
net debt from acquisitions and disposals mainly relates to the
£330 million purchase of the entire share capital of Thus, as
well as the £113 million payment to refinance Thus’ debt and
other related charges. The £91 million movement in third party
debt and interest comprises £79 million of interest paid and
£12 million of finance lease payments. There was a £10 million
outflow relating to the purchase of the bulk annuity policy for the
main UK defined benefit pension scheme, offset by £3 million 
of other income. The effect of translating our non-sterling cash
and debt balances, principally US dollars, into sterling increases
our net debt by £46 million.
As at 31 March 2009, we had £545 million of cash and cash
equivalents and undrawn credit facilities of over £100 million,
following the arrangement of a £200 million facility in
Worldwide, of which we have drawn down £99 million. 
Pensions
As at 31 March 2009, the main UK defined benefit scheme had
an IAS 19 deficit of £32 million compared with a surplus of
£375 million at 31 March 2008, mainly as a result of lower asset
values. The IAS 19 valuation uses a discount rate of 6.7%. In the
prior year , we applied the asset ceiling provisions of IAS 19 and
reduced the surplus to nil on the balance sheet. A full actuarial
valuation of the main UK defined benefit scheme as at 31 March
2007 was completed in March 2008 and, following a cash
contribution of £19 million, the scheme was fully funded on an
ongoing basis. 
In September 2008, the Pension T rustees of the main UK
defined benefit scheme agreed a buy-in of the UK pensioner
element of the scheme with Prudential Insurance. The buy-in
involved the purchase of a bulk annuity policy which effectively
matches the scheme’s liabilities to the approximately 5,000 UK
pensioners, thereby materially reducing the scheme’s and
shareholders’ exposure to future risks relating to the pensioner
element of the scheme. The pensioner liabilities and the
matching annuity policy remain within the scheme.
The fund assets at 31 March 2009 were invested 50% in the
bulk annuity policy described above, 31% in equities, and 19% in
bonds, property , swaps and cash.
We have unfunded pension liabilities in the UK of £19 million
(£20 million at 31 March 2008). Other defined benefit schemes
have a net IAS 19 deficit of £7 million (£6 million surplus at
31 March 2008). 37
Risk overview
Business 
review
We’ve made good progress over the last few years, 
and we’re confident in our ability to keep up this
momentum. However , like any business, we face a
number of potential risks in achieving our strategic 
goals. Some of these risks are shared by all businesses,
such as competition and the economic climate as well 
as social, ethical and environmental risks, and some 
are more specific to our Group.
Our Directors have identified the following key risks that
could affect our future success. In addition to the other
information contained in this Annual Report, investors in
Cable & Wireless should consider these risks carefully . 
Group-wide risks 
Like most businesses, we are exposed to the current economic
environment. This could affect our growth and profitability as
well as our ability to finance our business and pay dividends.
However , we’re confident that our Group structure – two separate
businesses with distinct products, services and geographies –
helps reduce our exposure. Both our businesses monitor key
recession indicators closely and have plans in place to address
any sustained impact of the downturn. In addition, we have
raised sufficient debt to meet our medium term liquidity needs
and continue to maintain good relationships with our core banks. 
Our financing agreements mean that we’re subject to certain
financial and other covenants. If we’re unable to meet these
covenants, we may have to repay facilities early , adversely
affecting our cash position. We monitor covenant positions
against our forecasts and budgets to ensure that we continue 
to operate within our covenant limits. 
We believe that with our Group structure and incentive
schemes, we are well positioned to deliver increased value to
our shareholders. However , if this structure and these incentive
schemes are not effective, we may not achieve our strategic
goals which could have an adverse effect on our results 
and reputation. We manage this risk with clear governance
structures, including Operating Boards for each business that
review strategy and performance formally , to help us create
value for the Group as a whole. 
Our main defined benefit pension scheme, based in the UK, 
is well managed and measures have been taken to reduce
financial risk exposures. However , the value of the scheme’s
assets and liabilities are affected by market movements and we
may also have to make additional contributions to the scheme 
if the scheme’s assumptions change. We engage in regular
dialogue with the scheme T rustees who manage the scheme’s
assets with appropriate external advice. We purchased
annuities for all of our UK pensioner liabilities during the year ,
significantly reducing the risk relating to these obligations.
We generate a significant proportion of our profits outside the
UK. These profits and associated investments are exposed to
exchange rate fluctuations which affect our results and financial
condition. Often the effects of exchange rate movements naturally
offset in the short term. We use foreign exchange hedging
contracts (see note 44 to our consolidated financial statements)
and where appropriate, we borrow locally (or in linked
currencies) in order to match operating and financing cash flows. 
The risk of litigation from customers and competitors 
is always present, as it is for most large organisations. Regions
such as Panama and the Caribbean are especially litigious.
Unfavourable outcomes could significantly affect our financial
performance or reputation. Where and when litigation is
brought against us, we defend our position robustly using
appropriate legal advice and services.
We make a number of estimates and assumptions relating 
to the reporting of our operating results and our financial
condition when preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Our results may differ significantly from these estimates 
under different assumptions and conditions. In particular , 
some of our accounting policies require subjective and complex
judgements about the effect of matters that are often uncertain.
We have outlined the Group’s critical accounting policies in 
note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in order to 
help users of our accounts understand the basis for forming
these judgements. 
We operate in many international locations, and our profits are
taxed according to the differing tax laws of these jurisdictions.
As a result, our effective tax rate could be altered by changes 
in legislation, management assessments or in the geographical
allocation of our income and expense. An alteration in this rate
would influence our financial results and so we constantly
monitor actual and proposed changes to legislation to anticipate
any tax effects.
We’re dependent on our employees for our future success. 
From 2006 we have rewarded and retained our key senior
managers through long term incentive plans linked to our two
businesses or Group performance. In order to retain these
individuals and their valuable skills and experience, we have
developed long term incentive proposals including a one year
extension of the existing L TIP and will be asking shareholders 
to approve these proposals at the 2009 AGM.
Our global network is a critical asset, enabling us to provide
customers with efficient and extensive telecommunication
services. We operate, manage, bill and support these services,
and manage our financial information, with our IT systems. 
Like other telecoms operators, our network and IT systems are
vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural disasters,
fire, security breaches, terrorist action, human error and other
factors outside of our control. If we were to experience full or
partial network or IT failure we might lose customers or receive
claims from customers based on loss of service, affecting our
reputation and results. We are confident that we have
appropriate business continuity and disaster recovery plans,
crisis management and emergency response teams and
insurance cover . In addition, we strive constantly to improve 
our network and add resilience where issues are identified.
Many of our business strategies rely on mobile telecommunications
technology . There have been some concerns expressed that
mobile phones and transmitters may pose long term health
risks. If these claims are proven, we might lose a strategic
revenue stream or be exposed to litigation. We continue to 
keep abreast of research in this field. 38
Risk overview
Risks specific to CWI 
Our CWI businesses are transforming themselves into
competitive enterprises to respond to the liberalisation of our
markets – putting in place initiatives to enhance the customer
experience and improve cost efficiency . A key initiative is our
‘One Caribbean’ programme in which we’re bringing together 
13 subsidiaries under one management structure with one 
brand and a common set of products and services. While we’re
confident that this programme will help us achieve our goals, 
it involves managing 13 sets of stakeholders, and as with all
business transformation initiatives, implementation is complex,
time consuming and expensive. T o counter this, we’re driving the
initiatives through detailed transformation programmes with key
milestones and objectives.
Competition continues to increase in some of our markets,
notably Panama. Our revenue and margins may be adversely
affected by new entrants taking market share and pushing
prices down through aggressive pricing. We prepared well for
the new competition in Panama by differentiating ourselves
from the competition through marketing promotions and
focusing on excellent customer service and network coverage.
In many markets, we are the only company to offer a full service
proposition. In addition, we share competitor analysis across our
businesses to help us preempt the effect of competitors’
actions. 
New revenue sources, such as mobile value added services,
managed services and enterprise solutions, are crucial to 
our growth strategy . If these fail to develop as well as we’re
expecting, our revenue may fall as our other core services reach
full market penetration. We’re confident in our new product
development and marketing strategies and the improvements
we’ve made to the way new products are introduced and are
developing CWI-wide product implementation strategies to
ensure our new revenue sources are as successful as we can
make them.
We believe we have all of the necessary regulatory licences 
and concessions we need to operate in our markets. If we fail 
to renew our licences when necessary , we would not be able 
to operate in certain locations. T o address this risk, we actively
work with governments and regulatory bodies to help them
deliver a regulatory environment that best suits the needs of
consumers and local governments whilst enabling continuing
stability for , and investment in, our business. 
Our joint ventures contributed £34 million to our profit this 
year . However , without management control, we are often
unable to influence their performance or ensure that they 
do not underperform. T o minimise underperformance, we’re
maintaining regular dialogue with key stakeholders, actively
engaging with local management and seeking to be involved
operationally . We also seek to gain management control
wherever possible. 
Risks specific to Worldwide
The strategy of the Worldwide business is to serve the 
largest users of telecommunication services in the UK and
internationally . T o achieve this, we’re transforming our service
quality (with increased automation), our go to market capability
(with new products and services) and our economics.
Furthermore in October 2008, we acquired Thus and are now
integrating it into our existing business to create value and
generate significant cost synergies. Implementing a business
transformation and integrating an acquired business is complex,
time consuming and expensive. Such activities are vulnerable to
issues such as poor data integrity and associated processes that
can jeopardise our customer solutions and reduce the speed of
the overall process. If we fail to execute our plans properly , our
operations and results may be adversely affected. That’s why
we’ve established detailed transformation programmes with key
milestones, designed to ensure we achieve our aims.
It’s important to ensure that we maintain the security of our
customers’ data, especially where services are delivered outside
the UK. If the large amounts of sensitive data passing through
our network were to fall into the wrong hands, we would be
exposed to significant legal and regulatory consequences. T o
increase security further , we’ve started an IT security mitigation
programme to review our offshore operating model and
implement onshore controls and business support processes. 
Like all major telecoms operators in the UK, we’re reliant on BT’s
network to deliver some services to our customers. BT is also
our largest competitor with over 50% share of our core market
of enterprise customers. Because BT is both the main
competitor and main supplier to telecommunications operators
in the UK, the regulator , Ofcom, must regulate BT’s practices
adequately to ensure that a fair competitive environment 
is maintained. If it doesn’t, we may be unable to compete
effectively , which could have a material effect on our results. 
We engage with Ofcom to encourage balanced regulation and
appeal against decisions that are perceived to favour the
interests of BT .
BT is due to introduce its next generation network (21CN) and
next generation fibre roll out. This network and fibre roll out is
likely to lead to a substantial change in commercial relationships
between telecommunications operators’ networks, as well as 
to the terms on which services are delivered. The timing of 
the introduction of BT’s 21CN and what impact these new
commercial arrangements will have on us is unclear at this
stage. We are actively engaging with Ofcom as regulation 
will be a key factor in shaping these new arrangements. 39
Introduction
04 Cable & Wireless at a glance
06 Chairman’s review
CWI
09 Chief Executive’s review
10 Business overview
14 Performance review
18 Corporate responsibility
Worldwide
21 Executive Chairman’s review
22 Business overview
26 Performance review
30 Corporate responsibility
Cable & Wireless Group
32 Group Finance Director’s review
33 Financial performance review
37 Risk overview
40 Board of Directors
42 Directors’ report
46 Corporate governance report
48 Statement from the independent 
Non-executive Directors
49 Report of the Audit Committee
50 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Cable & Wireless Group
62 Independent auditor’s report
63 Consolidated financial statements
67 Notes to the financial statements
Cable and Wireless plc
120 Independent auditor’s report
121 Company financial statements
123 Notes to the financial statements
136 Useful shareholder information
Business
review
Governance Financial 
statements
Shareholder
information
Governance
How we manage 
our business 
including Board
committees 
and Directors’ 
biographies and
remuneration. 40
Board of Directors
Richard Lapthorne
N
Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc
Richard Lapthorne was appointed as Group
Chairman in January 2003. From 1999 to May
2003 Richard was Chairman of Amersham plc
(now GE Healthcare) having joined its Board as 
a Non-executive Director in 1988. He was Finance
Director of British Aerospace plc from July 1992
and Vice Chairman from April 1998 until his
retirement in 1999. Richard is a Non-executive
Director of Calibre Audio Library , T ommy’s The
Baby Charity and is HM The Queen’s T rustee 
at The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. He was 
Non-executive Chairman of New Look Group 
and Morse plc until November 2007 and February
2008 respectively . On 1 June 2009, Richard will
be appointed as Non-executive Chairman of the
McLaren Group and Non-executive Director of
McLaren Automotive.
John Pluthero
Executive Chairman, Worldwide 
John Pluthero was appointed as Executive
Chairman of Worldwide in April 2006 
having previously been Executive Director 
of that business. During the period from 
12 November 2007 to 11 November 2008, 
John was also Executive Chairman of CWI
prior to the appointment of a Chief Executive.
From September 2002 until its acquisition 
by Cable and Wireless plc in November 
2005, John was Chief Executive of the
Energis Group. He was founder and CEO of 
Freeserve (now part of Orange UK), leading 
it to its flotation, and prior to this, John held
various strategy and operations positions
within the Dixons Group. John is a Director 
of Merville Ltd.
Tony Rice
Chief Executive, CWI 
T ony Rice was appointed as Chief Executive,
CWI on 11 November 2008, moving from 
his role as Group Finance Director , a position
he held from March 2006, having been a 
Non-executive Director since January 
2003. T ony was Chief Executive of T unstall
Holdings Ltd from March 2002 until its sale 
in September 2005 and he continued as 
a Non-executive Director of that company
until April 2008. T ony was previously Group
T reasurer and then Group MD, Commercial
Aircraft of British Aerospace plc. T ony is a
Non-executive Director of Punch T averns plc
and was appointed as Chairman of Alexander
Mann Solutions on 28 July 2008. He was a
T rustee of Help the Aged until 1 April 2009.
Clive Butler
ANR
Senior Independent Director; 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
Clive Butler was appointed a Non-executive
Director in May 2005 and is the nominated Senior
Independent Director . Clive is Chairman of the
Nominations Committee and a member of the
Audit and Remuneration Committees. Clive was
Corporate Development Director at Unilever plc,
serving on its main board from 1992 until his
retirement in 2005. He also undertook the roles 
of Personnel Director and Category Director for
the Home and Personal Care division having
worked in a variety of marketing and general
management roles since joining Unilever in 1970.
John Barton
AR
Non-executive Director
John Barton was appointed a Non-executive
Director on 9 March 2009 and is a member 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
John has been Chairman of Next PLC since 
2006 having joined their Board in 2002 and 
was Deputy Chairman from 2004. He is also 
the Chairman of Brit Insurance Holdings plc 
and a Non-executive Director of WH Smith 
plc. John was formerly the Chief Executive 
of JIB Group plc and Chairman of Jardine 
Lloyd Thompson Group plc and Wellington 
Underwriting plc.
Simon Ball
AR
Non-executive Director
Simon Ball was appointed a Non-executive
Director in May 2006 and is a member of 
the Audit and Remuneration Committees. On 
11 November 2008, Simon became an Investor
Director on the Worldwide and CWI Operating
Boards. Simon was Group Finance Director 
for 3i Group plc until November 2008 having
served on its main Board since April 2005. In this
capacity , he was a member of the Management
and Investment Committees, responsible for
financial management and coordinating strategic
direction. Prior to this, Simon held a series of
senior finance and operational roles at Dresdner
Kleinwort Benson, served as Group Finance
Director for the Robert Fleming Group and was
Director General, Finance for the Department 
for Constitutional Affairs. 41
Governance
Tim Pennington
Group Finance Director and 
Chief Financial Officer , CWI 
Tim Pennington was appointed as Group Finance
Director on 11 November 2008 having joined 
CWI as Chief Financial Officer on 23 September
2008. Previously , Tim was CFO and an Executive
Director of Hutchison T elecommunications
International Ltd, the Hong Kong based global
telecoms group. During this time he managed 
that company’s successful dual listing on the 
Hong Kong and New Y ork Stock Exchanges. 
Tim was also Finance Director of Hutchison 3G
(UK) (Hutchison Whampoa’s UK mobile business)
and has corporate finance experience with HSBC
Investment Bank and Samuel Montagu & Co.
George Battersby
Executive Director , Human Resources
George Battersby was appointed as Executive
Director , Human Resources in July 2004. 
Prior to joining Cable and Wireless plc, George 
was an Executive Director of Amersham plc 
(now GE Healthcare) responsible for human
resources, pensions, health and safety and
environment. Previously he held senior HR
positions in a number of FTSE 100 companies,
including Group HR Director appointments 
at Laporte plc and Fisons plc. George is a 
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee at Hogg Robinson
Group plc and was appointed to the Board of
Ofsted on 4 June 2008. He was previously 
Senior Independent Director and Remuneration
Committee Chairman of SHL plc.
Kate Nealon
ANR
Non-executive Director; 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Kate Nealon was appointed a Non-executive
Director in January 2005 and is Chair of the
Remuneration Committee. She is also a member 
of the Audit and Nominations Committees. 
Kate was Group Head of Legal and Compliance 
at Standard Chartered plc until 2004 having
previously practised international banking 
and regulatory law in New Y ork. Kate is a 
Non-executive Director of Shire plc, a senior
associate of the Judge Business School at
Cambridge University and a member of the
Advisory Council of the Institute of Business
Ethics. She was also a Non-executive Director 
of HBOS plc until 16 January 2009.
Kasper Rorsted
ANR
Non-executive Director; 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Kasper Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive
Director in May 2003 and is Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. He is also a member of the
Nominations and Remuneration Committees. 
Kasper is CEO of Henkel KGaA, Germany . 
Prior to joining Henkel in April 2005, Kasper 
was Senior Vice President and General Manager ,
EMEA for Hewlett Packard and held various 
senior management positions with Compaq. 
Kasper was appointed as a Non-executive
Director of Danfoss A/S, Denmark on 24 April
2009 and was a Non-executive Director of 
Ecolab, Inc. USA until July 2008.
A
Denotes membership of Audit Committee 
N
Denotes membership of Nominations Committee 
R
Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee 42
Directors’ report
The Directors present their Annual Report together
with the audited financial statements for the year 
ended 31 March 2009. 
Principal activities, business review and results
The Group’s principal activities are detailed on pages 4 to 5.
Through this Annual Report, including the Chairman’s statement
and the business review section (pages 6 to 38) that precede
this report, the Board seeks to present a balanced and clear
assessment of the Group’s activities, position and prospects.
Each of these sections is incorporated by reference into this
Directors’ report. The Group’s results for the financial year are
shown in the consolidated income statement on page 63.
Directors
The names and biographical details of the Directors are 
set out on pages 40 to 41. All of these Directors were in office
throughout the year apart from Tim Pennington, who joined 
the Board on 11 November 2008 as Group Finance Director , 
and John Barton, who joined the Board on 9 March 2009 
as a Non-executive Director . Agnès T ouraine resigned as 
a Non-executive Director on 19 May 2009. She joined the 
Board in January 2005 and was a member of the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees.
At the 2009 Annual General Meeting (AGM), Richard
Lapthorne, who has opted to seek re-election at each AGM, 
will retire and offer himself for re-appointment. Simon Ball, 
John Pluthero and Kasper Rorsted will each retire by rotation at
the 2009 AGM in accordance with Article 87 of the Company’s
Articles of Association and will offer themselves for re-election.
Tim Pennington and John Barton will also retire at the AGM and
offer themselves for election in accordance with Article 86 of
the Articles of Association having been appointed to the Board
since the last AGM. 
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in
the shares of Cable and Wireless plc, along with details of their
share options, are contained in the Directors’ remuneration
report set out on pages 50 to 59.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year .
Richard Lapthorne and T ony Rice, together with T ony Rice’s
spouse, purchased bonds issued by the Company during the
period. For further information, refer to note 40 of the
consolidated financial statements. 
The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its 
Directors (and former Directors who held office during the year)
and certain Directors and former Directors of its subsidiaries
against personal financial exposure that they may incur in the
course of their professional duties as Directors of the Company
and/or any subsidiaries (as applicable). These indemnities are
qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of
the Companies Act 2006 (the 2006 Act). They were in force
throughout the year and are still in force.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.67 pence per
ordinary share payable on 7 August 2009 to ordinary
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 June
2009. An interim dividend of 2.83 pence per ordinary share was
paid on 23 January 2009, resulting in a total dividend of 8.50
pence per ordinary share for the financial year . 
Share capital and treasury shares 
The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company ,
together with details of shares allotted during the year , are
shown in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements. 
No additional treasury shares were acquired during the year .
12.5 million treasury shares were transferred to the Cable and
Wireless plc Employee Share Ownership T rust to fulfil the
requirements of the Company’s employees’ share schemes. 
At 31 March 2009, a total of 33.2 million (2007/08 – 45.7
million) ordinary shares were held in treasury , representing 
1.3% (2007/08 – 1.8%) of called-up share capital.
Company’s shareholders 
As at 20 May 2009, the Company has been notified of the
following substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued share
capital of the Company: Newton Investment Management Limited
(13.030%); Orbis Investment Management Limited (4.9980%); and
Legal & General Investment Management Limited (4.0700%).
Ethics
Cable & Wireless’ success flows from its commitment to 
sound business conduct and the relationships it has with 
key stakeholders (shareholders, employees, customers,
business partners and suppliers), governments and regulators,
communities and society , and the environment. The Group’s
ethics policy applies to all Cable & Wireless companies and
employees. Where Cable & Wireless operates in conjunction
with business partners, third parties or in joint venture
arrangements where it does not have management control, it
aims to promote the application of this policy . The Group seeks
to conduct its operations with honesty , integrity and openness,
and with respect for the human rights and interests of our
employees. The Group respects the legitimate interests of 
all those with whom it has relationships.
Charitable and political donations
During the year ended 31 March 2009, the Group gave 
£2.1 million (2007/08 – £1.5 million) to charitable organisations
including £120,000 (2007/08 – £120,000) to the Porthcurno
T rust, a charitable organisation in the United Kingdom. More
information about the Group’s support of the communities in
which it operates is set out on pages 18 to 19 and 30 to 31.
The Company does not make political donations and has no
intention of making donations to what are generally regarded as
political parties within the European Union. As a precautionary
measure and in the light of the wide definitions of European
Union political organisations for the purposes of the 2006 Act, 
a resolution to permit the Company to make political donations
and incur political expenditure was passed at the 2008 AGM.
The purpose of the resolution was to ensure that the Company
did not unintentionally breach the 2006 Act. This resolution will
remain in force until 17July 2012 or the 2012 AGM, whichever is
the earlier . 43
Governance
Supplier payment policy
The Company agrees payment terms with suppliers when it
enters into purchase contracts and it seeks to abide fairly by
these agreed terms. The average number of days between 
the invoice date and the date of payment by the Company
(calculated by reference to the amount owed to suppliers 
at the year end as a proportion of the amount invoiced by
suppliers during the year) was 27 days (2007/08 – 18 days).
Employee diversity
The Group’s employment policies comply with local
requirements and meet relevant standards on employment 
of disabled people. Full and fair consideration is given to
disabled applicants for employment and training, and career
development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and ability .
It is Group policy to retain employees who become disabled
whilst in its service and to provide specialist training where
appropriate. 
Employee involvement
The Group communicates with employees in many ways,
including regular briefings by management, newsletters,
intranet sites and consultation forums. These communications
help to achieve a common awareness amongst employees of 
the financial and operational performance of the Group. 
The Group is committed to ensuring that employees share in 
its success. Employees are encouraged to participate in share
purchase schemes and hold investments in the Group’s shares.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes 
The trustees of the Cable & Wireless Share Ownership T rust
exercise the voting rights on shares held in the employee trust 
in accordance with their fiduciary duties as trustees, which
include the duty to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries
of the trust.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday 17 July 2009 at 
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary ,
Westminster , London SW1P 3EE. Details of the resolutions to 
be proposed at the AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
Auditor 
Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as our external auditor
and to authorise the Directors to determine the auditor’s
remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Internal control, risk management and financial
reporting
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
The Group’s system of internal control is designed to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The concept 
of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control
procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
The Group operates a risk management process, under which
both businesses identify the key risks to their plans, their
likelihood and impact and the actions being taken to manage
those risks. Consolidated risk registers for CWI and Worldwide
are reviewed by their respective Operating Boards and these
risk registers, together with a Central risk register , are presented
to the Audit Committee on a rolling 12 month basis. The principal
risks identified by the Group are set out on pages 37 to 38.
The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of
management, significant changes in the Group’s business and
the external environment in which it operates. In addition, they
provide the Board with monthly financial information, which
includes key risk and performance indicators. The Group’s key
internal control and monitoring procedures include the following: 
■ Financial reporting: Each year , an annual budget is agreed and
approved by the Board. At each Board meeting, actual results
are reviewed and reported against budget and, when
appropriate, revised forecasts. 
■ Investment appraisal: The Group has clearly defined policies
for capital expenditure. These include annual budgets and
detailed appraisal processes for such expenditure. 
■ Monitoring systems: Internal controls are monitored through
a programme of internal audits. The Internal Audit function
reports to the Audit Committee on its examination and
evaluation of the effectiveness and adequacy of systems 
of internal control. 
■ Financial controls: The Group has dedicated resource to
embed processes and controls across the businesses. It
operates a number of additional self-assessment exercises,
which include monthly certification of compliance with key
financial controls and an annual controls self-assessment.
The latter exercise requires management to assess the
effectiveness of its fundamental operating controls over all
aspects of its operations, in addition to the other financial
controls covered by our Financial Controls T oolkit. The results
of this exercise are utilised by Internal Audit in planning its
work for the forthcoming year .
Effectiveness of internal control
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control
systems in operation during the financial year in accordance
with the revised T urnbull guidance. The processes as set out
above have been in place for the year under review and up to 
the date of this Annual Report. Where appropriate, necessary
action has been or is being taken to remedy any failings and
weaknesses identified as significant during this review.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within our joint
ventures rests with the senior management of those operations.
We monitor our investments and exert our influence through
Board representation.
Change of control
The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change
of control clauses. These primarily relate to financing facilities,
major customer contracts and licence and concession
agreements. 
In particular , under the Group’s £200 million revolving facility
agreement, unless all the lenders agree otherwise, on a change
of control the facility shall be cancelled in full and all outstanding
amounts together with related charges become immediately due
and payable.  44
Directors’ report
Under the Group’s US$415 million revolving facilities agreement,
on a change of control the lenders are not obliged to fund any
further sums and, if the majority lenders require, on not less than
ten days notice, the facility shall be cancelled and all outstanding
loans together with related charges become immediately due
and payable. 
In the event of a change of control, these clauses may 
require consideration to determine their impact on the Group. 
At present, risks arising from a change of control are not
considered to be significant. The Group will take appropriate
action to mitigate any risks arising from these events should
they occur . For change of control provisions in relation to the
L TIP and Directors, refer to the Directors' remuneration report
on pages 50 to 59.
Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares 
The following section summarises the rights and obligations in
the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles) relating to
the ordinary shares of the Company . The full Articles can be
found on the Company’s website (www.cw.com).
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the
shareholders passed at a general meeting of the Company . 
The Company intends to alter its Articles at the 2009 AGM, 
and further details of the proposal are set out in the AGM Notice. 
Voting Each share (other than those held in treasury) allows
the holder to have one vote at general meetings of the Company
on votes taken on a poll.
Dividends The Company’s shareholders can declare 
dividends by passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment
cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors. The
Directors may also pay interim dividends without shareholder
approval if they consider that the financial position of the
Company justifies it. Subject to shareholder approval, the
Directors may operate scrip or dividend reinvestment plans or
pay dividends by distributing assets. No dividend carries a right 
to interest from the Company . If dividends remain unclaimed 
for 12 years they are forfeited by the shareholder and revert 
to the Company . 
Distribution of assets If the Company is wound up, the
liquidator may divide the whole or any part of the assets of the
Company among the shareholders (subject to the passing of 
a resolution by a 75% majority vote of the shareholders). No
shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other
property which carries a liability . 
Partly paid shares The Company has a lien on all partly paid
shares (and dividends), which has priority over claims of others 
to such shares covering any money owed to the Company for 
the shares. The Directors may sell all or any of such shares
where: (i) the money owed by the shareholder is payable
immediately; (ii) the Directors have given notice demanding
payment, stating the amount due and that the shares will be 
sold on non-payment; and (iii) the money has not been paid
within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any money
which has not yet been paid to the Company for their shares. If a
call is unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay interest and all
expenses incurred by the Company as a result of non-payment if
the call remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the date of a notice.
In addition, failure to comply with any such notice may result in
forfeiture of any share which is the subject of the notice,
including any unpaid dividends.
The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any shares
that are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not
prevent dealings from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Sanctions Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a
shareholder shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting
of the Company or at any separate general meeting of the
holders of any class of shares in the Company or exercise any
other right conferred by membership in relation to general
meetings if the shareholder has not paid all amounts relating 
to those shares which are due at the time of the meeting, or 
if the shareholder is given a notice following a failure by that
shareholder or someone who appears to be interested in 
the shares to comply with a notice under section 793 of the
Companies Act 2006. Further , if a shareholder holding 0.25% or
more of the issued shares of a class (excluding treasury shares)
or interested person is in default of a section 793 notice, the
Directors may also state in the notice that: (i) the payment of 
any dividend shall be withheld; (ii) the shareholder shall not be
entitled to elect to receive shares in place of dividends withheld;
and (iii) the transfer of the shares held by such shareholder shall
be restricted.
Certificated shares The Company can sell any certificated
shares at the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the
sale if: (i) in a period of 12 years at least three dividends have
become payable and no dividends have been claimed; (ii) the
Company has published a notice after the 12 year period stating
that it intends to sell the shares; and (iii) during the 12 year period
and for three months after the notice, the Company has not heard
from the shareholder or any person entitled to sell the shares. 
The Directors may decline registration of certificated shares if: 
(i) a share transfer form is used to transfer more than one class of
shares; (ii) transfers are in favour of more than four joint holders;
or (iii) the share transfer form is not delivered to the office, or
such other place decided on by the Directors, accompanied by
the share certificate relating to the shares being transferred
(unless the transfer is by a person to whom the Company was 
not required to, and did not, send a certificate) and any other
evidence reasonably asked for by the Directors to show
entitlement to transfer the shares. 
Uncertificated shares The Directors may decline registration
of uncertificated shares if the transfer is in favour of more than
four joint holders or otherwise in accordance with the
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. 
Interests in shares Except where express rights are given, 
the Company will only recognise a current and absolute right 
to whole shares. The fact that any share, or any part of a share,
may not be owned outright by the registered owner is not of 
any concern to the Company .
US Holders The Directors may require a shareholder or other
person appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose 45
Governance
information relating to the ownership of such shares or to show
that such shares are not held by a US Holder (defined in the
Articles as being: (i) persons resident in the US who hold shares in
the Company and (ii) persons who appear to the Directors to fall
within sub-paragraph (i) of the definition of a US Holder). The
Directors may require a US Holder to sell their shares to someone
who is not a US Holder , failing which, the Company may effect a
sale of such shares on the US Holder’s behalf . 
Disputes Any disputes between a shareholder and the
Company and/or the Directors arising out of or in connection
with the Articles shall be exclusively and finally resolved 
under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber 
of Commerce, as amended from time to time, in accordance 
with the Articles. 
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors
are contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is
eligible to be elected as a Director and the procedure to be
followed to nominate such persons. The Articles must be
approved by shareholders in accordance with the legislation 
in force from time to time.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an
ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the
Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director
appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following his
appointment.
The Articles also provide that at every AGM, Directors who have
been in office at the time of the two previous AGMs retire by
rotation, and detail the circumstances in which and how they
may be re-elected. The Company’s members may remove a
Director by passing an ordinary resolution for which special
notice has been given. A Director will automatically cease to be 
a Director if: (i) they resign; (ii) they offer to resign and the other
Directors accept that offer; (iii) all the other Directors (being at
least three) require it; (iv) they are suffering from mental ill
health and the Directors require them to cease to be a Director;
(v) they have missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period
of six months without permission and the other Directors
resolve that they shall cease to be a Director; (vi) a bankruptcy
order is made against them, or they make an arrangement or
composition with their creditors; (vii) they are prohibited from
being a Director by law; or (viii) they cease to be a Director under
the legislation or are removed from office under the Articles.
Powers of Directors
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation
and the Company’s Articles. As provided in the Articles, the
Directors may exercise all the Company’s powers provided that
the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any
such powers must be exercised by the members. The Directors
have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares,
pursuant to Articles 9-10 and have authority to make market
purchases of shares pursuant to Article 6. The powers under
Article 10 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
Shareholders are also requested to renew the Directors’ power
to make market purchases of shares at each AGM. Any shares
purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Conflicts of interest
From 1 October 2008, there has been a requirement that
Directors must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a
direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict,
with the Company’s interests. Directors of public companies
may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where
appropriate, if a company’s Articles of Association permit and
shareholders have approved appropriate amendments. At the
Company’s AGM in 2008, the shareholders gave this approval.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by
Directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration
and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board. These
procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by 
the Board when authorising any conflict, if they think this is
appropriate. These procedures were duly followed to approve
appropriate conflicts following the enactment of the conflict
provisions in October 2008, and are now included as a regular
standing item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely
to affect its future development, performance and position are
set out in the business overviews on pages 10 to 17 and 22 to 29.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity
position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial
performance review on pages 33 to 36. Further , note 44 to 
the consolidated financial statements includes the Group’s
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its
financial risk management objectives; details of its financial
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit
and liquidity risk. 
The Directors believe that the Group’s wide geographic spread,
varying contract lengths and robust monitoring and forecasting
processes place it well to manage its business risks in the
current uncertain economic conditions. In addition, the Group’s
forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably
possible changes in trading performance, indicate that the
Group is able to operate within the level of its current available
facilities. A formal process for monitoring compliance with debt
covenants is also in place. Further information on debt and
associated covenants can be found in note 27 to the
consolidated financial statements.
After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans and making
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the
foreseeable future. Accordingly , they continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
By order of the Board 
Nick Cooper 
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
20 May 2009  46
Corporate governance report
Our Board is committed to maintaining high standards
of corporate governance, responsibility and risk
management. 
Our key policies and practices are set out in this governance
report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on 
page 49 and Remuneration Committee on pages 50 to 59.
Furthermore, our independent Non-executive Directors prepare
a report describing the corporate governance and behaviours 
of the Board on page 48. T ogether these reports provide
shareholders with an insight into how our Board and senior
management run the business to increase shareholder value. 
Board composition and attendance
At 31 March 2009 our Board comprised the Chairman, four
Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors, including
the Senior Independent Director . Biographies of the continuing
Directors, including details of their committee memberships, 
are shown on pages 40 to 41. 
Throughout the year , the majority of the Board were Non-
executive Directors, all of whom the Board consider to be
independent in character and judgement. Collectively , our Non-
executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and business
experience to Cable & Wireless and their contribution to Board
decision-making is a considerable factor in achieving our
strategic aims. 
The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three
year term with an expectation that they will continue for a
further three year term. Kasper Rorsted will complete his second
three year term on 23 May 2009. After a review of his role and
contribution to the Board, the Chairman has invited him to
continue with his appointment for a further period of 12 months,
in accordance with his letter of appointment. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive
Directors, together with service contracts for Executive
Directors, are available for inspection by shareholders at our
registered office during normal business hours and at our AGM. 
Board meeting attendance
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Chairman 
Richard Lapthorne 9/9 – – 4/4 
Executive Directors 
George Battersby
1
6/9–––
Tim Pennington
2
4/4––– 
John Pluthero 9/9 – – – 
T ony Rice 9/9–––
Non-executive Directors 
Simon Ball 8/9 3/5 5/6 – 
John Barton
3
1/1 0/1 1/1 – 
Clive Butler 9/9 5/5 6/6 4/4 
Kate Nealon 9/9 5/5 6/6 4/4 
Kasper Rorsted 8/9 5/5 6/6 4/4 
Agnès T ouraine 8/9 4/5 4/6 – 
– Director is not a Committee member . 
1 George Battersby was unable to attend three meetings due to illness.
2 Tim Pennington was appointed on 11 November 2008.
3 John Barton was appointed on 9 March 2009.
The Board held nine scheduled meetings during 2008/09. 
In addition, other meetings were held at short notice to consider
matters which could not be held over until the next scheduled
Board meeting. Details of Directors’ attendance at scheduled
Board and Committee meetings are shown in the table below.
Role of the Board
The Board of Cable & Wireless sets the strategic aims of the
Group and is collectively responsible for matters of strategy ,
performance, resources, standards of conduct and
accountability.
Matters reserved for the Board include: Group strategy;
corporate governance; financial reporting and control; budgets
and operating plans; acquisitions and disposals; appointments
to the Board, Committees and some senior executive positions;
Director and senior executive remuneration; delegation of
authority; and customer contracts and expenditure over 
a certain financial limit. Other specific responsibilities are
delegated to the Committees, each with clearly defined terms 
of reference.
Full details on matters reserved for the Board and the terms of
reference of its Committees can be found on our website at
www.cw.com.
The Chairman, in consultation with the Company Secretary and
Executive Directors, sets the agenda for Board meetings and full
and timely information is provided to all Board and Committee
members prior to meetings. Formal minutes recording decisions
of all Board and Committee meetings are prepared and
circulated to each Director as appropriate. If a Director objects
to a particular proposal, this is recorded in the minutes of the
relevant meeting. During the year ended 31 March 2009, 
as for previous years, there were no such objections.
Cable & Wireless continues to be organised as two separate
businesses – CWI (formerly International) and Worldwide
(formerly Europe, Asia & US) – each with their own Operating
Board that meets monthly and focuses on the issues relevant to
that business.
John Pluthero, as Executive Chairman of Worldwide, has overall
responsibility for the day-to-day management of this business.
John and Jim Marsh, Worldwide’s Chief Executive, are
members of the Worldwide Operating Board along with other
senior members of the Worldwide executive team and four
Investor Directors appointed by the Board.
John Pluthero was also responsible for the day-to-day
management of CWI until November 2008 when T ony Rice 
was appointed as Chief Executive, reporting to Richard
Lapthorne. Tim Pennington joined CWI as its Chief Financial
Officer on 23 September 2008 and he continues in this role 
in addition to his appointment as Group Finance Director from 
11 November 2008. Richard, T ony and Tim are all members 
of the CWI Operating Board along with other members of the
CWI executive team and two Investor Directors appointed 
by the Board.  47
Governance
Separate schedules of reserved matters have been adopted by
both Operating Boards and the Board may also delegate power
to the Investor Directors to grant approval on any matter
otherwise reserved for the Board. 
The Senior Independent Director
Clive Butler was appointed Senior Independent Director in 
June 2006. The Senior Independent Director is available to
meet shareholders on request and is the designated point of
contact for shareholders to raise any concerns which contact
through the normal channels of the Chairman or Executive
Directors has failed to resolve or for which contact is
inappropriate. 
As part of our ongoing commitment to regular dialogue with 
our investors, the Senior Independent Director , along with 
the Chairman, attended several meetings with investment
managers during the year . Additionally , in April 2008 
the Company invited a number of institutional investors to 
a roundtable meeting with the Senior Independent Director , 
the Chairman and other Executive and Non-executive Directors
to review Cable & Wireless corporate governance structures. 
Committees of the Board
Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is
entirely composed of Non-executive Directors. The reports 
of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are set
out on pages 49 and 50 to 59 respectively . 
The Nominations Committee, chaired by Clive Butler (Senior
Independent Director), met on four occasions during the year 
to review the composition of the Board, including the range 
and experience of its members, its structure and its size. F ormal
procedures are in place for the nomination, selection, training
and evaluation of Directors as well as succession planning. 
In accordance with these procedures, and with the advice of
external recruitment consultants, the following changes to the
Board were made at the recommendation of the Nominations
Committee: 
■ Tim Pennington was appointed as an Executive Director on
11 November 2008; and
■ John Barton was appointed as a Non-executive Director on
9 March 2009.
The induction of new Board members is undertaken by the
Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who retains
responsibility for the induction process. It includes meetings
with senior management of both CWI and Worldwide. Meetings
with major shareholders may be arranged on request.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company
Secretary as well as appropriate training and briefings.
Additionally , any Director may take independent professional
advice on any matter at the Company’s expense in the
furtherance of their duties. 
Performance Evaluation 
As in the previous year , the Chairman led an in-house
performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees 
in the form of a detailed questionnaire. The findings were
collated by the Company Secretary and presented to the 
Board for consideration. 
During the year , the Non-executive Directors again met
privately , both with and without the Chairman being present, 
to consider management performance and succession issues.
The Non-executive Directors also appraised the Chairman’s
performance and carefully reviewed the relationship between
the Chairman and the Executive Directors to ensure that the
Board structure and relationships continued to promote the
creation of shareholder value.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance (the Code)
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2009, we complied 
with all provisions set out in Section One of the Code.
By order of the Board 
Nick Cooper 
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
20 May 2009 48
Statement from the independent 
Non-executive Directors
Since April 2006, Cable & Wireless has operated a governance
system where the activities of the Group are divided into two
businesses (CWI and Worldwide) with a Central function acting
as a portfolio manager . The two businesses are headed by
Executive Directors reporting to the Chairman of Cable and
Wireless plc with senior members of the Central function sitting
as Investor Directors on the Operating Boards of each business.
The two Operating Boards meet monthly to focus on the issues
in that business. The Group Board sits above the Operating
Boards to ensure that the strategies of both businesses deliver
shareholder value for the Group as a whole, while at the same
time ensuring a high standard of corporate governance. 
In the last 12 months the system has been subjected to its 
most rigorous test since inception. Cable & Wireless had 
been pursuing its plans for value realisation which could 
have resulted in a separation of the two businesses. Although
these plans were put on hold in November 2008 due to
unprecedented conditions in the credit and equity markets,
internal planning had reached an advanced stage. This 
resulted in some disruption to the businesses and within 
the senior management team. This situation gave rise to 
a significant task for the Chairman to re-focus the Group 
as a whole on ‘business as usual’, to continue to perform well
against its objectives in a deteriorating economic environment
and, crucially , to underpin and strengthen the current
organisational and governance structure. The Chairman
addressed the latter issue by appointing Simon Ball, Non-
executive Director , as an Investor Director on the Operating
Board of each business in a non-executive capacity , giving the
Board additional insight into the operation of each business,
thereby increasing visibility of the Group’s operations.
In addition, there were a number of significant management
changes during the year . John Pluthero, who started the year as
the Executive Chairman of both businesses, stepped down from
his CWI role to focus purely on the Worldwide business. T ony
Rice, previously Managing Director , Central and Group Finance
Director , was appointed as Chief Executive of CWI, relinquishing
his Central responsibilities. The role of Group Finance Director 
is now held by Tim Pennington. Tim, along with Nick Cooper , the
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary , is one of two
people in the senior management structure who carry out two
separate roles, one for Central and one for CWI. In March 2009,
John Barton joined the Group Board as a Non-executive Director
and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Agnès T ouraine left the Group Board on 19 May 2009 and 
we thank her for her contribution which will be missed. 
Despite the volatility of the markets and the knock-on effect on
the strategic plans for the Group, the Independent Directors are
of the belief that the Company’s governance system has stood
up well to the challenges it has faced through the year . The
successful operation of the system depends almost entirely on
all participants being fully aware of their roles within the overall
system and by the transparency offered by the system to the
Non-executive Directors. Despite a number of significant senior
changes during the year , this principle has remained paramount
and has reinforced our belief that the system remains the most
effective system for Cable & Wireless in its current form. 
T urning now to the four questions posed annually as part 
of Cable and Wireless plc’s approach to measuring effective
corporate governance:
1 What is the quality of the relationship between the
Chairman and the Executive Directors?
During the year the Chairman has facilitated a significant
management change whereby John Pluthero has returned 
to focus exclusively on the Worldwide business, as was always
the intention, and T ony Rice has been appointed as the Chief
Executive of CWI. This has involved a significant amount of 
the Chairman’s time including chairing the CWI Operating Board
on a temporary basis to ensure that T ony’s introduction into 
the CWI business could be managed seamlessly . Despite the
significant disruption which this type of management change
can have, the relationship between the Chairman and the
Executive Directors has been maintained and remains strong.
2 How open are the Executive Directors with the Board?
The Executive Directors are very open with the Board. At each
Group Board meeting, the Board receives detailed reports and
verbal updates from the respective Executive Directors of
Worldwide and CWI and on occasions from members of their
team. This is supplemented by minutes and reports from the
Investor Directors in relation to important matters which are
dealt with at the Operating Boards. The ability of the Non-
executive Directors to receive feedback from both the heads 
of business and the Investor Directors is a crucial check and
balance which is designed to provide the Independent Directors
with more protection than a traditional governance system
would offer .
3 What is the visibility of checks and balances between
the Executive Directors?
Checks and balances between Executive Directors are a key
feature of the system. Executive Directors sit on the Group and
the two Operating Boards, side by side, but playing different
roles. It is the role of the heads of each business to be
accountable for the performance of their businesses whilst at
the same time the Investor Directors challenge and hold them 
to account. The system has been further strengthened by the
appointment of Simon Ball as an Investor Director . In his
extended role Simon offers a further challenge to the Executive
Directors when they are performing their roles and provides
enhanced visibility to the Non-executive Directors who do not
attend the Operating Board meetings.
4 Have all questions asked by the Independent Directors
in Board and Committee Meetings been appropriately
addressed?
Questions asked by the Independent Directors have been
properly addressed and they are satisfied that they have been
dealt with professionally throughout the year .
The Independent Directors are satisfied that the Company’s
corporate governance controls have been effective throughout
the year ended 31 March 2009.
Clive Butler
Senior Independent Director
20 May 2009 49
Governance
Report of the Audit Committee 
This report sets out the membership, purposes and
activities of the Audit Committee during the year .
Membership and terms of reference
The members of the Audit Committee (the Committee) during
the year consisted solely of the Non-executive Directors: Kasper
Rorsted (Committee Chairman), Simon Ball, John Barton (from
9 March 2009), Clive Butler , Kate Nealon and Agnès T ouraine. 
The Group Finance Director , Group Financial Controller and
Head of Internal Audit are also invited to attend all Committee
meetings. In May and November when the full year and half year
results are considered, the Chairman and Executive Directors
are invited to attend.
During the year , the Committee undertook a review of its objectives
and terms of reference. Following that review, the Committee’s
objectives were confirmed as: assisting the Board in meeting its
responsibilities to create an effective system of internal control
and compliance; providing accurate external financial reporting;
overseeing, reviewing and monitoring management’s conduct;
and reporting of effective risk management. The Committee’s
full terms of reference are published on our website
(www.cw.com).
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the
Audit Committee has recent and relevant experience and is
confident that the collective experience of the members enables
them to act as an effective Audit Committee.
Meetings
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during the
year ended 31 March 2009. An additional meeting was held in
April 2008 to consider any issues which arose during the
course of the 2007/08 full year audit.
The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee
Chairman in conjunction with the Group Finance Director , Group
Financial Controller and the external auditor . At each scheduled
meeting the Committee receives reports from the Group
Finance Director , the external auditor and the Head of Internal
Audit together with biannual litigation reports from the Group
General Counsel. In addition, during the year ended 31 March
2009 the Committee considered the business set out below,
making recommendations to the Board where appropriate:
■ Preliminary results and press release for the year ended
31 March 2008; the 2007/08 Annual Report together with
the Directors’ statement on compliance with T urnbull
guidance on internal controls and risk management; 
■ Interim results and press release for the six months ended
30 September 2008;
■ Review of risk management within Worldwide, CWI and the
Central function;
■ Disaster recovery procedures for the Caribbean operation;
■ Review of the Group’s insurance cover;
■ Review of the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors; 
■ Self-evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee;
■ Review of the Group’s accounting and tax policies; and
■ Review of key corporate governance developments. 
Disclosure Committee 
T o assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for
identifying and considering disclosure matters in connection
with the preparation of all market releases containing material
financial information has been delegated to a Disclosure
Committee. This Committee comprises senior management
from Group finance, legal and external affairs.
During the preparation of the Annual Report, the Disclosure
Committee obtains certifications from contributors prior to the
document’s review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
Internal audit
The Internal Audit function, led by the Head of Internal Audit, is
supported by a team of auditors based in the UK and Jamaica.
The function has a formal charter approved by the Board that
describes its purpose, authority and responsibility . Its audit plan
is approved by the Audit Committee annually .
External audit
KPMG Audit Plc (KPMG) has acted as auditor since 1991. The
Committee evaluates KPMG's tenure annually and is not restricted
by any contractual obligations in its choice of auditors. The
Board has accepted the Committee's recommendation that
KPMG should be reappointed for 2009/10. This recommendation
was based on a detailed review of the 2007/08 audit which
demonstrated overall satisfaction with the performance of
KPMG as external auditor . The review included a survey of Audit
Committee members and key personnel involved in the audit,
discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit,
as well as an analysis of KPMG’s capabilities and independence. 
The audit engagement partner responsible for the 2008/09
audit was assigned in 2005/06. A new audit engagement
partner was assigned on 1 April 2009 and will be responsible 
for the engagement in future. 
The Committee has established a policy to maintain the
independence of the external auditor and its personnel,
governing the provision of audit and non-audit services
provided by the auditor and its associates. The policy clearly
identifies permitted and prohibited services and sets out the
procedure to be followed for the approval of all audit and non-
audit services. All engagements with an expected fee in excess
of £250,000 require the prior approval of the Chairman of the
Audit Committee. 
For the year ended 31 March 2009 the Committee approved
fees for audit services of £3.8 million together with fees for
audit-related regulatory reporting of £0.4 million and non-audit
work of £5.1 million. The nature of the services provided is set
out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. There is
no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of KPMG as
auditor to the Company . 
Kasper Rorsted 
Chairman, Audit Committee 
20 May 2009  50
Directors’ remuneration report
This report sets out the policy and disclosures in
relation to Directors’ remuneration. As usual, this
report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM 
on 17 July 2009.
Our overall aim is to ensure that our remuneration encourages,
reinforces and rewards the delivery of outstanding shareholder
value. This approach has been a key ingredient in our success
as the fifth best performer in the FTSE 100 and the second best
performer in the FTSE Global T elecoms Sector Index over the
last three years (the period of our existing remuneration
structure).
In addition to the disclosures for 2008/09, this report includes
details of our Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2009/10.
This includes a one year extension of the existing Long T erm
Incentive Plan (L TIP) with delayed payments in earlier years for
which we will be seeking shareholder approval at the AGM, 
and incorporating the best elements of the L TIP into more
conventional share plans already approved by shareholders.
Membership and terms of reference
During the year ended 31 March 2009, the Remuneration
Committee comprised all the Non-executive Directors: 
Kate Nealon (Chair), Simon Ball, Clive Butler , Kasper Rorsted,
Agnès T ouraine and, from 9 March 2009, John Barton.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board, within
agreed terms of reference, on the framework of executive
remuneration and on the specific remuneration of the Chairman,
Executive Directors and other senior executive management.
The terms of reference for the Committee may be found on our
website at www.cw.com.
During the year , the Board approved all recommendations 
from the Committee without amendment. In forming their
recommendations, the Committee received input and
information from the Chairman, the Group Human Resources
Director , the Group Director of Performance and Reward and
other Executives. The Committee has appointed independent
consultants, Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS), to provide
advice on remuneration and share plans both for Executive
Directors and the wider senior management population. 
In addition, HNBS provide us with measurement of our relative
total shareholder return (TSR) performance. HNBS’s terms 
of engagement are available on request from the Company
Secretary . PricewaterhouseCoopers advises the Committee 
on the six monthly valuation of the L TIP .
The Chairman, Executive Directors and any executives attending
a meeting abstain from any discussion on their own remuneration.
Remuneration philosophy
Our overall aim is to ensure that our remuneration encourages,
reinforces and rewards the delivery of outstanding shareholder
value, underpinned by the following guiding principles:
■ There should be a genuine alignment of management and
shareholder interests;
■ The majority of total remuneration for senior managers should
only be receivable as a result of achieving demanding
performance targets;
■ The reward structures should reflect the different
characteristics and strategies of the two operating businesses
– CWI and Worldwide – as well as the Group as a whole;
■ T otal reward levels should reflect the markets in which we
operate. Our competitive position is regularly monitored by
independent analysis against comparator groups of
companies selected on the basis of relevant size, business
and geographic focus;
■ Fixed salaries and benefits should be set at the mid market
level compared with similar companies to ensure they remain
appropriately competitive;
■ An appropriate mix of short and long term incentives 
should be set so that Directors are incentivised to maximise
performance over both the short and medium to long term;
and
■ The remuneration structure for Directors should be
consistent with that of other senior managers whilst 
also recognising their greater Group responsibilities.
Summary of Executive Directors’ remuneration
The existing remuneration structure for Executive Directors 
and other senior management was implemented on 1 April 2006
following the creation of two independent businesses (CWI 
and Worldwide) within Cable & Wireless. It was an innovative
scheme designed to reinforce the new strategy and
organisation, with a greater proportion of performance-related
pay to fixed pay . Key features of this remuneration structure
were: the grant of one-off long term incentive awards in
2006/07 with no further awards to be granted (other than
following role changes) in 2007/08 or 2008/09; base salaries
were frozen from 1 April 2006 until 1 April 2009; and the
maximum annual bonus opportunity was reduced from 150% 
to 100% of base salary .
The three year period has now elapsed and accordingly the
Committee, with the assistance of HNBS, has undertaken a
review to determine future remuneration arrangements.
Following this review, and following consultation with major
shareholders and their representative bodies, the Committee
has agreed a remuneration structure for 2009/10 and beyond.
The key features of this new structure are as follows:
■ In a move towards more conventional incentive arrangements,
Executive Directors and other senior management will receive
annual awards of performance shares under the existing Cable
& Wireless Incentive Plan 2001 (IP2001). These shares will
start to vest from 2012 onwards subject to achievement 
of stretching performance targets.
■ Subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM, 
the Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) applying to Executive
Directors and other senior management in the two businesses
will be extended from four to five years until 31 March 2011
with delayed payments in 2009 and 2010. This will provide 
a seamless transition from the L TIP into the new incentive
arrangements which begin to vest, subject to performance,
from 2012. This extension also reflects the delay in our value
realisation timetable caused by the unprecedented turmoil in
the credit and equity markets. 51
Governance
■ The Executive Directors’ base salaries (unchanged since
2006 and now well below market levels) will be frozen for a
further year until 1 April 2010 when they will be reset to mid
market levels. There will be no change to the annual bonus
structure which will remain below market levels at 100% 
of base salary .
■ Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors will be
increased from two times to four times base salary .
The chart below illustrates the average proportion of Executive
Directors’ potential remuneration for 2009/10 that will be
performance-related. 
Figures reflect payment potential for a ‘target’ level of
performance achieved for the annual bonus plan and for the 
‘fair value’ of performance shares to be granted in 2009/10. 
Base salary
As outlined above, the Committee has decided to freeze base
salaries for the Executive Directors for a fourth year .
Accordingly , salaries for 2009/10 remain unchanged at the
following levels:
Salary
George Battersby £420,000
Tim Pennington £400,000
John Pluthero £600,000
T ony Rice £600,000
Base salaries will be increased to market levels from 1 April 2010
by reference to the mid market level of equivalent roles in
companies selected on the basis of comparable size, geographic
spread and business focus. Individual salary decisions will take
into account personal contribution and business performance.
Pension and other benefits
Executive Directors are not members of any Cable & Wireless
pension scheme but instead receive a defined contribution
allowance of 25% of their base salary .
Split of potential total remuneration 
2009/10
Salary
Pension 
Performance-related 
annual bonus
Performance-related 
long term incentives
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in employee
benefit programmes including life, disability and health
insurance plans. The value of these benefits is included in the
Directors’ remuneration table on page 56.
Annual bonus
Individual awards under the annual bonus scheme for 2009/10
will be based solely on financial performance, using business
specific (Group, CWI or Worldwide as relevant) targets. The
maximum bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors will be
unchanged from the last three years at 100% of salary and
‘target’ financial performance will continue to generate a bonus
payment of 60% of maximum. Bonuses will be paid in cash
following the end of the financial year . 
The financial measures and targets within the bonus plans are
reviewed annually by the Committee and reflect the differing
nature of the businesses. 
Long term incentive awards
As outlined above, in 2009/10 Executive Directors will receive
awards of performance shares under arrangements already
approved by shareholders and, subject to shareholder approval
at the AGM, the L TIP will be extended by one year to 2011 with
delayed payments in 2009 and 2010. Details of these two long
term incentive arrangements are outlined below. 
i) Performance share plan
These shares will be awarded under the Performance Share
section of IP2001, and based on an annual Cable & Wireless
share award capped at four times the Director’s market salary
with three year vesting from 2012 onwards and subject to
stretching performance targets detailed below. 
The Committee has determined that the value of awards to
Executive Directors in 2009/10 will be as follows:
V alue of shares at grant
F ace value ‘F air value’
1
£m £m
George Battersby 1.76 0.7
Tim Pennington 1.76 0.7
John Pluthero 3.12 1.2
T ony Rice 2.80 1.1
1 Assumes ‘fair value’ of 38% of face value which is the estimated value of these awards
at grant based on conditions prevailing at the date of this report.
These awards will vest based on the achievement of absolute
total shareholder return of each business or the Group (as
relevant to each Executive Director) above a minimum
threshold. Awards will have a three year performance period.  52
Directors’ remuneration report
The vesting schedule for awards to be granted in 2009/10 will
be as follows:
T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) 
over performance period % of awards vesting
20% compound p.a. or higher 100%
Between 8% compound p.a. 
and 20% compound p.a. Straight line between 25% and 100%
8% compound p.a. 25%
Less than 8% compound p.a. 0%
Cable & Wireless TSR is share price growth adjusted for
dividends and capital actions. Business TSR is the increase in
value of each business adjusted for cash flows rather than
dividends and capital actions. For the purpose of these awards,
TSR will be calculated using a one month average share price at
the beginning and end of the performance period in order to
moderate the effect of short term share price volatility . 
Irrespective of potential vesting arising from the above schedule,
the Committee will also consider whether underlying financial
performance over the full three year period warrants release of
the shares and will reduce the vesting percentage if appropriate.
This test will be based upon EBITDA growth, use of debt, portfolio
strategy , pace and the quality and quantity of EBITDA at the end
of the relevant measurement period. In this regard, the relevant
business to be reviewed by the Committee will be CWI for T ony
Rice, Worldwide for John Pluthero, the overall Group for George
Battersby and 50:50 overall Group and CWI for Tim Pennington. 
ii) L TIP
The L TIP creates a reward pool for each of the two businesses
(CWI and Worldwide) depending on the extent to which the
businesses have grown in value from their adjusted base values
at 1 April 2006. This plan directly aligns management incentives
with shareholder interests so that it only pays out if shareholder
value has increased substantially .
The graph below shows the increase in business values since
1 April 2006 and the corresponding value of the total L TIP pool.
At 31 March 2009, the total L TIP pool is £70 million or 6% of the
increase in business values. Of this pool, £8 million is attributed
to CWI and £62 million to Worldwide.
 Business values
 The ‘hurdle’ (minimum requirement for LTIP)
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
Mar
2006
Sept
2006
Mar
2007
Sept
2007
Mar
2008
Sept
2008
Mar
2009
L TIP value compared to business values  
Value in £m on 31 March and 30 September
£49m
£120m
£149m
£83m
£70m
£70m
The base valuations at 1 April 2006 are adjusted over the
performance period to create the L TIP hurdle as follows: i) to
reflect additional capital notionally treated as borrowed by the
business; ii) to reflect capital notionally treated as returned by
the business; and iii) increased by a hurdle rate being the
notional weighted average cost of capital of the business 
(which will be at least 8% per annum compounded).
If a business’ value is lower than its adjusted base valuation at
the end of the performance period, there will be no reward pool
for that business. T o the extent that a business’ value exceeds
its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period,
10% of the growth in value over the adjusted base valuation goes
into the reward pool. 
T ony Rice holds units worth 10% of the reward pool for CWI with
zero value at the date of his appointment on 11 November 2008.
John Pluthero holds units worth 20% of the reward pool for
Worldwide plus units worth 10% of the reward pool for CWI, less
the payment made to the former Chief Executive of CWI, Harris
Jones, in respect of these units.
In the event of a potential payment to an individual in excess 
of £20 million, the Committee will (other than in exceptional
circumstances) defer any excess payment until 31 March 2011 
or up to one year following a vesting event if earlier and make
the payment in Cable & Wireless shares rather than cash.
Measurement of the size of the reward pools is generally carried
out as at every September and March coinciding with the
Company’s accounting period ends. Apart from good leavers,
nothing vests to the participants until the end of year three 
(31 March 2009).
The L TIP is currently structured as a four year performance
period until 31 March 2010 (or until a vesting event, if earlier)
with 75% of the reward pool ordinarily being payable to
participants at the end of year three (31 March 2009), and 100%
payable (less payments made at the end of year three) at the
end of year four (31 March 2010). T ony Rice’s award is currently
structured with full vesting at the end of year four (31 March
2010) with payment of 50% deferred for a further year . 
T o provide a seamless transition from the L TIP into the more
conventional share plans outlined above and to ensure that
management remain absolutely focused on increasing
shareholder value, it is proposed that:
■ The L TIP performance period is extended by one year until 
31 March 2011 which will represent the final valuation point.
■ Payments in 2009 and 2010 will be delayed. In particular:
– John Pluthero, Executive Chairman of Worldwide, has
agreed to delay his payment schedule from 75% in 2009
and the balance in 2010 to one of 67% in 2009; 85%, less
payments made in 2009, in 2010; and the balance in 2011.
– T ony Rice, Chief Executive of CWI, has agreed to delay 
his vesting schedule from 100% in 2010 to 85% in 2010 
(50% paid immediately and 35% deferred for a further year)
and the balance in 2011.
■ In the event of a potential payment to an individual in excess
of £20 million, the deferral period would be extended until 
31 March 2012 or for a period of up to one year following a
vesting event, if earlier . 53
Governance
These proposed changes have been discussed with the
Company’s major shareholders and their representative bodies. 
Following a takeover of the Company , a sale of either business 
or a demerger , the L TIP will vest in full. The value of a business
following the accelerated vesting will be determined by the
Committee by reference to the overall market capitalisation of
the Company on the vesting date. Participants will receive the
full value of their awards following the vesting event, but the
Committee has discretion to defer payment of up to 50% of 
the award for up to six months in the case of a sale and up to 
12 months in the case of a demerger .
Irrespective of the above, payments to John Pluthero and T ony
Rice will be scaled back if the Committee is not satisfied that
there has been an improvement in the underlying financial
performance of the business or if the Group’s TSR is not positive
over the performance period. 
iii) Other share plans
Cable & Wireless operates a number of other share plans.
Details of historic awards granted under these plans to Executive
Directors are summarised in the tables on pages 57 to 59.  
The following summarises the vesting schedules for those other
outstanding share awards granted to Executive Directors
previously that are subject to a TSR performance condition.
Performance Deferred Restricted Share
shares STIP shares options
%%%%
Below median 0000
Median 33.33 25 25 33.33
Upper quartile 100 100 100 100
For Worldwide employees, part of an employee’s annual cash
bonus may be deferred into Cable & Wireless shares. These
shares may be supplied through the Cable & Wireless Employee
Share Ownership T rust or newly issued within the dilution limits
in the existing share plans.
In addition, Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the
Cable & Wireless all employee Share Purchase Plan on the
same terms as other employees.
Performance graphs
The following graph shows the change in value of a £100
holding in Cable & Wireless ordinary shares over five years
against the FTSE Global T elecoms Sector Index (FTSE GTSI)
and against a broad equity market index. The FTSE 100 index
was considered by the Committee to be the most relevant index
for this purpose as Cable & Wireless has been a constituent 
of the index for the majority of the five year period. A similar
graph over a three year period has also been presented as 
the Committee believes this period is more relevant to our
incentive plans.
Over a five year period, Cable & Wireless has increased total
shareholder return by 30%. Over a three year period, from the
start of the L TIP , total shareholder return has increased by 44%
– the fifth best performer in the FTSE 100.
Dilution
The Committee ensures that at all times the number of 
new shares which may be issued under any share option or
share-based plans, including all employee plans, does not
exceed the dilution limit of 10% of the Company’s issued share
capital over any ten year rolling period. As at 31 March 2009,
4.98% of the issued shared capital was available for issue under
our share-based plans.
Awards under the various share plans are funded by a mix 
of purchased and newly issued shares, as determined by the
Committee. Newly issued shares are subject to the dilution 
limit outlined above. Purchased shares are held by the 
Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership T rust which is
subject to a holding limit of 5% of the issued ordinary share
capital of the Company .
109
102
74
118
122
115
100
158
147
144
75
100
125
150
175
Mar
2009
Mar
2008
Mar
2007
Mar
2006
Total shareholder return (3 year)  
Value in £ on 31 March
 Cable & Wireless
 FTSE Global T elecoms Sector Index
 FTSE 100
 Cable & Wireless
 FTSE Global T elecoms Sector Index
 FTSE 100
115
145
159
107
149
108
125
147
151
144
100
90
143
132
130
104
Mar
2009
Mar
2008
Mar
2006
Mar
2007
Mar
2004
Mar
2005
Total shareholder return (5 year)  
Value in £ on 31 March
75
100
125
150
175 54
Directors’ remuneration report
Executive Directors’ service contracts
The Committee’s policy is that Executive Directors’ service
contracts should include a maximum notice period of one year .
However , a longer notice period may apply initially where this is
required to secure the services of executives in exceptional
circumstances, though in all cases the notice period will reduce
to one year or less after two years. Executive Directors’ service
contracts continue until their normal retirement date.
Date of contract Notice period
George Battersby 27 July 2004 One year
Tim Pennington 11 November 2008 One year
John Pluthero 11 November 2005 One year
T ony Rice 30 March 2006 One year
The Executive Directors’ contracts provide that, in the event 
of a change of control of the Company and a Director’s
employment is adversely changed, then he will receive 
a payment equal to the base salary for the notice period 
and a time pro-rated annual bonus.
The Executive Directors’ service contracts contain no other
provisions for compensation payable on early termination. In 
the event of early termination, the Committee will, within legal
constraints, determine the approach to be taken according to
the circumstances of each individual case, taking full account 
of the departing Executive Director’s obligation to mitigate loss.
Except in cases of early termination for cause, the Committee
will take into account the relevant Executive Director’s current
salary , notice period and contractual benefits when calculating
any liability of Cable & Wireless. The principal contractual
benefits provided in addition to salary are pension and life
insurance. Annual bonuses and long term incentives are
granted at the discretion of the Committee and therefore 
would be dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant
scheme. A significant proportion of each Executive Director’s
total remuneration is subject to performance conditions and
therefore would not be payable to the extent that the relevant
targets have not been met.
Directors’ shareholdings
Cable & Wireless operates a policy of encouraging Executive
Directors to align their interests closely with those of
shareholders by requiring them to build up and maintain a
holding of ordinary shares. Where the relevant holding has 
not already been attained, it is required to be achieved through
the retention of any net awards received from share plans 
which vest.
The existing requirement is to build and maintain a holding of
shares worth at least twice the Director’s base salary . The
Committee has reviewed this requirement and has determined
that the shareholding requirement should be increased to
shares worth four times’ salary . 
Currently , the Chairman and T ony Rice have shareholdings 
of over fourteen and eight times their base salary respectively ,
John Pluthero has a shareholding of more than five times his
base salary and George Battersby has a shareholding of over
three times his base salary . 
Chairman
The Chairman’s contract is effective from 6 June 2007 with 
12 months’ notice on either side and the requirement to stand 
for annual re-election at the AGM. There are no contractual
entitlements on early termination or following a change of
control. His annual fee of £386,000 is fixed until at least 2010. 
As disclosed in last year’s remuneration report, the Chairman
was awarded 5.5 million Cable & Wireless shares under the
IP2001 in June 2007 with vesting of the award subject to
demanding performance conditions. Zero shares vest for TSR 
at or below the mid point of the comparator group of companies
in the FTSE GTSI, through to 100% vesting for performance in
the top 10% of this comparator group, on a straight line scale.
The award is based on a three year performance period, starting
from the date of the award on 6 June 2007 . Vesting of the award
will be deferred for one year if earlier vesting would otherwise be
triggered by an event such as a sale of a business or demerger .
The award is also conditional upon the Chairman’s retention of
his personal holding of 3.5 million Cable & Wireless shares for
the duration of the performance period and a positive TSR for
Cable & Wireless over the performance period. 
In order to align the Chairman’s share award with the extension
of the L TIP , it is proposed that the performance period is
extended by one year from June 2010 to June 2011. In doing so,
neither the quantum nor the performance conditions change.
Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts 
with the Company , but instead have letters of appointment.
Their fees are determined by the Board, within the limits set out
in the Company’s Articles of Association, with Non-executive
Directors abstaining from any discussion or decision on their
fees. Fee levels were last reviewed in February 2009 to take 
into account the market in general and the roles of the Non-
executive Directors at Cable & Wireless. No changes were 
made to fee levels as a result of that review. The Non-executive
Directors do not receive any incentive payments or pension
provision.
Annual fees payable to each Non-executive Director for
2009/10 are as follows:
Base fee Additional fees
Simon Ball £65,000 £100,000
1
John Barton £65,000 –
Clive Butler £65,000 £20,000
2
Kate Nealon £65,000 £20,000
3
Kasper Rorsted £65,000 £25,000
4
Agnès T ouraine £65,000
5
–
1 Additional fee for acting as Investor Director on each of the CWI and Worldwide
Operating Boards. The time commitment required for each of these two additional
roles is approximately equal to the time commitment required of a plc 
Non-executive Director .
2 Additional fee for role as Senior Independent Director .
3 Additional fee for role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
4 Additional fee for role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
5 Agnès T ouraine resigned as a Non-executive Director on 19 May 2009. 55
Governance
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year
term with the expectation that a further three year term will
follow. After two three year terms, the continued appointment 
of any Non-executive Director may be extended on an annual
basis at the invitation of the Chairman. T ermination of the
appointment may be earlier at the discretion of either party 
on one month’s written notice. None of the Non-executive
Directors is entitled to any compensation if their appointment 
is terminated. All appointments will be subject to re-election 
at the AGM in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Kate Nealon was appointed for a second three year term
commencing on 18 January 2008 and Clive Butler was
appointed for a second three year term commencing on 1 May
2008. Simon Ball was appointed for a second three year term
commencing on 1 May 2009. Kasper Rorsted will come to the
end of his second three year term of appointment on 23 May
2009. Following a review of his effectiveness and commitment
to his role, the Chairman has invited Kasper Rorsted to continue
in his appointment for a further 12 months in accordance with
the terms of his letter of appointment. John Barton joined the
Board for a three year term on 9 March 2009 and will be subject
to election at the forthcoming AGM. Agnès T ouraine stepped
down as a Non-executive Director on 19 May 2009. 
External directorships
The Company allows Executive Directors to hold external
directorships and retain the fees received from those roles.
Details of directorships held and the annual fees received for 
the financial year 2008/09 are given below:
Annual fees
George Battersby
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee of Hogg Robinson Group plc £35,000
Board of Ofsted (from 4 June 2008) £4,080
John Pluthero
Director of Merville Ltd No fee
Tony Rice
Non-executive Director of Punch T averns plc £42,000
Chairman of Alexander Mann Solutions 
(from 28 July 2008) £25,000
This report, including the tables on pages 56 to 59, has been
approved on behalf of the Board by:
Kate Nealon
Chair , Remuneration Committee
20 May 2009 56
Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration 
The following sections of the Directors’ remuneration report have been subject to audit. 
Salaries BenefitsPension cash Total Total
and fees Bonuses
2
in kind
3
allowance
4
2008/09 2007/08
£ £ £ £ £ £
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 386,000 – 67,901 – 453,901 482,001
Executive Directors
George Battersby 420,000 284,760 2,719 105,000 812,479 803,979
Tim Pennington 156,667 160,767
5
1,460 39,167 358,061 –
John Pluthero 600,000 509,400 42,579 150,000 1,301,979 1,255,294
T ony Rice 600,000 413,400 39,457 150,000 1,202,857 1,154,570
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball 104,167 – 3,189 – 107,356 66,418
John Barton 4,185 – 4 – 4,189 –
Clive Butler 85,000 – 2,883 – 87,883 79,547
Kate Nealon 85,000 – 3,189 – 88,189 79,547
Kasper Rorsted 90,000 – 9,621 – 99,621 95,870
Agnès T ouraine 65,000 – 12,314 – 77,314 68,586
Total 2,596,019 1,368,327 185,316 444,167 4,593,829 
1
4,085,812
1 The aggregate emoluments of the Directors which include employer pension
contributions were £4,593,829 (2007/08 – £9,958,897). Continuing costs for
salaries/fees for the Board in 2009/10 will be £2,896,000 (salaries/fees for
2008/09 were £2,596,019).
2 Directors’ bonuses for the 2008/09 financial year were based on profit related to 
the individual Director’s areas of responsibility . These profit measures were partially
achieved and resulted in the bonus payments outlined above. The maximum bonus
potential available was 100% of salary for achievement of all measures. 
3 Benefits in kind include Company provided life assurance, professional advice and
chauffeur travel. 
4 Company pension contributions in 2008/09 have been paid to the Directors as an
annual cash allowance. An amount of £19.0 million (2007/08 – £13.1 million) is
included in the provisions to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements. 
5 Tim Pennington’s bonus has been calculated with reference to his date of
appointment to CWI on 1 September 2008. He was subsequently appointed 
as a Director on 11 November 2008.
Directors’ shareholdings 
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their connected persons as notified to the Company in the ordinary shares of the
Company were as follows:
As at 1 April 2008
or date of Shares As at 
appointment if later acquired 31 March 2009
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne 3,500,000 112,786 3,612,786 
Executive Directors
1
George Battersby
2
360,059 86,665 446,724
Tim Pennington
2
975 36 1,011
John Pluthero 1,600,334 – 1,600,334
T ony Rice
2 
3,500,855 1,163 3,502,018
Non-executive Directors 
Simon Ball 190,000 – 190,000
John Barton – 50,000 50,000 
Clive Butler 57,000 – 57,000 
Kate Nealon 34,960 – 34,960 
Kasper Rorsted 190,000 – 190,000
Agnès T ouraine 10,000 – 10,000 
1 In addition, as potential beneficiaries from outstanding awards which may be satisfied
by shares held by the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership T rust (the T rust),
the Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest in all of the ordinary shares
held by the T rust, which at 31 March 2009 amounted to 28,322,351 shares. 
2 Included in the shares acquired during the year are shares purchased under the
deferred short term incentive plan (Deferred STIP) and/or Cable & Wireless Share
Purchase Plan as well as any dividends received on the purchased shares which are
converted into additional shares. 57
Governance
L TIP 
As required by the Companies Act 1985, the table below discloses the L TIP amounts receivable and the qualifying period end date
under the existing terms of the L TIP . As described on pages 52 to 53, the Committee is proposing to extend the L TIP by one year to 
31 March 2011 and reduce the payments at 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2010, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 
17 July 2009. 
LTIP interests LTIP interests LTIP
LTIP interests at awarded during forfeited during LTIP interests at receivable at
1 April 2008 the period the period 31 March 2009 31 March 2009 Qualifying
(units) (units) (units) (units) £ period end date
John Pluthero 3,000 – – 3,000 9,330,000
1
31/03/10 
2
T ony Rice – 1,000 – 1,000 – 31/03/10 
3
1 This amount reflects 75% of the value of John Pluthero’s units in the L TIP reward 
pools at 31 March 2009. However , under proposals to extend the L TIP and reduce
payments outlined on pages 52 to 53, John Pluthero will be entitled to £8.3 million.
This lower amount will be paid at the end of May 2009. For further information on 
the terms of the L TIP scheme and John Pluthero’s participation in it, please see 
pages 52 to 53.
2 Before any amendment to the existing plan, 75% of the reward pools are payable at
the end of year three (31 March 2009) and 100% is payable (less payments already
made) at the end of year four (31 March 2010).
3 Before any amendment to the existing plan, 100% of the reward is payable at the end 
of year four (31 March 2010).
Directors’ share options 
Shares under
option at
1 April 2008
(or date of Granted between Lapsed, Shares under
Date from which Date of expiry Exercise price appointment 1 April 2008 and cancelled option at
Name and scheme Grant date first exercisable of option (pence) if later) 31 March 2009 Exercised or forfeited 31 March 2009
George Battersby 
SOP Approved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108.00 21,991
1
– – – 21,991
SOP Unapproved 3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108.00 620,077
1
– – – 620,077
SOP Unapproved 25/8/05 25/8/08 24/8/12 153.90 568,551
2
– –266,708 301,843
SOP Unapproved 2/6/062/6/09 1/6/13 101.254,148,148 – – – 4,148,148
5,358,767 – – 266,708 5,092,059
John Pluthero
SOP Approved 3/3/06 21/5/09
3
2/3/13107.4027,932 – – – 27,932
SOP Unapproved 3/3/06 21/5/09
3
2/3/13 107.401,135,941 – – – 1,135,941 
1,163,873 – – – 1,163,873
Tony Rice 
SOP Approved 30/3/06 21/5/09
3
29/3/13110.5027,260 – – – 27,260
SOP Unapproved 30/3/06 21/5/09
3
29/3/13 110.505,424,807 – – – 5,424,807
5,452,067 – – – 5,452,067
1 Award granted on 3 August 2004 partially vested on 3 August 2007 . Cable & Wireless
TSR was 76% which was a ranking of 9th out of 24. This equated to 79.17% of the
award vesting.
2 Award granted on 25 August 2005 partially vested on 25 August 2008. At the time,
Cable & Wireless TSR was 30.1%, which was a ranking of 12th out of 27 . This equated
to 53.09% of the award vesting.
3 John Pluthero and T ony Rice have agreed to delay the date on which options were to
become first exercisable from March 2009 to 21 May 2009. This was to avoid options
becoming exercisable during a prohibited period.
Notes
These are Inland Revenue approved and unapproved grants made under the Cable 
& Wireless Share Option Plan 2001 (SOP) (see note 34 of the consolidated financial
statements for details). The vesting of options awarded under the SOP is subject to
relative TSR performance conditions, see page 53 for details.
No amounts were paid by Directors for the award of the options listed in the table above.
The closing mid market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2009 was 139.50 pence.
The highest closing mid market price of an ordinary share during the year was 
179.10 pence and lowest closing mid market price was 116.20 pence.
All Directors’ share options will be time pro rated up to their termination date and 
will continue to be subject to TSR performance conditions up to the end of the
performance period. 58
Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ share awards 
Shares under
award at
1 April 2008 Awarded
Market price on (or date of between Shares lapsed, Shares under
date of award appointment 1 April 2008 and Shares cancelled or award at
Name and scheme Award date V esting date (pence) if later) 31 March 2009 vested forfeited 31 March 2009
Chairman
Richard Lapthorne
Restricted Shares 6/6/07 5/6/10 194.80 5,500,000
1
––– 5,500,000
5,500,000––– 5,500,000
Executive Directors
George Battersby
Performance Shares 25/8/05 25/8/08 153.90 113,710
2
– 60,368 53,342 –
Deferred STIP
MS
30/9/05 1/10/08 146.30 258,373
3
– 64,593 193,780 –
Deferred STIP
MDS
27/1/06 1/10/08 114.80 3,046
3
– 761 2,285 –
Performance Shares
DS
27/1/06 25/8/08 114.80 1,340
2
–711 629 –
Restricted Shares
MS
30/3/06 21/5/09 
5
108.98 917,570
4
––– 917,570
Deferred STIP
MDS
11/8/06 1/10/08 109.20 7,334
3
– 1,833 5,501 –
Performance Shares
DS
11/8/06 25/8/08 109.20 3,228
2
– 1,713 1,515 –
Deferred STIP
MDS
19/1/07 1/10/08 158.35 2,773
3
– 693 2,080 –
Performance Shares
DS
19/1/07 25/8/08 158.35 1,220
2
–648 572 –
Deferred STIP
MDS
10/8/07 1/10/08 198.46 5,402
3
– 1,350 4,052 –
Performance Shares
DS
10/8/07 25/8/08 198.46 2,377
2
– 1,262 1,115 –
Deferred STIP
MDS
25/1/08 1/10/08 181.22 3,564
3
– 891 2,673 –
Performance Shares
DS
25/1/08 25/8/08 181.22 1,568
2
–832 736 –
Deferred STIP
MDS
8/8/08 1/10/08 155.16 – 8,326 
3
2,081 6,245 –
Performance Shares
DS
8/8/08 25/8/08 155.16 – 3,664
2
1,945 1,719 –
Share Purchase Plan
MS
8/5/07 8/5/10 189.43 792––– 792
Share Purchase Plan
MS
6/5/08 6/5/11 151.95 – 987 – – 987
1,322,297 12,977 139,681 276,244 919,349
Tim Pennington
Restricted Shares
MS
30/9/08 30/9/11 167.26 179,361
6
––– 179,361
Performance Shares 11/11/08 1/11/11 134.76 – 1,187,295 
7
–– 1,187,295
Share Purchase Plan
MS
07/10/08 7/10/11 153.75 975––– 975
180,336 1,187,295 – – 1,367,631 59
Governance
Directors’ share awards continued
Shares under
award at
1 April 2008 Awarded
Market price on (or date of between Shares lapsed, Shares under
date of award appointment 1 April 2008 and Shares cancelled or award at
Name and scheme Award date V esting date (pence) if later) 31 March 2009 vested forfeited 31 March 2009
John Pluthero
Restricted Shares
MS
3/3/06 21/5/09 
5
107.40 1,000,000
4
––– 1,000,000
Performance Shares 3/3/06 21/5/09 
5
107.40 232,774
2
––– 232,774
Performance Shares
DS
11/8/06 21/5/09 
5
109.20 6,608
2
––– 6,608
Performance Shares
DS
19/1/07 21/5/09 
5
158.35 2,498
2
––– 2,498
Performance Shares
DS
10/8/07 21/5/09 
5
198.46 4,867
2
––– 4,867
Performance Shares
DS
25/1/08 21/5/09 
5
181.22 3,211
2
––– 3,211
Performance Shares
DS
8/8/08 21/5/09 
5
155.16 – 7,501
2
–– 7,501
Performance Shares
DS
23/1/09 21/5/09 
5
145.18 – 4,537
2
–– 4,537
1,249,958 12,038 – – 1,261,996
Tony Rice
Restricted Shares
MS
30/3/06 21/5/09 
5
108.98 1,000,000––– 1,000,000
Restricted Shares
MS
30/3/06 21/5/09 
5
108.98 2,000,000
4
––– 2,000,000
Share Purchase Plan
MS
8/5/07 8/5/10 189.43 792––– 792
Share Purchase Plan
MS
6/5/08 6/5/11 151.95 – 987 – – 987
3,000,792 987 – – 3,001,779
DS Dividend Shares
MDS Matching Dividend Shares
MS Matching Shares
1 Full vesting of the restricted shares only occurs if the TSR performance of the Group is
in the top 10% when compared with the FTSE GTSI, on a straight line scale. No shares
vest for TSR at or below the mid point of the comparator group of companies.
2 See page 53 for details of TSR performance conditions required for full vesting 
of shares.
3 Deferred STIP matching shares are based on one matching share for two purchased
shares for median TSR performance, rising to two matching shares for one purchased
share for performance at upper quartile or above. No matching shares are awarded for
below median performance. A dividend award supplement also operates on the plan.
Dividends that would have been paid on purchased shares and the actual award of
matching shares during the performance period are reinvested in additional shares.
4 Subject to the Director remaining an employee of the Group and retaining beneficial
ownership of the shares purchased as per below, the shares under award will be
delivered to the Director at the third anniversary of grant: 
■ George Battersby purchased 275,000 ordinary shares on 30 March 2006
■ John Pluthero purchased 1,000,000 ordinary shares on 3 March 2006
■ T ony Rice purchased 1,000,000 ordinary shares on 30 March 2006
Performance conditions apply to these shares and vesting will only occur if the TSR
performance of the Group meets or exceeds the upper quartile measured against the
constituents of the FTSE GTSI. 
5 George Battersby , John Pluthero and T ony Rice have agreed to delay the vesting of
awards which were due to vest during March 2009. This was to avoid shares vesting
during a prohibited period.
6 One half of Tim Pennington’s Restricted Shares will vest on 30 September 2009 with
the remaining half vesting on 30 September 2011. 
7 Full vesting of the award will only occur if the TSR performance of the Company
exceeds the median TSR of the FTSE GTSI by 12% compound or more per annum.
Where TSR performance meets the median, one third of the award will vest. 60
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report 
and the financial statements (Group and Company) 
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
English company law requires the Directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year . Under that law, 
the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and applicable
law. Further , they have elected to prepare the Company financial
statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and
applicable law (UK GAAP). The financial statements are
required by law to give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities and financial position of the Group and the Company
and of the Group’s income statement for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are 
required to: 
■ Select suitable accounting policies and apply them
consistently;
■ Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
■ For the Group financial statements, state whether they 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU; and 
■ For the Company financial statements, state whether
applicable UK accounting standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements.
The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and
T ransparency Rules to include a management report containing
a fair review of the business and a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties facing the Group and Company .
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’
remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and,
with regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for the system of
internal control for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted 
on the Cable and Wireless plc website (www.cw.com). The
Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the corporate and financial information included on the website.
Information published on the Company’s website is accessible in
many countries with different legal requirements. Legislation in
the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on
pages 40 to 41, confirm that, to the best of each person’s
knowledge and belief:
■ The financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group;
■ The financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK
GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit of the Company; and
■ The Directors’ report contained in the Annual Report includes
a fair review of the development and performance of the
business and the position of the Company and Group,
together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that they face.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors 
are aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined 
by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985) of which the
Company’s auditor is unaware, and the Directors have taken all
the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the
Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
By order of the Board 
Nick Cooper
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
20 May 2009 Introduction Business 
review
Governance Financial 
statements
Shareholder
information
Financial 
statements
For the Group and
Company including
reports from the
independent auditor .
04 Cable & Wireless at a glance
06 Chairman’s review
CWI
09 Chief Executive’s review
10 Business overview
14 Performance review
18 Corporate responsibility
Worldwide
21 Executive Chairman’s review
22 Business overview
26 Performance review
30 Corporate responsibility
Cable & Wireless Group
32 Group Finance Director’s review
33 Financial performance review
37 Risk overview
40 Board of Directors
42 Directors’ report
46 Corporate governance report
48 Statement from the independent 
Non-executive Directors
49 Report of the Audit Committee
50 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Cable & Wireless Group
62 Independent auditor’s report
63 Consolidated financial statements
67 Notes to the financial statements
Cable and Wireless plc
120 Independent auditor’s report
121 Company financial statements
123 Notes to the financial statements
136 Useful shareholder information
61 62
Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Cable and Wireless plc
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the
consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of
recognised income and expense and the related notes. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 and
on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body , in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members as a body , for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on
page 60.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated
financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and financial review that is cross
referred from the Business review section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority , and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness
of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the consolidated financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. 
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the consolidated
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the consolidated financial statements.
Opinion 
In our opinion:
■ the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group’s
affairs as at 31 March 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
■ the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation; and
■ the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants 
Registered Auditor 
London 20 May 2009 63
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2009
2008/09 2007/08
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items
1
Total items items
1
Total
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 5 3,646 – 3,646 3,152 – 3,152
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 6 (2,841) (133) ( 2,974) (2,574) (53) (2,627)
Depreciation and impairment 17,19 (316) – (316) (252) (37) (289)
Amortisation 18 (63) – (63) (47) – (47)
Other operating income 7 2– 2 95362
Other operating expense 8 (4) – (4) (4) – (4)
Group operating profit/(loss) 424 (133) 291 284 (37) 247
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 20 34 – 34 37 – 37
Total operating profit/(loss) 458 (133) 325 321 (37) 284
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 10 7– 7 1– 1
Gain on termination of operations 11 3– 3 86 14
Finance income 12 29 – 29 53 – 53
Finance expense 12 (75) (56) (131) (75) (10) (85)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 422 (189) 233 308 (41) 267
Income tax (expense)/credit 13 (24) 7 (17) (56) 9 (47)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 398 (182) 216 252 (32) 220
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 14 10 – 10 –––
Profit/(loss) for the year 408 (182) 226 252 (32) 220
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 322 (179) 143 191 (27) 164
Minority interest 86 (3) 83 61 (5) 56
408 (182) 226 252 (32) 220
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders 
of the Company during the year (pence per share) 15
– basic 5.8p 6.8p
– diluted 5.7p 6.6p
Earnings per share from continuing operations
attributable to the equity holders of the Company 
during the year (pence per share) 15
– basic 5.4p 6.8p
– diluted 5.3p 6.6p
Earnings per share from discontinued operations 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company 
during the year (pence per share) 15
– basic 0.4p –
– diluted 0.4p –
1 Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 6 and in the relevant note for each item.
The notes on pages 67 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. 
Financial 
statements Group 64
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 March 2009
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 18 1,191 807
Property , plant and equipment 19 2,053 1,488
Investments in joint ventures 20 225 142
Available-for-sale financial assets 21 38 27
Deferred tax asset 29 64 26
Retirement benefit assets 31 27 32
Other receivables 22 52 60
3,650 2,582
Current assets
Inventories 23 23 17
T rade and other receivables 22 973 856
Cash and cash equivalents 24 545 699
1,541 1,572
Non-current assets held for sale 25 1 5
1,542 1,577
Total assets 5,192 4,159
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 26 1,509 1,219
Financial liabilities at fair value 28 25 59
Current tax liabilities 124 130
Loans and obligations under finance leases 27 90 59
Provisions 30 108 92
1,856 1,559
Net current (liabilities)/assets (314) 18
Non-current liabilities
T rade and other payables 26 11 40
Financial liabilities at fair value 28 140 73
Loans and obligations under finance leases 27 832 397
Deferred tax liabilities 29 37 30
Provisions 30 186 135
Retirement benefit obligations 31 85 46
1,291 721
Net assets 2,045 1,879
EQUITY
Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity shareholders 
Share capital 32 643 634
Share premium 33 197 156
Reserves 33 988 897
1,828 1,687
Minority interest 35 217 192
Total equity 2,045 1,879
The notes on pages 67 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. These financial statements on pages 63 to 66 were approved
by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2009 and signed on its behalf by: 
Richard Lapthorne Chairman Tim Pennington Group Finance Director 65
Consolidated statement of recognised 
income and expenses
For the year ended 31 March 2009
2008/09 2007/08
Note £m £m
Actuarial losses in the value of defined benefit retirement plans 31 (76) (100)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 315 (8)
Exchange differences relating to hedging instrument (45) –
F air value gains on available-for-sale assets 21 – 2
T ax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity – 11
Amounts recognised directly in equity 194 (95)
Profit for the year 226 220
Total recognised income and expense for the year 420 125
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company 271 81
Minority interest 149 44
420 125
The notes on pages 67 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Financial 
statements Group 66
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 March 2009
2008/09 2007/08
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from continuing operations 36 669 504
Cash generated from discontinued operations 36 – –
Income taxes paid (65) (46)
Net cash from operating activities 604 458
Cash flows from investing activities
Continuing operations
Finance income 22 49
Other expense (2) –
Dividends received 17 15
Increase in available-for-sale financial assets – (10)
Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets (1) –
Proceeds on disposal of non-current assets held for sale – 93
Proceeds on disposal of property , plant and equipment 3 5
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (413) (342)
Purchase of intangible assets (36) (63)
Disposal of subsidiaries and minority interests 6 –
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash received) and minority interests 39 (343) (74)
Net cash used in continuing operations (747) (327)
Discontinued operations – –
Net cash used in investing activities (747) (327)
Net cash flow before financing (143) 131
Cash flows from financing activities
Continuing operations
Dividends paid to shareholders (147) (138)
Dividends paid to minority interests (77) (58)
Repayments of borrowings (169) (258)
Finance expense (79) (49)
Proceeds from borrowings 417 12
Proceeds on issue of shares on settlement of share options 5 14
Purchase of shares for share awards (2) (2)
Net cash used in continuing operations (52) (479)
Discontinued operations – –
Net cash used in financing activities (52) (479)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (195) (348)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 699 1,043
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 41 4
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 24 545 699
The notes on pages 67 to 119 are an integral part of these financial statements. 67
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
1 General information
Cable and Wireless plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together Cable & Wireless or the Group) is an international telecommunications
company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. It operates through two standalone businesses – CWI and Worldwide.
CWI operates integrated telecommunications companies offering mobile, broadband and domestic and international fixed line services to
residential and business customers. It has four major operations being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
Worldwide provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services around the globe. During the year , Worldwide
acquired 100% of the share capital of Thus Group plc (Thus) (refer to note 39 for more information).
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) adopted by the European Union (EU) as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2009.
These financial statements are presented in Sterling (£) and rounded to the nearest million. They are prepared on the historical cost basis
except for certain financial instruments held at fair value. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of
their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis (see page 45 of
the Directors’ report for further detail).
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates and associated
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual
results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the
period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is
significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities. 
2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards
The Group considered the implications, if any , of the following amendments to IFRSs during the year ended 31 March 2009.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations effective at dates from 1 April 2008 adopted by the Group
Title Effective date Description Impact on the Group
Amendments to IAS 39 & IFRS 7 1 July 2008 The amendments allow an entity to reclassify certain This amendment did not have
Reclassification of Financial Instruments non-derivative financial assets out of the fair value through a material impact on the Group.
the income statement category in particular circumstances, 
and to transfer certain financial assets from the available-
for-sale category to the loans and receivables category .
Amendments to IFRS 2 Annual periods The amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service This amendment did not have 
Share-based Payment: beginning on conditions and performance conditions only . It also specifies a material impact on the Group.
Vesting Conditions and Cancellations or after that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, 
1 January 2008 should receive the same accounting treatment, which results 
in the acceleration of the charge. 
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and adopted early by the Group
Title Effective date Description Impact on the Group
Amendments to IAS 23 Annual periods The amendments remove the option to expense interest This amendment was 
Borrowing Costs beginning on qualifying assets. consistent with current 
on or after Group policy .
1 January 2009
IFRIC 13 Annual periods The IFRIC clarifies that where goods or services are sold This interpretation did not have 
Customer Loyalty Programmes beginning together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement a material impact on the Group.
on or after is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration 
1 July 2008 receivable from the customer should be allocated between 
the components of the arrangement in proportion to their 
fair values. 
Financial 
statements Group 68
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards continued
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and not adopted early by the Group
Expected adoption date and 
Title Effective date Description impact on the Group
IFRS 8 Annual periods The IFRS requires disclosures in respect of the operating The Group will adopt this
Operating Segments beginning segments of the Group. This standard requires segmental standard for 2009/10.
on or after disclosures presented on the basis upon which It will not have a material 
1 January 2009 management views the Group. impact on the Group.
Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Annual periods The amendment removes the concept of pre- and The Group will adopt for 
Cost of an Investment in a subsidiary , beginning post-acquisition reserves from IFRSs. 2009/10. The amendments 
jointly-controlled entity or associate 1 January 2009 will not have a material impact 
on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 1 Annual periods The amendments affect the presentation of owner changes The Group will adopt for
Presentation of Financial Statements: beginning in equity and introduce the concept of comprehensive 2009/10. These amendments
A Revised Presentation on or after income. They do not change the recognition, measurement will not have a material impact
1 January 2009 or disclosure of specific transactions and events required on the Group.
by other standards.
Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Annual periods The amendments require some puttable financial The Group will adopt for 
Puttable Financial Instruments and beginning instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to 2009/10. The amendments 
Obligations Arising on Liquidation 1 January 2009 deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets do not affect the Group.
of the entity only on liquidation to be classified as equity . 
IFRIC 12 Annual periods The interpretation gives guidance on the accounting The Group will adopt for 
Service Concession Arrangements beginning by operators for public-to-private service concession 2009/10. The Group is 
on or after arrangements. considering the implications 
1 January 2008 of this interpretation.
(but adoption 
was deferred by 
EU Commission 
Regulation)
IFRIC 14 Annual periods IFRIC 14 clarifies three issues: This interpretation will not
IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, beginning ■ how entities should determine the limit placed by IAS 19 have a material impact on the 
Minimum Funding Requirements and their on or after Employee Benefits on the amount of a surplus in a Group. Given the adoption 
Interaction 1 January 2008 pension plan they can recognise as an asset; extension from the EU, the 
(but adoption ■ how a minimum funding requirement affects that limit; and Group will adopt for 2009/10.
was deferred by ■ when a minimum funding requirement creates an onerous 
EU Commission obligation that should be recognised as a liability in addition 
Regulation) to that otherwise recognised under IAS 19.
Improvements to IFRS Annual periods The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous The Group will adopt for 
beginning necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRSs. 2009/10. The improvements
on or after are not expected to have a 
1 January 2009 material impact on the Group. 69
New and amended Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted by the European Union and the Group
Expected adoption date (subject to 
European Union endorsement) and 
Title Effective date Description impact on the Group
Revised IFRS 3 Annual periods The main changes in the revised IFRS 3 include the separate No assessment can be 
Business Combinations beginning accounting of acquisition related costs, changes to business determined of the impact as 
on or after combinations achieved in stages and changes to the it relates to prospective 
1 July 2009 accounting for business combinations where less than 100% transactions.The Group will 
of the equity is acquired. These changes will be effective for adopt for the 2010/11 year .
businesses purchased by the Group after 31 March 2010. 
Revised IAS 27 Annual periods The revisions to IAS 27 specify that changes in a parent’s This amendment is consistent
Consolidated and Separate beginning ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the with current Group policy and 
Financial Statements on or after loss of control must be accounted for as equity transactions. will be adopted in 2009/10.
1 July 2009
Amendment to IAS 39 Annual periods The amendment clarifies how existing hedge accounting This amendment will be
Financial Instruments beginning principles should be applied to the designation of a one-sided adopted in 2009/10 and will
Recognition and Measurement: on or after risk in a hedged item and to inflation in a hedged item. not have a material impact on 
Eligible Hedged Items 1 July 2009 the Group. 
Amendment to IFRS 7 Annual periods This amendment contains further disclosure requirements This amendment requires 
Improving Disclosures about beginning to enhance the information available to investors about fair additional disclosures only 
Financial Instruments on or after value measurement and liquidity risk associated with an and will not have a material 
1 January 2009 entity’s financial instruments. impact on the Group when
adopted in 2009/10.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 and Annual periods The amendments clarify that on reclassification of a This amendment will be
IAS 39 beginning financial asset out of the ‘fair value through profit or loss’ adopted in 2009/10 and will
Embedded Derivatives on or after category all embedded derivatives have to be assessed and, not have a material impact on 
30 June 2009 if necessary , separately accounted for in financial statements. the Group.
IFRIC 16 Annual periods This Interpretation provides guidance on the nature of the This amendment will be
Hedges of a Net Investment beginning hedged risk and the amount of the hedged item for which adopted in 2009/10 and will
in a Foreign Operation on or after a hedging relationship may be designated, where in the not have a material impact on 
1 October 2008 group a hedging instrument can be held and which the Group.
amounts should be reclassified from equity to the income 
statement as reclassification adjustments on disposal of 
the foreign operation.
IFRIC 17 Annual periods The Interpretation requires dividends payable to be This amendment will be
Distributions of Non-cash Assets beginning recognised when they are no longer at the discretion adopted in 2009/10 and will
to Owners on or after of the entity , and measured at the fair value of the assets not have a material impact on 
1 July 2009 to be distributed. The entity must review and adjust this the Group.
carrying amount at each reporting date (recognising 
changes in equity as adjustments in the amount of the 
distribution) and at the settlement date (recognising 
differences between the dividend payable and the assets 
distributed in the income statement). 
IFRIC 18 Annual periods This IFRIC clarifies how existing IFRSs are applied to The Group will adopt for
T ransfers of Assets from Customers beginning agreements in which an entity receives an item of property , 2009/10. The Group is 
on or after plant and equipment from a customer (or cash to construct considering the implications
1 July 2009 such item) which it then uses to connect the customer to a of this Interpretation.
network or provide ongoing access to goods or services. In 
particular , initial recognition and measurement, accounting 
for the transfer and recognition of revenue are clarified.
2.3 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the
Group’s share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures. The accounts of the Group’s main trading subsidiaries and joint ventures
have been prepared to align with the Group’s reporting date.
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights
that are currently exercisable are considered. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until 
the date that control ceases. Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
Financial 
statements Group 70
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
2.3 Basis of consolidation continued
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at
the date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s
share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair
value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are
also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b) Joint ventures
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. Joint ventures are
entities over which the Group exercises joint control. The Group’s investment in joint ventures includes goodwill (net of any accumulated
impairment loss) identified on acquisition. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been conformed where necessary to ensure
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement. Its share of post-acquisition
movements in reserves is recognised directly in Group reserves. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the
carrying amount of the investment.
When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture exceeds its interest or participation (including any other unsecured long-term
receivables), the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest or
participation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
2.4 Segmental reporting
The Group discloses its primary segment reporting by business segment. The Directors consider that this is the most appropriate 
distinction between the source and nature of risks and returns associated with its activities. A business segment is defined as a component
of the Group engaged in providing services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to business segments based on the type of service to which they relate. Assets, liabilities and capital
expenditure are allocated to particular business segments if they substantially relate to a single identifiable segment. Assets and capital
expenditure that relate to a range of services falling under different business segments are reported as unallocated. 
The Group discloses its secondary segment reporting by geographical segment. A geographical segment is defined as a component of the
Group engaged in providing services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns different from those of
segments operating in other economic environments. Revenues are allocated to geographical segments based on the location where the
telecommunication services are delivered. Assets, liabilities and capital expenditure are allocated to geographical segments based on their
location.
2.5 Foreign currency translation 
a) Functional currency 
Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency).
b) Foreign currency translation 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
c) Foreign operations 
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Group’s presentation currency
are translated into Sterling as follows:
i) assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date; 
ii) income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions; and 
iii) resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and
translated at the closing rate. On disposal of a foreign entity , accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in
the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised. 71
Financial 
statements Group
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholder’s equity . Where net
investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency borrowings and the hedge is effective, the exchange differences arising 
on the retranslation of such borrowings are also recorded as movements on the Group’s translation reserves and any excess taken to the
income statement.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy .
2.6 Property , plant and equipment 
Property , plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property , plant
and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property , plant and
equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets and restoring sites on which they are located are included in the cost of property ,
plant and equipment. The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities
and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable
that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably . All other subsequent costs (primarily repairs
and maintenance) are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs relating to borrowings made to finance separately identifiable major capital projects (those that take six months or more to
complete) are capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and
the costs can be measured reliably . The interest costs included are only those that are incurred up to the time that those projects are ready
for service.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction. On other property , plant and equipment, depreciation is
recognised on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the assets as follows:
Lives
Cables up to 20 years
Network equipment 3 to 25 years
Ducting 40 years
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less
Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written
down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Gains and losses on the sale of property , plant and equipment are determined by reference to the proceeds and net book values. These
gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction. They are stated at
cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads. The cost is determined on a weighted average basis. Provision is made
for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7 Intangible assets 
a) Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets and
contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or joint venture. It is not amortised. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in
intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures is included in those investments. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and
carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
b) Other intangible assets 
Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are
recognised as intangible assets. Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original
specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably , the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic
benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset.
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts obtained as part of the Group’s business combinations are recorded initially at
their fair values. 72
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
2.7 Intangible assets continued
Other intangible assets are amortised over their respective lives. The useful lives of licences (including concessions to provide
telecommunication services) are determined based on the terms of the agreements (including renewal periods if there is evidence to
support renewal by the Group without significant cost).
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight-line basis over the following periods:
Lives
Software 3 to 5 years
Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter
Customer contracts 4 to 15 years
Other 3 to 5 years
2.8 Financial instruments 
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and
receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the
assets are held. The Group currently does not classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments. The basis of determining fair values is set
out in note 2.9.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair
value through the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at
inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated 
by management. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either
held for trading or are expected to be realised within one year of the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the
reporting date. Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date (the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell
the asset).
Receivables 
Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise
when the Group provides money , goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable. They are included in
current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date (where they are classified as non-current
assets). Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined using the
effective interest method less an allowance for impairment if necessary . An allowance for impairment of receivables is established when
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The
amount of the allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows
(discounted at the effective interest rate). The allowance is initially recognised in the income statement.
Recognition and measurement
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value. Available-for-sale
financial assets are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Receivables and 
held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Financial assets not carried at fair value
through the income statement are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the
Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Gains and losses (both realised and unrealised) arising from
changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period 
in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised
in equity . When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the
income statement. 73
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is
considered in determining whether it is impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets the cumulative loss is
removed from equity and recognised in the income statement. This loss is measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the
current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses
recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the security increases in a later period.
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their
fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a
hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as
hedge instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The Group only hedges net investments in foreign operations. The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship
between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge
transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that
are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of cash flows of hedged items.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges by recognising any gain or loss on the
hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge in equity . The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised
immediately in the income statement.
Loans 
Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Loans are subsequently measured at
amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income
statement over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds issued by the Group were initially recognised at fair value. The bond was separated into liability and equity components.
The liability component was recognised at amortised cost. The equity component represented the residual of the fair value of the bond less
the liability component. The liability component was subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis. 
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
12 months after the reporting date (where they are classified as non-current assets).
Puttable instruments 
Puttable instruments on minority interests issued as part of a business combination are accounted for by the Group as a financial liability .
The liability is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the balance sheet
date. Movements in the value of the liability together with dividends paid to minority interests are recognised as adjustments to goodwill with
the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised in the income statement.
2.9 Fair value estimation for financial instruments 
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available-for-sale
securities) is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the
Group is the current bid price. The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price. The fair value of
forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Group uses a
variety of methods which include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same,
discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.
The nominal value of receivables (less estimated impairments) and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair value of
financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest
rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments. Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the
majority of remaining financial instruments.
2.10 Impairment of assets (excluding financial instruments) 
Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. All other non-current assets
are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows
(cash generating units). 
Financial 
statements Group 74
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
2.10 Impairment of assets (excluding financial instruments) continued
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Group’s assets (or cash generating units to which it
belongs) to their recoverable amounts which is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. F air value represents
market value in an active market. V alue in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset. Future cash flows are
determined with reference to the Group’s own projections using pre-tax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average
cost of capital for the respective businesses. The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set out in note 17 .
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
2.11 Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies. 
It also includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs. Cost is
based on the first-in, first-out (FIFO) principle. For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling
price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell. For materials and consumables, provision is made for obsolete and slow moving
inventories as required.
2.12 Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and government securities. They
are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk
of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings
in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
2.13 Share capital 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or standalone options are recognised in equity as a deduction from the
issue proceeds. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or standalone options for the acquisition of a business 
are included in the cost of acquisition.
2.14 Leases 
Leases of property , plant and equipment in which the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as
finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present
value of minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability and finance charges so as to achieve 
a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The corresponding rental obligations, net of
finance charges, are included in payables. These payments are split between capital and interest elements using the annuity method. The
property , plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts. The component
part for buildings is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly .
Leases of land and all other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the balance sheet. Payments made under
operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period
of the lease.
2.15 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 
When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they are
classified as non-current assets held for sale. With the exception of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits and financial
instruments, these assets are classified as current and are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction. They are recognised as held
for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and
separately disclosed.
2.16 Employee benefits 
Defined contribution pensions 
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity . The Group pays
contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory , contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has
no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense
when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments 
is available. 75
Defined benefit obligations 
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually
dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. These schemes are generally funded through payments
to insurance companies or T rustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset (or liability) recognised in the balance sheet in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan
assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date. Assets are recognised as the present value of the
economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined benefit obligations
for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of these
obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that 
are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid. The bonds used have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the
related pension liability .
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period
in which they occur in the statement of recognised income and expenses. Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless
the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In
these cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on
plan assets, are included within operating costs.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available
in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions. Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded directly in equity.
Other post-employment obligations 
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to these benefits is usually
conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs
of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension
plans. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way
as for defined benefit pension schemes. Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually . Current service costs are charged
to the income statement.
Share-based compensation 
The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange
for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period 
is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for
example, service, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of
options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected 
to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any , in the income statement, and a corresponding
adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options
are exercised.
T ermination benefits
T ermination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts
voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to the
action leading to the employee’s termination. T ermination benefits falling due more than a year after balance sheet date are discounted to
present value.
Bonus plans 
The Group recognises a liability where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan 
The Group operates a Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan. The plan rewards Executive Directors responsible for , and certain senior employees
in, CWI and Worldwide. The plan is accounted for as an ‘other long-term employee benefit’ in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date.
The L TIP creates a reward pool over a four year period from 1 April 2006 (or until a vesting event, if earlier) depending on the extent to which
the business has grown in value from its base valuation at the start of the period. Base valuations are adjusted over the performance period
i) to reflect additional capital notionally treated as borrowed by the business ii) to reflect capital notionally treated as returned by the
business and iii) increased by the notional weighted average cost of capital of the business (which will be at least 8% per annum
compounded). 
Financial 
statements Group 76
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
2.16 Employee benefits continued
If the business’ value is lower than its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, there will be no reward pool. T o the
extent that the business’ value exceeds its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, 10% of the excess growth in value
goes into the reward pool. 
75% of the reward pool is payable to participants at the end of year three (April 2009), and 100% payable (less payments made at end of
year three) to all participants at the end of year four (April 2010). Measurement of the size of the reward pool is carried out every six months
to correspond with the Group’s accounting periods. However , apart from good leavers nothing vests to the participants until the end of 
year three.
Proposals regarding changes to the L TIP are outlined in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 50 to 59.
2.17 Tax 
T ax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. T ax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that
it relates to items recognised directly in equity , in which case it is recognised in equity .
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year , using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at
the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from:
■ the initial recognition of goodwill; or 
■ the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor 
taxable profit. 
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse
in the foreseeable future.
2.18 Provisions 
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation 
as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can 
be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the balance sheet at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the
obligation. The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date. Provision charges and reversals are
recognised in the income statement. Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments in onerous contracts as the difference between the rentals due and any 
income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet. Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and
discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments. Legal provisions comprise legal fees and, where appropriate, 
expected settlement costs.
2.19 Revenue recognition 
Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services
provided to customers. It includes sales to joint ventures but does not include sales by joint ventures or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided. Revenue from service contracts that cover periods of greater than 
12 months is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the services delivered at the reporting date. In respect of services invoiced
in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided. Charges are negotiated
separately and are subject to continual review. Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any
amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Mobile revenue comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, and the
provision of other mobile telecommunications services. This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale 
of equipment, including handsets. 77
Mobile monthly access charges are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle. Airtime, either from contract customers as part
of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid cards, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses
the service. Unbilled revenue resulting from mobile services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each
period is accrued. Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third party providers. The Group
assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including 
the following indicators:
■ whether the Group holds itself out as an agent; 
■ establishment of the price; 
■ provision of customer remedies; 
■ performance of part of the service; and 
■ assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer .
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities (generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing
service) is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the estimated fair value of the components.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods in which the
service is provided.
2.20 Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Dividend income is included within finance income.
2.21 Interest income 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.22 Exceptional items
Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are
identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the
reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group. Results may differ significantly from those estimates under
different assumptions and conditions. The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Group’s most critical accounting
policies, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results. These particular
policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that 
are uncertain. 
3.1 V aluation of assets for purchase accounting 
Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities
acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition. The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill.
Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by
management based on cash flow projections. The latter situation includes estimates and judgements regarding expectations for the
economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired. In this situation, where appropriate, third party valuation specialists 
are involved.
3.2 Depreciation of property , plant and equipment 
The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property , plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the
intended use for those assets. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical
condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates. Where the Group
determines that the useful life of property , plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book
value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense. Any change in an
asset’s life or residual value is reflected in the Group’s financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
Financial 
statements Group 78
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
3.3 Impairment of property , plant and equipment and intangible assets 
The Directors assess the impairment of property , plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards.
F actors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following:
■ obsolescence or physical damage; 
■ significant changes in technology and regulatory environments; 
■ significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; 
■ significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy of the overall business; 
■ significant negative industry or economic trends; and 
■ significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets
or cash generating units requires significant judgement.
3.4 Revenue recognition 
Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by
third parties.
3.5 Impairment of receivables 
The allowance for impairment of trade receivables reflects the Group’s estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Group’s
customers to make required payments. The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the
Group’s historical write-off experience. Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Group’s  customers
improves or deteriorates. An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs. Historically , changes to the estimate 
of losses have not been material to the Group’s financial position and results.
3.6 Customer and supplier commitments 
The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier
commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for some time. The Group uses estimates of price or usage to determine the
revenue and expense recognised in any period. These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as such
information becomes available or is agreed. As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate – the net impact
of this is included in operating profit within the relevant line item.
3.7 Interconnection with other operators 
As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators. In certain instances it uses
estimates to determine the amount of revenue receivable from or expense payable to these other operators. The prices at which these
services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment. Estimates are used in assessing the likely
impact of these adjustments.
Adjustments to interconnect estimates are taken to operating profit in the period in which the adjustments are made.
3.8 Taxation 
The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges or credits. The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge involves a
degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has
been reached with the relevant tax authority or , if necessary , through a formal legal process. The final resolution of some of these items may
give rise to material income statement and/or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of Cable & Wireless and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative
and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items. 
As a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
3.9 Recognition of deferred tax assets 
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the
future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted. Recognition therefore involves judgement regarding the future
financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised. 79
3.10 Provisions 
A provision is recognised when there is a present (legal or constructive) obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the accounting
policy in note 2.18. Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.11 Pensions 
The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees. The asset (or liability) recognised in the balance sheet in
respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at
the reporting date. The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as:
■ the life expectancy of the members; 
■ the length of service; 
■ the rate of salary progression; 
■ the rate of return earned on assets in the future; 
■ the rate used to discount future pension liabilities; and
■ future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in note 31 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions
which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but have been comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other 
FTSE 100 companies. Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the size of the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities and 
assets disclosed in note 31.
3.12 Fair value estimation 
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9. Where market values are not available, fair values are based on valuation
methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made. Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions
underlying those inputs and forecasts.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Group uses 
a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt. Other techniques, such as estimated discounted
cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the
present value of the estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward
exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The
fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market
interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
3.13 Cash Long Term Incentive Plan (L TIP) 
The charge calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits requires estimates of the valuation of CWI and Worldwide to determine
the obligation for the L TIP . The estimates require the use of a number of assumptions which, by their nature, are subjective. 
Proposals regarding changes to the L TIP are outlined in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 50 to 59.
Financial 
statements Group 80
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
4 Segment information 
Primary reporting format – business segments 
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications service provider . During the year Cable & Wireless operated two primary business
segments – CWI and Worldwide.
The CWI business operates integrated telecommunications companies offering mobile, broadband, domestic and international fixed line
services to residential and business customers. It has four major operations being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
The Worldwide business provides enterprise and carrier solutions to the largest users of telecoms services around the globe. This business
now incorporates Thus, which was acquired on 1 October 2008. 
Continuing operations 
The segment results for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 are presented below:
Other
1
and
CWI Worldwide eliminations T otal
2008/09 £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 1,392 2,268 (14) 3,646
Pre-exceptional operating costs (1,037) (2,171) (14) (3,222)
Exceptional operating costs (49) (76) (8) (133)
Group operating profit/(loss) 306 21 (36) 291
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 34 – – 34
Total operating profit/(loss) 340 21 (36) 325
Other income 10
Net finance expense (102)
Profit before income tax 233
Tax (17)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 216
2007/08
Continuing operations
Revenue 1,229 1,941 (18) 3,152
Pre-exceptional operating costs (963) (1,896) (9) (2,868)
Exceptional operating (costs)/income (50) 13 – (37)
Group operating profit/(loss) 216 58 (27) 247
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of joint ventures 38 (1) – 37
Total operating profit/(loss) 254 57 (27) 284
Other income 15
Net finance expense (32)
Profit before income tax 267
Tax (47)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 220
1 Other includes Central expenses. 
Inter-segment sales are not significant and are charged at arm’s length prices. 81
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at and for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 are:
Other
1
and
CWI Worldwide eliminations T otal
2008/09 £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Segment assets 1,860 2,715 392 4,967
Joint ventures 225 – – 225
T otal assets 2,085 2,715 392 5,192
T otal liabilities (772) (1,434) (941) (3,147)
Capital expenditure (192) (265) – (457)
Acquisitions (7) (571) – (578)
Depreciation and amortisation (167) (212) – (379)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 15 58 (6) 67
2007/08
Continuing operations
Segment assets 1,537 1,859 621 4,017
Joint ventures 150 (8) – 142
T otal assets 1,687 1,851 621 4,159
T otal liabilities (686) (1,053) (541) (2,280)
Capital expenditure (190) (221) – (411)
Acquisitions (12) (9) – (21)
Depreciation and amortisation (142) (157) – (299)
Impairment (37) – – (37)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 48 (9) (32) 7
1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities. 
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating
items including tax balances.
Discontinued operations 
Discontinued operations represent those businesses which have been disposed of or are classified as held for sale at the year end. There
were no businesses held for sale at 31 March 2009 (31 March 2008 – none).
Details of the results of discontinued operations in prior periods are set out in note 14. 
A profit of £10 million (see note 14) relating to discontinued operations for the year ended 31 March 2009 is recorded in the Other and
eliminations segment (2007/08 – £nil). 
Financial 
statements Group 82
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
4 Segment information continued
Secondary reporting format – geographical segments
Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications company with continuing operations in six geographical segments: Worldwide
(global), Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Rest of the World (ROW).
The segment results for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 are presented below:
Other
1
and
Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Worldwide eliminations T otal
2008/09 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 554 379 172 164 123 2,268 (14) 3,646
Operating costs (432) (266) (114) (144) (81) (2,171) (14) (3,222)
Exceptional operating costs (39) (3) – – (7) (76) (8) (133)
Group operating profit/(loss) 83 110 58 20 35 21 (36) 291
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of joint ventures 17 – – (2) 19 – – 34
Total operating profit/(loss) 100 110 58 18 54 21 (36) 325
Other income 10
Net finance expense (102)
Profit before income tax 233
Tax (17)
Profit for the year from 
continuing operations 216
2007/08
Continuing operations
Revenue 510 308 145 145 121 1,941 (18) 3,152
Operating costs (421) (218) (100) (129) (95) (1,896) (9) (2,868)
Exceptional operating (costs)/income (44) – – (2) (4) 13 – (37)
Group operating profit/(loss) 45 90 45 14 22 58 (27) 247
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of joint ventures 21 – – 215 (1) –37
Total operating profit/(loss) 66 90 45 16 37 57 (27) 284
Other income 15
Net finance expense (32)
Profit before income tax 267
Tax (47)
Profit for the year from 
continuing operations 220
1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets.
Inter-segment sales are not significant and are charged at arm’s length prices. 83
The segment assets and liabilities, capital expenditure and other items as at and for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008 are: 
Other
1
and
Caribbean Panama Macau Monaco ROW Worldwide eliminations T otal
2008/09 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Segment assets 817 446 143 318 136 2,715 392 4,967
Joint ventures 146 – – 10 69 – – 225
T otal assets 963 446 143 328 205 2,715 392 5,192
T otal liabilities (218) (196) (47) (217) (94) (1,434) (941) (3,147)
Capital expenditure (86) (47) (20) (11) (28) (265) – (457)
Acquisitions – – – (7) – (571) – (578)
Depreciation and amortisation (68) (44) (21) (17) (17) (212) – (379)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 16 3 – (2) (2) 58 (6) 67
2007/08
Continuing operations
Segment assets 652 314 103 313 155 1,859 621 4,017
Joint ventures 93 – – 10 47 (8) – 142
T otal assets 745 314 103 323 202 1,851 621 4,159
T otal liabilities (205) (141) (34) (211) (95) (1,053) (541) (2,280)
Capital expenditure (88) (52) (18) (4) (28) (221) – (411)
Acquisitions – – – (12) – (9) – (21)
Depreciation and amortisation (59) (37) (17) (14) (15) (157) – (299)
Impairment (37) –––––– (37)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 9 1 – 1 37 (9) (32) 7
1 Other includes Central and non-operating assets and liabilities. 
Revenue is allocated to segments based on the location where the telecommunication services were delivered. It does not follow necessarily
that the international telecommunication traffic transiting the Group’s networks originates in that location. The Group does not have access
to information on the original source or ultimate destination of all international telecommunication traffic.
Other and eliminations includes assets and liabilities held centrally by the Group, primarily cash and borrowings, and other non-operating
items including tax balances.
Discontinued operations 
There was no revenue nor segment assets relating to discontinued operations for the years ended and as at 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008. 
5 Revenue
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Continuing operations
Sales of telecommunication services and related operations 3,583 3,095
Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 63 57
Total revenue 3,646 3,152
There was no revenue from discontinued operations during the current and the prior year . 
Financial 
statements Group 84
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
6 Operating costs 
An analysis of the operating costs incurred by the Group, classified by the nature of the cost, is presented below:
2008/09 2007/08
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Outpayments and direct costs 1,759 – 1,759 1,541 – 1,541
Employee and other staff expenses 501 73 574 480 44 524
Operating lease rentals
– networks 52 – 52 23 – 23
– property 64 25 89 65 – 65
– plant and equipment 1– 1 1– 1
Other administrative expenses 163 21 184 189 1 190
Network costs 201 14 215 201 2 203
Property and utility costs 100 – 100 74 6 80
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 2,841 133 2,974 2,574 53 2,627
Depreciation and impairment of property , plant and equipment 316 – 316 252 37 289
Amortisation of intangible assets 63 – 63 47 – 47
Operating costs 3,220 133 3,353 2,873 90 2,963
Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
Exceptional items
In 2008/09, exceptional items mainly relate to the continuing programme of restructuring the Group’s operations including the integration
of Thus and the ‘One Caribbean’ programme (including redundancy , vacant property and onerous network costs). Exceptional items within
operating costs are disclosed below while further information on exceptional items can be found in notes 7 , 11 and 12.
2008/09 2007/08
Note £m £m
Exceptional items within operating costs
Staff costs (i) 73 44
Property costs (ii) 25 6
Other costs (iii) 35 6
Legal costs (iv) – 11
Gain on Seychelles cash repatriation (v) – (14)
Impairment of assets (vi) – 37
Total exceptional operating costs 133 90
i) Staff costs principally relate to redundancy costs arising from the restructuring of the Group’s operations in continuing businesses. 
In 2008/09, the expenses relate to CWI (£34 million net of £8 million of gains from restructuring post-retirement plans in Jamaica and
Barbados – see note 31) and Worldwide (£39 million net of a £2 million provision release – see note 30) and include redundancy related
pension curtailment losses of £4 million. In 2007/08 the expenses related to CWI (£14 million) and Worldwide (£30 million net of a 
£1 million provision release (see note 30) and a redundancy related pension curtailment credit of £2 million).
ii) Property costs in 2008/09 include provisions relating to vacant property in Worldwide (£17 million net of £14 million of provision releases
– see note 30) and in Central (£8 million). In 2007/08, property costs included provisions relating to vacant property in Worldwide and was
net of £4 million of provision releases (see note 30).
iii) Other costs in 2008/09 relate to the provision for network costs of £14 million (net of £6 million of provision releases – see note 30) and
other restructuring costs of £6 million in Worldwide and £15 million of restructuring charges relating to the ‘One Caribbean’ programme in
CWI. Other costs in 2007/08 related to the provisions for onerous network costs and other restructuring costs in CWI (£2 million) and
Worldwide (£4 million).
As a consequence of (i) to (iii) above, in 2008/09 an exceptional tax credit of £7 million was recognised.
iv) In 2007/08, the Group received a legal claim from Digicel, a competitor in the Caribbean. Exceptional legal costs related to the legal and
other fees for the Group’s defence against the claim. No provision for settlement has been made. 85
v) In 2007/08, the Group concluded a transaction to repatriate £24 million of funds from the Seychelles that had previously been blocked
due to exchange controls. The gain arising on the release of allowances held against these funds was £14 million. As a consequence of this
transaction, there was a £5 million tax charge on the exceptional amount.
vi) In 2007/08, an impairment review was conducted by Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd which resulted in an impairment of mobile network
assets by £37 million (see note 17).
Auditor’s remuneration 
The remuneration of the auditor and its associates for services provided to the Group during the year was £9.4 million including £0.1 million
relating to the prior year (2007/08 – £4.8 million including £0.3 million relating to 2006/07).
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Audit services
Statutory audit services – in respect of the Group’s accounts 2.3 1.9
Audit services in respect of prior years – in respect of the Group’s accounts – 0.2
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 2.3 2.1
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: 
Statutory audit services – in respect of other statutory accounts 1.5 1.1
Audit services in respect of prior years – in respect of other statutory accounts 0.1 0.1
Audit related regulatory reporting 0.4 0.4
4.3 3.7
T ax services – compliance 0.3 0.4
T ax services – advisory 0.2 0.1
Services related to corporate finance 3.9 –
Other services 0.7 0.6
9.4 4.8
Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are
required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. 
7 Other operating income 
In 2008/09, other operating income related to gains on disposal of property , plant and equipment of £1 million and the sale of a database 
for £1 million. 
In 2007/08, other operating income related to gains on disposal of property , plant and equipment of £5 million and cash received in respect
of hurricane insurance claims of £4 million. Exceptional other operating income related to the sale and leaseback of nine freehold properties
in the Worldwide business in April 2007 . The disposal of these properties for £88 million resulted in a profit of £53 million. 
8 Other operating expenses 
The other operating expense of £4 million (2007/08 – £4 million) relates to £2 million (2007/08 – £2 million) of losses on disposal of
property , plant and equipment and £2 million (2007/08 – £2 million) of costs relating to hurricane damage. 
Financial 
statements Group 86
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
9 Employee and other staff expenses 
Costs of employees and contract staff of the Group
The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses are set out below:
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Wages and salaries 486 437
Social security costs 35 32
Share-based payments 13 16
Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan 17 27
Pension (credit)/expense
■ defined benefit plans (14) (21)
■ defined contribution plans 18 15
T emporary labour and recruitment 18 22
573 528
Less: Staff costs capitalised (72) (48)
Staff costs 501 480
Exceptional employee and other staff expenses of £73 million (2007/08 – £44 million) are set out in note 6.
Average number of employees 
The average monthly number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was:
2008/09 2007/08
CWI 
■ CWI headquarters 109 151
■ Caribbean 3,196 3,964
■ Panama 1,900 1,885
■ Macau 903 919
■ Monaco 434 502
■ Rest of the World 672 685
T otal CWI 7,214 8,106
Worldwide 5,605 5,318
Other 89 86
Total Group 12,908 13,510
There were no employees in discontinued operations.
Key management’s remuneration 
Key management includes Directors and any senior staff that have regular access to inside information and have the power to make
managerial decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of Cable & Wireless. Remuneration of key management is
set out below:
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 6 8
Post-employment benefits 1 1
T ermination benefits 1 3
Share-based payments 5 7
Cash Long T erm Incentive Plan 7 15
Total 20 34
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 50 to 59. Excluding Directors, key management
expenses of £7 million (2007/08 – £10 million) were included in staff costs during the year . 87
10 Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets
2008/09 2007/08
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets 7– 7 1– 1
Gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets arise on the sale of businesses that do not meet the definition of discontinued operations
or investments. 
In 2008/09, the gain on disposals of non-current assets of £7 million principally arose on the recycling of foreign currency translation
reserve balances on liquidation of subsidiaries.
In 2007/08, the gain on disposals of non-current assets of £1 million reflected the release of a provision related to the sale of the Group’s
interest in Bahrain T elecommunications Company BSC (Batelco).
11 Gain on termination of operations 
2008/09 2007/08
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gain on termination of operations 3– 3 86 14
The pre-exceptional gain on termination of operations in both periods presented relates to the results of the activities of the Group’s former
insurance operation, Pender Insurance Limited (Pender), which ceased taking on new business in April 2003. 
The 2007/08 exceptional gain of £6 million arose from the resolution of claims and other matters in respect of Pender . 
12 Finance income and expense
2008/09 2007/08
Pre- Pre-
exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Finance income
Interest on cash and deposits 23 – 23 52 – 52
Investment income ––– 1– 1
Foreign exchange gains on deposits 6– 6 –––
Total finance income 29 – 29 53 – 53
Finance expense
Interest on bank loans 22 – 22 13 – 13
Interest on other loans 28 – 28 46 – 46
Finance charges on leases 2– 2 2– 2
Unwinding of discounts on provisions 7– 7 8– 8
Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 14 – 14 8– 8
Impairment of financial asset 4– 4 –––
Losses on derivative foreign exchange contracts –5656 –––
Loss on convertible bonds repurchase ––– –1010
77 56 133 77 10 87
Less: Interest capitalised (2) – (2) (2) – (2)
Total finance expense 75 56 131 75 10 85
T ax relief of £nil is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2009 (2007/08 – £1 million). Interest has been capitalised
within property , plant and equipment at a rate of 5% (2007/08 – 7%).
Financial 
statements Group 88
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
12 Finance income and expense continued
During the period, the Group entered into various foreign exchange contracts to lock in the Sterling cash value of the forecast cash
repatriations from foreign operations as well as that of the drawdowns on the Group’s $415 million bank facility (see note 27). This resulted
in an exceptional finance expense of £56 million from expiry of these contracts during the year and re-measuring open contracts to fair
value at year end.
During 2007/08, convertible bonds with a par value of £138 million were repurchased for cash of £190 million. This resulted in an
exceptional loss of £10 million being the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the underlying debt component of the
repurchased bonds. For further information, refer to note 27 .
13 Income tax expense
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Current tax charge – continuing operations
UK tax at 28% (2007/08 – 30%) 24 63
Double tax relief (24) (63)
– –
Overseas tax 61 63
Adjustments relating to prior years (11) (1)
Total current tax charge – continuing operations 50 62
Deferred tax credit – continuing operations
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (33) (13)
Adjustments relating to prior years – (2)
Total deferred tax credit – continuing operations (33) (15)
Total tax charge – continuing operations 17 47
There was a £nil tax charge relating to discontinued operations (2007/08 – £nil).
The £17 million (2007/08 – £47 million) tax charge is net of a £7 million (2007/08 – £14 million) credit in respect of the exceptional
operating costs included in note 6. In 2007/08 it was also net of a £5 million charge for Seychelles withholding tax on dividends remitted.
The Group’s effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows:
2008/09 2007/08
% %
UK statutory tax rate 28.0 30.0
Effect of overseas tax rates (4.1) (5.7)
Effect of accounting for joint ventures (4.1) (3.3)
Effect of branches and intra-group dividends less double tax relief 10.7 7.8
Net effect of disallowed expenditure/(income not taxable) 2.4 (3.7)
Effect of other temporary differences 1.7 –
Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets (23.1) (6.7)
Adjustments relating to prior years (4.5) (0.8)
Effective tax rate 7.0 17.6
14 Discontinued operations
There were no businesses discontinued during the year (2007/08 – none).
In 2008/09, the net profit of £10 million from discontinued operations relates to the reversal of unutilised provisions (see note 30) relating
to the Group’s former US operations and businesses disposed of in prior periods. 
In 2007/08, the net profit of £nil from discontinued operations included the reversal of unutilised provisions of £5 million relating to the
Group’s former US operations and businesses disposed of in prior periods and the write-off of a £5 million receivable relating to the Group’s
former US operations.  89
15 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number
of ordinary shares outstanding. 
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 143 164
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (millions) 2,486 2,424
Dilutive effect of share options (millions) 26 42
Number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share (millions) 2,512 2,466
Basic earnings per share (pence per share) 5.8p 6.8p
Diluted earnings per share (pence per share) 5.7p 6.6p
Continuing operations
Profit (and adjusted profit) from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 133 164
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (pence per share) 5.4p 6.8p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (pence per share) 5.3p 6.6p
Discontinued operations
Profit (and adjusted profit) from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 10 –
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (pence per share) 0.4p –
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations (pence per share) 0.4p –
The convertible bonds (extinguished in 2007/08) were excluded from the number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per
share in that year as they were not dilutive.
16 Dividends declared and paid 
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Final dividend in respect of the prior year 123 100
Interim dividend in respect of the current year 71 61
T otal dividend paid 194 161
During the year ended 31 March 2009 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 5.00 pence per share (2007/08 – 4.15 pence 
per share) in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008. The Group also declared and paid an interim dividend of 2.83 pence per share
(2007/08 – 2.50 pence per share) in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2009, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 5.67 pence per share (2007/08 – 5.00 pence
per share), totalling £142 million (2007/08 – £123 million), for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 17 July 2009. These
financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of
retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2010.
The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend. 12,057 shareholders
(2007/08 – 12,379 shareholders) owning 558 million shares (2007/08 – 708 million shares) elected to take the interim dividend wholly or
partly in shares. 12,138 shareholders (2007/08 – 12,531 shareholders) owning 613 million shares (2007/08 – 122 million shares) elected to
take the 2007/08 final dividend wholly or partly in shares. Consequently , total shares were issued with a value of £47 million (2007/08 –
£23 million). The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan T rust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust. 
Financial 
statements Group 90
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
17 Impairment review
The Group reviews goodwill for impairment annually . The Group assesses the carrying amount of property , plant and equipment and
intangible assets (except goodwill) for indications of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable by sale or through use. F actors that are considered important, which could trigger an impairment review, 
are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill
A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2009. In performing this review, the recoverable amount 
of goodwill has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the continuing
operations of the related businesses. No impairment was required. The significant balances of goodwill and the Group’s assessment 
are discussed below.
Worldwide
Including the acquired Thus business, which has been integrated into Worldwide during the period, Worldwide has one cash generating unit
on a forward looking basis. It generates revenue through an integrated network for which the business is unable to identify relevant cash
flows separately . Goodwill of £784 million (31 March 2008 – £431 million) was allocated to this business at 31 March 2009. A discounted
cash flow analysis was performed using a five year business projection which was extended using a terminal value growth rate of 1% and a
pre-tax discount rate of 10%. This analysis indicated that the carrying value of the goodwill was supported and no impairment charge was
required. The key assumptions on which the projected cash flows are based relate to revenue growth and the level of capital expenditure
required to maintain the network at its current level. These assumptions have been determined using a combination of long-term trends,
industry forecasts and in-house estimates. 
The goodwill’s value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if earnings decreased or maintenance capital expenditure
increased by more than £50 million per year; or the discount rate increased by more than 6 percentage points.
Monaco T elecom
Goodwill of £121 million was allocated to Monaco T elecom at 31 March 2009 (31 March 2008 – £108 million). Three relevant cash
generating units were identified for the purposes of assessing the carrying value of Monaco T elecom’s network assets (domestic – including
the cable television business, international business and other services). Goodwill has been allocated to this group of cash generating units
based on the proportionate fair value of net assets at the time of acquisition. The value in use was determined for each cash generating unit
separately by discounting future cash flows (based on the businesses projections extrapolated at long-term growth rates of between 0%
and 5%) at pre-tax discount rates of between 8% and 18% (dependent on the risk adjusted cost of capital of different parts of the business).
No impairment was required. 
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use relate to revenue growth, operating margin and the level of maintenance capital
expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level. Monaco T elecom operates under an exclusive concession in Monaco and
management’s forecasts were based on historical experience for the business.
The goodwill’s value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if earnings decreased or maintenance capital expenditure
increased by more than £14 million per year; or the discount rate increased by more than 9 percentage points.
Property , plant and equipment and other intangibles
Y ear ended 31 March 2009
There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property , plant and equipment and
other intangible assets had been impaired.
Y ear ended 31 March 2008
There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property , plant and equipment and
other intangible assets had been impaired, except as noted below:
Cable & Wireless Jamaica
A review of the carrying value of the property , plant and equipment of Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd, a subsidiary of the Group, was
conducted at year end in the light of the poor trading performance during the year .
The value in use was determined for each of the four cash generating units of the business (mobile, fixed, data and internet) by discounting
estimated future cash flows (based on the company’s five year forecast) at a US dollar equivalent pre-tax discount rate of 11.7%. Revenue
was adjusted by a terminal growth rate of 0% to 2% depending on the cash generating unit. Maintenance capital expenditure was assumed
at an average of 5% of revenue in perpetuity and operating costs were estimated to remain at broadly the same level throughout the
projection (before inflation). These assumptions reflected the introduction of competition in the local market.
As a result of the review, an impairment charge of £37 million was recognised in Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd and recorded in the Group’s
income statement for 2007/08. 91
18 Intangible assets
Customer
Licences and contracts and
Goodwill Software concessions relationships Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2007 523 678 74 132 33 1,440
Business combinations 19–––– 19
Additions –5115 – 268
Disposals – (1) – – – (1)
T ransfers between categories – (4) 4 – – –
T ransfers from property , plant and equipment – 7––– 7
Exchange differences 7 (2) 9 – 5 19
At 31 March 2008 549 729 102 132 40 1,552
Business combinations 353 – 1 15 5 374
Additions – 331 –2 36
Disposals – (5) – – (1) (6)
Exchange differences 13 14 23 (1) 9 58
At 31 March 2009 915 771 127 146 55 2,014
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2007 – 640 11 17 27 695
Charge for the year –24 513 547
Disposals – (1) – – – (1)
Exchange differences – (1) 2 1 2 4
At 31 March 2008 – 662 18 31 34 745
Charge for the year –34 715 763
Disposals – (5) – – (1) (6)
Exchange differences – 114 –6 21
At 31 March 2009 – 702 29 46 46 823
Net book value
At 31 March 2009 915 69 98 100 9 1,191
At 31 March 2008 5496784 101 6 807
Goodwill balances can be summarised as follows:
Foreign Foreign
At 1 April exchange At 31 March exchange At 31 March
Reporting 2007 Additions movements 2008 Additions movements 2009
segment £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Energis Worldwide 421 10 – 431 – – 431
Thus (see note 39) Worldwide –––– 341– 341
Apollo (see note 39) Worldwide –––– 9 3 12
Monaco T elecom CWI 102 (1) 7 108 4 9 121
Connecteo (see note 39) CWI – 10 – 10 (1) 1 10
Total 523 19 7 549 353 13 915
Monaco T elecom 
Goodwill in connection with the Group’s investment in Monaco T elecom SAM increased by £13 million during the year (2007/08 – £6 million
increase). The goodwill balance increased as a result of the payment of dividends to the minority interest, exchange movements and changes in
the fair value of the put option. 
As part of the acquisition of Monaco T elecom a put option was issued (see note 28). Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated
as contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill. During the year , this change in the fair value of the put option resulted in a 
£7 million reduction in goodwill (2007/08 – £12 million reduction). A cash dividend of £11 million (2007/08 – £11 million) was paid to the
Principality of Monaco during the year . This dividend reflected an increase in the Group’s investment in Monaco T elecom and therefore 
an increase to goodwill. The goodwill balance was also increased by £9 million as a result of exchange movements during the year
(2007/08 – £7 million increase).
Financial 
statements Group 92
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
18 Intangible assets continued
Energis contingent consideration
As part of the Energis acquisition on 11 November 2005, Cable & Wireless agreed to pay contingent consideration of between £nil and a
maximum of £80 million. The amount of contingent consideration was linked to the Company’s share price and was to be satisfied, at the
Group’s option, in either cash or shares of the Company . Payments were based on a ratio of £1.25 million for every one penny by which 
the maximum three-month volume weighted average Cable and Wireless plc share price exceeded the reference price of 135 pence. 
Any payments were to begin in March 2008 and were payable monthly until December 2008. Any payments were based upon 
Cable & Wireless’ volume weighted average share price for the three months prior to any relevant payment date. 
In 2008/09, no additional goodwill was recognised in connection with the contingent consideration since the payment criteria were not
met. In 2007/08, an additional £10 million of goodwill was recognised due to contingent consideration. In March 2008, the Group paid 
£49 million satisfying the contingent consideration under this agreement which has now expired.
19 Property , plant and equipment
2008/09 2007/08
Land and Plant and Assets under Land and Plant and Assets under
buildings equipment construction Total buildings equipment construction T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 505 6,834 145 7,484 461 6,583 204 7,248
Additions 1 80 340 421 2 26 309 337
Movements in asset retirement obligations 65 – 11 6–– 6
Business combinations 11 193 – 204 –2 –2
Disposals (33) (302) (3) (338) (3) (93) (1) (97)
T ransfers between categories 19 305 (324) – 42 316 (358) –
T ransfer to intangibles –––– – – (7) (7)
Exchange differences 71 713 27 811 (3) – (2) (5)
At 31 March 580 7,828 185 8,593 505 6,834 145 7,484
Depreciation
At 1 April 339 5,657 – 5,996 315 5,468 – 5,783
Charge for the year 27 289 – 316 11 241 – 252
Impairment –––– –37 –37
Disposals (32) (300) – (332) (2) (90) – (92)
T ransfers between categories –––– 11 (11) – –
Exchange differences 42 518 – 560 412 –16
At 31 March 376 6,164 – 6,540 339 5,657 – 5,996
Net book value at 31 March 204 1,664 185 2,053 166 1,177 145 1,488
Included in the net book value of property , plant and equipment at 31 March 2009 is £25 million (2007/08 – £14 million) of assets held
under finance leases.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of £2 million (2007/08 – 
£2 million) and £72 million (2007/08 – £49 million) respectively . 93
20 Investments in joint ventures 
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Gross carrying amount
At 1 April
– Cost 63 63
– Share of post-acquisition reserves 125 100
188 163
Share of post-tax profit 32 37
Dividends (17) (15)
T ransfer to subsidiary undertaking 8 –
Exchange differences 58 3
At 31 March 269 188
Impairment allowance
At 1 April (46) (46)
Impairment charge – (1)
Impairment allowance release 2 1
At 31 March (44) (46)
Net carrying amount at 31 March 225 142
The Group’s total interest in its joint ventures is presented below:
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Non-current assets 222 237
Current assets 145 107
Current liabilities (96) (89)
Non-current liabilities (46) (113)
Share of net assets 225 142
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Revenue 232 190
Operating costs (191) (148)
Operating profit 41 42
Net interest financing costs – (1)
Share of profit before tax 41 41
T axation charge (7) (4)
Dividends paid to Group companies (17) (15)
Share of retained profit 17 22
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The carrying amount of the investments comprise the cost of the
investment together with the Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss less any impairment allowances. 
There are no significant restrictions on joint ventures’ ability to transfer funds to the Group. The joint ventures have no significant
contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint
ventures. The Group’s joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2009 (2007/08 – none).
On 1 April 2008 the Group gained full management control of Apollo Submarine Cable Systems Limited which was previously accounted for
as a joint venture (see note 39).
Financial 
statements Group 94
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
21 Available-for-sale financial assets 
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
At 1 April 27 15
Business combinations 10 –
Additions 1 10
F air value gain recorded in equity – 2
At 31 March 38 27
At 31 March 2009 available-for-sale financial assets primarily comprise UK Government gilts and cash held as collateral (2007/08 – UK
Government gilts and cash held as collateral). These assets are measured at fair value based on observable market data.
22 Trade and other receivables
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Gross trade receivables 697 639
V aluation allowance (69) (72)
Net trade receivables 628 567
Other receivables 70 87
Prepayments and accrued income 262 193
T axation and social security receivables 10 6
Amounts receivable from joint ventures 3 3
Trade and other receivables – current 973 856
Other receivables 30 33
Prepayments and accrued income 22 27
Trade and other receivables – non-current 52 60
Total trade and other receivables 1,025 916
The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value. There is no material difference between the carrying
value and fair value of trade and other receivables at 31 March 2009.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated. Receivables
predominantly relate to retail customers, Governments and corporate entities as well as other telecoms operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer . These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment
history analysis and credit approval limits. Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that
are neither past due nor impaired as low risk. There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties
within the Group that indicate this would change in the future. There has been an economic downturn in markets in which the Group
operates.This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. However , management have
assessed this risk and, after providing additional valuation allowance where necessary , continue to support the assessment of credit 
quality as low risk. 
An ageing analysis of the current net trade and other receivables that are not impaired is as follows: 
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Not yet due 336 312
Overdue 30 days or less 117 101
Overdue 31 to 60 days 41 40
Overdue 61 to 90 days 29 41
Overdue 91 days to 180 days 58 43
Overdue 181 days or more 117 117
Current net trade and other receivables 698 654 95
Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry , balances relating to interconnection with other carriers often have lengthy settlement
periods. Generally , interconnection agreements with major carriers result in receivables and payables balances with the same counterparty.
Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for a defined period are agreed
between counterparties and settled on a net basis. Included within receivables are amounts relating to interconnection with other carriers 
of £256 million (2007/08 – £244 million). 
There are no amounts held as collateral for trade and other receivables balances.
An analysis of the trade receivables valuation allowance for the period is as follows: 
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1 April 72 98
Bad debts written off (29) (36)
Increase in allowance 17 6
Exchange differences 9 4
At 31 March 69 72
All trade transactions with joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless’
products and services. There were no material transactions with joint ventures during the year .
23 Inventories
Inventories represent equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale.
Inventories of £23 million (2007/08 – £17 million) are presented net of an allowance of £5 million (2007/08 – £2 million) made against
slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2008/09 was £86 million
(2007/08 – £79 million). During the year , the Group recorded no additional inventory valuation allowances (2007/08 – £nil).
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Group’s borrowings. 
24 Cash and cash equivalents
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 177 106
Short-term bank deposits 368 593
Cash and cash equivalents 545 699
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank, bank deposits and money market funds.
Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice. The effective
interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2009 was 0.45% (31 March 2008 – 5.1%). At 31 March 2009 these deposits had an
average maturity of 5 days (31 March 2008 – 42 days).
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
25 Non-current assets held for sale
As at 31 March 2009, bonds of £1 million (2007/08 – £5 million) were classified as non-current assets held for sale. During the period, 
the £5 million bonds held at 31 March 2008 were impaired, resulting in a £4 million finance expense and reduction in their carrying value 
to £1 million.
Financial 
statements Group 96
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
26 Trade and other payables 
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
T rade payables 550 441
Other taxation and social security costs 51 57
Accruals 517 463
Deferred income 324 193
Other payables 67 65
Trade and other payables – current 1,509 1,219
Accruals 10 40
Other creditors 1 –
Trade and other payables – non-current 11 40
Total trade and other payables 1,520 1,259
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented.
27 Loans and obligations under finance leases 
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Loans
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 342 308
Sterling secured loans repayable in 2012 124 –
US$415 million secured loan repayable in 2010 ($50 million) and 2011 ($365 million) 283 –
US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2013 114 81
Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 37 48
900 437
Loans – current 80 45
Loans – non-current 820 392
Finance leases
Obligations under finance leases 22 19
Obligations under finance leases – current 10 14
Obligations under finance leases – non-current 12 5
Loans and obligations under finance leases – current 90 59
Loans and obligations under finance leases – non-current 832 397
At 31 March 2009, the following Group borrowings were secured:
a) The Sterling £200 million loan facility repayable in 2012 (of which £99 million was drawn down at 31 March 2009) is secured by way of
guarantee from Cable and Wireless plc and security over Worldwide assets;
b) The $415 million US dollar loan repayable in 2011 is secured over CWI’s holdings in Panama and Caribbean subsidiaries; 
c) £29 million of the Group’s Sterling secured loans is secured on the Group owned 2019 bonds; and
d) £21 million of the other currency loans are secured over some of CWI’s operating subsidiaries’ assets. 
The Sterling bonds have a fair value of £319 million at 31 March 2009 (31 March 2008 – £304 million). This value has been determined by
reference to market values obtained from third parties. For all other financial liabilities the carrying amount approximates to fair value. 97
The repayment profile of loans (including interest payable at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date) is as follows: 
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Loans
Due in less than one year 134 82
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 108 55
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 688 296
Due in more than five years 214 235
Total loans 1,144 668
Less future finance charges on loans (244) (231)
Total loans 900 437
The repayment profile of obligations under finance leases is as follows:
Net finance lease Minimum finance
liabilities lease payments
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year 10 14 11 15
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 7 3 7 3
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 3 2 3 2
Due in more than five years 2 – 2 –
Total 22 19 23 20
Less future finance charges on finance leases (1) (1)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 22 19
Interest is payable on loans and obligations under finance leases falling due after more than five years at rates of between 0.00% 
and 10.03%.
During the period, the Group arranged:
a)A three year secured bank facility of US$415 million, repayable in 2010 ($50 million) and 2011 ($365 million), which was drawn 
down in full;
b)A three year secured bank facility of £200 million, repayable in 2012, of which £99 million has been drawn down; and
c)A £29 million loan facility secured by the 2019 bonds held by the Group. This loan is repayable in February 2012.
The agreements for the US$415 million and £200 million facilities entered into during the year contain financial and other covenants 
which are standard to these type of arrangements.
In addition, the Group has the following significant borrowings:
a) £200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2009, net of costs, of £195 million (2007/08 – 
£161 million). Interest is payable at 8.750% per annum. During the year ended 31 March 2009, bonds with a par value, net of costs, 
of £36 million were re-issued by Cable and Wireless plc for £34 million net proceeds.
b) £200 million listed bond due in 2019 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2009, net of costs, of £147 million (2007/08 – 
£147 million). Interest is payable at 8.625% per annum. During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Group repurchased but did not 
cancel £32 million of this bond at an average price of 102.1 pence.
c) £116 million (2007/08 – £81 million) of loans in or linked to the US dollar are held by various subsidiaries across the Group, with 
the majority in Panama. The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
Financial 
statements Group 98
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
27 Loans and obligations under finance leases continued
The weighted average effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
Interest Interest
Currency rate Currency rate
% %
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 and Sterling secured facilities  GBP 7.7 GBP 8.7
US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans and facilities repayable 
at various dates up to 2013 USD 3.4 USD 4.6
Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 Other 7.9 Other 12.0
Obligations under finance leases GBP 8.3 GBP 8.4
Convertible unsecured bond
On 16 July 2003, £257 ,714,000 of 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par . Each bond entitled the holder to convert the amount
of such bond into fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each at an amended rate of 689.655 ordinary shares for each £1,000 held at an
initial conversion price of 145 pence per ordinary share at any time prior to 9 July 2010. Full conversion of the bonds would have resulted in
an additional 177 ,733,748 shares being issued.
During 2007/08, all of the convertible bonds in issue at 31 March 2007 (carrying value of £213 million) were either repurchased or
converted. 
Convertible bonds with a par value of £138 million were repurchased for cash of £190 million. At the time of repurchase, the debt
component of these convertible bonds had a carrying value of £117 million. The fair value of the debt component of these bonds at the date
of repurchase was £127 million. This transaction resulted in an exceptional finance expense of £10 million (see note 12). The difference
between the fair value of the debt component and the cash consideration (£63 million) was allocated to the repurchase of the equity
component of the convertible bond.
The remaining convertible bonds, with a par value of £120 million, were converted into 83 million ordinary shares (including 29 million
treasury shares). The debt component of these convertible bonds had a carrying value of £103 million. 
In April 2005, a cash settlement feature within the convertible bonds was removed. The liability relating to this cash settlement feature was
reclassified to equity at its fair value at that time (£47 million). As a result of extinguishing the convertible bonds, this amount was
reclassified to retained earnings. 
The movements on the convertible bonds in the prior period were as follows:
£m
Liability component at 1 April 2007 213
Interest expense 7
Liability component of convertible bonds repurchased or converted (220)
Liability component at 31 March 2008 –
Interest expense on the bond was calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate (10.7%) for an equivalent non-
convertible bond to the liability component of the convertible bond.
28 Financial liabilities at fair value
At 31 March 2009 At 31 March 2008
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts 25 – 25 –––
Put option relating to Monaco T elecom – 139 139 59 73 132
Other put option –11 –––
Total financial liabilities at fair value 25 140 165 59 73 132 99
Forward exchange contracts
At 31 March 2009 the Group had forward exchange contracts to sell US$225 million (£155 million), in order to lock in the Sterling proceeds
of forecast US dollar repatriation (2007/08 – US$50 million (£25 million) hedging US dollar exposures). The Group did not apply hedge
accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value through the income statement. A US$0.10 movement in the
US$/£ exchange rate would have an impact of approximately £11 million on the income statement and balance sheet as a result of changes
in the fair value of these contracts.
Monaco T elecom put option
A put option is held by the minority shareholder of Monaco T elecom, the Principality of Monaco (the Principality). This put option is
measured at fair value using inputs that are not based on publicly observable market data. The liability for the put option represents 45% of
the market value of Monaco T elecom. This market value has been determined by taking an average of published broker valuations for the
business and attributing 45% of that value to the put option. The brokers have valued the business using a combination of discounted cash
flow analysis and EBITDA multiples factoring in the expected growth and risk of the business. A £10 million movement in the value of the put
would have a £1 million impact on the income statement.
The Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being exercised, however , IAS 32 Financial Instruments:
Presentation requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, as this
is not within the Group’s control. As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, any change in remeasuring the derivative
to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill (refer to note 18).
The put option held by the Principality is exercisable in two tranches. The first tranche enables the Principality to put 20% of the shares of
Monaco T elecom to the Group from six months prior to 18 June 2011, 2014 and 2017 . The second tranche enables the Principality to put 25%
of the shares of Monaco T elecom to the Group three years after the first tranche has been exercised.
During the period, the value of the put option increased by £14 million due to discount unwinding (see note 12). This increase was offset by a
£7 million reduction as a result of fair value and foreign exchange movements. This reduction was recognised against goodwill (see note 18).
29 Deferred tax
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows:
Capital
allowances on Balance
non-current sheet
assets T ax losses Pensions Other offset T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax assets 34 12 – 3 (21) 28
Deferred tax liabilities (54) – (18) (8) 21 (59)
At 1 April 2007 (20) 12 (18) (5) – (31)
Profit and loss credit 2931 – 15
T ax charged to equity –– 11–– 11
Exchange differences 3 (1) – (1) – 1
At 31 March 2008 (15) 20 (4) (5) – (4)
Deferred tax assets 30 20 1 1 (26) 26
Deferred tax liabilities (45) – (5) (6) 26 (30)
At 31 March 2008 (15) 20 (4) (5) – (4)
Profit and loss credit 21 10 – 2 – 33
T ax charged to equity – – (1) – – (1)
Exchange differences (5) 3 1 – – (1)
At 31 March 2009 1 33 (4) (3) – 27
Deferred tax assets 63 33 5 4 (41) 64
Deferred tax liabilities (62) – (9) (7) 41 (37)
At 31 March 2009 1 33 (4) (3) – 27
Financial 
statements Group 100
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
29 Deferred tax continued
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences: 
Capital
allowances 
available on
non-current
assets T ax losses Pensions Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 March 2008 3,721 14,697 22 118 18,558
As at 31 March 2009 3,928 21,035 63 156 25,182
T ax losses expire as follows:
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Within 1 year 13 11
Within 3 years 13 22
Within 5 years 19 5
Within 10 years 81 70
After more than 10 years 48 40
Other tax losses are not subject to expiry .
The £21,035 million (2007/08 – £14,697 million) tax losses include UK capital losses of £8,027 million (2007/08 – £2,635 million). 
Other losses principally arise in overseas holding companies and the opportunity to realise benefits from them is considered remote. 
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of remittance
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of temporary differences
associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 
£695 million (2007/08 – £475 million). These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
30 Provisions
2008/09 2007/08
Network Network
and asset and asset
Redundancy retirement Legal and Redundancy retirement Legal and
Property costs obligations other Total Property costs obligations other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 69 12 81 65 227 82 7 77 60 226
Additions from businesses acquired 1– 34 1 36 –––––
Additional provision 40 61 28 39 168 10 35 10 33 88
Amounts used (19) (50) (11) (42) (122) (19) (28) (13) (15) (75)
Unused amounts reversed (17) (2) (9) (15) (43) (6) (2) – (14) (22)
Effect of discounting 3– 7– 10 2– 6– 8
Exchange differences 2 3 2 11 18 – –112
At 31 March 79 24 132 59 294 69 12 81 65 227
Provisions – Current 20 24 14 50 108 17 12 14 49 92
Provisions – Non-current 59 – 118 9 186 52 –6716 135
Property 
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant
properties being sublet. The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Property provisions released included £14 million (2007/08 – £4 million) relating to Worldwide following the reassessment of its onerous
rental leases and dilapidations provisions (see note 6) and £3 million (2007/08 – £2 million) in respect of the Group’s former US
operations (see note 14).  101
Redundancy 
Provision has been made for the employee related costs of redundancies announced or for which Cable & Wireless is demonstrably
committed prior to the reporting date. Amounts provided for and spent in the year primarily relate to the restructuring in Worldwide 
and CWI.
Redundancy cost provisions released in 2008/09 relate to Worldwide (see note 6). 
In 2007/08, redundancy cost provisions released related to CWI (£1 million) and Worldwide (£1 million) (see note 6).
Network and asset retirement obligations 
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity . The provision 
is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and
subsea cabling. This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises. Amounts
utilised in the year related predominantly to cash expenditure against unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.
Network and asset retirement obligations provision releases in 2008/09 relate to the reassessment of amounts in respect of exiting
network sites and onerous network contracts in Worldwide (£6 million) and CWI (£3 million) (see note 6).
Other 
Other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group and amounts relating to specific claims held against 
the Group’s former insurance operation, Pender , and other restructuring costs. 
Other provisions released in 2008/09 include an amount of £7 million in Central in relation to disposals made in previous years (see note
14), and £2 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions made in respect of the Group’s former insurance operation, Pender 
(see note 11). In addition, provisions of £6 million were released in CWI following the resolution of claims and other risks.
In 2007/08, other provisions released included an amount of £6 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions made in respect
of the Group’s former insurance operation, Pender (see note 11), and £3 million in Central following a reassessment of provisions relating to
disposals made in previous years (see note 14). In addition, provisions of £4 million and £1 million were released in CWI and Worldwide
respectively following resolution of claims.
31 Retirement benefits obligations 
The Company and its principal subsidiaries operate pension and other retirement schemes, which cover the majority of employees in the
Group. These schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on employees’ remuneration and length
of service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by , and
in respect of, employees. Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent
actuaries who value the schemes. The main UK defined benefit scheme was closed to new members in 1998.
Defined contribution schemes 
The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes of the Group was £18 million (2007/08 – £15 million), of which 
£11 million (2007/08 – £12 million) was for the main UK scheme.
Defined benefit schemes 
Main UK scheme – funding valuation
The latest triennial actuarial valuation was carried out by Watson Wyatt Limited as at 31 March 2007 . The projected unit credit method 
was used and the principal actuarial assumptions adopted were that the annual rate of inflation would be 3.1% and that future increases in
pensionable earnings would be 4.1% per annum; investments held in respect of pensions before they become payable would average 6.2%
annual rate of return; investments held in respect of pensions after they become payable would average 4.9% annual rate of return; and
pensions would increase at an annual rate of 3.0% for fixed guarantee pensions and 3.1% for inflation related pensions. As at 31 March 2007 ,
the value of the assets represented approximately 99% of the actuarial value of benefits due to members calculated on the basis of
pensionable earnings and service at 31 March 2007 on an ongoing basis and allowing for projected increases in pensionable earnings.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement were set having regard to the actual experience of the Fund’s pensioners
and dependents over the five years ended 31 March 2007 . In addition, allowance was made for future mortality improvements in line with
medium cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and F aculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum
annual rate of improvement of 1.5%. 
Financial 
statements Group 102
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
31 Retirement benefits obligations continued
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 are as follows:
On 31 On 31 On 31
March March March
2009 2019 2029
(years) (years) (years)
Male 27.7 29.1 30.6
Female 29.0 30.5 32.0
The defined benefit actuarial funding deficit was £15 million at 31 March 2007 on the basis of the funding assumptions adopted by the
actuary . On 28 March 2008, Cable & Wireless made a £19 million contribution to the scheme. This was calculated on the basis of the 
£15 million deficit at 31 March 2007 , together with the interest cost that accrued on this amount during the year and the back-dating of the
increased employer’s contribution rate to the valuation date. As a result of the £19 million contribution, the scheme was fully funded on an
ongoing basis, based on the 2007 valuation. 
The actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future benefit
accrual was 33.2% of pensionable earnings (28.5% employer’s and 4.7% employee’s). This contribution rate will be reviewed when the next
scheduled triennial independent actuarial valuation is carried out, as at 31 March 2010. The terms of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation
Fund T rust Deed also allow the T rustees or the Company to call for a valuation at any time. The future service contribution rate includes an
allowance of 3% for administration expenses, excluding the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) levy . The PPF levy for 2008/09 was £314,000
(2007/08 – £339,000). Cable & Wireless therefore paid a total contribution rate of 29.4% in 2008/09, or £10.6 million (2007/08 – 29.3%
or £11.8 million).
The Group has agreed to provide certain financial information on a semi-annual basis to allow the T rustees to monitor the Group’s financial
performance. If the Group’s projected EBITDA and the cash and committed facilities (net of any prior ranking creditors) available to the
Group fall below agreed levels the Group will provide security to the T rustees in the form of an escrow arrangement or bank letter of credit
for an amount equal to the shortfall against the agreed level of cash and committed facilities (net of any prior ranking creditors). 
During the year , the Pension T rustees of the main UK defined benefit scheme agreed a buy-in of the UK pensioner element of the scheme
with Prudential Insurance. The buy-in involved the purchase of a bulk annuity policy by the scheme under which Prudential Insurance
assumed responsibility for the benefits payable to the scheme’s UK pensioners with effect from 1 August 2008. The pensioner liabilities and
the matching annuity policy remain within the scheme. The premium for the annuity policy was approximately £1 billion which the scheme
settled with a combination of cash and assets including an additional Group contribution of £10 million. 
Main UK scheme and other schemes – IAS 19 valuation 
The IAS 19 valuations of the major defined benefit schemes and medical plans operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2009
by qualified independent actuaries. Watson Wyatt Limited prepared the valuation for the main UK scheme, the Thus scheme acquired
during the year and unfunded schemes, and reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all other schemes. Other schemes include
unfunded liabilities in the UK relating to pension provisions for former Directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in
excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap and the Thus scheme. Also included are the Group’s overseas schemes in Macau,
Jamaica, Barbados, Guernsey , Hong Kong and Ireland. 
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes’ assets are as follows:
2008/09 2007/08
Main UK Other Main UK Other
scheme schemes scheme schemes
Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption Assets Assumption
£m % £m % £m % £m %
Inflation assumption 3.0 4.3 3.5 4.9
Salary increases 3.5 5.5 4.0 6.5
Pension increases 2.2-3.0 4.5 2.3-3.4 4.9
Discount rate 6.7 7.9 6.8 8.3
Medical cost trends for post-retirement 
medical plans 9.7 9.8
Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets 
■ Annuity policies 825 6.7 44 8.0 ––––
■ Equities 519 8.0 100 8.1 944 8.0 88 8.1
■ Bonds and gilts 51 5.6 96 5.6 500 5.2 73 5.1
■ Property 76 6.5 38 8.5 125 7.0 45 8.4
■ Cash and swaps 190 3.3 – – 546 4.4 21 4.3
1,661 278 2,115 227 103
Assumptions used by the actuary are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be 
borne out in practice. The assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the
individual schemes. 
A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the main UK scheme liabilities by approximately £34 million. 
The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy is £21 million. A 0.25%
decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around £82 million. The
corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy is £26 million. A 0.25% change
in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by around £4 million.  
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each
pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class. The expected asset return for each asset class has
been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having
regard to investment yields on the measurement date.
The main UK defined benefit scheme is closed to new entrants. Under the projected unit credit method used for the valuation of liabilities,
the current service cost will increase when expressed as a percentage of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach
retirement.
During the period, the defined benefit and retirement medical plans of Cable & Wireless Jamaica were restructured in order to reduce
financial risk materially . The restructure involved the purchase of annuities for all of the defined benefit obligations, a change in member
benefits and the transfer of all of the retirement medical plan obligations to a third party insurer . The restructure resulted in a curtailment
gain of £10 million. The transfer of the retirement medical plan obligations resulted in a settlement loss of £3 million. The curtailment gain
and settlement loss have been recorded as a net exceptional gain of £7 million. There was also an exceptional curtailment gain in Barbados
of £1 million in the period. Refer to note 6. 
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit schemes and post-retirement medical plans operated by the Group are presented below:
31 March 2009 31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Main UK Other Main UK Other Main UK Other
scheme schemes Total scheme schemes T otal scheme schemes T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
T otal fair value of plan assets 1,661 278 1,939 2,115 227 2,342 2,079 210 2,289
Present value of funded obligations (1,693) (271) (1,964) (1,740) (175) (1,915) (2,036) (162) (2,198)
Excess of (liabilities)/assets of funded 
obligations (32) 7 (25) 375 52 427 43 48 91
Present value of unfunded obligations – (24) (24) – (36) (36) – (40) (40)
Effect of asset ceiling –(9) (9) (375) (30) (405) – (23) (23)
Net (deficit)/surplus (32) (26) (58) – (14) (14) 43 (15) 28
Liabilities 
Defined benefit pension plans in deficit (32) (48) (80) – (30) (30) – (33) (33)
Post-retirement medical plans (unfunded) –(5) (5) – (16) (16) – (14) (14)
Total (32) (53) (85) – (46) (46) – (47) (47)
Assets
Defined benefit pension plans in surplus –2727 –3232433275
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan liabilities 97 13 110 346 (2) 344 77 3 80
Actuarial (losses)/gains on plan assets (538) (46) (584) (63) 1 (62) 32 5 37
Included within these liabilities is an amount of £13 million (2007/08 – £13 million) to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension
entitlements.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available
in the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions. Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded directly in equity . The effect of
these adjustments (described as asset ceiling adjustments) was £9 million as at 31 March 2009 (31 March 2008 – £405 million).
Financial 
statements Group 104
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
31 Retirement benefits obligations continued
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
Main UK Main UK
scheme Other Total scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost (8) (5) (13) (10) (6) (16)
Interest cost (116) (20) (136) (106) (15) (121)
Expected return on plan assets 136 27 163 135 20 155
Gains on curtailment or settlement 224 235
Total net credit 14 4 18 21 2 23
The defined benefit credit has been included in employee benefit expenses (note 9). 
The actual return on plan assets was a loss of £421 million (2007/08 – gain of £93 million). The two main factors in this experience loss
arose from the difference between the purchase cost of the annuity for the main UK scheme and the IAS 19 value of the liabilities covered by
the policy at the valuation date and a reduction in asset values in the period due to adverse financial market conditions.
Net actuarial losses amounting to £474 million (2007/08 – gains of £282 million) have been recognised directly in equity and are
presented in the statement of recognised income and expenses. 
In 2008/09, a gain of £396 million (2007/08 – loss of £382 million) was recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses
due to the change in asset ceilings. This was further increased by a £2 million exchange gain on the Jamaica defined benefit pension asset
ceiling amount (2007/08 – £nil). 
The total amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March
2009 is a loss of £76 million (2007/08 – loss of £100 million) and loss of £4 million (2007/08 – gain of £72 million) respectively. 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations are as follows: 
2008/09 2007/08
Main UK Main UK
scheme Other Total scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Obligation at 1 April (1,740) (211) (1,951) (2,036) (202) (2,238)
Service cost (8) (5) (13) (10) (6) (16)
Interest cost (116) (20) (136) (106) (15) (121)
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in equity 97 13 110 346 (2) 344
Employee contributions (2) (3) (5) (2) (2) (4)
Obligations extinguished –2020 –––
Obligations acquired – (62) (62) –––
Settlements – (10) (10) –––
Curtailments 21214 235
Benefits paid 74 9 83 66 10 76
Exchange differences on foreign plans – (38) (38) –33
Obligation at 31 March (1,693) (295) (1,988) (1,740) (211) (1,951) 105
Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows:
2008/09 2007/08
Main UK Main UK
scheme Other Total scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
F air value of assets as at 1 April 2,115 227 2,342 2,079 210 2,289
Expected return 136 27 163 135 20 155
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in equity (538) (46) (584) (63) 1 (62)
Contributions by employer 20 8 28 28 7 35
Employee contributions 235 224
Assets divested – (32) (32) –––
Assets acquired –6363 –––
Benefits paid (74) (9) (83) (66) (10) (76)
Exchange differences on foreign plans –3737 – (3) (3)
Fair value of assets as at 31 March 1,661 278 1,939 2,115 227 2,342
Experience gains for the period are as follows:
31 March 2009 31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Main UK Main UK Main UK
scheme Other scheme Other scheme Other
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations (1,693) (295) (1,740) (211) (2,036) (202)
Plan assets 1,661 278 2,115 227 2,079 210
(Deficit)/surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling (32) (17) 3751643 8
Experience gains/(losses) on plan liabilities 20 1 14 (8) (7) 5
Experience (losses)/gains on plan assets (538) (46) (63) 1 32 5
31 March 2006 31 March 2005
Main UK Main UK
scheme Other scheme Other
£m £m £m £m
Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations (2,067) (238) (1,787) (206)
Plan assets 1,978 236 1,611 215
(Deficit)/surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling (89) (2) (176) 9
Experience (losses)/gains on plan liabilities (15) (14) 36 (9)
Experience gains on plan assets 206 – 43 15
The best estimate of contributions for 2009/10 is:
Main UK
scheme Other T otal
£m £m £m
Employer contributions 10* 14 24
Employee contributions 235
* Based on an employer contribution rate of 28.5% of pensionable salaries plus the estimated PPF levy payable in the year ending 31 March 2010.
The pension disclosures above include two post-retirement medical plans in Barbados. A change in the assumed medical cost trend of 1%
would have no material effect on the aggregate of current service costs and interest costs and would change the accumulated defined
benefit obligation by £1 million. 
Financial 
statements Group 106
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
32 Share capital
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Authorised 875 875
2008/09 – 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each
(2007/08 – 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each)
Issued, called-up and fully paid 643 634
2008/09 – 2,571,465,533 ordinary shares of 25 pence each
(2007/08 – 2,536,623,051 ordinary shares of 25 pence each)
Number of
shares £m
Issued, called-up and fully paid
At 1 April 2007 2,460,483,642 615
Allotted under share options schemes 10,439,382 3
Allotted under scrip dividends 12,343,480 3
Allotted under convertible bonds 53,356,547 13
At 31 March 2008 2,536,623,051 634
Allotted under share options schemes 4,186,233 1
Allotted under scrip dividends 30,656,249 8
At 31 March 2009 2,571,465,533 643
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was £9 million (2007/08 – £19 million). The Company did not repurchase
any shares in 2008/09 or 2007/08. 
No treasury shares were cancelled during the year ended 31 March 2009. 12 million treasury shares were transferred to the ESOP trust 
on 13 February 2009. 
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2009 (excluding those held by the ESOP trust) was £8 million
(2007/08 – £11 million) and £46 million (2007/08 – £68 million) respectively . The ESOP T rust has waived its right to dividends. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, each share (other than those held in treasury) entitles the holder to one vote at
General Meetings of Cable and Wireless plc. The Company’s shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the
payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors. There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital other than those
imposed by law. For further information refer to pages 48 to 49 of the Directors’ report.
Allotments of ordinary shares of 25 pence each were made during the year in respect of the following:
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
Gross Gross
Number of consideration Number of consideration
allotted shares received allotted shares received
£ £
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1,730,501 1,252,134 5,085,150 2,506,801
Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1,274,225 772,580 1,461,876 1,066,300
Share Option Plan – Approved 50,847 55,999 166,781 194,162
Share Option Plan – Unapproved 1,130,660 1,212,829 3,725,575 3,998,381
Scrip dividends
1
30,656,249 – 12,343,480 –
Convertible bonds
2
–– 53,356,547 –
Total 34,842,482 3,293,542 76,139,409 7,765,644
1 Shares with a cash equivalent value of £47 million (2007/08 – £23 million) were issued during the year as payment for dividends by scrip. This was a non-cash transaction. 
2 Shares with a cash equivalent value of £106 million were issued during 2007/08 as part of the conversion of bonds. This was a non-cash transaction.
The Group defines capital as share capital, share premium, special reserve, other reserves (including capital reserve, minority interest
transaction reserve, fair value reserve, foreign currency translation reserve and hedging reserve), minority interest and retained earnings. 
It does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by company law. 107
The Group manages its balance sheet in such a way as to optimise the weighted average cost of debt and equity taking into account:
a) the liquidity required in the light of the projected funding requirements of the Group’s operating businesses with an appropriate level 
of contingency; 
b) the level of financial strength required to maintain the Group’s terms of trade taking account of its operational cash generation;
c) the relative post-tax cost of debt and equity; and
d) the extent to which external debt finance is, or is likely to be, available to the Group on acceptable terms.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year . 
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to two and a half times the capital and reserves of the Group.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders. 
This process is managed through the Group’s budget and longer term forecasting process. 
33 Share premium and other reserves
Foreign
currency
translation F air Capital and 
Share Special and hedging value other Retained
premium reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2007 56 1,672 (130) 3 152 (687) 1,066
Cash received in respect of employee share schemes ––––– 6 6
Own shares purchased ––––– (2) (2)
F air value gain on available-for-sale assets ––– 2–– 2
Acquisition of minority interest –––– (4) – (4)
T ax on items in equity ––––– 11 11
Profit for the year ––––– 164 164
Net actuarial losses recognised (net of deferred taxation) ––––– (98) (98)
Foreign currency translation reserve –– 2––– 2
Share-based payment costs ––––– 16 16
Conversion of convertible bonds 75 (88) – – – 124 111
Repurchase and conversion of convertible bonds –––– (47) (38) (85)
Dividends ––––– (161) (161)
Shares allotted under share option schemes 5 (8) – – – 8 5
Shares allotted under scrip dividend scheme 20 (23) – – – 23 20
At 31 March 2008 156 1,553 (128) 5 101 (634) 1,053
Cash received in respect of employee share schemes ––––– 2 2
Own shares purchased ––––– (2) (2)
Acquisition of minority interest –––– 1– 1
Profit for the year ––––– 143 143
Net actuarial losses recognised (net of deferred taxation) ––––– (75) (75)
Foreign currency translation reserve –– 204––– 204
Share-based payment costs ––––– 12 12
Dividends ––––– (194) (194)
Shares allotted under share option schemes 2 (3) – – – 3 2
Shares allotted under scrip dividend scheme 39 (47) – – – 47 39
At 31 March 2009 197 1,503 76 5 102 (698) 1,185
Special reserve 
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account at February 2004 which was approved by the Company at the
2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court in February 2004. It is reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share
capital and share premium account of the Company after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new
consideration or upon a capitalisation of distributable reserves. The special reserve will not be treated as realised profits of the Company
until any debt or claim against the Company outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
Financial 
statements Group 108
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
33 Share premium and other reserves continued
Foreign currency translation and hedging reserve 
The foreign currency translation and hedging reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional
currency different to the presentation currency of the Group. It also includes cumulative exchange differences arising on the translation of
hedging instruments.
Other reserves 
In 2008/09, other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of £105 million (2007/08 – £105 million) and a reserve relating to
transactions with minority interests of £3 million (2007/08 – £4 million).
34 Share-based payments 
Share option schemes 
The share option schemes operating as at 31 March 2009 or having options outstanding as at this date, are as follows:
Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Global savings related share option scheme 
Under the Cable & Wireless Savings related share option scheme (SA YE scheme), UK employees were invited to enter a savings contract
with a bank to save regular monthly sums of between £5 and £250 for a period of either three, five or seven years. At the end of the savings
contract, the participant receives interest from the bank on their savings. The savings and the interest may then be used to exercise an
option over ordinary shares of the Company , which are issued at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Company’s ordinary shares at
the date of grant. The Company extended the SA YE scheme to its overseas employees by the Cable & Wireless Global savings related share
option scheme (GSA YE scheme). The GSA YE scheme was last offered in December 2004. In various of the Group’s territories (excluding
the UK) it operated along similar lines to the SA YE scheme with local variations to accommodate local legal and tax considerations.
Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme and Cable & Wireless Senior employees’ share option scheme 
Prior to July 2001, Cable & Wireless granted share options under the Cable & Wireless Senior employees’ share option scheme (SESOS)
and the Cable & Wireless Revenue approved share option scheme (RESOS). Options awarded under these plans between June 1999 and
July 2001 are subject to performance conditions based on the TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc relative to the FTSE 100 Index,
underpinned by real growth in EBITDA and revenue. TSR is share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions. TSR performance
is averaged over a three month period at the beginning and end of the performance period. This moderates the effect of short-term share
price volatility . For full vesting, the TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc must achieve at least upper quartile level against the 
FTSE 100 between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. Half vesting applies for TSR at the median level, with a sliding scale
between median and upper quartile. If the performance conditions are not met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options lapse.
As at the date of this report, none of these options have achieved their performance conditions.
Options granted under RESOS and SESOS before June 1999 became exercisable if growth in the Company’s published earnings per share
(excluding exceptional items) measured over any period of three consecutive financial years, commencing not earlier than the financial year
in which the option was granted, exceeded by not less than 6% of the percentage growth of the Retail Price Index over the same three year
period. All such options became exercisable in full. No further grants will be made under the RESOS and SESOS plans.
Cable & Wireless Share option plan (approved and unapproved) 
The level of any share option award is determined by the Remuneration Committee each year by reference to total remuneration within a
market peer group, subject to an overriding annual limit of ten times salary for Executive Directors.
The vesting of share options awarded to the Executive Directors and to all employees outside the US is subject to relative TSR performance
conditions. For options granted before May 2004, full vesting occurs only if the TSR performance of the Company meets or exceeds the
upper quartile between the third and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. Where TSR performance meets the median, 50% of the initial
award vests. A sliding scale operates between median and upper quartile, and nothing vests for TSR performance below the median. If
performance conditions have not been met by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the option lapses. For options granted from May
2004, the re-testing of performance conditions for share options granted from that date will cease. If performance conditions for these
options have not been met by the third anniversary of the date of grant the option lapses. For options granted from June 2005, 33.33% 
of options vest where TSR performance meets the median and if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the underlying financial
performance of the Group warrants the release of the shares.
Performance conditions are applied in determining the level of awards to employees in the US, but do not normally apply to the vesting of
such awards. In addition, 25% of awards to employees in the US vest on the first anniversary of the date of the grant with a further 25% on
each subsequent anniversary . These terms reflect normal practice in the US. 109
The Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trust 
The Cable & Wireless ESOP T rust is a discretionary trust, which has been funded by loans from the Company to acquire shares in Cable 
and Wireless plc. At 31 March 2009 the T rust holds 28,322,351 (2007/08 – 26,859,407) shares with a cost of £59 million (2007/08 –
£73 million) and a market value of £40 million (2007/08 – £40 million).
The costs of running the T rust are included in the income statement as they accrue. The T rustees of the plan may notionally allocate
ordinary shares in the Company annually to Executive Directors or other senior executives and other key staff. Shares are held in trust until
such time as they may be transferred to employees in accordance with the terms of the performance share plan, the restricted share plan,
the deferred short-term incentive plan (details of which are given below) and the share option plan. The shares will be provided from
existing ordinary shares in issue acquired by the T rustees. Surplus shares may be held to satisfy future awards. The T rust has waived its
rights to dividends. At 31 March 2009, there were 1,594,367 shares under contingent awards in relation to the performance share plan,
22,506,754 shares under restricted share awards in relation to the restricted share plan, 118,614 shares under the stock appreciation 
rights plan, and 6,279,112 shares under options in relation to the share option plan.
Other equity instrument awards 
Deferred short-term incentive plan (Deferred STIP)
The deferred STIP is designed to encourage participants to invest in shares to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
Under this plan any bonus deferred is used to purchase shares in the Company , which are held in trust for three years before being released
to the participant.
Participants may also be awarded up to two matching shares for every one purchased share based on the relative TSR performance of 
the Company measured over a three year period (see performance conditions for share-based awards on page 53). A dividend award
supplement also operates on the deferred STIP . Dividends that would have been paid on the purchased shares and the actual award of
matching shares during the performance period are reinvested in additional shares.
For the 2005/06 financial year , Executive Directors were able to elect to pay up to two thirds of any net annual bonus and senior executives
could elect to pay up to one third of any net bonus into the deferred STIP . Conditional matching shares were awarded on a gross basis, i.e.
for every £100 of net bonus invested in the deferred STIP , participants have the potential to receive matching shares with a face value on
grant of £333. No award has been made under the deferred STIP since 30 September 2005.
Deferred bonus scheme 
Executive Directors and selected senior executives were able voluntarily to defer between 10% and 50% of their post-tax senior
management bonus to purchase shares in the Company , which will be held in trust. Half of the purchased shares will be held in trust for a
two year deferral period and the remaining half will be held in trust for a three year deferral period. Participants will be awarded matching
shares when the purchased shares vest at the end of the deferral periods.
No award has been made under the deferred bonus scheme since June 2004.
Performance share plan (PSP) 
Under the PSP , Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative TSR performance conditions (see performance conditions for share-based awards
on page 53). A dividend award supplement operates on the PSP . Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares, which
vest, will be regarded as having been re-invested in additional shares.
Restricted share plan (RSP) 
The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares to Executive Directors and selected employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment
tool. Generally , restricted shares awarded under this plan vest over periods of one to three years.
Restricted shares are also used to award matching shares with performance conditions to Executive Directors who invested their own funds
into Company shares. Attainment of these matching shares is dependent on the Executive Director continuing to hold the invested shares
and on meeting the required TSR performance conditions (if applicable). 100% of any shares awarded under this plan vest after three years.  
Performance conditions for share-based awards 
TSR is the main performance measure used in share plans where performance conditions apply as it provides an objective external
measure of financial performance. The Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of the Company 
at the end of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is important to measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate set of
companies. The Company’s relative TSR performance is assessed against a comparative group comprising the FTSE Global T elecoms
Sector Index (FTSE GTSI), which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers. Awards vest depending upon 
the Company’s TSR ranking relative to the comparative group at the end of a single three year performance period.
Financial 
statements Group 110
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
34 Share-based payments continued
Cash-based awards 
Stock appreciation rights plan (SARs) 
The SARs plan is used to replicate exactly the plans described above, but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent. It is used in
exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
Other schemes 
Cable & Wireless share purchase plan (SPP) 
The Company also offers its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income T ax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003,
the Cable & Wireless share purchase plan which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan. Under the SPP , employees can contribute up
to a value of £1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year (whichever is the lower), to buy partnership shares in the Company , and the Company will
offer a match of one share for each partnership share purchased.
Shares are held in a UK resident trust and can be withdrawn from the trust at any time, but there may be pay as you earn taxation and
national insurance contributions payable in such events if the shares have not been held in the trust for five years. Dividends on the
partnership and matching shares are reinvested in additional dividend shares.
High Performance Incentive Plan (HPIP) 
The HPIP provides for share awards at nil cost to senior managers in CWI. It is a three year incentive plan and the scheme is worth up to
100% of a participant’s salary at the date they entered the plan.
The awards are based on performance in years one and two that then vest after years two and three respectively , with the financial year
2006/07 being year one. The performance targets are based on EBITDA and cash flow. On vesting the shares are worth the greater of the
prevailing market value and the grant price.
A relatively small element of the HPIP is formed as a ‘Phantom’ HPIP whereby the payments under the plan are made in cash rather than 
in shares.
Share options 
Options are exercised on a regular basis throughout the year . Options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2009 resulted in 6 million
shares (2007/08 – 14 million shares) being issued at the average exercise price of 89 pence each (2007/08 – 84 pence each). The related
market weighted average share price at the time of the exercise was 158 pence per share (2007/08 – 169 pence per share).
Movements in the number of share options granted to employees of the Group and outstanding, together with their related weighted
average exercise prices are shown below: 
2008/09 2007/08
Average Average
exercise exercise
prices Options prices Options
(pence/share) (000) (pence/share) (000)
At 1 April 106 38,607 116 63,225
Forfeited 83 (190) 165 (8,115)
Exercised 89 (6,157) 84 (14,305)
Expired 131 (426) 321 (2,198)
At 31 March 110 31,834 106 38,607
Exercisable 119 17,871 104 12,042 111
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: 
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
average average average average
Number of exercise remaining life Number of exercise remaining life
options price (rounded to options price (rounded to
Range of exercise prices (pence) outstanding (pence/share) nearest year)
1
outstanding (pence/share) nearest year)
1
0 – 49 807,562 37 1 2,367,297 37 1
50 – 99 316,844 90 2 2,068,067 90 1
100 –149 27,526,753 107 4 30,934,523 107 4
150 –199 3,170,735 154 3 3,172,097 154 4
250 – 299 9,945 275 0 10,599 275 1
350 – 399 –– – 6,876 358 1
600 – 1,250 1,835 982 1 48,036 717 0
1 Weighted average remaining life relates to legal life of options not expected life. 
There were no share options granted in 2008/09 (2007/08 – none). The Group computed the fair value of share option awards using the
Monte Carlo pricing model. The expected volatility was determined based on the statistical analysis of daily share prices over a historical
period equal to the expected lives of the options. Performance and other market conditions attached to awards were reflected in the
calculation of fair value as part of the Monte Carlo simulations.
Other awards granted during 2008/09
2008/09 2007/08
Weighted Weighted
average Features average Features
fair value incorporated fair value incorporated
Award Shares (pence/share) in schemes Shares (pence/share) in schemes
TSR
RSP 4,534,692 132 – 7,604,396 114 conditions
HPIP –– – 240,693 193 –
Cash Settled ‘Phantom’ HPIP – – – 538,465 148 –
SARs 5,030,930 136 – 368,667 182 –
SPP scheme (matching shares) 1,386,389 156 –1,208,361 184 –
PSP 1,187,295 71
TSR
––– conditions
The PSP grants made during the period have performance criteria attached. A fair value exercise was completed at 31 March 2009 
for grants made during 2008/09 using the Monte Carlo method. None of the restricted share plan grants made during the period had 
TSR conditions applicable (2007/08 – 5.5 million of 7 .6 million). 
In the SPP scheme, shares are bought each month by the Halifax Corporate T rust on behalf of the Company , to match the investment of the
employees. Matching shares are awarded to the employee after three years, or earlier if a good leaver .
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the PSP grants in 2008/09 and the restricted share plan grants in
2007/08 were:
2008/09 2007/08
Weighted average share price (pence per share) 142 195
Dividend yield 5.5% 3.0%
Expected volatility 31.0% 25.6%
Risk-free interest rates 3.0% 5.1%
Expected life in years 3 y ears 3 years
No share-based payment arrangements were modified during the period.
The total expense relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was £13 million (2007/08 – £16 million). 
Financial 
statements Group 112
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
35 Minority interests
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Balance as at 1 April 192 209
Share of total recognised income and expenditure for the year 149 44
Dividends paid (123) (58)
Disposals (1) (3)
Balance as at 31 March 217 192
36 Cash flows from operating activities 
Reconciliation of net profit to net cash inflow from operating activities: 
2008/09 2007/08
Note £m £m
Continuing operations
Profit for the year 216 220
Adjustments for:
T ax expense 13 17 47
Depreciation 17,19 316 289
Amortisation 18 63 47
Gain on termination of operations 11 (2) (9)
Gains and losses on sale of non-current assets 10 (7) (1)
Loss/(gain) on disposal of property , plant and equipment 2 (56)
Finance income 12 (29) (53)
Finance expense 12 131 85
Decrease in provisions (3) (9)
Employee benefits 2 5
Defined benefit pension scheme buy-in contribution 31 (10) –
Defined benefit pension scheme top-up contribution 31 – (19)
Defined benefit pension scheme other contributions 31 (18) (16)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 20 (34) (37)
Operating cash flows before working capital changes 644 493
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (6) 6
Decrease /(increase)in trade and other receivables 85 (5)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (54) 5
Decrease in other assets – 5
Cash generated from continuing operations 669 504
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year 10 –
Adjustments for:
Decreases in provisions and changes in working capital (10) –
Cash generated from discontinued operations – –
Cash generated from operations 669 504 113
37 Reconciliation of net funds 
Net funds are defined as cash at bank and in hand, money market funds, short-term deposits, loans, bonds and finance lease obligations.
Debt is defined as loans, bonds and finance lease obligations.
A reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds is as follows:
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Decrease in cash during the year (195) (348)
(Increase)/decrease in debt and lease financing (248) 246
Cash outflow in net funds (443) (102)
Conversion of debt to equity – 22
Finance leases entered into during the year (12) (9)
Net funds of businesses acquired (119) –
Exchange differences (46) 5
Movement in net funds in the year (620) (84)
Net funds at 1 April 243 327
Net funds at 31 March (377) 243
Analysis of changes in net funds:
Finance 
leases entered
At 31 March into during Exchange At 31 March 
2008 Cash flow the year Acquisitions movements 2009
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 106 45–– 26 177
Short-term deposits 593 (240) – – 15 368
699 (195) – – 41 545
Debt due within one year (59) (2) (4) (6) (19) (90)
Debt due after one year (397) (246) (8) (113) (68) (832)
T otal debt (456) (248) (12) (119) (87) (922)
T otal net funds 243 (443) (12) (119) (46) (377)
Financial 
statements Group 114
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
38 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities
Commitments
The Group had capital commitments at the end of the financial year relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of £114 million
(2007/08 – £70 million). No provision has been made for these commitments. £20 million (2007/08 – £13 million) of these commitments
relate to the Group’s share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Group’s business. The most significant
of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs. In the event of default of another party , the Group may be liable to additional
contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and
renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2009 is disclosed in note 6. The aggregate future minimum lease
payments under operating leases are:
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
No later than one year 139 114
Later than one year but not later than five years 295 134
Later than five years 243 200
Total minimum operating lease payments 677 448
Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
T rading guarantees 400 102
Other guarantees 97 57
Total guarantees 497 159
T rading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that
the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The nature of contracts
includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials. 
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, property and other leases and letters 
of credit. 
Whilst Pender , the Group’s former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written
policies in favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of
these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers. Significant progress has been
made in resolving these claims. Detail of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial
to the outcome of such claims.
In addition the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number
of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally , liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds,
although some uncapped indemnities have been given. The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements
including facility sharing agreements. Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund, it may be liable for future contributions to fund a
portion of any future funding deficits. Currently , the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.  115
39 Business combinations and acquisitions of minority interests
Thus
On 1 October 2008, Cable & Wireless obtained control of Thus Group plc (Thus) for a total consideration of £343 million. 
The consideration comprised £336 million to acquire the share capital of Thus and £7 million of direct costs.
The acquisition is summarised below:
£m
Consideration paid 343
Goodwill arising on acquisition 341
F air value of net assets acquired 2
Cash outflows on acquisition 343
Less: cash acquired (13)
Net cash outflow on acquisition 330
From the date of its acquisition on 1 October 2008, Thus contributed £237 million to Group revenue and a loss of £17 million to Group profit.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2008 the contribution to Group revenue would have been £518 million and the contribution to
Group profit would have been a loss of £34 million.
The Directors have made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities. The fair values, which will be finalised in the
year ending 31 March 2010, are as follows:
Alignment of
accounting Fair value
Book value policy adjustments F air value
£m £m £m £m
Property , plant and equipment 282 – (80) 202
Purchased goodwill 50 – (50) –
Customer contracts and relationships – – 15 15
T rademarks and other intangibles 8 – (3) 5
T rade and other receivables 130 5 (29) 106
Inventories 7 – (7) –
Deferred tax 56 (56) – –
Defined benefit pension scheme 4 (4) – –
Cash and cash equivalents 13–– 13
Available-for-sale financial assets 10–– 10
T rade and other payables (111) (64) (28) (203)
Loans and other borrowings (113) – – (113)
Provisions – (33) – (33)
Total 336 (152) (182) 2
The acquiree’s carrying amounts were previously recorded in accordance with IFRSs.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Thus includes the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing
Worldwide business, and workforce valuations and other intangible assets that do not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38
Intangible assets.
Apollo
On 1 April 2008 the Group gained full management control of Apollo Cable Submarine Systems Limited (‘ Apollo’) which was previously
accounted for as a joint venture. Goodwill arising on this business combination amounted to £9 million. The net liabilities acquired were 
£9 million. In 2008/09, Apollo contributed £7 million to revenue and £nil to profit. On 13 November 2008 the Group increased its effective
interest in Apollo from 55% to 60% for consideration of £nil. This transaction resulted in £nil of minority interest transferred to retained
earnings and a £nil increase in other reserves.
Financial 
statements Group 116
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
39 Business combinations and acquisitions of minority interests continued
Connecteo Group
In January 2008, the Group purchased a 49% stake in the Connecteo Group and gained management control of the holding company 
for cash consideration of £7 million. In January 2009, the Group paid £4 million for a further 16% interest in the Connecteo Group. 
The Connecteo Group provides satellite, data and internet services in Benin, Burkina F aso, Cameroon, Guinea, Niger and Senegal. 
On acquisition, the Directors performed a preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired as property , plant
and equipment (£2 million) and net working capital liabilities (£1 million). The excess of consideration over the fair value of the acquired
assets and liabilities was allocated to goodwill. 
In 2008/09, subsequent to this preliminary valuation of goodwill and intangibles, an exercise was conducted to identify and value any
further intangibles at the date of acquisition. This resulted in the recognition of an additional £1 million of licence intangible assets and a
corresponding reduction in goodwill.
The contribution from Connecteo to revenues and profit from the date of acquisition to 31 March 2008 was less than £1 million and 
£nil respectively . If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2007 the contribution to Group revenue would have been £3 million and 
the contribution to profit would have been £nil.
During 2008/09, the Connecteo Group increased its effective interest in its subsidiaries during the period. This transaction resulted in a
decrease of £1 million of minority interest and a £1 million increase in other reserves.
St Kitts
On 21 September 2007 , the Group purchased an additional 17% shareholding in Cable & Wireless St Kitts and Nevis Limited (St Kitts) for
cash consideration of £7 million. The shares were previously held by the Government of the Federation of St Kitts & Nevis (the Federation).
As a result of the acquisition, the Group’s effective interest in St Kitts was increased from 65% to 82%. This transaction has resulted in a 
£3 million reduction in minority interests and a £4 million increase in other reserves during 2007/08. As part of the purchase agreement
with the Government, the Group offered 5% of the shares acquired to residents of the Federation which were subscribed in full, reducing 
the Group’s effective interest to 77%.
40 Related party transactions 
Transactions with joint ventures 
All trade transactions with joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless’
products and services, network and access charges. There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures during the year.
The Group received dividends of £17 million from joint ventures (2007/08 – £15 million) during the year ended 31 March 2009 
(see note 20). In 2008/09, joint ventures owed £3 million (2007/08 – £3 million) in respect of trading balances.
Transactions with key management personnel 
During the year , two Directors of Cable & Wireless purchased bonds issued by Cable & Wireless. These bonds were purchased for
£2,371,691 on the open market (including £118,980 of accrued interest) and had a nominal value of £2,630,000. The interest earned 
on those bonds during the year was £60,732 of which £54,607 remained unpaid at year end.
During the year , the spouse of a Director of Cable & Wireless purchased bonds issued by Cable & Wireless. These bonds were purchased
for £437 ,178 on the open market (including £38,180 of accrued interest) and had a nominal value of £480,000. The interest earned on
those bonds during the year was £3,743 of which £681 remained unpaid at year end.
There were no other material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration (see notes 9 and 34),
and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties 
There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company . Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no
other material related parties.  117
41 Licences and concessions 
In a number of countries the Group holds licences or concessions to operate. These licences take a variety of forms and their terms, rights
and obligations vary significantly . The Group assumes that it will renew licences as they expire – previous history indicates this is the most
likely outcome. Were renewal not to occur , in most cases the business or its assets would be transferred to the new operator or government
at fair or net book value. In a small number of locations, transfer is at a value below net book value. In these places the Group monitors
closely the likelihood of licence renewal to ensure that should a licence not be renewed, the business’ assets have been written down to
their recoverable value at the point of transfer .
There were no significant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Group’s subsidiaries during the year . In December 2008, the
licence held by the Group’s joint venture in the Maldives was extended until 2023. Further , the Group has agreed with the Government an
extension to its concession agreement in Macau until 2021, subject to regulatory approval.
42 Legal proceedings 
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews. The facts
and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future
outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient. Accordingly, significant
management judgement relating to contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The Group does not
expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
In July 2007 , Cable & Wireless received a claim from a Caribbean competitor , Digicel, which the Group believes is without foundation and
which is being vigorously defended. The claim alleges that Cable & Wireless delayed Digicel’s entry into seven Caribbean markets by not
providing interconnection between their networks and the Group’s on a timely basis. Based on legal advice, Cable & Wireless expects to
defend this claim successfully . The trial started on 5 May 2009.
43 Subsidiaries and joint ventures 
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes
those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial
statements.
Issued
share Ownership
Local capital percentage Class of Country of Area of
currency (million) % shares incorporation operation
Subsidiaries
Cable & Wireless UK GBP 3,466 100 Ordinary England UK
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 82 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica
Cable & Wireless Panama, SA
1
Balboa 316 49 Ordinary Panama Panama
Companhia de T elecomunicacoes de Macau, SARL
2
Pataca 150 51 Ordinary Macau Macau
and China
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Ltd B$ 72 81 Ordinary Barbados Barbados
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Ltd GBP 5 100 Ordinary England Caribbean
Monaco T elecom SAM 
3,4
Euro 2 49 Ordinary Monaco Monaco
Thus Group plc GBP 46 100 Ordinary Scotland Scotland
Joint ventures 
T elecommunications Services of T rinidad and T obago Ltd 
3
T$ 283 49 Ordinary T rinidad T rinidad
and and
T obago T obago
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd 
2
Rufiya 190 45 Ordinary Maldives Maldives
1 The Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement. 
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders’ agreement. 
3 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms. 
4 The Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco T elecom SAM via an agreement. 
Cable and Wireless plc does not have any direct investment in the above subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Financial 
statements Group 118
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
43 Subsidiaries and joint ventures continued
On 18 June 2004 Cable & Wireless acquired 55% of Monaco T elecom, a Monaco based telecommunication service provider , from Vivendi
Universal. Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco T elecom to 
an unrelated third party . Cable & Wireless contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In
addition, the 6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full
management control of Monaco T elecom to Cable & Wireless.
Cable & Wireless has also entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the Principality of Monaco, which contains, among other provisions,
a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the Principality (subject to certain limited exceptions) selling their shares in Monaco T elecom for
five years, mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality . The Principality has 
a put option entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco T elecom to Cable & Wireless at certain times after 1 January 2008. The
exercise price under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco T elecom.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual Return, to be 
filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales. 
44 Financial risk management 
Treasury policy 
The Group’s treasury operations are managed on the basis of policies and authorities approved by Cable and Wireless plc’s Board of
Directors. Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Group Finance Director and the Director of T reasury and
Corporate Finance, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty .
T o the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities. 
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by the Central treasury function. Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board. 
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash and debt positions to Central T reasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Central T reasury include funding, investment of cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency
risk. The majority of the Group’s cash resources and borrowings are managed centrally .
The Group uses derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options in the
management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures. The use of these instruments is in accordance with strategies agreed 
from time to time by the T reasury Management Committee (comprising the Group Finance Director , Group Financial Controller , Director 
of T reasury and Corporate Finance and other senior financial managers as required) and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported 
to the Board on a regular basis.
Exchange rate risk 
The Group trades in many countries and a large portion of its revenue is generated in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar . 
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency receipts and payments, dividend income from foreign
subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments. Exchange risk is measured 
on the basis of forecast cash repatriation from foreign subsidiaries. 
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange
contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the
short term. The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange
exposures for the Group where appropriate. Where possible, overseas subsidiaries are financed in their domestic currency to minimise 
the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
During the year , the US dollar strengthened significantly , outside the Group’s planning range and below its recent trading range. As a result,
the Group increased its forward cover compared with prior periods to lock in the Sterling proceeds from US dollar repatriation and the
drawdown of a new $415 million bank facility . As the US dollar continued to strengthen, this resulted in exceptional losses of £56 million
(see note 12) as the contracts were exercised or marked to market at 31 March 2009. At 31 March 2009 the Group had forward exchange
contracts to sell US$225 million (£155 million) (2007/08 – US$50 million (£25 million) hedging US dollar exposures). The Group did not
apply hedge accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value through the income statement.
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year . Overseas earnings are
predominantly in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar . In broad terms, based on the 2008/09 mix of profits, the impact of a
unilateral 10% weakening of Sterling would have been to increase operating profit before exceptional items by approximately £32 million
and increase total equity by £124 million. The Group had approximately £338 million of net financial liabilities denominated in US dollar or
US dollar linked currencies at the end of the year .
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value 
of overseas investments, the Group may , from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value 
of foreign investments. 119
44 Financial risk management continued
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets and borrowings are denominated in the
following currencies:
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
Financial Financial
assets Borrowings assets Borrowings
£m £m £m £m
Sterling 453 466 474 308
US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar 91 397 142 81
Euro 22 – 49 –
Other currencies 17 37 61 48
583 900 726 437
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans although there is a degree of offset
between the two. The Central T reasury function may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst
taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate. There were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2009. 
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a £5 million impact on the interest receivable by the Group on surplus cash
balances and a £5 million impact on the interest payable on the floating rate borrowings of the Group.
45% of the Group’s borrowings are at a fixed rate. A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of 
the Group’s fixed rate borrowings. However , no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity .
As a result, the exposure to fair value loss has not been presented.
Credit risk 
Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty
failed to perform as contracted. Management seeks to reduce this risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the
Group’s financial instruments are entities rated A-1 short-term and/or AA- long-term by Standard & Poor’s (or equivalent by Moody’s and/or
Fitch). The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis. 
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the Board. These policies
contain limits on exposure to any one counterparty . 
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 22. 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk reflects the risk that the Group will have insufficient resources to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due. The Group
manages liquidity risk with the use of robust forecasts to ensure that it has sufficient funds to meet all its potential liabilities as they fall 
due, including shareholder distributions. These forecasts take account of reasonably possible downsides against expected outcomes so as
to ensure adequate contingency levels are maintained.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure that covenant
compliance targets and medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements.
The Directors also continually assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
At 31 March 2009, Cable & Wireless had cash and cash equivalents of £545 million (2007/08 – £699 million). These amounts are highly
liquid and are comprise the vast majority of the Group’s overall liquidity and capital resources. An analysis of the maturity of our receivables
and borrowings is contained in notes 22 and 27 respectively . Approximately 53% of the Group’s cash is held centrally and is invested
predominantly in short-term bank deposits.
Financial 
statements Group 120
Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Cable and Wireless plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the
Company balance sheet, the reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds for the Company and related notes. These parent
Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in
the Directors’ Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2009. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body , in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members as a body , for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in
the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 60.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with
the parent company financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ report includes that specific information presented in the
Annual Report that is cross referred from the principal activities, business review and results section of the Directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed. 
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent
company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion 
In our opinion:
■ the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice of the
state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2009;
■ the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
■ the information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants 
Registered Auditor 
London 20 May 2009 121
Company balance sheet
As at 31 March 2009
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Fixed assets investments
Investments in subsidiaries 6 19,912 19,831
Investments in joint ventures 6 4 4
Financial assets
Held to maturity investments 7 53 –
Available-for-sale financial assets 7 27 27
19,996 19,862
Current assets
Debtors: due within one year 8 34 61
Available-for-sale financial assets 7 285 554
Cash at bank and in hand 5 15
324 630
Current liabilities 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 9 15,383 15,424
Liabilities at fair value through the income statement 10 25 –
15,408 15,424
Net current liabilities 15,084 14,794
Total assets less current liabilities 4,912 5,068
Loans 11 224 161
Provisions for liabilities and charges 12 21 31
Retirement benefit obligations 13 19 20
264 212
Net assets 4,648 4,856
Capital and reserves 
Called-up share capital 14 643 634
Share premium account 15 197 156
Reserves 15 3,808 4,066
Equity shareholders’ funds 4,648 4,856
The accompanying notes on pages 123 to 134 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company .
The financial statements of the Company on pages 121 to 122 were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2009 and signed 
on its behalf by:
Richard Lapthorne Chairman Tim Pennington Group Finance Director
Financial 
statements Company 122
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’
funds for the Company
For the year ended 31 March 2009
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (75) 15
Dividends – interim in respect of the current year (71) (61)
– final in respect of the prior year (123) (100)
Cash received in respect of employee shares 2 6
Own shares purchased (2) (2)
F air value gain on available-for-sale asset – 2
Actuarial gain in the value of defined benefit retirement plans – 3
Share-based payment costs 12 16
Conversion of convertible bonds – 111
Repurchase and conversion of convertible bonds – (85)
Shares allotted under share option schemes 2 5
Shares allotted under scrip dividend schemes 39 20
Other recognised losses relating to the year (1) –
New share capital issued 9 19
Decrease in equity shareholders’ funds (208) (51)
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 4,856 4,907
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 4,648 4,856
The accompanying notes on pages 123 to 134 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company . 123
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
1 Statement of accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of preparation 
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally accepted
accounting principles in the United Kingdom and the provisions of the Companies Act. They have been prepared on the historical cost basis
where appropriate.
These financial statements set out the position of the Company and not the Cable & Wireless Group (the Group) which it heads. The
following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the
Company’s financial statements.
The Company is exempt from adopting FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. As such, the Company is exempt from the requirement
to provide its own financial instruments disclosures on the grounds that they are included in publicly available consolidated financial
statements which include disclosures that comply with that standard. 
1.2 Use of estimates 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18 Accounting Policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the
change has a material impact on the reported results for the period.
1.3 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at valuation. This valuation has been performed using a discounted cash flow
based valuation on a triennial basis. The Directors believe this method is the most appropriate method of valuation for these assets.
Investments in joint ventures are included in the balance sheet at cost. 
1.4 Financial instruments
Financial assets 
The Company classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans
and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which
the assets are held. The Company currently does not classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity investments. The basis of determining
fair values is set out in note 1.5.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair
value through the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at
inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated 
by management. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either
held for trading or are expected to be realised within a year of the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the
reporting date. Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date (the date on which the Company commits to purchase or
sell the asset). 
Receivables 
Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable receipts that are not quoted in an active market. They arise when
the Company provides money , goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable. They are included in
current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date (these are classified as non-current
assets). Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined using the
effective interest method less allowance for impairment. An allowance for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective
evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the
allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (discounted at the
original effective interest rate). The amount of the allowance is recognised in the income statement.
Financial 
statements Company 124
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
1.4 Financial assets and liabilities continued
Recognition and measurement
Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and are subsequently carried at fair value. Receivables are carried at amortised cost using
the effective interest method. Financial assets not carried at fair value through the income statement are initially recognised at fair value
plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the
Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised
in equity . When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the
income statement.
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is
impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security
below its cost is considered in determining whether it is impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the
cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement. This loss is measured as the difference between the
acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value of the instrument
increases in a later period. 
Loans
Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Loans are subsequently measured at
amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income
statement over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
Convertible bonds issued by the Company were initially recognised at fair value. The bond was separated into a liability and equity
component. The liability component was recognised at amortised cost. The equity component represented the residual of the fair value 
of the bond less the liability component. The liability component was subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis. 
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
12 months after the reporting date.
1.5 Fair value estimation 
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as available-for-sale securities) is based on quoted market prices at
the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Company is the current bid price. The appropriate
quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Company
uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date.
The nominal value (less estimated impairments) of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair value 
of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to 
the Company for similar financial instruments. Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining
financial instruments.
1.6 Pensions 
The Company is a member of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme but is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and
liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, accounts for the
scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the Company’s income statement represents the
contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period. 
The Company also operates an unfunded pension plan to cover the costs of former Directors’ and other senior employees’ pension
entitlements. Provision is made in accordance with FRS 17 in the Company’s financial statements for the expected costs of meeting the
associated liabilities. These costs are recorded in operating expenses.
Costs in respect of the Company’s defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis as
contributions become payable.
1.7 Tax 
The charge for tax is based on the result for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment 
of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. 125
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to
the extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from
which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have
arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
1.8 Share-based compensation 
The Company operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting
period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions
(for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of
options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected
to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any , in the income statement, and a corresponding
adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. The expense recognised by the Company relates only to the Company employees.
Share-based expenses relating to grants of the Company’s equity made to employees of subsidiary companies are recognised in the income
statement of the subsidiary . The Company recognised these as increases in the investment in the subsidiary with a corresponding increase
recognised in reserves.
Where new shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and
share premium when the options are exercised.
Where continuing employees withdraw from share-based compensation plans the remaining charge is recognised immediately .
1.9 Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) and purchase of own shares by the Company 
The financial statements of the Company include the assets and related liabilities of the Group’s Employee Share Ownership Plan T rust 
(the T rust), which holds shares for the Group’s ESOP . Under the requirements of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts, the shares held by 
the T rust are stated at cost and deducted from shareholders’ funds.
Shares purchased by the Company are held as treasury shares at cost and deducted from shareholders’ funds until they are cancelled, sold
for cash or transferred out of treasury pursuant to an employees’ share scheme. T reasury shares do not carry voting rights and no dividends
will be paid on these shares. 
2 Company’s profit and loss account and cash flow statement 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and has not presented its own
profit and loss account. The loss for the year of the Company amounted to £75 million (2007/08 – profit of £15 million).
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 1 (revised) Cash Flow Statements and has not presented its own
cash flow statement, as its cash flows are included in the consolidated cash flow statement of the Group, set out on page 66. 
3 Remuneration of Directors 
Information covering Directors’ remuneration, interests in shares, share options and pension benefits is set out in the Directors’
remuneration report on pages 50 to 59.
4 Staff numbers and costs 
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year was:
2008/09 2007/08
Average number of persons employed by the Company 76 72
The costs for the year were:
2008/09 2007/08
£m £m
Wages and salaries 12 12
Share-based payments 5 6
Social security costs 1 1
Other pension costs 2 2
20 21
Financial 
statements Company 126
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
5 Employee share schemes 
The details of share option schemes and other share-based plans are disclosed in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The cost of such options and awards is borne by participating businesses and the Company has borne its charge as set out in note 4.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are presented below:
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
Weighted Weighted 
average Number of average Number of
exercise price options exercise price options 
(pence/share) (000) (pence/share) (000)
Outstanding at 1 April 110 25,396 111 31,329
Forfeited in the period –– 132 (2,304)
Exercised in the period 112 (996) 107 (3,596)
Lapsed in the period 705 (6) 298 (33)
Outstanding at 31 March 110 24,394 110 25,396
Exercisable at 31 March 118 11,888 115 4,766
The Company has applied the requirement of FRS 20 Share-based Payment and has elected to adopt the exemption to apply FRS 20 only
to awards made after 7 November 2002. 
6 Fixed asset investments
Joint Subsidiary
ventures undertakings T otal
£m £m £m
Cost/valuation 
At 1 April 2008 8 17,915 17,923
Additions –88
At 31 March 2009 8 17,923 17,931
Loans 
At 1 April 2008 – 11,280 11,280
Additions –7676
At 31 March 2009 – 11,356 11,356
Provisions and amounts written off 
At 1 April 2008 (4) (9,364) (9,368)
Additions – (3) (3)
At 31 March 2009 (4) (9,367) (9,371)
Net book value 
At 31 March 2009 4 19,912 19,916
At 31 March 2008 4 19,831 19,835
The Company’s investment in joint ventures comprised £4 million of unlisted shares (2007/08 – £4 million of unlisted shares).  127
7 Financial assets 
Movements in available-for-sale financial assets for the year are as follows:
UK 
Cash Government Short-term 
Eurobonds collateral gilts deposits T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2008 51017 549 581
Disposals – – – (265) (265)
Impairment recorded in income statement (4) – – – (4)
At 31 March 2009 1 10 17 284 312
Current portion 1 –– 284 285
Non-current portion – 10 17 – 27
During the year , the Company acquired £53 million (2007/08 – none) of listed bonds from a subsidiary undertaking. The carrying amount
of these bonds at 31 March 2009 was £53 million. They have been classified as held to maturity . 
8 Debtors
2008/09 2007/08 
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 17 52
Other taxation and social security 5 4
Other debtors 6 4
Prepayments and accrued income 6 1
Total debtors 34 61
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of debtors at 31 March 2009.
9 Creditors
2008/09 2007/08 
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year 
T rade and other creditors 3 5
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 15,264 15,300
Other taxation and social security 91 99
Accruals and deferred income 25 20
Total creditors 15,383 15,424
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of creditors at 31 March 2009. Financial 
statements Company 128
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
10 Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement
The fair value of the Company’s derivative financial liabilities was £25 million (2007/08 – £nil).
At 31 March 2009 the Company held forward exchange contracts to sell US$225 million (£155 million), to lock in the proceeds of forecast
US dollar repatriation (2007/08 – US$50 million (£25 million) hedging US dollar exposures). The Company did not apply hedge
accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value through the income statement.  
11 Non-current loans 
a) Facility
A £29 million loan facility is secured by bonds held by the Company with a carrying amount of £53 million. These bonds were issued by
Cable and Wireless International Finance BV (a subsidiary). 
b) Sterling bond 
The Sterling bond is a £200 million listed bond due in 2012 with a balance at 31 March 2009, net of costs, of £195 million 
(2007/08– £161 million). Interest is payable at 8.75% per annum.
The fair value of the bond was not materially different from its carrying amount. Market values obtained from third parties have been used 
to determine the fair value of the bond. 
c) Convertible unsecured bonds 
On 16 July 2003, £257 ,714,000 of 4% convertible unsecured bonds were issued at par . Each bond entitled the holder to convert the amount
of such bond into fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each at an amended rate of 689.655 ordinary shares for each £1,000 held at an
initial conversion price of 145 pence per ordinary share at any time prior to 9 July 2010. Full conversion of the bonds would have resulted 
in an additional 177 ,733,748 shares being issued.
During 2007/08, all of the convertible bonds in issue at 31 March 2007 were either repurchased or converted (carrying value of 
£213 million). These bonds, repayable in 2010, had a par value of £258 million. 
In the year ended 31 March 2008, convertible bonds with a par value of £138 million were repurchased for cash of £190 million. At the 
time of repurchase, the debt component of these convertible bonds had a carrying value of £117 million. The fair value of the debt
component of these bonds at the date of repurchase was £127 million. This transaction resulted in a loss of £10 million. The difference
between the fair value of the debt and the cash consideration (£63 million) was allocated to the repurchase of the equity component of 
the convertible bonds.
The remaining convertible bonds, with a par value of £120 million, were converted into 83 million ordinary shares (including 29 million
treasury shares). The debt component of these convertible bonds had a carrying value of £103 million. 
In April 2005, a cash settlement feature within the convertible bonds was removed. The liability relating to this cash settlement feature 
was reclassified to equity at its fair value at that time (£47 million). As a result of extinguishing the convertible bonds, this amount was
reclassified to retained earnings. 
The movements in the convertible bonds in the prior period were as follows: 
£m
Liability component at 1 April 2007 213
Interest expense 7
Liability component of convertible bonds repurchased or converted (220)
Liability component at 31 March 2008 –
Interest expense on the bond was calculated on the effective yield basis by applying the effective interest rate (10.7%) for equivalent 
non-convertible bonds to the liability component of the convertible bond. 129
12 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Unused
At 31 March amounts Amounts At 31 March
2008 Additions reversed used 2009
Note £m £m £m £m £m
Property (i) 4 8 (3) (2) 7
Other (ii) 27 1 (11) (3) 14
31 9 (14) (5) 21
i) Property
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties.
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant
properties being sub-let. The addition of £8 million in the year relates to an onerous property lease. The provision is expected to be utilised
over the lease contract life. The amount reversed in the year of £3 million relates to amounts no longer required in respect of lease
obligations of the Group’s former US operations.
ii) Other 
Other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Company and amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals
of Group companies and investments. The increase in Other provisions of £1 million reflects restructuring costs. The release in Other relates
to provisions for transaction costs for disposed businesses no longer required of £6 million, £1 million relating to amounts no longer required
in respect of the Group’s former US operations in respect of other claims, £2 million in respect of the Group’s former insurance operation no
longer required and £2 million in respect of a supplier claim settled in the year . 
13 Pension scheme 
The Company is a member of a Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay . Because the Company is
unable to identify its share of the scheme assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis, as permitted by FRS 17 Retirement
Benefits, the scheme has been accounted for in these financial statements as if the scheme was a defined contribution scheme.
The latest triennial actuarial valuation was carried out by Watson Wyatt as at 31 March 2007 . The ordinary contribution for the year was 
£10 million (2007/08 – £9 million). A further contribution of £10 million was made in September 2008 as part of the UK pensioner buy-in
transaction. In 2007/08, a contribution of £19 million was made in order to fund the scheme fully on an actuarial basis based on the March
2007 valuation. It has been agreed that an employer contribution rate of 28.5% (2007/08 – 28.5%) of pensionable pay will be made from 
1 April 2007 . Further details of the scheme are set out in note 31 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Company also operates unfunded pension plans to cover the costs of former Directors’ and other senior employees’ pension
entitlements. Provision is made in the Company’s financial statements for the expected costs of meeting the associated liabilities and is
disclosed as the retirement benefit obligation on the Company’s balance sheet.
The major assumptions used in this valuation at the end of the year were:
2008/09 2007/08 
% % 
Inflation assumption 3.0 3.5
Rate of increase in salaries 3.5 4.0
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions* 2.2 to 3.0 2.3 to 3.4
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities 6.7 6.8
* In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension element.
The assumptions used by the actuary are best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale
covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Financial 
statements Company 130
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
13 Pension scheme continued
Scheme assets and liabilities 
The fair value of the scheme’s assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change
before they are realised, and the present value of the scheme’s liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and
thus inherently uncertain, were: 
At 31 March 2009 At 31 March 2008
Unfunded Funded Unfunded Funded
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities – 519 519 – 944 944
Bonds and gilts –5151 – 500 500
Insurance policies – 825 825 –––
Property –7676 – 125 125
Cash – 190 190 – 546 546
T otal market value of assets – 1,661 1,661 – 2,115 2,115
Present value of scheme liabilities (19) (1,690) (1,709) (20) (1,736) (1,756)
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme – pension (liability)/asset (19) (29) (48) (20) 379 359
Effect of asset ceiling ––– – (379) (379)
Net pension liability (19) (29) (48) (20) – (20)
Long-term rate of return
At 31 March At 31 March 
2009 2008
% %
Equities 8.0 8.0
Bonds and gilts 5.6 5.2
Insurance policies 6.7 –
Property 6.5 7.0
Cash 3.3 4.4
Movement in (deficit)/asset during the year
At 31 March 2009 At 31 March 2008
Unfunded Funded Unfunded Funded
schemes schemes Total schemes schemes Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
(Deficit)/surplus in scheme at 31 March (20) – (20) (22) 54 32
Current service cost – (8) (8) – (10) (10)
Company contributions paid 12021 12829
Curtailment gain –11 –11
Other finance (cost)/income (1) 17 16 (2) 30 28
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1 (59) (58) 3 (103) (100)
Deficit in scheme at 1 April (19) (29) (48) (20) – (20) 131
14 Called-up share capital
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
Authorised
3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each
(2007/08 – 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each) 875 875
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
2,571,465,533 ordinary shares of 25 pence each
(2007/08 – 2,536,623,051 ordinary shares of 25 pence each) 643 634
Purchases and allotments of ordinary shares of 25 pence each were made during the year in respect of the following:
Gross 
Number of consideration
shares received
allotted £
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1,730,501 1,252,134
Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1,274,225 772,580
Share Option Plan – Approved 50,847 55,999
Share Option Plan – Unapproved 1,130,660 1,212,829
Scrip dividends
1
30,656,249 –
Total 34,842,482 3,293,542
1 Shares with a cash equivalent value of £47 million (2007/08 – £23 million) were issued during the year as payment for dividends by scrip. This represents a non-cash transaction. 
For more information on called-up share capital refer to note 32 in the consolidated financial statements. 
15 Reserves 
Profit 
Share Special Revaluation Other F air value and loss
premium reserve reserve reserves reserve account T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2008 156 1,553 87 169 5 2,252 4,222
Loss for the year ––––– (75) (75)
Dividends ––––– (194) (194)
Amounts received in respect of employee share schemes ––––– 2 2
Own shares purchased ––––– (2) (2)
Other recognised losses relating to the year ––––– (1) (1)
Share-based payment costs ––– 7– 5 12
Shares allotted under share option schemes 2 (3) – – – 3 2
Share allotted under scrip dividend schemes 39 (47) – – – 47 39
At 31 March 2009 197 1,503 87 176 5 2,037 4,005
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was £9 million (2007/08 – £19 million). The nominal and market value 
of treasury shares at 31 March 2009 were £15 million and £86 million (2007/08 – £11 million and £68 million) respectively . Included in
treasury shares are 28 million (2007/08 – 27 million) shares acquired by the Cable & Wireless ESOP T rust (the T rust) for consideration of
£59 million (2007/08 – £73 million). The nominal value and market value of the T rust’s shares held at 31 March 2009 were £7 million and
£40 million (2007/08 – £7 million and £40 million) respectively . All shares in the T rust are held to satisfy the Company’s obligation in
respect of share options granted.
Financial 
statements Company 132
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
15 Reserves continued
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account approved at the 2003 AGM and confirmed by the Court in
February 2004. It will be reduced from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account
after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration. The special reserve will not be treated
as realised profits until any debt or claim outstanding as at 20 February 2004 has been repaid or remedied.
Other reserves include a capital redemption reserve of £105 million (2007/08 – £105 million), £20 million (2007/08 – £20 million)
relating to unrealised gains on disposal of investments and £51 million (2007/08 – £44 million) relating to rights granted to equity
instruments of the Company to the employees of subsidiaries of the Company . 
16 Deferred taxation
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures. Due to the availability of losses and
other relief, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
As at 31 March 2009, the Company had unrecognised deferred tax timing differences in the UK relating to capital allowances of £7 million
(2007/08 – £27 million) and other timing differences of £65 million (2007/08 – £67 million). 
17 Currency analysis 
The carrying amounts of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents, held to maturity investments, available-for-sale financial assets and
borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
Financial Financial 
assets Borrowings assets Borrowings
£m £m £m £m 
Sterling 362 224 462 161
US dollar 7– 129 –
Euro 1– 5–
370 224 596 161
18 Related party transactions 
Under FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions with entities that are part 
of the Cable & Wireless Group, or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties, as all of the Company’s voting rights are controlled
within the Group.
Transactions with joint ventures 
All trade transactions with joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of Cable & Wireless’
products and services. There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures during the year .
The Company received dividends of £3 million from joint ventures (2007/08 – £4 million) for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Transactions with other related parties 
There are no controlling shareholders of the Company .
During the year , two Directors of Cable & Wireless purchased bonds issued by Cable & Wireless. These bonds were purchased for
£2,371,691 on the open market (including £118,980 of accrued interest) and had a nominal value of £2,630,000. The interest earned on
those bonds during the year was £60,732 of which £54,607 remained unpaid at year end.
During the year , the spouse of a Director of Cable & Wireless purchased bonds issued by Cable & Wireless. These bonds were purchased
for £437 ,178 on the open market (including £38,180 of accrued interest) and had a nominal value of £480,000. The interest earned on
those bonds during the year was £3,743 of which £681 remained unpaid at year end.
There were no other material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
There were no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company . Other than the parties disclosed above, the Company 
has no other material related parties.  133
19 Subsidiaries and joint ventures
Issued
share Ownership
Local capital percentage Class of Country of Area of
currency (million) % shares incorporation operation
Subsidiaries
Cable & Wireless UK GBP 3,466 100 Ordinary England UK
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd J$ 16,817 82 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica
Cable & Wireless Panama, SA
1
Balboa 316 49 Ordinary Panama Panama
Companhia de T elecomunicacoes de Macau, SARL
2
Pataca 150 51 Ordinary Macau Macau
and China
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Ltd B$ 72 81 Ordinary Barbados Barbados
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Ltd GBP 5 100 Ordinary England Caribbean
Monaco T elecom SAM
3,4
Euro 2 49 Ordinary Monaco Monaco
Thus Group plc GBP 46 100 Ordinary Scotland Scotland
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd
2
Rufiya 190 45 Ordinary Maldives Maldives
Joint ventures 
T elecommunications Services of T rinidad and T obago Ltd
3
T$ 283 49 Ordinary T rinidad T rinidad
and and
T obago T obago
1 The Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement. 
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders’ agreement. 
3 This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms. 
4 The Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco T elecom SAM via an agreement. 
Cable and Wireless plc does not have any direct investment in the above subsidiaries and joint ventures.
The list above only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures
shown in the financial statements.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual Return, to be filed
with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales. 
20 Dividends 
Refer to note 16 in the consolidated financial statements. 
21 Commitments 
The Company had no capital commitments at the end of 2008/09 or 2007/08.  
Financial 
statements Company 134
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2009
22 Guarantees and contingent liabilities 
Guarantees given by the Company at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements 
are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2009 2008
£m £m
T rading guarantees 399 102
Other guarantees 401 203
Total guarantees 800 305
T rading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that
the Group companies will meet their obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The nature
of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of
materials. The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, leases and letters of credit. Where the
Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company
considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats the guarantee contract 
as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make payment under the guarantee.
The principal other guarantees given by the Company are for the £200 million 2019 bond issued by Cable & Wireless International Finance
BV and the £99 million drawn down under Worldwide’s £200 million bank facility .
Whilst Pender , the Group’s former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written
policies in favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of
these third party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers. Significant progress has been
made in resolving these claims in the year . Detail of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may 
be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to 
a number of disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally , liability has been capped at no more than the value of the 
sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given. The Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation 
to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements and general commercial agreements. Some of these agreements do not contain
liability caps.
Under the terms of the T rust Deed governing the main UK Pension Fund, the Company guarantees the performance of the obligations of
other Group companies which are participating employers in the Fund.
Whilst the Company ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund, it may be liable for future contributions to fund 
a portion of any future funding deficits. Currently , the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.  Introduction Business 
review
Governance Financial 
statements
Shareholder
information
Shareholder
information
What shareholders
need to know 
to manage their
shareholding in 
Cable & Wireless.
04 Cable & Wireless at a glance
06 Chairman’s review
CWI
09 Chief Executive’s review
10 Business overview
14 Performance review
18 Corporate responsibility
Worldwide
21 Executive Chairman’s review
22 Business overview
26 Performance review
30 Corporate responsibility
Cable & Wireless Group
32 Group Finance Director’s review
33 Financial performance review
37 Risk overview
40 Board of Directors
42 Directors’ report
46 Corporate governance report
48 Statement from the independent 
Non-executive Directors
49 Report of the Audit Committee
50 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Cable & Wireless Group
62 Independent auditor’s report
63 Consolidated financial statements
67 Notes to the financial statements
Cable and Wireless plc
120 Independent auditor’s report
121 Company financial statements
123 Notes to the financial statements
136 Useful shareholder information
135 136
Useful shareholder information
Registrar
If you have any queries regarding your shareholding in Cable
and Wireless plc, please contact:
Equiniti,
Aspect House,
Spencer Road,
Lancing, 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
T elephone 0871 384 2104* (UK shareholders)
+44 (0)121 415 7047 (overseas shareholders)
Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their
shareholding at www.shareview.co.uk.
Thus Group plc shareholders
If you have not yet completed your Form of Acceptance 
relating to your shares in Thus Group plc, please contact:
The Dissentients Department, 
Capita Registrars, The Registry , 
34 Beckenham Road,
Beckenham,
Kent BR3 4TU 
or call them on 0870 664 0300 (UK shareholders)
+44 (0)20 8639 3399 (overseas shareholders).
ShareGift
If you have a small number of shares whose value makes them
uneconomic to sell, you may wish to consider donating them 
to charity . ShareGift is a registered charity (no. 1052686) 
which collects and sells unwanted shares and uses the
proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities. Further
information about ShareGift and the charities it supports is
available at www.ShareGift.org or by contacting them at: 
17 Carlton House T errace, 
London SW1Y 5AH 
T elephone +44 (0)20 7930 3737
Registered Office and Company Secretary
The Company’s Registered Office and Head Office is:
3rd Floor , 26 Red Lion Square,
London WC1R 4HQ
T elephone  +44 (0)20 7315 4000
Nick Cooper is the Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary .
Investor Relations
Enquiries may be directed to:
Director , Investor Relations, 
3rd Floor , 26 Red Lion Square,
London WC1R 4HQ
T elephone +44 (0)20 7315 4000
Email investor-relations.c&wplc@cw.com
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date 3 June 2009
Record date 5 June 2009
Last date for election to join scrip dividend 10 July 2009
AGM 17 July 2009
Payment of final dividend 7 August 2009
Announcement of interim results 2009/10 5 November 2009
Dividends
The table below sets out the Sterling amounts of the interim,
final and total gross dividends paid per ordinary share.
Pence per ordinary share
Y ear ended Interim Final T otal
31 March 2008 2.50 5.00 7 .50
31 March 2009 2.83 5.67 8.50
Cable and Wireless plc offers a scrip dividend scheme in respect
of the final dividend. Those shareholders who have already
elected to join the scheme will automatically have their final
dividend sent to them in this form. Shareholders wishing to join
the scheme for the final dividend, and all future dividends,
should return a completed mandate form to the Registrar ,
Equiniti, by 10 July 2009. Copies of the mandate form, and the
scrip dividend brochure, can be obtained either from Equiniti or
from our website (www.cw.com).
If your dividend is paid directly into your bank or building society ,
you will receive one consolidated tax voucher each year , which
is sent to you in January at the time that the interim dividend 
is paid. If you would prefer to receive a tax voucher with each
dividend, please contact our shareholder helpline on 
0871 384 2104*.
If your dividend is not currently paid direct to your bank or
building society and you would like to benefit from this service,
please contact our shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2104*. 
By receiving your dividends in this way you can avoid the risk 
of cheques getting lost in the post. It is also now possible for
shareholders in over 30 countries worldwide to benefit from 
a similar service. Further information can be obtained from
www.shareview.co.uk or by calling +44 (0)121 415 7047 .
Cable and Wireless plc trading market
The Company’s shares are traded on the London Stock
Exchange. As at 31 March 2009, the Company had a market
capitalisation of approximately £3,541 million.
The table below details the position in the FTSE 100 and the high
and low middle market quotations for the ordinary shares on the
London Stock Exchange as reported on its Daily Official List.
Position in the FTSE 100 at the year end Pence per ordinary share
Y ear ended High Low
31 March 2009 51st 179.10 116.20
31 March 2008 68th 201.50 136.50
LSE ticker: CW .
ISIN: GB0001625572 137
Shareholder
information
Distribution and classification of 
Cable & Wireless shareholdings
Number Number of
Shares at 31 March 2009 of accounts % of total shares % of total
Up to 1,000 72,633 68.28 30,929,251 1.20
1,001 - 10,000 31,073 29.21 77,342,102 3.01
10,001 – 100,000 1,922 1.81 47,376,884 1.84
100,001 – 1,000,000 463 0.43 177,395,265 6.90
1,000,001 and over 288 0.27 2,238,422,031 87.05
Total 106,379 100.0 2,571,465,533 100.0
At 20 May 2009, the Company had 106,073 shareholders 
on record.
Electronic communication
T ogether with Equiniti, Cable and Wireless plc is able to offer
shareholders the option to manage their shareholding online
and receive communications from the Company electronically
as an alternative to receiving documents through the post. 
T o make use of this facility , please register at
www.shareview.co.uk following the onscreen instructions.
Unsolicited mail
Company law allows people unconnected with the Company 
to obtain a copy of our share register . As a consequence,
shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including mail from
unauthorised investment firms. For more information on
unauthorised investment firms targeting UK investors, you
should visit the website of the Financial Services Authority
(www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk/guides/staying_safe/staying
_safe_against_scams).
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive,
please contact:
The Mailing Preference Service,
DMA House,
70 Margaret Street,
London, W1W 8SS
T elephone 0845 703 4599
Online www.mpsonline.org.uk
Documents on display
Shareholders can view the service contracts of Executive
Directors and letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors
at the Company’s Registered Office. Shareholders may also
obtain copies of the Company’s Memorandum and Articles 
of Association at the Company’s Registered Office or on the
website (www.cw.com).
* Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. 
Other telephone providers’ costs may vary . Cable & Wireless 2008/09 Annual report
Designed by Pauffley .
This report has been printed on Think 4 Bright paper
containing 50% recycled fibre sourced from de-ink
post consumer waste, and 50% virgin fibre sourced
from well managed forests. Printed using vegetable
based inks and 100% ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free)
pulps. Both manufacturing mill and printer are 
FSC certified and both have been accredited with
ISO14001 environmental management system.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001,
FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®
.
