 Cable & Wireless Communications // Annual report 2010/11
One & All
Annual report 2010/11 47	 Report 	 of	 the	 Audit	 Committee
48	 Directors’ 	 remuneration	 report
61	 Statement 	 of	 Directors’	 responsibilities
Cable & Wireless Communications Group 
consolidated financial statements 
62	 Independent 	 auditor’s	 report
63	 Consolidated 	 financial	 statements
69	 Notes 	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	
statements
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
financial statements 
129	 Independent 	 auditor’s	 report	
130	 Financial 	 statements
132	 Notes 	 to	 the	 financial	 statements
Shareholder information 
138	 Shareholder 	 information
IBC	 Past 	 &	 present
capital	 expenditure	 less	 cash	 exceptionals.	 A	 reconciliation	 of	
GAAP	 to	 non-GAAP	 measures	 is	 provided	 on	 page	 127.
Information	 has	 been	 updated	 to	 the	 most	 practical	 date	 prior	
to	 the	 approval	 date	 of	 the	 document,	 being	 24	 May	 2011.
Companies Act 2006
Pages	 2	 to	 35	 constitute	 the	 Chairman’s	 statement	 and	
Business	 review	 of	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 and,	
for	 the	 purposes	 of	 section	 463	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006,	
are	 incorporated	 by	 reference	 into	 the	 Directors’	 report	 set	
out	 on	 pages	 38	 to	 41	 and	 shall	 be	 deemed	 to	 form	 part	 of	
that	 report.
English law 
Pages	 2	 to	 61	 inclusive	 consist	 of	 a	 Directors’	 report	 that	
has	 been	 drawn	 up	 and	 presented	 in	 accordance	 with	 and	
in	 reliance	 upon	 English	 company	 law.	 The	 liabilities	 of	 the	
Directors	 in	 connection	 with	 that	 report	 shall	 be	 subject	
to	 the	 limitations	 and	 restrictions	 provided	 by	 such	 law.
Introduction
02	 At 	 a	 glance	
04	 Chairman’s	 review
07	 Chief 	 Executive’s	 review
08	 Our 	 strategy
Business review
10	 Panama
14	 Macau
18	 Caribbean
22	 Monaco 	 &	 Islands
26	 Corporate 	 social	 responsibility
28	 Financial 	 review
34	 Risk 	 overview
Governance 
36	 Board 	 of	 Directors
38	 Directors’ 	 report
42	 Independent 	 Directors’	 report
44	 Corporate 	 governance	 report
References	 to	 a	 year	 in	 this	 report	 are,	 unless	 otherwise	
indicated,	 references	 to	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2011	
(the	 financial	 year).
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 prepares	 its	 financial	
information	 in	 accordance	 with	 International	 Financial	
Reporting	 Standards	 (IFRS)	 applicable	 for	 use	 in	 the	 European	
Union	 (EU).	 The	 Company	 prepares	 its	 financial	 information	
in	 accordance	 with	 United	 Kingdom	 Generally	 Accepted	
Accounting	 Principles	 (UK	 GAAP).
In	 this	 report,	 financial	 and	 non-financial	 information	 is,	
unless	 otherwise	 indicated,	 stated	 on	 the	 basis	 of	 the	 Group’s	
financial	 year.	 EBITDA	 is	 defined	 as	 earnings	 before	 interest,	
tax,	 depreciation	 and	 amortisation,	 Long-Term	 Incentive	 Plan	
(LTIP)	 charge	 and	 net	 other	 operating	 and	 non-operating	
income	 and	 expense.	 Unless	 otherwise	 stated,	 EBITDA	
excludes	 exceptional	 items.	 Exceptional	 items	 are	 material	
items	 which	 derive	 from	 individual	 events	 that	 fall	 within	 the	
ordinary	 activities	 of	 the	 Group	 that	 are	 identified	 as	
exceptional	 items	 by	 virtue	 of	 their	 size,	 nature	 or	 incidence.	
Operating	 cash	 flow	 is	 defined	 as	 pre-exceptional	 EBITDA	 less	
Contents
Definitions
This	 Annual	 Report	 of	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	
has	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 English	 legal	 and	 UK	
Listing	 Rules	 requirements.	 The	 Annual	 Review	 for	 the	 year	
ended	 31	 March	 2011	 is	 published	 as	 a	 separate	 document.	
Unless	 otherwise	 stated	 in	 this	 Annual	 Report,	 the	 terms	
‘Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications’,	 the	 ‘Group’,	 ‘Cable	 &	
Wireless	 Communications	 Group’,	 ‘it’,	 ‘we’,	 ‘us’	 and	 ‘our’	 refer	
to	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	
collectively.	 The	 term	 ‘Company’	 and	 ‘Parent	 Company’	
refers	 to	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc.	 The	 terms	
‘Cable	 &	 Wireless’	 and	 ‘Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Group’	 refer	 to	 the	
former	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	 collectively.	
The	 term	 ‘Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 Group’	 refers	 to	
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 plc	 and	 its	 subsidiaries	
collectively,	 which	 was	 demerged	 from	 the	 former	
Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc	 on	 26	 March	 2010.
Unless	 otherwise	 indicated,	 any	 reference	 in	 this	 report	 to	
financial	 statements	 is	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	
of	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 on	 pages	 63	 to	 128.	 One year into our journey as an independent 
company, Cable & Wireless Communications 
has made strong progress. 
New telecommunications services are 
offering a multitude of means for people to 
communicate with each other, and as a full 
service business with market leading positions, 
we are well placed to take advantage. Our  
focus remains clear: to provide the services  
our customers demand, and the returns our 
shareholders expect. We aim to deliver for 
One & All.
	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 01 Mobile customers
Market leader 
in 20 of 27 
mobile markets
Fixed line customers
Market leader 
in 25 of 27 fixed 
line markets
Broadband customers
Market leader  
in 26 of 29  
broadband markets
Cable & Wireless Communications provides world 
class telecoms services across the globe in a diverse 
range of communities – ranging from high growth 
emerging economies to developed nations. We are 
the market leader in most of the products that we 
offer and most of the markets that we serve with 
a strong commitment to providing the highest 
standards of service to each customer. 
At a glance
Our regional operations
Panama
Customers & services*
*Includes	 joint	 ventures
Caribbean Monaco & Islands  
Macau
02	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 At	 a	 glance Caribbean
US$850m
Revenue
Panama
US$623m
Revenue
Monaco & Islands
US$605m
Revenue
Macau
US$377m
Revenue
Caribbean
Pay TV subscribers
EBITDA	 US$276m
Operating	 cash	 flow	 US$170m
We	 are	 Panama’s	 market	
leader	 in	 mobile,	 fixed	 line	 and	
broadband	 services.	 We	 are	
also	 a	 major	 provider	 of	 pay	 TV,	
carrier,	 enterprise	 and	 social	
telecoms	 services.
www.cwpanama.com
Mobile customers
EBITDA	 US$229m
Operating	 cash	 flow	 US$83m
We	 are	 the	 leading	 full	
service	 telecom	 provider	 in	 the	
Caribbean.	 In	 April	 this	 year	 we	
expanded	 to	 The	 Bahamas,	 our	
14th	 market	 in	 the	 region.	 Our	
LIME	 brand,	 and	 our	 values	 of	
Respect,	 Deliver,	 Win,	 Innovate	
are	 recognised	 throughout	 the	
Caribbean.
www.lime.com
Mobile customers
2
EBITDA	 US$207m
Operating	 cash	 flow	 US$128m
Our	 Monaco	 &	 Islands	 business	
is	 a	 portfolio	 with	 operations	
in	 Europe,	 the	 Middle	 East,	
Africa	 and	 in	 the	 Indian	 and	
Atlantic	 Oceans.	 It	 operates	
across	 developed	 and	
developing	 markets,	 with	 its	
largest	 markets	 in	 Monaco,	
Guernsey	 and	 the	 Maldives.	 		
www.cwc.com/mi
Increase in mobile data 
subscribers
EBITDA	 US$153m
Operating	 cash	 flow	 US$128m
2011	 marks	 the	 30th	 anniversary	
of	 the	 foundation	 of	 our	 Macau	
business,	 CTM.	 We	 are	 the	
market	 leader	 in	 mobile,	 fixed	 and	
broadband	 in	 one	 of	 the	 world’s	
most	 popular	 tourist	 destinations.	 	
www.ctm.net
Panama Monaco & Islands Macau
Mobile
We	 are	 investing	
in	 faster	 and	 higher	
capacity	 mobile	 networks.	
Our	 core	 services	 are	
increasingly	 supplemented	
by	 mobile	 broadband	 and	
a	 range	 of	 other	 mobile	
data	 products.	
Fixed line
Our	 Group	 has	 been	
providing	 fixed	 line	
services	 for	 over	
140	 years.	 We	 remain	
the	 market	 leader	 in	
almost	 all	 the	 territories	
we	 serve.
Broadband
We	 provide	 high	 speed	
broadband	 to	 our	
customers	 homes	 	
and	 workplaces	 and	 	
are	 investing	 in	 our	
infrastructure	 so	 we	 can	
deliver	 on	 ever	 increasing	
demands	 for	 capacity.	
Entertainment 
We	 offer	 pay	 TV	 services	
in	 several	 markets	 and	
plan	 to	 roll	 out	 services	 	
in	 more.	 Our	 triple	 play	
services	 are	 a	 ‘bundle’	 of	
pay	 TV,	 broadband	 and	
fixed	 line	 services.
Data centres & hosting
We	 maintain	 a	 number	
of	 data	 centres	 across	
the	 globe	 in	 which	 we	
securely	 transit,	 store	
and	 host	 data	 for	 large	
corporate	 customers	
and	 heavy	 internet	 users.
Managed Services/
Social Telecoms
For	 corporate	 and	
government	 customers,	
we	 provide	 a	 managed	
telecoms	 service	 –	 taking	
on	 the	 responsibility	 for	
the	 infrastructure,	
processes	 and	 people	
who	 deliver	 the	 service	
to	 the	 customer.	
26% 35% 25%
Revenue by region
1
1 5%
1		 Revenue	 from	 joint	 venture	
businesses	 and	 intra-group	
eliminations	 are	 excluded
2	 Includes 	 mobile	 subscribers	 of	 Roshan,	
our	 Afghan	 joint	 venture
	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 03 in	 April.	 Reshaping	 the	 portfolio	 will	 require	
patience	 as	 in	 most	 territories	 we	 are	 a	
provider	 of	 key	 national	 infrastructure,	 often	
partnered	 with	 the	 government.	 To	 have	
completed	 two	 deals	 in	 our	 first	 year	 is	 an	
excellent	 start.	 	
Whilst	 the	 shape	 changes,	 our	 mission	
and	 purpose	 remain	 clear.	 We	 operate	 in	
local	 markets,	 assisting	 them	 to	 grow	
by	 delivering	 world	 class	 communications	
services	 and	 expertise	 adapted	 for	 each	
specific	 environment.	
Our	 Board	 of	 Directors	 has	 also	 seen	 change.	
Kasper	 Rorsted	 retired	 as	 a	 Non-Executive	
Director	 and	 Ian	 Tyler	 joined	 the	 Board.	 Kasper	
joined	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Board	 in	 2003,	
and	 has	 served	 both	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 and	
CWC	 shareholders	 impeccably.	 Thankfully,	 we	
have	 found	 a	 strong	 replacement	 in	 Ian,	 who	
is	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 of	 a	 fellow	 FTSE	 250	
company,	 Balfour	 Beatty.	 Kate	 Nealon	 will	 also	
retire	 as	 a	 Non-Executive	 Director	 at	 the	 end	
of	 our	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 in	 July,	 after	
seven	 years	 of	 valuable	 service.
George	 Battersby,	 our	 HR	 Director,	 also	 stepped	
down	 from	 the	 Board	 in	 July	 2010,	 and	 sadly	
passed	 away	 shortly	 afterwards	 following	 a	
hard	 fought	 battle	 with	 cancer.	 George	 had	
been	 with	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 since	 2004	 and	
provided	 a	 wealth	 of	 corporate	 experience	
and	 common	 sense.	 His	 wise	 counsel	 was	
valued	 by	 all	 of	 the	 senior	 executives	 at	 Cable	
&	 Wireless	 and	 CWC,	 particularly	 myself	 as	
Chairman.	 The	 Board	 of	 Directors	 felt	 a	 deep	
sense	 of	 loss	 of	 such	 a	 fine	 colleague.
The	 CWC	 Board	 has	 continued	 the	 rigorous	
approach	 to	 corporate	 governance	 employed	
by	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 prior	 to	 its	 demerger.	
Our	 approach	 to	 governance	 is	 focused	 on	
driving	 good	 behaviours	 within	 the	 business.	
Our	 Independent	 Directors’	 report	 (page	 42)	
outlines	 this	 approach,	 which	 includes	 our	
four	 behavioural	 questions	 for	 measuring	 the	
effectiveness	 of	 our	 corporate	 governance.	
This	 model	 rightly	 places	 the	 Board	 of	
Directors	 as	 the	 stewards	 of	 the	 business,	
working	 on	 behalf	 of	 shareholders.	
The	 continued	 success	 of	 our	 business	
reflects	 the	 efforts	 of	 our	 7,000	 colleagues,	
who	 are	 spread	 across	 four	 continents.	
I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 them	 for	 their	
commitment	 to,	 and	 pride	 in,	 this	 Company.
We	 have	 made	 a	 positive	 start	 as	 an	
independent	 Group	 and	 will	 continue	 building	
the	 foundations	 for	 the	 Company’s	 future	
success.	 Shareholders	 should	 feel	 confident	
that	 our	 business	 is	 well	 positioned	 to	
exploit	 the	 exciting	 new	 opportunities	
which	 are	 emerging.	
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
It gives me great pleasure to introduce 
our annual report for 2010/11, Cable & 
Wireless Communications’ (CWC’s) first 
year as an independent company. 
We	 have	 made	 good	 progress	 since	 our	
demerger	 in	 March	 2010.	 We	 saw	 strong	
trading	 performances	 in	 three	 of	 our	 business	
units,	 Panama,	 Macau	 and	 Monaco	 &	 Islands.	
Our	 fourth	 business,	 the	 Caribbean,	 made	
solid	 operational	 progress,	 but	 its	 results	
continue	 to	 be	 challenged	 by	 weak	 or	
declining	 economies	 across	 the	 region.	
The	 Caribbean	 has	 a	 larger	 impact	 on	 our	
overall	 financial	 performance	 than	 our	 other	
businesses,	 due	 to	 the	 higher	 proportional	
shareholdings	 we	 hold	 in	 this	 business.	
Nevertheless,	 we	 have	 reported	 improved	
revenues	 (up	 4%	 to	 US$2.4	 billion),	 EBITDA	
(up	 1%	 to	 US$872	 million)	 and	 profit	 before	
tax	 (up	 21%	 to	 US$462	 million).
Each	 of	 the	 businesses	 also	 continues	 to	
generate	 a	 high	 cash	 conversion	 of	 profits.	
The	 Board	 of	 Directors	 has	 recommended	
a	 full	 year	 dividend	 of	 US8	 cents	 per	 share,	
US2.67	 cents	 of	 which	 was	 paid	 in	 January	
following	 our	 interim	 results	 with	 a	 further	
US5.33	 cents	 to	 be	 paid	 in	 August	 2011,	
subject	 to	 the	 approval	 of	 shareholders.	
We	 are	 in	 the	 process	 of	 returning	 further	
capital	 to	 shareholders	 through	 a	 US$100	
million	 share	 buyback	 programme,	 launched	
in	 February.	 The	 buyback	 is	 an	 effective,	 and	
risk-free,	 use	 of	 our	 cash,	 saving	 a	 dividend	
payment	 on	 the	 shares	 we	 purchase.
Our	 demerger	 has	 also	 brought	 increased	
focus	 to	 our	 business,	 particularly	 at	 Board	
level.	 Prior	 to	 separation,	 Board	 discussion	
was	 dominated	 by	 the	 turnaround	 of	 Cable	 &	
Wireless	 Worldwide	 and	 the	 demerger	 itself.	
The	 focus	 of	 the	 Board,	 and	 management,	
is	 now	 on	 ensuring	 that	 CWC	 captures	 the	
emerging	 growth	 opportunities	 for	 full	
service	 telecoms	 businesses,	 particularly	
mobile	 data,	 enterprise	 and	 carrier	 services.	
Our	 businesses	 are	 well	 placed	 to	 do	 so.	
We	 are	 seeing	 a	 good	 response	 to	 our	 mobile	
data	 and	 fixed	 and	 mobile	 broadband	 services,	
particularly	 in	 Panama	 and	 Macau.	 Demand	
for	 our	 data	 centre	 and	 hosting	 services	 is	
growing	 and	 we	 are	 expanding	 our	 subsea	
cable	 infrastructure	 to	 meet	 demand	 in	 the	
carrier	 market.	 We	 are	 also	 building	 our	
capability	 in	 providing	 social	 telecoms	
services	 to	 governments	 and	 managed	
services	 to	 large	 corporate	 customers,	 such	
as	 the	 large	 casino	 resort	 operators	 in	 Macau.	 	 	
We	 also	 made	 progress	 on	 our	 reshaping	 of	 the	
Group,	 disposing	 of	 our	 operations	 in	 Bermuda	
and	 purchasing	 a	 majority	 shareholding	 in	
the	 Bahamas	 Telecommunications	 Company	
(BTC),	 the	 leading	 operator	 in	 The	 Bahamas	
Chairman’ s review
Increase in profit 
before tax
Recommended full  
year dividend
04	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Introduction “ We have made a positive start as an 
independent Group and will continue 
building the foundations for future 
success. Shareholders should feel 
confident that our business is well 
positioned to exploit the exciting new 
opportunities which are emerging.”
Sir Richard Lapthorne
Chairman 
	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 05  “The needs of telecoms customers are 
changing. We are in the midst of a shift 
towards more data-centric services. 
We will be diverting a far greater 
proportion of our investment into 
mobile data capacity and launching 
new products that tap the customer 
demand for data services.”
Tony Rice
Chief Executive
06	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Introduction Chief Executive’ s 
review 
It’s	 in	 a	 region	 we	 understand	 well	 and	 in	 which	
we	 have	 scale.	 It’s	 also	 a	 partnership	 with	 the	
local	 Government,	 which	 is	 a	 structure	 we	 have	
made	 work	 successfully	 in	 other	 territories.	
There	 is	 also	 a	 restructuring	 opportunity	 at	
BTC,	 which	 will	 provide	 further	 impetus	 to	 the	
turnaround	 of	 our	 Caribbean	 business.	 We	 are	
delighted	 to	 welcome	 our	 new	 colleagues	 from	
BTC	 to	 the	 Group	 and	 expect	 the	 business	 to	
make	 a	 major	 contribution	 in	 the	 future.
Bermuda	 was	 not	 a	 full-service	 business.	 We	
found	 a	 committed	 buyer	 who	 received	 the	
support	 of	 the	 Bermudan	 Government,	 so	 	
we	 took	 the	 opportunity	 to	 sell	 the	 business.	
The Caribbean is facing a challenging 
environment again next year. When do you 
expect the situation to improve there?   
The	 economies	 of	 our	 Caribbean	 region	
remained	 weak	 last	 year	 which,	 when	 combined	
with	 ‘austerity’	 budgets	 in	 many	 of	 the	 islands,	
impacted	 disposable	 incomes	 significantly.	 It	 	
is	 disposable	 income	 that	 dictates	 consumer	
spending	 on	 telephony,	 and	 our	 business	 felt	
the	 strain.	 We	 don’t	 expect	 to	 see	 much	
improvement	 in	 the	 market	 this	 year.	 Jamaica,	
in	 particular,	 remains	 difficult 	 with	 potential	
for	 further	 structural	 declines	 if	 there	 is	 no	
change	 to	 the	 regulatory	 environment.	
Our	 Caribbean	 team	 is	 taking	 the	 right	 steps	
to	 drive	 better	 performance	 however	 –	
upgrading	 networks,	 improving	 customer	
services	 and	 revitalising	 our	 branding	 and	 we	
also	 expect	 to	 bring	 the	 iPhone	 to	 Caribbean	
markets	 for	 the	 first	 time	 in	 this	 calendar	 year.	
Last	 year	 we	 launched	 a	 fightback	 in	 the	
Jamaica	 mobile	 market,	 and	 stole	 a	 march	
with	 our	 mobile	 TV	 product.	
Panama’s performance was down slightly, 
although the second half was strong. 
What were the key levers? 
Mobile,	 enterprise,	 broadband	 and	 pay	 TV	
were	 the	 key	 levers.	 Once	 again	 our	 mobile	
business	 delivered	 an	 excellent	 performance	
in	 the	 face	 of	 intense	 competition.	 In	 a	 now	 four	
player	 market,	 it	 maintained	 its	 market	 share	
above	 50%	 and	 posted	 a	 1%	 rise	 in	 revenue.	
Broadband	 and	 TV	 revenue	 also	 increased	
with	 our	 +TV	 Digital	 service	 growing	 to	 over	
44,200	 subscribers	 at	 year	 end.	 Broadband	
subscribers	 also	 grew	 by	 4%.
In	 enterprise	 services	 we	 had	 a	 particularly	
good	 second	 half,	 being	 selected	 on	 several	
government	 projects.	 I	 am	 very	 proud	 of	
these	 social	 telecoms	 projects,	 which	 utilise	
our	 telecoms	 expertise	 to	 deliver	 public	
services	 more	 effi ciently.	 Last	 year	 we	 were	
chosen	 to	 provide	 a	 telemammography	
service,	 which	 will	 ensure	 more	 Panamanian	
women	 have	 access	 to	 preventative	 breast	
cancer	 screenings.	 In	 April,	 we	 were	 selected	
by	 the	 Government	 of	 El	 Salvador	 to	 provide	 	
a	 911	 emergency	 services	 platform,	 similar	 	
to	 the	 one	 we	 provide	 in	 Panama,	 showing	 	
our	 social	 telecoms	 expertise	 can	 be	 exported	
beyond	 Panama	 and	 is	 relevant	 to	 all	 of	 	
our	 business	 units.
How do you assess the Company’s  
performance in 2010/11? 
This	 was	 our	 first	 year	 following	 demerger	 	
and	 overall	 I	 am	 pleased	 with	 the	 progress	 we	
made	 in	 delivering	 our	 strategy	 and	 improving	
our	 operations.	 We	 faced,	 and	 continue	 to	
face,	 headwinds	 in	 the	 Caribbean,	 but	 to	
finish	 the	 year	 with	 revenues	 up	 4%	 and	
EBITDA	 up	 1%	 is	 a	 respectable	 performance,	
in	 the	 circumstances.	 Our	 Macau,	 Panama	
and	 Monaco	 &	 Islands	 businesses	 performed	
well.	 The	 environment	 in	 the	 Caribbean	 clearly	 	
has	 been	 difficult, 	 but	 the	 strength	 of	 our	
portfolio	 is	 apparent	 in	 the	 fact	 that	 we	 have	
limited	 the	 impact	 of	 reduced	 profitability	 	
in	 the	 Caribbean	 to	 our	 income	 statement.
Most	 importantly,	 all	 of	 the	 businesses	
have	 been	 doing	 the	 right	 things	 to	 position	
the	 Company	 for	 the	 future	 –	 developing	
propositions	 for	 mobile	 data,	 pay	 TV/
triple-play,	 high	 speed	 broadband,	
managed	 services	 and	 undersea	 cables.	
Finally,	 we	 maintained	 our	 commitment	 to	
our	 social	 responsibility	 programmes	 in	 each	
of	 our	 business	 units.	 Further	 details	 of	 what	
we	 have	 been	 up	 to	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 CSR	
section	 on	 pages	 26	 and	 27,	 and	 in	 our	 CSR	
Report	 which	 will	 be	 available	 on	 our	 website	
(www.cwc.com)	 from	 July.	 I’d	 like	 to	 thank	 all	
of	 our	 colleagues	 who	 have	 supported	 these	
initiatives	 and	 made	 a	 positive	 difference	 to	
the	 societies	 in	 which	 we	 operate.
What are your aims for the business 
in 2011/12?
This	 year	 will	 be	 about	 putting	 in	 place	 the	
building	 blocks	 to	 grow	 the	 business.	 We	 want	
to	 capture	 the	 opportunity	 of	 mobile	 data,	
and	 will	 be	 diverting	 a	 greater	 proportion	 of	
our	 investment	 into	 mobile	 data	 networks	
and	 accelerating	 the	 roll	 out	 of	 smartphones,	
including	 the	 iPhone.	 We	 have	 made	 an	
excellent	 start	 on	 mobile	 data	 in	 Macau	 and	
Panama,	 and	 expect	 further	 growth	 across	 	
all	 of	 our	 businesses.
We	 will	 also	 drive	 forward	 on	 other	 service	
growth	 initiatives.	 I	 want	 to	 see	 more	 business	
units	 providing	 managed	 services	 for	
enterprises	 and	 our	 social	 telecoms	 services	
for	 governments	 will	 also	 be	 a	 key	 priority.	
That	 said,	 I	 am	 determined	 we	 do	 not	 relax	
our	 ‘do	 it	 better’	 strategy	 –	 cost	 discipline	 and	
effi ciency	 remain	 central	 to	 the	 way	 we	 work.
We’ll	 also	 continue	 to	 pursue	 opportunities	 to	
reshape	 our	 Group,	 building	 on	 areas	 of	 strength,	
as	 we	 did	 with	 the	 acquisition	 of	 a	 controlling	
stake	 in	 the	 Bahamas	 Telecommunications	
Company	 (BTC),	 the	 leading	 operator	 in	 The	
Bahamas.	 We	 will	 also	 exit	 from	 businesses	
that	 no	 longer	 make	 sense	 to	 us,	 as	 we	 did	
last	 year	 from	 Bermuda.
How important were the decisions to 
sell the business in Bermuda and invest 
in The Bahamas? 
Both	 transactions	 showed	 our	 commitment	
to	 bring	 more	 focus	 to	 the	 Group.	 BTC	 in	 The	
Bahamas	 is	 a	 business	 that	 plays	 to	 our	 strengths.	
Chief Executive, 
T ony Rice shares 
his thoughts on 
the performance  
of Cable & Wireless 
Communications  
over the past year. 
Revenue
EBITDA
Operating cash flow
	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 07 Our strategy comprises three key priorities 
– do it better, service growth, and building 
regional hubs. We pursue these across each of 
our four business units, taking account of the 
local conditions and competitive landscape.  
Our strategy
Strategic priorities Strategy in action Key growth areas 
01
Do it better
‘Do it better’ is about continual improvement 
of our existing operations. Our focus is on 
growing margins through better management 
of processes and costs and through building 
a culture of constant improvement amongst 
our colleagues. Examples of ‘do it better’ 
include improvement of our networks, our 
customer service and promotional activities, 
as well as more transformational changes 
such as mobile tower sharing. 
Upgraded Panama networks
Upgraded	 and	 expanded	 our	 mobile	 network	
in	 Panama,	 increasing	 capacity	 and	 coverage	
to	 handle	 the	 growing	 demand	 for	 mobile	
data	 services.
Macau e-services portal
Launched	 an	 online	 portal	 for	 customers,	
available	 24	 hours	 a	 day,	 reducing	 operating	
costs	 and	 improving	 customer	 experience.	
The	 portal	 provides	 customers	 with	 up	 to	 date	
billing	 information,	 payment	 facilities	 and	 the	
ability	 to	 change	 services	 or	 select	 new	 ones.
Caribbean customer experience
Customer	 satisfaction	 surveys	 indicate	
a	 strong	 improvement	 in	 the	 customer	
service	 delivered	 by	 our	 teams	 in	 our	
contact	 centres	 and	 retail	 shops.	 Innovative	
customer	 experience	 programmes	 are	
being	 undertaken	 including	 ‘Eleanor’s	
Shoes’,	 in	 which	 staff	 ‘step	 into	 the	
shoes’	 of	 a	 customer.
Mobile data
Mobile	 data	 demand	 is	 reaching	 	
a	 critical	 mass	 in	 several	 of	 our	
businesses.	 Smartphone	 proliferation	
and	 mobile	 broadband	 dongles,	 coupled	
with	 increased	 network	 capacity	 have	
substantially	 increased	 the	 services	
available	 on	 mobile	 devices.	 Industry	
estimates	 show	 mobile	 data	 traffic 	 more	
than	 doubled	 in	 2010.	 Traffic 	 is	 predicted	
to	 grow	 26-fold	 between	 2010	 and	 2015.*
Managed Services & Social Telecoms
Demand	 for	 managed	 services	 –	 where	
telecoms	 operators	 install	 and	 manage	
telecoms	 systems	 –	 is	 increasing	 as	 the	
communication	 needs	 of	 large	 companies	
grow.	 Strong	 local	 knowledge	 and	
capability	 in	 our	 markets,	 coupled	 with	
our	 growing	 expertise	 in	 providing	 these	
services,	 position	 us	 strongly	 to	 win	 more	
business.	 In	 the	 public	 sector,	 governments	
are	 also	 seeking	 to	 improve	 services	 and	
reduce	 budgets	 by	 introducing	 the	 social	
telecoms	 services	 we	 specialise	 in.	 There	
are	 clear	 opportunities	 for	 our	 successful	
social	 telecoms	 services	 in	 Panama	 to	 be	
adapted	 across	 the	 rest	 of	 the	 portfolio.
Carrier Services
Demand	 for	 faster,	 higher	 bandwidth	
telecoms	 capacity	 is	 creating	
opportunities	 for	 our	 business	 to	 build	
subsea	 cable	 infrastructure	 in	 existing	 and	
new	 territories.	 We	 have	 extensive	 cable	
systems	 in	 the	 world’s	 fastest	 growing	
subsea	 cable	 market	 between	 the	 US	 and	
Latin	 America.	 The	 size	 of	 this	 regional	
market	 is	 forecast	 to	 grow	 substantially	
in	 the	 years	 to	 come.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
*	 Cisco	 Visual	 Networking	 Index:	 Global	 Mobile	 Data	
Traffic 	 forecast	 update,	 2010-2015
02
Service growth
Introducing new products and services to 
meet customer demand is fundamental to 
our success. We are introducing value added 
products to our existing services such as 
mobile data, as well as competing in new 
markets, for example pay TV, enterprise 
services and social telecoms. Expanding 
our services creates new areas of growth,  
and helps to consolidate our position in 
existing businesses.  
Social telecoms
Selected	 by	 Panama’s	 2nd	 Judicial	 District	
(Coclé	 province)	 to	 provide	 a	 new	 IT	 and	
communications	 platform,	 which	 will	 improve	
the	 transparency	 and	 efficiency 	 of	 the	 district	
criminal	 justice	 system.
Mobile data in Macau
Introduced	 new	 data	 packages	 and	
smartphones	 (particularly	 Apple’s	 iPhone	 4)	
prompting	 a	 surge	 in	 customer	 demand.	
Smartphones	 now	 account	 for	 more	 than	
80%	 of	 new	 handset	 sales,	 and	 data	 usage	
leapt	 over	 the	 2010/11	 year.
Maldives broadband cable
New	 cable	 system	 commissioned	 to	 run	
from	 north	 to	 south	 of	 the	 Maldives,	
increasing	 access	 to	 high	 speed	
broadband	 and	 social	 telecoms	 services	
across	 the	 country’s	 atolls.	 The	 1,017km	
cable	 will	 provide	 service	 across	 100	 of	
the	 country’s	 inhabited	 islands.
Jamaica mobile TV
Breakthrough	 mobile	 service	 launched	 in	
Jamaica,	 allowing	 customers	 to	 watch	 TV	
programmes	 on	 their	 mobile	 (see	 case	
study	 in	 Caribbean	 section).
03
Building regional hubs
Our strategy is to expand the business in 
areas where we have strength and scale, 
developing ‘hubs’. In a broad portfolio of 
businesses, we can also take advantage 
of opportunities to realise value from 
operations where we are no longer the 
best long-term owner. We are committed 
to reshaping our Group to generate best 
value for our shareholders.  
The Bahamas
In	 April	 2011,	 we	 acquired	 51%	 of	 the	
Bahamas	 Telecommunications	 Company	
(BTC)	 in	 a	 Government	 privatisation.	
BTC	 became	 the	 14th	 operation	 of	 our	
Caribbean	 business,	 and	 will	 benefit	 from	
our	 scale	 in	 the	 region.
Bermuda disposal
Bermuda	 business	 sold	 for	 US$70	 million,	
as	 it	 could	 not	 be	 developed	 into	 a	 	
full	 service	 operation.
Africa relaunch
Rebranded	 and	 reorganised	 two	 African	
businesses,	 Connecteo	 and	 Divona,	
into	 a	 single	 entity,	 named	 Afinis	
Communications.	 Afinis’	 focus	 is	 to	 target	
enterprise	 business	 across	 Africa,	 utilising	
satellite	 and	 IP	 networks.
El Salvador
We	 are	 set	 to	 extend	 our	 services	 beyond	
Panama’s	 borders,	 having	 been	 selected	
to	 provide	 a	 ‘911’	 emergency	 service	
platform	 for	 the	 Government	 of	 El	
Salvador	 in	 April	 2011.	 The	 El	 Salvador	
service	 will	 be	 similar	 to	 the	 successful	
911	 emergency	 services	 platform	 we	
installed	 and	 manage	 in	 Panama.
 “Our strategy is designed 
to ensure each of our 
business units captures 
emerging growth 
opportunities in their 
respective markets.”
Tony Rice
Chief Executive
08	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Introduction Strategic priorities Strategy in action Key growth areas 
Do it better
‘Do it better’ is about continual improvement 
of our existing operations. Our focus is on 
growing margins through better management 
of processes and costs and through building 
a culture of constant improvement amongst 
our colleagues. Examples of ‘do it better’ 
include improvement of our networks, our 
customer service and promotional activities, 
as well as more transformational changes 
such as mobile tower sharing. 
Upgraded Panama networks
Upgraded	 and	 expanded	 our	 mobile	 network	
in	 Panama,	 increasing	 capacity	 and	 coverage	
to	 handle	 the	 growing	 demand	 for	 mobile	
data	 services.
Macau e-services portal
Launched	 an	 online	 portal	 for	 customers,	
available	 24	 hours	 a	 day,	 reducing	 operating	
costs	 and	 improving	 customer	 experience.	
The	 portal	 provides	 customers	 with	 up	 to	 date	
billing	 information,	 payment	 facilities	 and	 the	
ability	 to	 change	 services	 or	 select	 new	 ones.
Caribbean customer experience
Customer	 satisfaction	 surveys	 indicate	
a	 strong	 improvement	 in	 the	 customer	
service	 delivered	 by	 our	 teams	 in	 our	
contact	 centres	 and	 retail	 shops.	 Innovative	
customer	 experience	 programmes	 are	
being	 undertaken	 including	 ‘Eleanor’s	
Shoes’,	 in	 which	 staff	 ‘step	 into	 the	
shoes’	 of	 a	 customer.
Mobile data
Mobile	 data	 demand	 is	 reaching	 	
a	 critical	 mass	 in	 several	 of	 our	
businesses.	 Smartphone	 proliferation	
and	 mobile	 broadband	 dongles,	 coupled	
with	 increased	 network	 capacity	 have	
substantially	 increased	 the	 services	
available	 on	 mobile	 devices.	 Industry	
estimates	 show	 mobile	 data	 traffic 	 more	
than	 doubled	 in	 2010.	 Traffic 	 is	 predicted	
to	 grow	 26-fold	 between	 2010	 and	 2015.*
Managed Services & Social Telecoms
Demand	 for	 managed	 services	 –	 where	
telecoms	 operators	 install	 and	 manage	
telecoms	 systems	 –	 is	 increasing	 as	 the	
communication	 needs	 of	 large	 companies	
grow.	 Strong	 local	 knowledge	 and	
capability	 in	 our	 markets,	 coupled	 with	
our	 growing	 expertise	 in	 providing	 these	
services,	 position	 us	 strongly	 to	 win	 more	
business.	 In	 the	 public	 sector,	 governments	
are	 also	 seeking	 to	 improve	 services	 and	
reduce	 budgets	 by	 introducing	 the	 social	
telecoms	 services	 we	 specialise	 in.	 There	
are	 clear	 opportunities	 for	 our	 successful	
social	 telecoms	 services	 in	 Panama	 to	 be	
adapted	 across	 the	 rest	 of	 the	 portfolio.
Carrier Services
Demand	 for	 faster,	 higher	 bandwidth	
telecoms	 capacity	 is	 creating	
opportunities	 for	 our	 business	 to	 build	
subsea	 cable	 infrastructure	 in	 existing	 and	
new	 territories.	 We	 have	 extensive	 cable	
systems	 in	 the	 world’s	 fastest	 growing	
subsea	 cable	 market	 between	 the	 US	 and	
Latin	 America.	 The	 size	 of	 this	 regional	
market	 is	 forecast	 to	 grow	 substantially	
in	 the	 years	 to	 come.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
*	 Cisco	 Visual	 Networking	 Index:	 Global	 Mobile	 Data	
Traffic 	 forecast	 update,	 2010-2015
Service growth
Introducing new products and services to 
meet customer demand is fundamental to 
our success. We are introducing value added 
products to our existing services such as 
mobile data, as well as competing in new 
markets, for example pay TV, enterprise 
services and social telecoms. Expanding 
our services creates new areas of growth,  
and helps to consolidate our position in 
existing businesses.  
Social telecoms
Selected	 by	 Panama’s	 2nd	 Judicial	 District	
(Coclé	 province)	 to	 provide	 a	 new	 IT	 and	
communications	 platform,	 which	 will	 improve	
the	 transparency	 and	 effi ciency	 of	 the	 district	
criminal	 justice	 system.
Mobile data in Macau
Introduced	 new	 data	 packages	 and	
smartphones	 (particularly	 Apple’s	 iPhone	 4)	
prompting	 a	 surge	 in	 customer	 demand.	
Smartphones	 now	 account	 for	 more	 than	
80%	 of	 new	 handset	 sales,	 and	 data	 usage	
leapt	 over	 the	 2010/11	 year.
Maldives broadband cable
New	 cable	 system	 commissioned	 to	 run	
from	 north	 to	 south	 of	 the	 Maldives,	
increasing	 access	 to	 high	 speed	
broadband	 and	 social	 telecoms	 services	
across	 the	 country’s	 atolls.	 The	 1,017km	
cable	 will	 provide	 service	 across	 100	 of	
the	 country’s	 inhabited	 islands.
Jamaica mobile TV
Breakthrough	 mobile	 service	 launched	 in	
Jamaica,	 allowing	 customers	 to	 watch	 TV	
programmes	 on	 their	 mobile	 (see	 case	
study	 in	 Caribbean	 section).
Building regional hubs
Our strategy is to expand the business in 
areas where we have strength and scale, 
developing ‘hubs’. In a broad portfolio of 
businesses, we can also take advantage 
of opportunities to realise value from 
operations where we are no longer the 
best long-term owner. We are committed 
to reshaping our Group to generate best 
value for our shareholders.  
The Bahamas
In	 April	 2011,	 we	 acquired	 51%	 of	 the	
Bahamas	 Telecommunications	 Company	
(BTC)	 in	 a	 Government	 privatisation.	
BTC	 became	 the	 14th	 operation	 of	 our	
Caribbean	 business,	 and	 will	 benefit	 from	
our	 scale	 in	 the	 region.
Bermuda disposal
Bermuda	 business	 sold	 for	 US$70	 million,	
as	 it	 could	 not	 be	 developed	 into	 a	 	
full	 service	 operation.
Africa relaunch
Rebranded	 and	 reorganised	 two	 African	
businesses,	 Connecteo	 and	 Divona,	
into	 a	 single	 entity,	 named	 Afinis	
Communications.	 Afinis’	 focus	 is	 to	 target	
enterprise	 business	 across	 Africa,	 utilising	
satellite	 and	 IP	 networks.
El Salvador
We	 are	 set	 to	 extend	 our	 services	 beyond	
Panama’s	 borders,	 having	 been	 selected	
to	 provide	 a	 ‘911’	 emergency	 service	
platform	 for	 the	 Government	 of	 El	
Salvador	 in	 April	 2011.	 The	 El	 Salvador	
service	 will	 be	 similar	 to	 the	 successful	
911	 emergency	 services	 platform	 we	
installed	 and	 manage	 in	 Panama.
	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 09 Panama
Mobile Fixed line Broadband Entertainment Data centres  
& hosting
Managed 
services
Business review
Women across Panama’s 
communities can now get 
regular mammograms thanks 
to the telemammography 
service provided by  
Cable & Wireless Panama.
10 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review Our Panama business is the market leader in 
mobile, fixed line and broadband in this growing 
country of 3.5 million people. We are also a major 
provider of services to companies and governments. 
Our new pay TV service can be bundled with 
broadband and fixed line services, providing 
a triple play offer for customers.
 “We have launched the first telemammography 
network in Latin America, building upon our 
teleradiology network. This will reduce the 
time it takes to diagnose patients and ensure 
more women receive preventative testing. 
We are proud to have developed this service.” 
Jorge Nicolau 
Chief Executive Officer, Panama 
 1 0%
The percentage of women aged 
over 40 – the most at risk group 
for breast cancer – who were 
scanned prior to the launch of 
the telemammography network
 30%
The percentage of women 
over 40 who now have access 
to screenings as a result of the 
telemammography network
  Cable & Wireless Communications 1 1 2010/11 at a glance:
 Maintained mobile market 
share above 50%
 Achieved 16% market share for pay TV 
 69% of postpaid customers 
now using mobile data
 Enterprise revenue increased by 10%
 Enterprise and social telecoms projects 
continue to drive growth
 “Panama is one of the most advanced countries 
in Central America in the use of data services. 
Mobile data usage drove mobile revenue 
growth last year. Prepaid customers embraced 
initiatives such as new mobile data plans, 
whilst two-thirds of postpaid customers now 
use mobile data.”
Jorge Nicolau 
Chief Executive Officer, Panama
Business review
Panama
Our brands
12 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review increases its drive to be the region’s  
business and travel hub exploiting the  
Panama Canal’s position as a centre of 
commerce and services. 
Panama has vigorous competition 
in both mobile and fixed telecoms. Mobile 
competition is expected to remain challenging 
next year with four operators competing and 
the possible introduction of mobile number 
portability. However, the growth of mobile 
data in 2010/11 points to strong potential 
for further growth in 2011/12. We expect 
customers to continue signing up for 
smartphones and data plans. 
We will continue extending our pay TV 
network next year focusing on reaching 
more districts of Panama City and key 
locations nationwide. Simultaneously, we 
are restructuring our sales and marketing 
structure to focus on increasing the number 
of customers taking triple play packages. 
Our social telecoms services will continue 
to be an important driver of growth. We 
have recently been selected to provide 
El Salvador’s police service with a 911 
emergency response system, our first 
opportunity to roll out the platform we 
use in Panama to another market.
Together, broadband and pay TV revenue 
grew by 21% – the second consecutive 
year of double digit growth. 
Another strong area of growth was in the 
provision of services for enterprises, with 
revenue increasing by 10% after a slower 
year in 2009/10. 
Our Panama business is a leader in both 
our Group and its region in providing social 
telecoms. Adding to the services we already 
provide in healthcare (telemedicine), law and 
order (CCTV surveillance) and education, we 
signed a contract last year to help modernise 
the technology used in Panama’s court 
system in Coclé province. 
We were also recognised again for our  
high level of colleague engagement. The 
consultancy group Gallup awarded us its 
‘Gallup Great Workplace’ award – based 
entirely on employee feedback – for the  
third time. We are one of only 29 businesses 
in the world to receive the accolade this year. 
Outlook
Panama’s economy continues to grow rapidly 
with GDP increasing at a rate of 7.5% in 2010. 
It is expected to continue growing strongly 
for the next five years as the country 
Performance
Our Panama business, which trades as Cable 
& Wireless Panama, competed strongly in 
2010/11, maintaining market leadership 
across our key products of mobile, fixed line 
and broadband, expanding our pay TV business 
and further broadening our social telecoms 
(telecoms-enabled public services) platform. 
Despite intense mobile competition, our 
+Movil business held market share above 
50%. Mobile revenue grew, supported by 
increased data revenue. In particular, prepaid 
customers embraced initiatives such as new 
mobile data plans. Two-thirds of postpaid 
customers now use mobile data.
Our pay TV business, branded +TV Digital, 
grew to 44,200 customers, a 16% market 
share – an excellent achievement given it 
launched in December 2009. A third of 
subscribers now have a triple play package, 
including broadband and fixed voice. 
We launched a fibre broadband service last 
year, increasing the maximum download 
speed available in parts of the country up to 
25 megabits per second (Mbps). Less than a 
quarter of homes in Panama have broadband 
at present, providing a strong opportunity to 
grow this service. 
Increase in total 
active mobile 
customers from 
2.46 million to 
2.53 million
Increase in 
broadband and 
pay TV revenue 
to US$57m
Performance overview
2010/11 2009/10
Revenue US$623m US$621m
Gross margin 68% 70%
EBITDA US$276m US$283m
Capital expenditure US$(106)m US$(94)m
Mobile customers 2.53m 2.46m
Mobile ARPU US$11.0 US$12.4
The development of  
a telemammography 
network by our Panama 
business is an example  
of how telecoms 
technology can enhance 
public services and 
standards of living.
Early diagnosis is vital to 
reducing breast cancer 
deaths. In Panama, only 
one in ten women aged 
over 40 – the most at 
risk group for this disease 
– had annual screenings; 
sharing x-ray plates 
between doctors was 
cumbersome and the 
limited number of 
specialists was causing 
backlogs in diagnosis. 
Now digital 
mammograms can be 
shared securely between 
hospital departments, 
and with specialists in 
hospitals overseas. We 
have also automated the 
appointments process, 
reducing waiting lists,  
and working on a service 
to visit women living in 
rural areas. 
The telemammography 
network is expected to 
help around 100,000 
Panamanian women to 
access better medical 
care and will lead to 
the early detection of 
problems which will 
save lives. 
03
 Strategy 
in action: 
Improving 
cancer 
treatment
  Cable & Wireless Communications 13 Macau
Mobile Fixed line Broadband Data centres  
& hosting
Managed 
services
Business review
CTM launched the iPhone 
in late November 2010.
14 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review Our Macau business, operating as CTM,  
is the only full service operator in its market 
offering customers mobile, fixed line and 
broadband as well as enterprise services.  
It continues to lead the market in providing  
the highest quality service and driving the 
development of Macau.
 “The mobile penetration rate in Macau is one 
of the highest in the world. 83% of our mobile 
customers use 3G and we have maintained 
our leading position despite keen competition 
in this market.” 
Vandy Poon
Chief Executive Officer, Macau 
 22 1 %
The mobile penetration rate 
in Macau at the end of 2010/11. 
In other words, an average of 
over two phones per person 
 86%
Smartphones comprised 86% 
of handset sales in the fourth 
quarter of 2010/11
  Cable & Wireless Communications 15 2010/11 at a glance:
 Revenue increased by 19%, EBITDA up 8%
 Mobile revenue increased by 37%, 
driven by data revenue and handset sales
 One-third of mobile customers are now 
on data plans
 Launched 100 Mbps fibre broadband 
network
 Macau GDP grew by 26% in real terms
 “October 2011 is the 30th anniversary of CTM’ s 
establishment. Over the last 23 years it has 
been an honour to have witnessed the many 
important milestones we have achieved,  
which are closely linked to the development  
of our community.” 
Vandy Poon
Chief Executive Officer, Macau
Business review
Macau
Our brands
16 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review In the near future, competition is expected 
to be introduced within Macau’s broadband 
and fixed line markets. We are preparing 
our business for competition by focusing 
on service quality and extending our fibre 
broadband network to all Macau homes 
over the next two years. We are also actively 
developing a range of multimedia services – 
like video over broadband – to encourage 
customers to move to the premium 
broadband product. 
We have the fastest mobile broadband service, 
but will increase download speeds again next 
year. Our mobile data customers will also 
continue to grow as penetration of smartphones 
and available mobile data services grows. 
There is also significant opportunity to 
provide mobile services to Macau’s thriving 
tourist market. 
Continued infrastructure development offers 
opportunities to win more managed services 
contracts from the gaming, banking and 
public sectors. 
Our Macau business celebrates its 30th year 
of operation in 2011 and is well positioned to 
tackle the challenges ahead and to explore 
more opportunities for development. 
for 86% of all handset sales in the fourth  
quarter – we introduced the iPhone 4 in late 
November. Over 80% of customers are now 
using 3G services. 
We increased the download speed of our 
mobile broadband service to up to 21 Mbps 
last year, the fastest available in Macau.
There was also strong demand for fixed 
broadband, with revenue increasing by 18%. 
Last year we launched our fibre broadband 
network (see case study below), one of the 
fastest residential networks anywhere in  
the world.
Involvement in several large infrastructure 
projects underlines our strength in delivering 
enterprise and managed services. We installed 
the Government’s free WiFi network, covering 
a number of public buildings in Macau, and  
also fulfilled a US$30 million contract for  
the installation of infrastructure in the Galaxy 
Macau, one of the world’s largest casino resorts. 
Outlook
The Macau economy is expected to continue 
expanding. Our business will benefit from that 
growth, but will also have to manage labour 
and skills shortages. 
Performance
Our Macau business, branded as CTM, had 
an exemplary year in 2010/11 with strong 
economic growth in the territory powering 
increases in revenue and earnings. 
Macau’s gross domestic product (GDP) rose 
by 26% in 2010, driven by growth in tourism 
and gaming. Visitor arrivals rose to 25 million 
people, the majority of whom were leisure 
tourists visiting Macau’s 33 casinos. Casino 
gaming turnover rose by 57% in 2010. 
Construction of more casinos and tourist 
facilities further drove economic growth. 
Construction growth is set to continue in 
2011, with the Government planning  
several infrastructure projects and more 
social housing. 
Our business benefited from the strong 
economy with revenue growing 19% to 
US$377 million, and EBITDA rising 8% to 
US$153 million.
Our mobile business performed impressively. 
Revenue increased 37% to US$178 million. 
Despite competition from three other 
operators, we remain the market leader and 
increased mobile customers by 4% last year. 
Mobile data was an important factor in  
this growth with smartphones accounting  
Increase in total 
active mobile 
customers to 
402,000
Macau is the largest 
gaming market in 
the world, with 
visitor arrivals 
increasing by 15% 
in 2010 to 25 million
Performance overview
2010/11 2009/10
Revenue US$377m US$316m
Gross margin 55% 60%
EBITDA US$153m US$142m
Capital expenditure US$(25)m US$(31)m
Mobile customers 402,000 387,000
Mobile ARPU US$19.9 US$17.2
We specialise in delivering 
world class technology to 
communities in which we 
operate. In July 2010 our 
Macau business launched 
one of the fastest 
residential broadband 
services in the world.
Macau is a technologically 
sophisticated market. 
Computer usage is high 
and almost all households 
access the internet 
through broadband. 
This was therefore an ideal 
location for a super fast 
broadband service. Our 
fibre to the home (FTTH) 
broadband – offering 
download speeds of 
100 Mbps – is supporting 
customers wanting to use 
high bandwidth services 
such as downloading films 
and online gaming. It will 
also ensure that families 
can operate several 
wireless enabled  
devices simultaneously  
in the home. 
Our investment in FTTH 
delivery will provide the 
infrastructure to support 
the long-term economic 
development of Macau, 
and our business. 
03
 Strategy 
in action: 
World class 
fibre broadband
  Cable & Wireless Communications 17 Caribbean
Mobile Fixed line Broadband Entertainment Data centres  
& hosting
Managed 
services
Business review
Increased demand for 
capacity from people across 
the Caribbean will be met by 
our continued investment in 
undersea cable systems.
18 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review Our business in the Caribbean – operating under 
the brand LIME – is a full service telecoms provider 
serving communities across 14 countries. In April 
2011 we expanded our business via an acquisition  
in The Bahamas, where we offer fixed, mobile and 
broadband services. 
 “In February, we completed the installation  
of our new East-West undersea cable system 
linking Jamaica, the British Virgin Islands and 
the Dominican Republic. The East-West cable 
is a valuable addition to our carrier network, 
increasing the capability and service LIME 
provides to our carrier customers throughout 
the Americas and the Caribbean.”
David Shaw
Chief Executive Officer, Caribbean
x3
The East-West cable more than 
tripled the available capacity 
into the Dominican Republic
 25 years
LIME signed a 25-year 
agreement to act as the strategic 
landing partner in Jamaica for 
a cable also linking Cuba and 
Venezuela
  Cable & Wireless Communications 19 2010/11 at a glance:
 Launched Caribbean’ s first mobile 
TV service
 Enterprise, data and other revenue 
grew 11% 
 Economic conditions remain 
challenging
 Acquired 51% of Bahamas 
Telecommunications Company  
(BTC) in April 2011
 4G mobile networks to be launched 
in region in 2011/12
 “Our acquisition of a 51% shareholding in  
BTC will diversify our business. BTC is a 
full service operator which has exclusivity 
on mobile services until at least 2014. We 
will begin the process of restructuring the 
business to ensure it can expand and grow.” 
David Shaw 
Chief Executive Officer, Caribbean
Business review
Caribbean
Our Caribbean business 
unit includes operations 
in 14 islands:
• Anguilla
• Antigua and Barbuda
• Barbados
• The Bahamas
• British Virgin Islands
• Cayman Islands
• Dominica
• Grenada
• Jamaica
• Montserrat
• St Kitts and Nevis
• St Lucia
• St Vincent and 
the Grenadines
• Turks and Caicos
LIME is also licensed to provide 
services to telecom operators in 
the Dominican Republic and is the 
strategic landing partner in Jamaica 
for a cable linking Venezuela and 
Cuba. As part of that agreement our 
Group transits data for the cable’s 
owners between Cuba and Europe. 
Our brand
20 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review We will begin the process of restructuring 
BTC and integrating it into our regional 
business. We plan to upgrade BTC’s networks 
and introduce new services for customers. 
We will incur some restructuring and 
integration costs – expected to be 
approximately US$60 million - but will 
move the business to a more efficient 
footing longer term.
We will be pushing hard for a change to 
the regulatory environment in Jamaica, 
our largest market. We plan to expand our 
network to increase access to our mobile  
TV and 3G services, but without a significant 
change to the regulatory environment 
conditions will remain difficult. We expect 
mobile competition will remain intense. 
In order to maintain market and technology 
leadership, we plan to introduce 4G mobile 
services over the next 18 months in all 
markets except Jamaica, which already has 
a 3G mobile network.
We will also continue to upgrade broadband 
networks and make preparations to launch 
pay TV services.
Our focus remains on winning in our markets, 
and driving for better financial performance 
as economic growth returns. We are confident 
we have the right strategy, but economic 
challenges mean that financial progress will 
take time.
Mobile revenue increased in the second  
half of the year, reflecting growth in data 
usage. This was aided by the expansion  
of our Jamaican 3G network. Overall,  
mobile revenue declined in the year by  
6%, reflecting the economic conditions. 
We undertook a high-profile refresh of our 
LIME brand, accompanied in Jamaica by a 
strategy to recapture market share, and the 
launch of mobile TV (see case study below). 
There was increased competition in the sale  
of broadband services, particularly in Jamaica, 
but we continued investing to improve our 
networks and increase overall broadband 
penetration. We upgraded Jamaica’s broadband 
network to offer higher speeds and better 
performance and launched a next generation 
network in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 
Enterprise, data and other revenues grew 11%. 
We won a number of significant contracts, 
including an agreement to supply mobile 
services to 21,000 members of Jamaica’s 
National Council of Taxi Associations.
Outlook
While some economies in the region are 
improving, we do not expect market conditions 
to be significantly better in 2011/12. 
Performance
Our Caribbean business, which trades as 
LIME, made operational progress in a very 
tough economic environment last year and, 
in April 2011, expanded into The Bahamas. 
The economic climate in the Caribbean 
remained difficult. Tourism is the main 
industry for most of our territories and while 
tourist numbers increased in some islands, 
there has not been a broad based recovery. 
This contributed to a decline in revenue of 
3% and in EBITDA of 15%.
Our acquisition of a 51% shareholding in  
BTC will diversify our business. BTC is a 
full service operator which has exclusivity  
on mobile services until at least 2014. 
Our carrier business also helped us reach 
different markets. We completed the 
East-West cable connecting Jamaica in the 
west to the British Virgin Islands in the east, 
with a landing in the Dominican Republic, a 
new market for LIME. We also became the 
official landing partner in Jamaica for a cable 
between Cuba and Venezuela, providing  
a crucial telecoms link for Cuba to our 
international subsea cable network.
Performance overview
2010/11 2009/10
Revenue US$850m US$873m
Gross margin 72% 74%
EBITDA US$229m US$270m
Capital expenditure US$(140)m US$(114)m
Mobile customers 1.29m 1.27m
Mobile ARPU US$19.3 US$21.3
Increase in enterprise, 
data and other 
revenue in 2010/11
The launch of a mobile 
TV service in Jamaica has 
revitalised our LIME brand 
and won the hearts of 
customers.
Developed in partnership 
with a local Jamaican 
company, LIME Mobile TV 
provides customers with 
access to several popular 
free-to-air channels as 
well as pay per view 
content. A mobile TV 
handset is needed to 
access the service. 
The service enables 
customers to watch their 
favourite programmes 
wherever they are as well 
as being adaptable to a 
home TV via a plug-in.
The service was launched 
in December 2010 with 
a series of exclusive 
broadcasts of music 
concerts and sporting 
events – leading to 
queues outside our 
Jamaican stores. Mobile 
TV has created a strong 
‘buzz’ in Jamaica, which 
we intend to build upon. 
03
 Strategy 
in action: 
Television 
revolution!
  Cable & Wireless Communications 21 Monaco 
& Islands
Mobile Fixed line Broadband Entertainment Data centres  
& hosting
Managed 
services
Business review
Our customers are no 
longer tied to their desks 
thanks to investments in 
mobile broadband services 
across M&I’s business. 
22 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review Monaco & Islands (M&I) is a portfolio business 
operating in territories within Europe, the Middle 
East, Africa and the Indian and Atlantic oceans. We 
are the market leader in most of the markets where 
we operate and in most of the services we provide. 
 “Monaco Telecom helped to play a vital role 
in the principality’ s digital switchover. Our 
new TV and broadband services will ensure 
Monaco’ s residents receive the highest 
quality communications services available.”
Denis Martin
Chief Executive Officer, Monaco & Islands
 1 0,700
Number of pay TV 
subscribers in Monaco
1 8,600
Number of mobile broadband 
customers in the Maldives  
at 31 March 2011. We have 
launched similar services 
across the Monaco & Islands 
business
FREE 
calls and 
texts 24/7  
Sign up to Sure Friends  
and you can call and text 
3 Sure numbers for FREE 
whenever you like for  
as long as you like. 
Switching is easy and you  
can keep your number
Visit www.surecw.com/friends
Terms and conditions apply see www.surecw.com for details. Free calls and texts are only to Sure mobile customers on the Sure network. Minimum top up £5 per week for pay as you go customers.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 23 Business review
Monaco & Islands
2010/11 at a glance:
 6% like-for-like growth in mobile revenue
 Bermuda business divested
 Relaunched our African operations 
as Afinis Communications
 Launched IPTV service in Monaco
 Monaco Telecom will focus on selling 
quad-play bundles in 2012
 “Monaco & Islands remains a diverse business, 
with a mix of mature, strongly performing 
businesses and high energy start-ups. We are 
well positioned for future growth.”
Denis Martin 
Chief Executive Officer, Monaco & Islands 
The Monaco & Islands 
business unit operates 
through four regional 
businesses:
• Monaco – Monaco 
Telecom and Monaco 
Telecom International, 
which invests in and 
provides services 
to telecoms operators 
in markets including 
Afghanistan (Roshan), 
Africa (Afinis) and 
Kosovo (PTK)
• CIIM – the Channel 
Islands (Guernsey and 
Jersey) and Isle of Man
• Indian Ocean –  
the Maldives and 
Seychelles
• South Atlantic 
& Diego Garcia – 
the Falkland Islands, 
St Helena, Ascension 
and Diego Garcia
Within this portfolio, 
Monaco, the Maldives 
and Guernsey  
together account for 
approximately 84%  
of EBITDA.
Our brands
24 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review Our Maldives business is operating in a 
growing economy, driven by high end  
tourism. We are currently laying a new 
undersea cable across the country which will 
help us to improve provision of high speed 
internet access and launch social telecoms 
services. We expect more competition next 
year following the award of a fixed line licence 
to our mobile competitor. The results of 
the business will also be affected by the 
decision of the Government of the Maldives 
to float the local currency, the Rufiyaa, in a 
limited range.
Our Monaco business is trialling 4G mobile 
services ahead of a planned commercial 
launch in 2013. This will assist us to focus 
on continued growth of mobile data revenue. 
We will also be offering ‘quad play’ bundles 
(mobile, fixed line, broadband and pay TV) 
in 2012. 
The Guernsey business will continue to be 
challenged by strong mobile competition. 
We have already seen the impact of heavy 
discounting by competitors on our revenue. 
Nevertheless, we are well positioned to 
maintain market share, whilst continuing  
to increase mobile data revenue and grow  
our data centre and hosting business. 
M&I remains a diverse business, but  
with a mix of mature, strongly performing 
companies and high energy start-ups, it is  
well positioned for future growth.
MT’s International division (MTI) relaunched 
our African operations under the Afinis 
Communications brand, combining the 
businesses previously known as Connecteo 
and Divona. Afinis’ business model is to supply 
connectivity services to large enterprises 
through both satellite and IP delivery 
networks. MTI’s joint venture in Afghanistan, 
Roshan, also enjoyed a successful year, 
increasing its mobile subscribers by 35%. 
Our Guernsey business maintained mobile 
market share, despite aggressive competition 
from its two competitors. We also completed 
a data centre complex which now houses 
nine units and hosts data for a number of 
international online gaming clients. Our Jersey 
and Isle of Man businesses grew mobile 
market share to 27% and 28% respectively. 
Our Bermuda business was divested in March 
for US$70 million to The Bragg Group of 
Canada. The business could not be developed 
into a full service operation, so we sold it, 
receiving a good price. 
Outlook
The outlook across the portfolio is positive, 
with our key territories in Monaco, Guernsey 
and the Maldives all expecting favourable 
economic conditions.
Performance
Our Monaco & Islands (M&I) business 
delivered strong performance in 2010/11, 
further building its reputation as a reliable 
and well managed business. 
Revenue and EBITDA increased, thanks to a 
full year of contribution from our Maldives 
business which we consolidated in October 
2009. On a like-for-like basis, EBITDA was 
in line with the prior year, while revenue was 
down 1%. Across the portfolio our mobile 
revenue rose by 6% on a like-for-like basis, 
although mobile ARPU fell as a result of the 
consolidation of the Maldives business which 
has a relatively lower ARPU. 
Our Maldives business made a significant 
contribution to earnings, increasing mobile 
data revenue following the launch of a mobile 
broadband service (see case study below) and 
launching a mobile entertainment download 
portal. 
We upgraded Monaco Telecom’s (MT) 
broadband network in 2010 to provide  
30 Mbps download speeds and launched  
a video on demand IPTV service. That  
service now has more than 10,000 
customers. The MT mobile business also 
grew subscribers, particularly through 
smartphone and tablet sales. 
Performance overview
2010/11 2009/10
Revenue US$605m US$552m
Gross margin 70% 64%
EBITDA US$207m US$174m
Capital expenditure US$(77)m US$(64)m
Mobile customers 5.39m* 4.08m*
Mobile ARPU US$36.8 US$49.5
*Includes mobile subscribers of Roshan, our Afghan joint venture
Increase in mobile 
revenue on a 
like-for-like basis
Increase in 
Broadband and  
TV revenue on a 
like-for-like basis
In the Maldives  
we launched mobile 
broadband services 
last year to benefit both 
local customers and 
visiting tourists. 
The Maldives is one 
of the world’s most 
geographically dispersed 
nations, attracting high 
end tourist visitors who 
want to maintain access 
to the internet and emails 
whilst on holiday. 
We introduced a 3G+ 
mobile broadband service 
– branded TouchNet – 
in May 2010, providing 
download speeds of up 
to 7.2 Mbps. 
Mobile broadband 
enables Maldivians 
and tourists to access 
the internet wherever 
they are. TouchNet 
complements the fixed 
and wireless internet 
available in homes and 
many hotels, ensuring 
that customers can stay 
online whether on the 
move or on the beach. 
Over 18,600 customers 
signed up for 3G+ mobile 
broadband services 
last year, a clear 
demonstration of how 
we are supplying the 
right technology to meet 
demand for data services 
by our customers.
03
 Strategy 
in action: 
Mobile 
broadband
  Cable & Wireless Communications 25 Our Caribbean business, LIME, organised 
some large community events such as Skool 
Aid, a back-to-school fair for children at the 
Jamworld Centre in Portmore, Jamaica. The 
fair featured free immunisation, free dental 
checks, free hair cuts and school safety 
discussions from the police.
LIME is also sponsoring the CARIFTA 
(Caribbean Free Trade Association)  
Games for the next two years and was  
a major contributor to a Caribbean-wide 
telethon fundraiser for the victims of  
the Haiti earthquake. 
A large number of LIME colleagues 
participated in Kindness Day where good 
deeds were performed. LIME assisted over 
500 people during the day.
In Macau, fundraising events were 
undertaken, mainly for the Red Cross, to 
assist recovery efforts following mudslides in 
the Chinese provinces of Zhouqu and Gansu 
and an earthquake in the province of Sichuan. 
Macau also signed a scholarship agreement 
and internship placement programme 
with the University of Saint Joseph. This 
collaboration between the two parties  
will enhance the development of both the 
students and our employees. Macau also 
participated in the Mid-Autumn Festival,  
a community event in which people help  
the elderly and the underprivileged. 
02
	Respect 	 cultures,	 values	 and	 human	
rights	 throughout	 our	 operations
We have an active ethics programme. The 
Group has reviewed its anti-bribery policy 
in light of revised UK anti-bribery legislation.
The business units support various religious 
festivals of all denominations, as well as 
country independence celebrations. Dhiraagu 
was involved in an evening ceremony to 
celebrate the Maldives’ independence. 
Panama sponsored the parade of the 1,000 
typical dresses of the Azuero Penisula, during 
Panama’s national holidays. The Panama 
business also held its annual employee talent 
show which this year focused on the magic 
and joy of the African continent. 
In the Seychelles the business was actively 
involved in child protection week and also 
Each	 of	 our	 four	 regional	 businesses	 	
has	 developed	 its	 own	 CSR	 programme	 	
which	 complies	 with	 the	 Group’s	 four	
responsibility	 principles,	 and	 many	
have	 also	 launched	 social	 telecoms	
(telecoms-enabled	 public	 services)	
projects.	 Examples	 of	 the	 important	
work	 our	 business	 units	 have	 undertaken	
over	 the	 year	 are	 listed	 below.
01
	Contribute 	 positively	 to	 the	 social	
and	 economic	 development	 of	 the	
communities	 in	 which	 we	 operate	
The Group contributed US$1.07 million  
to charitable and community projects over  
the last year covering a variety of issues  
and activities. Our businesses also sponsored 
many events. We are extremely proud of our 
business units’ contribution to improving the 
societies in which we serve. This would not 
happen without the tremendous efforts of 
our colleagues.
Our Panama business, in partnership with 
MER Consortium, last year completed a 
US$28 million project to develop a 911 
emergency call centre in Panama. The entire 
system was developed in just five months. 
The business also continues to support the 
National Oratory Contest and is implementing 
initiatives to close the digital divide in remote 
areas, such as providing internet connectivity 
to the school of Macaracas.
Our Maldives business, Dhiraagu, donated 
telemedicine equipment to the Maldivian 
Ministry of Health and Family. The 
telemedicine system can be installed on any 
remote island and medical services to patients 
can be provided using the system through an 
internet connection to hospitals in the capital, 
Malé. Dhiraagu has also been recognised for 
its support of a Child Helpline project and  
its contribution to the development of Kuda 
Kudhinge Hiya orphanage. Dhiraagu also 
sponsored numerous events including the 
Tiny Hearts of Maldives Football Tournament, 
which raised money to support families 
affected by congenital heart defects. 
Our Falklands business supported a local 
cancer awareness charity and provided 
funding for the local end of year school 
Ball and other traditional competitions 
and festivals.
Corporate  
social responsibility
We place significant 
importance on corporate 
social responsibility  
(CSR) activities. Our CSR 
agenda underpins the 
way we operate our 
business to contribute 
positively to society.  
26 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review 04
	Seek 	 continuous	 improvement	
in	 our	 environmental	 performance
During the year we improved our 
environmental reporting techniques. We have 
contracted with an external carbon reporting 
company to monitor and report in more detail 
on our energy use. The availability of reports 
on energy consumption varies across our 
business and therefore, we have adopted 
estimation techniques. We intend to use these 
figures as our baseline for future reporting.
We estimate our carbon footprint to be 
198,507 tonnes of CO 2e based on our 
Scope 1,2 & 3 greenhouse gas emissions.  
In particular our electricity consumption was 
200 million kWh this year and our fuel usage 
was 5.2 million litres. 
We continue to actively use high definition 
video conferencing facilities across the 
business. This helps to reduce our business 
travel requirements, but travel is still 
necessary due to our geographical spread. 
We estimate our CO 2 usage from business 
travel to be 103 tonnes of CO 2e.
The regions continue to introduce initiatives 
to reduce energy consumption. In Macau, a 
programme to replace fluorescent lights with 
LED tubes continued over the last 12 months. 
2,745 tubes have been replaced and the 
project will continue until all are LED based. 
Macau has also introduced other energy 
saving ideas including fitting time switches 
to lights so they automatically turn off out 
of hours or when an area is not being used. 
Casual dress summer was also started in 
Macau, which enabled the air conditioning 
systems to be run at slightly higher 
temperatures to reduce energy consumption.
In Diego Garcia we have looked to reduce 
energy consumption by introducing controls 
around light usage and reprogramming air 
conditioning systems to only work when 
required.
Our Panama business started a collect and 
recycle programme for disused technology 
equipment. 
Our customer billing systems continue to  
be upgraded, with e-billing promoted across 
our regions.
Whilst the Group is committed to seeking 
opportunities to reduce its carbon footprint, 
given our new reporting processes, we are 
not at this stage intending to set specific 
performance targets.
facilitated the setting up of a helpline  
to assist its Ministry of Health’s sexual  
health campaign.
Macau organised a seminar to enhance 
colleagues awareness of corruption 
prevention and integrity. They also 
participated in World Challenge Day. The 
opponent city this year was Sorocaba, Brazil. 
100 CTM colleagues exercised in the car park 
for 15 minutes to promote a healthy lifestyle.
All of our businesses promote the training  
and employment of nationals rather  
than expatriates.
03
	Nurture 	 best	 practice	 in	 our	 activities
Developing people is also important to our 
business. The business units operate colleague 
recognition schemes, notably Panama which 
holds an annual ceremony to recognise the 
achievements of high performing colleagues. 
We also actively seek new talent. In Macau 
we support the University of Macau Future 
Studies and Placement Centre by providing 
guidance on student career development.
As in previous years, we undertook a 
Group-wide Gallup employee engagement 
survey. This is the sixth survey and 85% of 
colleagues responded. Panama and Macau 
have attained a Gallup best practice ratio 
for the number of engaged to disengaged 
colleagues when compared to all the results 
contained in the Gallup worldwide database. 
Our colleagues have utilised their knowledge 
and expertise to deliver special projects over 
and above their normal daily activity. Our 
Maldivian colleagues put their technology 
knowledge to good use by providing a web 
hosting package to facilitate news updates 
for families and supporters of the Maldivian 
athletes attending the Asian Games. Our Isle 
of Man business successfully set up a text  
line during the island’s famous TT motorcycle 
races. The University of Seychelles now 
benefits from a full telecom service whilst 
Dhiraagu also upgraded internet connectivity 
to enable delegates at a large technology 
conference to have faster access.
As part of its procurement processes, the 
Group continues to review its strategic 
suppliers approach to sustainability. Cable  
& Wireless Communications is a member of 
the FTSE4Good index.
Contribute	 	
positively	 to	 the	 	
social	 and	 economic	 	
development	 of	 	
the	 communities	 	
in	 which	 we	 operate
Respect	 cultures,	
values	 and	 human	 	
rights	 throughout	 	
our	 operations
Nurture	 best	
practice	 in	 our	
activities
Seek	 continuous	
improvement	 in	 	
our	 environmental	
performance
Our priorities
01 02 03 04
1
Summary by activity
(tCO 2e)
1 Business travel 9,103
2 Company
 -owned vehicles 10,772
3 Premises 178,616
4 Long term leased
 vehicles 16
2
3
4
1
Summary by WBCSD/WRI* Scope
(tCO 2e)
*World Business Council for Sustainable Development/
 World Resources Institute.
1 Scope 1 19,547
2 Scope 2 168,720
3 Scope 3 10,240
2
3
  Cable & Wireless Communications 27  “Three of our four businesses  
performed well resulting in a  
4% increase in revenues and  
1% increase in EBITDA.”
Tim Pennington
Chief Financial Officer
28 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review Financial review
Adjusted earnings  
per share
Total operating profit up 15%  
Group	 financial	 performance	 summary
Full	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2011 Full year ended 31 March 2010
1
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items 
US$m
Total
US$m
Continuing	 operations
Revenue 2,440 – 2,440 2,346 – 2,346
Gross	 margin 1,658 – 1,658 1,617 – 1,617
Operating costs (786) 6 (780) (751) (49) (800)
EBITDA
2
872 6 878 866 (49) 817
LTIP (24) – (24) (1) – (1)
Depreciation and amortisation (321) – (321) (348) – (348)
Net other operating (expense)/income (28) – (28) 3 (33) (30)
Results of joint ventures 31 – 31 30 – 30
Total	 operating	 profit/(loss) 530 6 536 550 (82) 468
Finance income 32 – 32 23 19 42
Finance expense (140) – (140) (119) (7) (126)
Other non-operating gains/(losses) 34 – 34 (1) – (1)
Profit/(loss)	 before	 tax 456 6 462 453 (70) 383
Income tax (expense)/credit (119) 1 (118) (126) 6 (120)
Profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year	 from	 continuing	 operations 337 7 344 327 (64) 263
Discontinued operations – – – 302 (122) 180
Profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year 337 7 344 629 (186) 443
Attributable to:  
Owners of the Parent Company 189 8 197 486 (182) 304
Non-controlling interests 148 (1) 147 143 (4) 139
Continuing	 operations
Balance sheet capital expenditure (354) (310)
Cash exceptionals (29) (72)
Operating cash flow
3
489 484
Earnings per share (cents) 7.6 4.9
Adjusted earnings per share
4
 (cents) 7.2 7.6
Headcount (full time employees at period end) 7,104 7,280
1 Full year ended 31 March 2010 includes the consolidated results for the Maldives from October 2009 after control was obtained.
2 EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating and non-operating income/(expense) and exceptional items.
3 Operating cash flow is defined as EBITDA less balance sheet capital expenditure less cash exceptionals.
4 Adjusted EPS is before exceptional items, LTIP charges, gains/(losses) on disposals and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 29 Caribbean
(US$m)
Year	 ended	
31	 March	
2011
Year ended 
31 March 
2010
Change
%
Mobile 302 321 (6)
Broadband 105 99 6
Fixed voice 278 305 (9)
Enterprise, data 
and other 165 148 11
Revenue 850 873 (3)
EBITDA 229 270 (15)
Margin % 27 31
We saw little improvement in the trading 
environment in the Caribbean over the period 
and this was reflected in revenue being 3% 
lower than last year. Revenue in the second 
half was stronger than in the first, largely 
reflecting one-off transactions within the 
enterprise, data and other revenue segment.
Mobile revenue at US$302 million was 6% 
lower than last year although it was stronger 
in the second half than the first half. ARPU in 
the second half of the year improved by 3%  
as non-voice usage increased. We maintained 
our market positions and launched mobile 
TV in Jamaica which has attracted new 
customers and improved our brand 
perception. The regulatory environment in 
Jamaica continues to be a concern and we are 
taking appropriate steps so that the proposed 
merger between two mobile competitors in 
Jamaica will not further undermine the ability 
of our business to compete effectively. 
Broadband & TV revenue was 6% better than 
last year at US$105 million as ARPU across 
the region increased by 3%. Broadband 
subscribers have declined during the year  
as a result of churn, primarily in Jamaica, 
reflecting credit issues and an increasingly 
competitive environment.
Difficult market conditions and structural 
decline continue to impact fixed voice 
revenue, which fell by 9% to US$278 million. 
Subscribers continue to churn, primarily in 
Jamaica, due to affordability constraints 
resulting from the economic environment and 
lower usage from ongoing traffic substitution.
Enterprise, data and other revenue of 
US$165 million was 11% higher than last year. 
The East-West cable link between Jamaica, 
Dominican Republic and the British Virgin 
Islands was completed at the end of January 
and is already having a positive impact on the 
growth of this business line.
Gross margin fell by 5% to US$614 million, 
reflecting lower revenue and increased 
interconnect costs in Jamaica.
Operating costs of US$385 million were 
2% higher than the same period last year. The 
business was adversely impacted by increased 
utility prices and we stepped up our marketing 
expenditure to improve perception of the 
LIME brand and to support the launch of new 
services such as mobile TV.
Mobile revenue was up 1%, another 
consecutive year of growth, to US$307 million 
maintaining its market leading position. 
Subscribers grew by 3% but average revenue 
per user (ARPU) declined as promotional 
activity impacted our rate per minute, 
partially offset by non-voice revenue growth 
in the second half of the year. Non-voice 
revenue has grown by 33% on last year and 
now represents 11% of our mobile service 
revenue. Data revenue increased as we 
launched a number of programmes to 
strengthen usage and subscriber numbers, 
such as hybrid data and voice plans. 69% of 
our postpaid subscribers now have data plans.
Broadband & TV revenue grew strongly by 
21% to US$57 million, providing the second 
consecutive year of double digit growth. 
Competition and discounting on our triple-
play offering diluted the broadband ARPU  
in the year but this was partially offset by 
subscriber growth of 4%. Pay TV contributed 
well with subscribers growing to 44,200  
and we extended our network footprint to 
over 235,000 homes. Over 60% of our  
TV subscribers take additional triple-play 
services from us.
Fixed voice revenue declined by 13% to 
US$149 million largely due to competition 
in the domestic market, a further decline in 
international rates and substitution of voice 
minutes to mobile.
Enterprise, data and other revenue of 
US$110 million increased by 10% as we 
were awarded a number of large contracts 
including the provision of a national voice  
and data network for Government institutions, 
remote mammography scanning and the 
provision of a wide area network for the 
Ministry of Justice. This strong momentum 
has continued into 2011/12 and we 
announced three new large contracts in  
April  2011: a project with the Second Judicial 
District to modernise the IT systems of the 
criminal justice system; a contract to provide 
a national telecommunications network for 
the country’s Ministry of Security; and a 
contract to supply and manage an emergency 
services call system for the national police 
force in El Salvador – our first contract 
outside Panama.
Gross margin fell by 3% to US$421 million, 
largely as a result of the change in revenue  
mix and competitive pressures on mobile rates.
Operating costs at US$145 million were 3% 
lower than last year as increased marketing 
costs to support our fixed and mobile brands 
were offset by lower spend in network and 
other administrative costs.
As a result EBITDA fell 2% to US$276 million 
and EBITDA margin reduced by 2 percentage 
points to 44% in the period.
Our proportionate ownership of Panama 
EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2011 
was 49%.
Financial review
continued
Three	 out	 of	 four	 business	 units	
performed	 well	 but	 the	 continuing	 poor	
economic	 climate	 in	 the	 Caribbean	 had	 	
an	 impact	 on	 the	 overall	 Group	 results.
Revenue increased by 4% to US$2,440 
million. This reflected a very strong 
performance in Macau where we saw 
revenue increase by 19% benefiting from 
strong mobile revenue and increased 
enterprise activity and the inclusion of a full 
year consolidation of the Maldives business. 
Growth was partially offset by the Caribbean 
which continued to experience difficult 
trading in mobile and fixed line.
Group EBITDA increased by 1% to US$872 
million as strong contributions from Macau 
and Monaco & Islands (including a full year 
consolidation of the Maldives business)  
were offset by poor trading in the Caribbean.
Reported total operating profit was US$536 
million. This reflects a net exceptional credit 
of US$6 million compared to a US$82 million 
charge last year driven by the demerger  
and other restructuring costs. Profit for  
the year from continuing operations was 
US$344 million, reflecting the lower level of 
exceptional costs and the gain on the disposal 
of our business in Bermuda. Adjusted earnings 
per share were US7.2 cents and the Board  
has recommended a full year dividend of  
US8 cents per share.
On a like-for-like basis, adjusting the prior 
period by including a full year of the Maldives 
and at constant currency, revenue for the 
Group would have been 1% higher and 
EBITDA for the Group would have been 
3% lower than last year.
Panama
(US$m)
Year	 ended	
31	 March	
2011
Year ended 
31 March 
2010
Change
%
Mobile 307 303 1
Broadband 57 47 21
Fixed voice 149 171 (13)
Enterprise, data 
and other 110 100 10
Revenue 623 621 –
EBITDA 276 283 (2)
Margin % 44 46
Revenue at US$623 million was in line with 
the same period last year.
30 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review Fixed line revenue decreased to US$96 million, 
down 2% like-for-like, where in most of our 
businesses customers substituted fixed voice 
minutes with other products. Subscriber 
numbers reduced by 110,000 as we disposed 
of our principally fixed line business in Bermuda.
Enterprise, data and other revenue of US$222 
million decreased by 9% on a like-for-like basis 
as we ceased carrying low margin international 
transit traffic from Roshan in Afghanistan.
Gross margin increased to US$425 million, 
up 4% like-for-like, and gross margin as  
a percentage of revenue improved by  
four percentage points to 70% largely  
due to the loss of low margin transit traffic.
Operating costs were US$218 million, up 
9% on last year on a like-for-like basis. Costs 
were higher in the Maldives as headcount 
increased to improve the operational control 
environment of the business. We also had 
additional restructuring and rebranding 
charges for Afinis, our African business, 
and higher licence fees in Monaco.
EBITDA at US$207 million was in line with  
the prior year on a like-for-like basis.
Our proportionate ownership of Monaco  
& Islands EBITDA for the year ended  
31 March 2011 was 67%. If Bermuda had 
been excluded for the period, proportionate 
ownership would have been 66%.
After 31 March 2011, the Government of the 
Maldives announced that the currency of the 
Maldives would be allowed to float within a 
band of 20% in either direction around the 
previously fixed rate. The impact of a 20% 
devaluation of the Maldivian Rufiyaa would 
have been to reduce EBITDA by approximately 
US$14 million in 2010/11.
Bermuda	 disposal
We completed the disposal of our Bermuda 
business on 10 March 2011 for a total cash 
consideration of US$70 million. The decision 
was taken to sell the business as it was not a 
full service operation and therefore we felt  
it could not be further developed as part of 
the Group. Bermuda contributed revenue of 
US$38 million and EBITDA of US$13 million  
to the Group’s results for the period.
Other
Other includes management, royalty and 
branding fees, the costs of the London  
head office, net UK defined benefit pension 
charge and intercompany and joint venture 
eliminations. EBITDA of US$7 million was 
US$10 million higher than last year and 
included the release of provisions of 
US$8 million after re-assessing risks related 
to litigation and indirect tax provisions. The 
prior year included ‘Central costs’ of the 
former Cable and Wireless plc pre-demerger.
Joint	 ventures
Our share of profit after tax from joint 
ventures was US$31 million. Compared 
to last year, income from the Maldives was 
download speeds of up to 100 megabits  
per second (Mbps).
Fixed voice revenue of US$78 million 
decreased on last year due to mobile 
substitution effects, with subscribers  
falling by 2%.
Enterprise, data and other revenue of US$68 
million showed significant improvement, up 
15% on the same period in the prior year. 
Macau continued to win enterprise contracts 
including the installation of cabling, data 
network infrastructure and guestroom 
entertainment systems for the Galaxy casino, a 
2,200 room resort which launched this month.
Gross margin of US$206 million was 8% 
better than last year, though gross margin 
as a percentage of revenue was 6 percentage 
points lower, reflecting the impact of low 
margin mobile equipment sales in the period.
Operating costs of US$53 million were 8% 
higher than last year, largely due to increased 
costs for advertising our mobile broadband 
offering and higher staff costs to retain 
employees in the competitive local labour 
market.
EBITDA benefited from the growth in revenue 
and was 8% higher at US$153 million with an 
EBITDA margin of 41%.
Our proportionate ownership of Macau 
EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2011 
was 51%.
Monaco	 &	 Islands	 (M&I)
(US$m)
Year	 ended	
31	 March	
2011
Year ended 
31 March 
2010
Change
%
Mobile 240 177 36
Broadband 47 37 27
Fixed voice 96 91 5
Enterprise, data 
and other 222 247 (10)
Revenue 605 552 10
EBITDA 207 174 19
Margin % 34 32
Revenue increased to US$605 million. On a 
like-for-like basis, revenue was 1% lower on 
the same period last year.
Mobile revenue increased to US$240 million, 
up 6% like-for-like, driven by growth in 
non-voice revenue coupled with additional 
subscribers across the region. The Maldives 
performed particularly well as increasing 
tourist numbers resulted in higher roaming 
revenue. Mobile ARPU for M&I decreased by 
26% as we consolidated the Maldives, which 
has a relatively lower ARPU, part of the way 
through 2009/10.
Broadband & TV revenue increased to 
US$47 million, up 19% like-for-like, as most 
businesses grew subscribers compared to last 
year. Our business in the Isle of Man launched 
broadband in October to complement our 
service offering.
EBITDA of US$229 million was 15% lower 
than last year and the second half was  
in line with the first half of the year.
Our proportionate ownership of Caribbean 
EBITDA for the year ended 31 March 2011 
was 90% which will decrease to around 80% 
following the consolidation of the Bahamas 
Telecommunications Company (BTC).
Bahamas	 acquisition
On 6 April, we completed our purchase of a 
51% stake in BTC for cash consideration of 
US$210 million. The company is the exclusive 
mobile operator in The Bahamas, as well as a 
leading provider of fixed line and broadband 
services. Under the terms of the acquisition, 
the liberalisation process for the mobile 
sector will commence no sooner than three 
years after privatisation.
For the statutory year ended 31 December 
2010, the business had total unaudited 
revenues of US$343 million and EBITDA of 
US$79 million. The company at December 
2010 had approximately 388,000 mobile 
customers, 123,000 fixed line customers and 
19,000 broadband customers. The company 
is a full service provider and Bahamians  
will benefit from improved services as we 
leverage our scale and the regional Caribbean 
platform. In the short term a number of costs 
will be incurred as we restructure the business 
to improve service, network performance  
and efficiency.
Macau
(US$m)
Year	 ended	
31	 March	
2011
Year ended 
31 March 
2010
Change
%
Mobile 178 130 37
Broadband 53 45 18
Fixed voice 78 82 (5)
Enterprise, data 
and other 68 59 15
Revenue 377 316 19
EBITDA 153 142 8
Margin % 41 45
Our Macau business performed strongly, with 
revenue increasing by 19% to US$377 million.
Mobile revenue increased by 37% to 
US$178 million driven by an increase in ARPU 
as mobile non-voice usage on smartphones 
and mobile broadband increased. This growth 
was supported by higher roaming revenue 
and an increase in handset sales following the 
successful launch of the iPhone4 in November 
2010. Excluding handset sales, mobile service 
revenue was up 17%. The number of mobile 
data subscribers increased by 126% to 
78,000 at the end of March.
Broadband subscribers grew by 4% which 
together with ARPU growth as subscribers 
demanded greater bandwidth, resulted in 
broadband revenue increasing by 18%  
to US$53 million. During the period we 
introduced fibre broadband services  
to our customers in Macau, offering  
  Cable & Wireless Communications 31 effective tax rate pre-exceptional items  
for Cable & Wireless Communications for 
2010/11 to be in the range of 25% to 29%.
Profit	 for	 the	 year	 from	 continuing	
operations
Profit for the year from continuing  
operations increased from US$263 million  
to US$344 million, primarily driven by the  
full year consolidation of the Maldives in the 
current year and lower exceptional costs.
Group	 cash	 flow
1
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
EBITDA
2
872	 866 
Balance sheet capital 
expenditure (354) (310)
Operating	 cash	 flow	
before	 exceptionals 518	 556 
Movement in working 
capital and other 
provisions
3
(12) (50)
Investment income
4
17 52 
Underlying	 free	 cash	 flow 523	 558 
Fixed charges:
Income taxes paid (88) (110)
Interest paid (115) (105)
Dividends paid to non-
controlling interests 
5
(159) (156)
Underlying	 equity	 free	
cash	 flow 161	 187 
Underlying equity free 
cash flow per share: 6.2c 7.4c
Dividends paid to 
shareholders (168) (268)
Net	 cash	 flow	 before	
one-off 	 items	 and	
exceptionals (7) (81)
One-off items and 
exceptionals:
Share buyback (30) – 
Cash exceptionals (29) (72)
LTIP (9) (3)
Acquisitions and 
disposals
5
55 36 
Pension funding (149) (43)
Transfer to Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide for 
FY09/10 final dividend (117) – 
Net	 cash	 flow	 after	
one-off 	 items	 and	
exceptionals (286) (163)
Movement in share capital 
and own shares held 1	 23 
Net proceeds from 
borrowings 89	 51 
Net	 cash	 flow (196) (89)
1 Based on our management accounts.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation, LTIP, net other operating and non-
operating income/(expense) and exceptional items.
3 Includes movement in capital expenditure accruals.
4 Includes dividends received from joint ventures of 
US$9 million in 2010/11 (US$30 million in 2009/10).
5 Monaco Telecom dividend paid to minority interest of 
US$7 million in 2010/11 (US$12 million in 2009/10) 
has been reallocated to dividends paid to non-
controlling interests, but for IFRS purposes is included 
in acquisitions and disposals.
2011 was US$24 million (£15 million) of which 
£10 million remains to be paid. This was the 
final year of our five year LTIP scheme. The 
total value of the scheme over the life of the 
plan is anticipated to be £34 million.
Net	 other	 operating	 expense
US$28 million of net other operating expenses 
were incurred in 2010/11. US$17 million 
relates to the translation of the sterling based 
pension funds at the year-end exchange rate, 
the remainder relates to Caribbean hurricane 
restoration costs and transaction costs in 
respect of the acquisition in The Bahamas 
and to evaluate a potential mobile licence 
application in Costa Rica where we concluded 
that it was not in the best interests of 
shareholders to proceed with a bid. These 
expenses were partially offset by gains on the 
disposal of land and property in the Group.
Exceptional	 items
P&L
US$m
Cash
US$m
One-Caribbean (5) (6)
Legal fees 17 17
Other (2) (2)
Demerger (4) (38)
Total 6 (29)
Net operating exceptional income of 
US$6 million was recorded in 2010/11. This 
includes the receipt of US$17 million after 
successfully defending claims brought by 
a Caribbean competitor, partially offset  
by additional restructuring charges of 
US$5 million and US$2 million in the 
Caribbean and Monaco & Islands respectively. 
There were additional professional charges of 
US$4 million relating to the demerger.
Net	 finance	 expense	
The US$108 million net finance expense 
for the Group is US$12 million higher than 
2009/10 and consists of finance income of 
US$32 million (US$23 million in 2009/10) 
and finance expense of US$140 million 
(US$119 million in 2009/10). Excluding  
the unrealised foreign exchange gains of 
US$14 million this year, finance income 
reduced compared to last year due to lower 
cash balances. Interest expense increased 
year on year due to a higher level of 
borrowings and the replacement in February 
2010 of floating rate debt with a fixed rate  
US dollar denominated bond.
Net	 other	 non-operating	 income
The US$34 million net other non-operating 
income in 2010/11 primarily relates to the 
gain realised on the disposal of Bermuda.
Income	 tax	 expense	
The income tax charge of US$118 million 
(US$120 million for 2009/10) is in respect 
of overseas taxes. This charge represents  
an effective tax rate of 25.5% which is 
consistent with our 2009/10 Annual Results 
announcement in which we expected the 
consolidated for the full year and no longer 
appears under joint ventures. This reduction 
was offset by US$17 million in allowances held 
against former joint ventures that have now 
been released following the reassessment  
of these provisions. 
The Group’s share of profits after tax in TSTT 
was US$12 million lower at US$7 million. 
TSTT faced difficult economic conditions 
resulting in fixed line and mobile usage 
declines, whilst settlement of union litigation 
and increased handset subsidies to maintain 
market leadership further impacted results. 
We also saw increased levels of depreciation 
following capital investment in the network 
during the year. Our share of profits after tax 
in Roshan increased by US$9 million driven by 
revenue growth as mobile customers grew 
35%, maintaining market leadership. The 
prior year also included an impairment to 
the mobile network.
Capital	 expenditure
Capital expenditure was US$354 million, 14% 
higher than last year and representing 15% of 
revenue. Our principal investments were to 
increase our capacity and coverage footprint 
for 3G/3.5G mobile broadband and fixed 
broadband networks and capacity expansion 
of our 2G/2.5G GSM mobile networks. In the 
Caribbean our focus has been on improving 
the quality of both the mobile and fixed 
networks to support our market share  
growth strategy. We have also completed our 
investment in the East-West Cable that links 
Jamaica in the West to Tortola (BVI) in the 
East, with a spur to the Dominican Republic. 
In Panama, we have continued to invest 
capital in the roll-out of the digital pay TV 
network, complementing our existing lines of 
service. In the Maldives we have commenced 
a multi-year investment in a domestic cable 
network that will allow us to provide data 
services to a very high percentage of the 
population and to all of the tourist resorts.
Depreciation	 and	 amortisation
Depreciation and amortisation at US$321 
million was 8% lower than 2009/10 as the 
prior year included accelerated depreciation 
and asset obsolescence charges in Jamaica 
following a review of useful economic lives 
of assets.
Long	 term	 incentive	 plan	 (LTIP)	 charge
The LTIP charge for Cable & Wireless 
Communications for the year ended 31 March 
Financial review
continued
32 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review The fund assets at 31 March 2011 were 
approximately invested 69% in a bulk annuity 
policy, 16% in equities, and 5% in gilts. In 
addition, 10% of the assets were held in cash 
recently contributed by the Company and 
expected to be invested 44% in equities and 
56% in gilts. In conjunction with the prudent 
nature of the actuarial valuation (both with 
respect to investment returns and with 
respect to demographic assumptions such as 
longevity) this investment strategy has led to 
significantly reduced risk for the Company.
As at 31 March 2011, the defined benefit 
section of the CWSF had an IAS19 deficit  
of £51 million, compared to a deficit of  
£111 million as at 31 March 2010.
The decrease in the IAS19 deficit is mainly  
due to additional contributions made by the 
Company as explained above, partially offset 
by the commitment to make further deficit 
contributions between 2014 and 2016. The 
AA corporate bond rate used in the IAS19 
valuation was 5.6% compared with 5.5% at 
31 March 2010.
In July 2010, the Government announced  
its intention that future statutory minimum 
pension indexation would be measured by  
the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the 
Retail Prices Index. The Group is currently 
taking external advice in respect of the 
Government’s announcement on the 
determination of liabilities in the CWSF. 
Dependent upon the outcome, this may lead 
to a reduction in scheme liabilities. However,  
it is too soon to determine the likelihood or 
value of the impact.
Further to a previous agreement with the 
trustee of the CWSF at the time of demerger, 
Cable & Wireless Communications has no 
liabilities in respect of the pension obligations 
transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
There are other unfunded pension liabilities  
in the UK of £24 million (£23 million at  
31 March 2010). Other schemes in Cable & 
Wireless Communications have a net IAS19 
surplus of US$29 million (US$7 million surplus 
at 31 March 2010).
Dividend
We are recommending a final dividend of 
US5.33 cents per share, reflecting confidence 
in the long term strength of our business.  
This represents two-thirds of our previously 
announced intention to pay a full year 
dividend of US8 cents per share.
The final dividend will be paid on 12 August 
2011 to ordinary shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 3 June 2011. 
Subject to financial and trading performance 
in 2011/12, we expect to recommend a full 
year dividend of US8 cents per share.
Group	 cash	 and	 debt
As	 at	
31	 March	
2011
US$m
As at 
31 March 
2010
US$m
Cash	 and	 cash	
equivalents 379	 573 
Sterling secured loan 
repayable in 2012 (46) (43)
US$500 million secured 
bonds due 2017 (490) (489)
Sterling unsecured bonds 
repayable in 2012 (317) (290)
Sterling unsecured bonds 
repayable in 2019 	 (235) (219)
Other regional debt 
facilities (285) (196)
Total	 debt (1,373) (1,237)
Total	 net	 (debt)/cash (994) (664)
At 31 March 2011 Cable & Wireless 
Communications had US$994 million of  
net debt representing 1.1x consolidated  
and 1.8x proportionate 2010/11 EBITDA.  
The company also had unutilised bank facilities 
maturing in March 2013 of US$600 million 
(comprising a US$500 million revolving credit 
facility and a US$100 million term loan) with 
margins between 3.25% and 4% over LIBOR.
In early April 2011 the company drew 
US$180 million of the revolving credit  
facility, leaving US$420 million of bank 
facilities available.
On 6 April 2011 the company completed  
the acquisition of a 51% stake in BTC in The 
Bahamas for US$210 million. Pro forma this 
acquisition, Group net debt increased to 
US$1.2 billion representing 1.2x consolidated 
and 2.0x proportionate pro forma EBITDA.
Pensions	 –	 triennial	 review	 completed
At the time of the demerger of Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide in March 2010,  
Cable & Wireless Communications agreed  
an interim funding plan with the Trustee of 
the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund 
(CWSF), pending the triennial valuation due  
as at 31 March 2010. The payments under  
the funding plan were £9 million, paid in 
October 2010 and £20 million, originally 
payable in April 2011, paid in March 2011.
During the year to 31 March 2011 the 
Company reached agreement with the 
Trustee on the triennial valuation as at 
31 March 2010. This showed a deficit of 
£161 million, following which the Company 
made an additional contribution to the 
scheme of £64 million in March 2011.  
Further payments from 2014 to 2016 have 
been agreed, totalling £64 million in order  
to eliminate the deficit by April 2016. These 
payments are subject to the outcome of the 
next actuarial valuation as at March 2013.
Cable & Wireless Communications generated 
operating cash flow before exceptional items 
of US$518 million in 2010/11 after investing 
US$354 million in capital expenditure.
The outflow from movements in working 
capital and provisions was US$12 million.
Investment income of US$17 million in 
2010/11 included US$9 million of dividends 
received from joint ventures, US$6 million 
of interest received on cash balances, 
US$4 million on the interest and disposal 
proceeds of Seychelles bonds and US$2 
million for cash previously collateralised 
against guarantees partially offset by costs 
incurred to evaluate the mobile license 
application in Costa Rica.
Fixed	 charges
We paid US$88 million relating to income 
tax in 2010/11, interest of US$115 million 
on our external borrowings and dividends to 
non-controlling interests of US$159 million.
The dividends to our shareholders of 
US$168 million reflect the cash payment 
of the 2009/10 final declared dividend of 
3.34 pence per share and the 2010/11 
interim payment of US2.67 cents per share.
One-off 	 items	 and	 exceptionals
In February 2011, we announced a US$100 
million share buyback programme. As at 
31 March 2011, US$30 million was returned 
to shareholders under this programme 
purchasing 42,762,000 shares to be held in 
treasury. The net cash outflow also included  
a US$29 million outflow for exceptional items 
primarily related to demerger costs which 
were largely charged to the income statement 
last year, partially offset by exceptional gains 
after successfully defending claims brought 
by a Caribbean competitor. 
We received proceeds for the sale of our 
Bermuda operations offset by costs related  
to Group acquisition and disposal activities. 
Further to the completion of the pension 
scheme triennial valuation, US$149 million 
was contributed to the scheme in the period 
with no further payments scheduled until 
2014. In April 2010, under the terms of  
the demerger agreement we transferred  
US$117 million to Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
for payment of their final 2009/10 dividend, 
equivalent to 3 pence per share. There will  
be no further payments to Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide for any of its dividend obligations.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 33 services. To manage risks we employ people 
with experience of working within challenging 
business environments, target initiatives at 
key issues and thoroughly plan any upgrade 
works.
Economic	 conditions
A significant downturn in the global economy 
or poor local or national economic conditions 
may adversely affect our operations and 
trading, impacting our profitability, ability 
to obtain finance and pay dividends. The 
Caribbean economy continues to suffer. 
Whilst other regions have not been as 
affected, implementation of government 
austerity measures delayed agreement on 
certain new projects. Our businesses are 
geographically spread and that assists in 
reducing overall exposure. We continue to 
monitor key economic indicators and remain 
prepared to take action to protect profitability 
and cash flow in the event of a downturn in 
any of our markets.
Licences,	 regulation	 and	 political
The provision of telecommunications services 
is governed by applicable laws, regulations 
and government licences. The Group actively 
engages with governments and regulators 
in advance of licences and operating 
agreements expiring. However, there are risks 
that our licences are not renewed, or renewed 
on less favourable terms. Furthermore, 
licences could possibly be revoked or 
amended following changes in regulation, 
laws, government policy and/or the economic 
or political environment, or due to not fulfilling 
our regulatory requirements, default, or to 
promote public interest. In particular, without 
changes to the regulatory environment in 
Jamaica the Group will struggle to make an 
acceptable return on the capital it has 
invested which in turn could affect the 
carrying value of our investment. The Group 
continues to make vigorous efforts to seek a 
level playing field in bringing about changes 
to the current regulatory environment.
The Group may also be unable to obtain 
new or additional licences to implement 
new services or technology. Furthermore, 
regulatory environments could become 
anti-competitive. These risks could affect 
the value of our investments, cause a 
business to cease operating, severely 
restrict its operations and/or limit the 
Group’s strategic options.
Some of the territories we operate in 
offer low or favourable taxation conditions, 
attracting large companies, several of which 
are also our customers. Changes to those tax 
regimes could result in customers moving 
their operations. We also provide services 
to governments which may be affected 
following changes in the political environment. 
Both of these risks could impact on the 
Group’s revenues and profitability.
We manage these risks by active liaison with 
governments and regulators to encourage a 
positive working relationship consisting of 
During	 the	 year,	 a	 revised	 risk	 review	
process	 was	 introduced	 at	 operating	 	
and	 Group	 level	 with	 the	 intention	 of	
identifying	 and	 quantifying	 key	 risks	 and	
considering	 the	 adequacy	 of	 the	 way	 they	
are	 controlled.	 Below	 is	 a	 summary	 of	
some	 of	 the	 key	 risks	 identified	 by	 the	
review	 which	 could	 affe ct	 our	 business.	
Investors	 should	 consider	 them	 along	
with	 other	 information	 provided	 in	 this	
annual	 report.
Investment
We operate an active merger, acquisition 
and investment strategy which seeks new 
opportunities and, following thorough analysis, 
will execute them if appropriate. There is risk 
of failure or of an incorrect merger, acquisition 
and/or investment strategy being pursued 
and potential that new sources of growth 
may prove insufficient or fail to develop. 
We manage this risk by ensuring we employ 
experienced, knowledgeable individuals who 
undertake due diligence and if necessary, 
obtain specialist advice. The risks on any 
potential investment are thoroughly 
discussed by the Board of Directors.
Business	 development
Revenue and profit growth from customers 
increasing use of mobile data, pay TV and 
value added services are essential to the 
Group’s future growth. If these services fail to 
perform as anticipated, or if we fail to identify 
and mobilise into new business lines within 
sufficient time, our revenue and profit may 
decrease as other core services reach full 
market penetration. Our marketing and 
product development strategies are 
focused to enable our businesses to reach 
full potential. We also engage experts 
to examine external product development.
Competitive	 activity
We operate in competitive markets, 
implementing plans to provide good value 
and enhance our proposition to customers. 
Competitor activity, new entrants and further 
liberalisation could all reduce our market 
share and margins, which in turn could affect 
revenue and profits. Reflecting that, we 
continue to invest in our network, enhance 
customer relationship systems, advance 
service quality, focus on loyalty and retention 
programmes, conduct market analysis and 
run marketing promotions, as well as tightly 
managing costs.
Business	 change
We continually work to strengthen our 
business. When necessary, we implement 
improvement strategies for underperforming 
areas (for instance, our Jamaica ‘win back’ 
activity). There is a risk that such strategies 
fail to achieve business improvement, which 
in turn could affect the carrying value of our 
investments and assets. Similarly there are 
risks that network or system maintenance 
and upgrades do not deliver expected 
improvements or cause disruption to existing 
Risk overview
Key Risks
•	 Investment
•	 Business development
•	 Competitive activity
•	 Business change
•	 Economic conditions
•	 Licences, regulation and political
•	 Technology
•	 Joint Ventures
•	 Service disruption
•	 Network and data security
•	 People
•	 Corporate ethics
•	 Counterparty
•	 Foreign exchange and taxation 
•	 Litigation
•	 Liquidity
•	 Funding
•	 Pensions
•	 Shared brand
34 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Business review Liquidity
Liquidity risk could arise where the Group 
does not have sufficient financial resources 
available to meet its obligations and 
commitments as they fall due, or can access 
funding only at excessive cost. Exceptional 
market events could adversely impact any 
of the business units affecting their ability to 
meet obligations as they fall due. The Group 
forecasts and monitors cash generation and 
the maturity profile of its financing facilities 
by ensuring sufficient liquidity to fund both 
the business units and the Group’s financial 
obligations. We have raised sufficient credit 
lines to meet medium-term liquidity needs 
and continue to maintain good relationships 
with our core banks.
Funding
Our financing agreements are subject to 
certain covenants. If we were to be in breach 
of these covenants, we may face early 
repayment of the funding facilities, thereby 
affecting our cash position. Our actual and 
forecast financial performance is checked 
against these covenants monthly.
Pensions
Our main UK defined benefit pension scheme 
is well managed and measures have been 
taken to reduce the financial risk exposures. 
However, the value of the scheme’s assets 
and liabilities are affected by market 
movements. The Group may also have to 
make additional contributions to the scheme 
if its assumptions change. We maintain 
regular dialogue with the scheme Trustees 
who manage its assets with appropriate 
external advice, and supporting the Trustees 
with the aim of reducing financial risk.
Shared	 brand
The rights to the Cable & Wireless trade 
marks are shared between Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc, pursuant to the terms of  
trade mark licences which took effect  
upon demerger. Both Cable & Wireless 
Communications and Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide are subject to severe restrictions 
in using the Cable & Wireless trade marks 
outside of their own allocated territories, 
except in relation to their respective carrier 
businesses, and for certain incidental and 
grandfathered use. To the extent that Cable  
& Wireless Communications has activities 
outside of its allocated territories which are 
not part of its carrier business, it must 
operate under trade marks other than the 
Cable & Wireless trade marks. Breach by 
either party on the agreement of how the 
Cable & Wireless trade mark should be used 
could result in litigation or potential 
reputational issues. 
are unavailable due to industrial action or a 
national emergency. We continuously review 
incentive, succession and retention plans, 
communicate with our colleagues and engage 
with unions, keep up to date with health 
warnings and undertake colleague 
engagement surveys.
Corporate	 ethics
We sustain a strong ethical culture through 
developing robust procedures, emphasising 
core values and providing colleagues with  
the information they need to make ethical 
decisions. The Group’s anti-bribery policy has 
been updated to provide further guidance in 
light of the forthcoming implementation of 
the Bribery Act 2010, supplemented by a 
training programme. 
Counterparty
The Group and business units routinely 
enter into a range of significant customer 
and supplier contracts. In any agreement 
there are counterparty risks, for example, 
insolvency of the customer or supplier or 
a default on their obligations, which could 
affect the profitability or cash flow of the 
business and/or its ability to perform. 
We manage these risks through robust 
procurement processes, good contract 
governance and regular review and 
management of our main customers 
and suppliers.
Foreign	 exchange	 and	 taxation	
The Group generates all its profits from 
outside the UK, and so profits (and associated 
investments) are exposed to exchange rate 
fluctuations and changes to tax law. The 
Group also finances its operations by way 
of borrowings in several currencies. These 
factors create a potential risk of adverse 
financial impact on the results of business 
units and the Group. Foreign exchange risks 
are managed by use of hedging contracts (see 
notes 26 and 43), matching the currencies 
of material cash in-flows and expenditure 
and those of significant borrowings. The risk 
of changes to tax laws are managed by 
development of close working relationships 
with fiscal authorities, continuous monitoring 
of proposed legislative change and due 
consideration of appropriate changes to 
the Group contracting arrangements, tax 
compliance processes and holding structure. 
Litigation
Not uncommon to most large organisations, 
there is a risk of litigation against our business 
units. Such risks are more prevalent in more 
litigious regions such as Panama and the 
Caribbean. Unfavourable rulings could affect 
our financial performance and reputation. 
However, if we are the subject of litigation, 
we will, as appropriate, defend our position 
vigorously using internal and external advice 
and support.
open dialogue at senior level in both 
organisations. We also monitor developments 
in regulatory environments of our businesses.
Technology
Technological development may render 
existing products, services and supporting 
infrastructure non-competitive. Increased 
rate and level of investment in new 
technologies could affect our cash flow and 
profits. The Group keeps new technology 
developments under constant review.
Mobile telecommunications are a vital part  
of our business. Concerns are occasionally 
expressed that mobile phones and 
transmitters may pose long-term health risks. 
There is a risk that we may lose a strategic 
revenue stream or be exposed to litigation  
if such claims are proven. We continue to  
keep updated of research in this field.
Joint	 ventures
Although our preference is to gain 
management control in a joint venture 
business, that is not always possible. 
Where we do not, we are often unable to 
influence their performance or ensure they 
do not underperform. To manage this risk, 
we endeavour to have some operational 
involvement and engagement with local 
management and major stakeholders.
Service	 disruption
Our networks are critical to providing an 
effective service to customers. Like other 
telecoms operators, our businesses also 
depend on other operators to provide 
network access and interconnect services for 
the origination, carriage and/or termination 
of some of their telecommunications services. 
Furthermore, our network and IT systems 
are vulnerable to interruption from natural 
disasters, fire, security breaches, terrorist 
action and human error. Network or IT failure 
could result in the loss of customers and in 
claims for loss of service. We continue to 
update our business continuity and disaster 
recovery plans, maintain crisis management 
and emergency response teams, insurance 
cover and employ network resilience to 
mitigate the effects of these risks.
Network	 and	 data	 security
Despite security management across the 
Group network, there is a risk that third 
parties may gain unauthorised access to the 
network and to sensitive data. The business 
has information security procedures and 
controls in place which are regularly reviewed 
and remedial action plans implemented  
where necessary.
People
Our people are one of our most important 
assets. We have incentive, succession and 
retention plans in place to reduce the risk of 
losing key personnel or significant numbers 
of trained people. The Group also faces risk of 
disruption if significant numbers of personnel 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 35 Board of 
Directors
1. Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
 NR
Chairman
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee
Sir Richard Lapthorne is Chairman  
of the Company having been 
Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc 
since January 2003. He is also the 
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee. In September 2010 he 
was appointed as a member of the 
PwC Public Interest Body, and in 
February 2011 became its Chairman. 
Between June 2009 and April 2010, 
he was Chairman of the McLaren 
Group. From 1996 to May 2003 
Richard was Chairman of Amersham 
plc (now GE Healthcare) having joined 
its Board as a Non-executive Director 
in 1989. He was Finance Director of 
British Aerospace plc from July 1992 
and Vice Chairman from April 1998 
until his retirement in 1999. Richard  
is a trustee of Tommy’s Campaign, 
the charity researching still and 
premature birth. He was Non-
executive Chairman of New Look 
Group and Morse plc until November 
2007 and February 2008 
respectively and Her Majesty the 
Queen’s Trustee at The Royal Botanic 
Gardens, Kew until his retirement in 
September 2009. 
2. Tony Rice
Chief Executive
Tony Rice is Chief Executive of the 
Company and has been so since 
demerger in March 2010, having 
previously served as CEO of the 
predecessor Cable & Wireless 
Communications business since 
November 2008. He was Group 
Finance Director of Cable and 
Wireless plc, from March 2006 
onwards, having been a Non-
executive Director since January 
2003. Tony was at British Aerospace 
and its successor company BAE 
Systems for 16 years as Group 
Treasurer and ultimately Group 
Managing Director, Commercial 
Aircraft responsible for its Airbus  
and Regional Aircraft business units.  
From 2002 he was CEO of Tunstall 
Holdings Ltd, Europe’s leading telecare 
company until its sale in September 
2005. Tony is the Senior Independent 
Director of Punch Taverns plc and  
was appointed as Chairman of 
Alexander Mann Solutions on  
28 July 2008, subsequently  
reverting to a non-executive role  
on 1 September 2009.
3. Tim Pennington
Chief Financial Officer
Tim Pennington is Chief Financial 
Officer of the Company. He previously 
served as the Group Finance Director 
for Cable and Wireless plc and as 
Chief Financial Officer for the Cable  
& Wireless Communications business. 
Tim also served as an Investor 
Director on the Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide Operating Board from 
November 2008 to January 2010. 
Previously, Tim was CFO and an 
Executive Director of Hutchison 
Telecommunications International 
Ltd, a company listed in Hong Kong 
and New York. Tim was also Finance 
Director of Hutchison 3G (UK) 
(Hutchison Whampoa’s UK mobile 
business) and has corporate finance 
experience with HSBC Investment 
Bank and Samuel Montagu & Co.
4. Nick Cooper
Corporate Services Director
Nick Cooper is an Executive Director 
of the Company, having served as 
Corporate Services Director for the 
Cable & Wireless Communications 
business since December 2008 and 
Group General Counsel and Company 
Secretary for Cable and Wireless plc 
A  Denotes membership of 
Audit Committee.
N  Denotes membership of 
Nomination Committee.
R  Denotes membership of 
Remuneration Committee. 
1 2 4 3
36 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance from January 2006 to demerger. 
He has Board level responsibility  
for Human Resources, Brand, PR & 
Communications, Legal & Regulatory 
Affairs, Insurance and Corporate 
Social Responsibility. He also served 
as an Investor Director on the Cable 
& Wireless Worldwide Operating 
Board from April 2006 until 
December 2009. Nick qualified  
as a solicitor with London law firm 
Herbert Smith. He has held in-house 
positions as company solicitor with 
Asda and George Clothing and as 
General Counsel and Company 
Secretary of The Sage Group Plc and 
JD Wetherspoon Plc. In September 
2002, Nick was appointed Company 
Secretary and was part of the 
Executive Management Board of 
Energis until its acquisition by Cable 
and Wireless plc. 
5. Simon Ball 
ANR
Deputy Chairman,
Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Simon Ball is a Non-executive 
Director of the Company, having 
previously served as a Non-executive 
Director of Cable and Wireless plc 
since May 2006. He is also the Deputy 
Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director, Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. Simon has also been  
a Non-executive Director of Tribal 
Group plc since 1 June 2010. 
Simon was Group Finance Director 
for 3i Group plc until November 
2008, having served on its main 
board since April 2005. Prior to this, 
Simon held a series of senior finance 
and operational roles at Dresdner 
Kleinwort Benson, served as Group 
Finance Director for the Robert 
Fleming Group and was Director 
General, Finance for the Department 
for Constitutional Affairs.
6. Mary Francis, CBE 
ANR
Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee
Mary Francis is a Non-executive 
Director of the Company, having 
previously served as a Non-executive 
Director of Cable and Wireless plc 
since July 2009. Mary became  
the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee in March 2010. Mary 
is also a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. Mary is 
Senior Independent Director of 
Centrica plc and a Non-executive 
Director of Aviva plc. She has 
previously been a Non-executive 
Director of the Bank of England, 
of Alliance & Leicester plc and of 
St Modwen Properties plc. Mary 
has held a number of positions in the 
UK Civil Service including Financial 
Counsellor at the British Embassy in 
Washington DC, Private Secretary  
to the Prime Minister and Deputy 
Private Secretary to the Queen. From 
1999 to 2005, Mary was Director 
General of the Association of British 
Insurers, and currently is a senior 
adviser to Chatham House.
7. Kate Nealon 
ANR
Non-executive Director
Kate Nealon is a Non-executive 
Director of the Company, having 
previously served as a Non-executive 
Director of Cable and Wireless plc 
since January 2005. Kate is also a 
member of the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees. Kate 
was appointed to the board of 
directors of Argo Group International 
Holdings, Ltd in February 2011.  
Kate was Group Head of Legal and 
Compliance at Standard Chartered  
plc until 2004, having previously 
practised international banking and 
regulatory law in New York. Kate is a 
senior associate of the Judge Business 
School at Cambridge University and  
a member of the advisory council of 
the Institute of Business Ethics. She 
was also a Non-executive Director  
of HBOS plc until 16 January 2009 
and was a Non-executive Director  
of Shire plc until July 2010.
8. Ian Tyler
 ANR
Non-executive Director
Ian Tyler has been a Non-executive 
Director of the Company since his 
appointment on 1 January 2011, 
and is also a member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. Ian is a chartered 
accountant and has been Chief 
Executive of Balfour Beatty plc since 
January 2005, having joined the 
company in 1996 as Finance Director 
and having become Chief Operating 
Officer in August 2002. From 1993  
to 1996 Ian was Finance Director  
of ARC Limited, one of the principal 
subsidiaries of Hanson Plc, having 
previously been Hanson’s Group 
Financial Comptroller since 1991. 
Prior to that, from 1988, he held  
the positions of Group Treasurer and 
Financial Controller at Storehouse  
Plc, the retailing group. Ian is also 
President of CRASH, the charity  
for homeless people around the UK.
5 4 6 7 8
  Cable & Wireless Communications 37 subsidiaries (as applicable). These indemnities 
are qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 
(the 2006 Act). They were granted on 
appointment of the Directors and are still in 
force. Officers of wholly-owned subsidiary 
companies within the Group have also been 
granted indemnities.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 
US5.33 cents per ordinary share payable on 
12 August 2011 to ordinary shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on 3 June 
2011. This final dividend, together with the 
interim dividend of US2.67 cents per share 
paid by the Company on 13 January 2011, 
makes a total dividend payment to 
shareholders of the Company of US8 cents 
per ordinary share for the year ended  
31 March 2011.
Share capital and treasury shares
The called-up share capital of the Company, 
together with details of shares allotted during 
the year, are shown in note 9 to the Company 
financial statements. At the 2010 AGM, the 
Company was authorised by shareholders to 
purchase up to 262 million of its own ordinary 
shares, representing approximately 10% of  
its issued share capital as at 1 June 2010. On 
23 February 2011, the Company announced  
a buyback programme of shares up to a value 
of US$100 million in order to return capital to 
shareholders. During the period to 31 March 
2011, the Company purchased 42,762,000 
shares with a nominal value of US$0.05 each 
for an aggregate consideration of US$34 
million, and these are held as treasury shares 
(31 March 2010 – nil shares in treasury).  
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
on voting rights.
The Board intends to seek shareholder 
approval at the forthcoming AGM on 22 July 
2011 to make market purchases of up to 10% 
of its issued share capital (excluding shares 
held in treasury). Details of the proposed 
resolution are included in the Notice  
of Meeting.
Further details on the share capital of the 
Company are set out in note 9 to the 
Company financial statements on pages 134 
and 135 and are incorporated into this report 
by reference.
The Directors present their report 
together with the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 
31 March 2011.
Principal activities, business review 
and results
The Group’s principal activities are detailed 
on pages 2 and 3. Through this Annual Report, 
including the Chairman’s review and the 
Business review sections (pages 2 to 35) 
that precede this report and the Corporate 
governance report that follows (pages 44 to 
46), the Board seeks to present a balanced 
and clear assessment of the Group’s activities, 
position and prospects. Each of these sections 
is incorporated by reference into this 
Directors’ report. The Group’s results for the 
financial year are shown in the consolidated 
income statement on page 63. 
Directors
The names and biographical details of the 
Directors are set out on pages 36 and 37.
The Board has determined to adopt the new 
provisions in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code specifying that all directors of FTSE 350 
companies should be subject to annual 
election by shareholders at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). 
Therefore, at the 2011 AGM, all Directors will 
stand for re-election with the exception of 
Ian Tyler, who will stand for election as this  
is the first AGM since his appointment to the 
Board on 1 January 2011, and Kate Nealon, 
who will not stand for re-election as she has 
given notice to the Company that she will 
retire from the Board with effect from the 
conclusion of the AGM.
The interests of the Directors and their 
connected persons in the shares of Cable  
& Wireless Communications Plc, along with 
details of their share awards, are contained 
in the Directors’ remuneration report set 
out on pages 48 to 60.
No Director had a material interest in any 
significant contract with the Company or 
any of its subsidiaries during the year. For 
further information, refer to note 39 of  
the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has granted indemnities in 
favour of its Directors against personal 
financial exposure that they may incur  
in the course of their professional duties  
as Directors of the Company and/or any 
Directors’  
report
38 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance Exercise of rights of shares in employee 
share schemes
The Trustees of The Cable & Wireless 
Communications Share Ownership Trust 
(formerly the Cable and Wireless Employee 
Share Ownership Trust) exercise the voting 
rights on shares held in the employee trust 
in accordance with their fiduciary duties as 
Trustees, which include the duty to act in the 
best interests of the beneficiaries of the trust.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday 
22 July 2011 at The Queen Elizabeth II 
Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, 
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. Details  
of the resolutions to be proposed at the  
AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
Auditor
Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc  
as our external auditor and to authorise the 
Directors to set the auditor’s remuneration 
will be proposed at the AGM.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is  
no relevant audit information (as defined in 
Section 418(3) of the 2006 Act) of which the 
auditors are unaware and the Directors have 
taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any 
relevant audit information and ensure the 
auditors are aware of such information.
Change of control
The Group has a number of contracts that  
are subject to change of control clauses. 
These primarily relate to financing facilities, 
bonds, licence and operating agreements.
Under the Group’s US$500 million revolving 
credit facility agreement and US$100 million 
term loan agreement, on a change of control 
the lenders are not obliged to fund any 
further sums and, if the majority lenders 
require, on not less than ten days’ notice, the 
facility can be cancelled and all outstanding 
loans, together with related charges, become 
immediately due and payable.
to make political donations and incur  
political expenditure. 
Supplier payment policy
The Company did not enter into any purchase 
contracts with suppliers which required 
payment during the year to 31 March 2011. 
It is the Group’s policy to agree appropriate 
terms and conditions in advance with 
suppliers and to make payment in accordance 
with those terms and conditions, provided  
the supplier has complied with them.
Employee inclusion and diversity
The Group operates in many countries  
with diverse employment practices. Whilst 
respecting local circumstances, wherever  
we operate we follow the principles of equal 
opportunity in recruitment, development, 
remuneration and advancement. The Group’s 
employment policies also comply with local 
requirements and meet relevant standards on 
employment of disabled people. Full and fair 
consideration is given to disabled applicants 
for employment and training, and career 
development is encouraged on the basis of 
aptitude and ability. It is Group policy to retain 
employees who become disabled whilst in its 
service and to provide specialist training 
where appropriate.
Employee communication
The Group communicates with employees  
in many ways, including regular briefings by 
management, newsletters and intranet sites. 
These communications help to achieve a 
common awareness among employees of 
the financial and operational performance 
of the Group.
The Group is committed to ensuring that 
employees share in its success. Employees 
are encouraged to participate in share 
purchase schemes and hold investments 
in the Group’s shares.
Ethics
The Company is committed to sound  
business conduct in its relationships with 
key stakeholders (shareholders, employees, 
customers, business partners and suppliers), 
governments and regulators, communities 
and the environment. The Group’s ethics 
policy applies to all Group companies and 
employees. Where the Group operates in 
conjunction with business partners, third 
parties or in joint venture arrangements 
without management control, it aims to 
promote the application of this policy. The 
Group seeks to conduct its operations with 
honesty, integrity and openness, and with 
respect for the human rights and interests  
of our employees. The Group respects the 
legitimate interests of all those with whom  
it has relationships. During the year, a review 
of the Group’s anti-bribery policy has been 
undertaken to ensure that our policies and 
procedures will meet the standards required 
by the Bribery Act 2010. 
Charitable and political donations
During the year ended 31 March 2011,  
the Group gave US$1.07 million (2009/10  
– US$1.7 million) to charitable organisations 
including US$95,207 (£60,000) (2009/10 
– US$190,848 (£120,000)) to the 
Porthcurno Trust, a charitable organisation  
in the United Kingdom. The Group actively 
supports corporate social responsibility in  
the communities in which it operates and 
more information on these activities is set  
out on pages 26 and 27.
The Company does not make political 
donations and has no intention of making 
donations to what are generally regarded as 
political parties within the European Union. 
As a precautionary measure and in the light 
of the wide definitions of European Union 
political organisations for the purposes of 
the 2006 Act, a resolution was passed at 
the 2010 AGM permitting the Company  
As at 31 March 2011 As at 24 May 2011
No. of  
ordinary shares
% of voting 
rights Nature of holding
No. of  
ordinary shares
% of voting 
rights Nature of holding
Newton Investment 
Management Limited 381,650,561 14.32% Indirect 364,741,582 13.99% Indirect
Orbis Holdings Limited 342,539,483 13% Indirect 342,539,483 13% Indirect
Franklin Mutual Advisers LLC 242,437,048 9.24% Indirect 242,437,048 9.24% Indirect
Prudential Plc  
(group of companies) 138,064,794 5.24% Direct and indirect 138,064,794 5.24% Direct and indirect
Legal & General Group Plc 98,421,834 3.75% Direct 98,421,834 3.75% Direct
Company’s shareholders
As at 31 March 2011 and the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the 
issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 39 (i) the payment of any dividend shall be 
withheld; (ii) the shareholder shall not be 
entitled to elect to receive shares in place  
of dividends withheld; and (iii) the transfer  
of the shares held by such shareholder shall  
be restricted.
Certificated shares: The Company can 
sell any certificated shares at the best price 
reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale 
if: (i) in a period of 12 years at least three 
dividends have become payable and no 
dividends have been claimed; (ii) the Company 
has published a notice after the 12 year period 
stating that it intends to sell the shares; and 
(iii) during the 12 year period and for three 
months after the notice, the Company has  
not heard from the shareholder or any person 
entitled to sell the shares.
The Directors may decline registration of 
certificated shares if: (i) a share transfer  
form is used to transfer more than one class 
of shares; (ii) transfers are in favour of more 
than four joint holders; or (iii) the share 
transfer form is not delivered to the office, or 
such other place decided on by the Directors, 
accompanied by the share certificate relating 
to the shares being transferred (unless the 
transfer is by a person to whom the Company 
was not required to, and did not, send a 
certificate) and any other evidence  
reasonably asked for by the Directors to  
show entitlement to transfer the shares.
Uncertificated shares: The Directors may 
decline registration of uncertificated shares if 
the transfer is in favour of more than four joint 
holders or otherwise in accordance with the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Interests in shares: Except where express 
rights are given, the Company will only 
recognise a current and absolute right to 
whole shares. The fact that any share, or any 
part of a share, may not be owned outright  
by the registered owner is not of any concern 
to the Company.
US Holders: The Directors may require a 
shareholder or other person appearing to be 
interested in shares, to disclose information 
relating to the ownership of such shares or  
to show that such shares are not held by a  
US Holder (defined in the Articles as being:  
(i) persons resident in the US who hold shares 
in the Company and (ii) persons who appear 
to the Directors to fall within sub-paragraph 
(i) of the definition of a US Holder). The 
Directors may require a US Holder to sell their 
shares to someone who is not a US Holder, 
failing which, the Company may effect a sale 
of such shares on the US Holder’s behalf.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends 
without shareholder approval if they consider 
that the financial position of the Company 
justifies it. The Directors may operate 
dividend reinvestment plans or, subject to 
shareholder approval, operate scrip schemes 
or pay dividends by distributing assets. No 
dividend carries a right to interest from the 
Company. If dividends remain unclaimed for 
12 years they are forfeited by the shareholder 
and revert to the Company.
Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien 
on all partly paid shares (and dividends),  
which has priority over claims of others to 
such shares covering any money owed to the 
Company for the shares. The Directors may 
sell all or any of such shares where: (i) the 
money owed by the shareholder is payable 
immediately; (ii) the Directors have given 
notice demanding payment, stating the 
amount due and that the shares will be  
sold on non-payment; and (iii) the money  
has not been paid within 14 clear days of  
the service of the notice.
The Directors may make calls on shareholders 
to pay any money which has not yet been paid 
to the Company for their shares. If a call is 
unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay 
interest and all expenses incurred by the 
Company as a result of non-payment if the 
call remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the 
date of a notice. In addition, failure to comply 
with any such notice may result in forfeiture 
of any share which is the subject of the notice, 
including any unpaid dividends.
The Directors may decline to register the 
transfer of any shares that are not fully paid, 
provided that such refusal does not prevent 
dealings from taking place on an open and 
proper basis.
Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide 
otherwise, a shareholder shall not be  
entitled to vote at any general meeting of  
the Company or at any separate general 
meeting of the holders of any class of shares 
in the Company or exercise any other right 
conferred by membership in relation to 
general meetings if the shareholder has not 
paid all amounts relating to those shares 
which are due at the time of the meeting, or 
if the shareholder is given a notice following 
a failure by that shareholder or someone 
who appears to be interested in the shares to 
comply with a notice under section 793 of the 
2006 Act. Further, if a shareholder holding 
0.25% or more of the issued shares of a class 
(excluding treasury shares) or interested 
person is in default of a section 793 notice, 
the Directors may also state in the notice that: 
Under the terms of the US$500 million 7.75% 
2017 Senior Secured Notes (the Bonds), if a 
change of control event occurs, each holder 
of the Bonds will have the right to require the 
repurchase of all or any part of their Bonds  
at a redemption price equal to 101% of the 
principal amount of the Bonds purchased, 
together with accrued (but unpaid) interest.
A number of the Group’s operating licences 
and shareholders’ agreements include change 
of control clauses which may be triggered by 
the sale of a business, or certain types of 
restructuring.
In the event of a change of control,  
these clauses may require consideration  
to determine their impact on the Group. At 
present, risks arising from a change of control 
are not considered to be significant. The 
Group will take appropriate action to mitigate 
any risks arising from these events should 
they occur. Change of control provisions in 
relation to the LTIP and Directors’ service 
contracts are explained in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 48 to 60.
Rights and obligations attaching to the 
ordinary shares
The following section summarises the rights 
and obligations in the Company’s Articles 
of Association (the Articles) relating to the 
ordinary shares of the Company. The full 
Articles can be found on the Company’s 
website www.cwc.com.
Amendment of Articles: The Articles may 
be amended by a special resolution of the 
shareholders passed at a general meeting 
of the Company.
Voting: Each share (other than those held in 
treasury) allows the holder to have one vote 
at general meetings of the Company on votes 
taken on a poll.
Dividends: The Company’s shareholders can 
declare dividends by passing an ordinary 
resolution, but the payment cannot exceed 
the amount recommended by the Directors. 
Directors’  
report
continued
40 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance to shareholders at the AGM for renewal. 
Shareholders are also requested to renew the 
Directors’ power to make market purchases 
of shares at each AGM. Any shares purchased 
may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Conflicts of interest
The Articles permit the Directors to authorise 
conflicts and potential conflicts. Procedures 
have been put in place for the disclosure by 
Directors of any such conflicts and also for 
the consideration and authorisation of these 
conflicts by the Board. These procedures 
allow for the imposition of limits or conditions 
by the Board when authorising any conflict, 
if they think this is appropriate.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together  
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are 
set out in the Business reviews on pages 2  
to 35 including the Financial review on pages 
28 to 33. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing 
facilities are described in the Financial review 
on pages 28 to 33. Further, notes 34 and 43 
to the consolidated financial statements 
include the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial 
risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; 
and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
The Directors believe that the Group’s wide 
geographic spread, robust monitoring and 
forecasting processes leave it well placed  
to manage its business risks in the current 
economic conditions. In addition, the Group’s 
forecasts and projections, taking into account 
possible changes in trading performance 
which could be reasonably anticipated, 
indicate that the Group is able to operate 
within the level of its current available 
facilities. A formal process for monitoring 
compliance with debt covenants is also in 
place. Further information on debt can be 
found in note 28 to the consolidated  
financial statements.
After reviewing budgets and other longer-
term plans and making enquiries, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation  
that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operation for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
By order of the Board
Clare Underwood 
Company Secretary
24 May 2011
Disputes: Any disputes between a shareholder 
and the Company and/or the Directors arising 
out of or in connection with the Articles shall 
be exclusively and finally resolved under the 
Rules of Arbitration of the International 
Chamber of Commerce, as amended from 
time to time, in accordance with the Articles.
Appointment and replacement of 
Directors
The rules about the appointment and 
replacement of Directors are contained in the 
Articles, including the rules for who is eligible 
to be elected as a Director and the procedure 
to be followed to nominate such persons. The 
Articles must be approved by shareholders in 
accordance with the legislation in force from 
time to time.
The Articles provide that Directors may be 
appointed by an ordinary resolution of the 
members or by a resolution of the Directors, 
provided that, in the latter instance, a Director 
appointed in this way retires at the first AGM 
following his appointment.
The Articles also provide that at the first two 
Annual General Meetings of the Company, 
one third of the Directors who are then in 
office shall retire, and detail the circumstances 
in which and how they may be re-elected. The 
Company’s members may remove a Director 
by passing an ordinary resolution for which 
special notice has been given. Any Director 
will automatically cease to be a Director if: 
(i) they resign; (ii) they offer to resign and the 
other Directors accept that offer; (iii) all the 
other Directors (being at least three) require 
it; (iv) they are suffering from mental ill health 
and the Directors require them to cease to be 
a Director; (v) they have missed Directors’ 
meetings for a continuous period of six 
months without permission and the other 
Directors resolve that they shall cease to  
be a Director; (vi) a bankruptcy order is made 
against them, or they make an arrangement 
or composition with their creditors; (vii) they 
are prohibited from being a Director by law;  
or (viii) they cease to be a Director under the 
legislation or are removed from office under 
the Articles.
Powers of Directors
The powers of the Directors are determined 
by UK legislation and the Articles. As provided 
in the Articles, the Directors may exercise all 
the Company’s powers provided that the 
Articles or applicable legislation do not 
stipulate that any such powers must be 
exercised by the members. The Directors 
have been authorised to issue and allot 
ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 12. 
The powers under Article 12 are referred 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 41 During the course of the year, the Board has 
held four Board meetings overseas, one in 
each of the Group’s four business units. In 
addition to the formal business of the Board, 
these visits have included presentations and 
meetings with local management and the 
attendance of the regional Chief Executive  
at the Board meeting as well as meetings with 
local Government and other stakeholders, all 
of which have enabled the Board to have first 
hand exposure to the local operations. The 
frequency of the overseas visits has been  
high as this was the first year post demerger  
and has required a greater than normal time 
commitment for the Non-executive 
Directors. Nevertheless, the visits have 
provided a very valuable insight into the 
underlying business.
The Executive Directors attend quarterly 
‘deep dive’ meetings with each of the four 
business units to review performance  
and analyse the future opportunities and 
challenges of the regional operations. The 
Executive Directors are also Directors on a 
number of the Group’s material subsidiary 
boards. Together, these provide a high level 
of visibility of the business unit operations 
and form an important part of the overall 
governance control framework.
The Board has reviewed corporate 
governance developments during the course 
of the year including compliance with the new 
UK Corporate Governance Code. Significant 
focus has been given to the impact of the 
Bribery Act 2010 and an enhanced policy 
and procedures has been developed  
and implemented. 
This report focuses on the year ended 
31 March 2011 which was the Company’s 
first full year as an independent separately 
listed entity following the demerger of 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc from the 
Group in March 2010. 
The Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
Board was appointed at demerger as were  
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. A key part of the demerger 
preparation work was to ensure that effective 
governance arrangements were in place to 
enable a smooth transition and to reflect the 
new levels of materiality. Upon demerger, the 
governance structure moved to a simpler 
model than that which had applied at Cable 
and Wireless plc. 
The new Board, Committee and governance 
processes have been implemented and 
embedded during the year. An external  
Board evaluation has been undertaken by 
Independent Audit Limited (Independent 
Audit) at the end of this first year to consider 
whether the Board and Committee processes 
are working effectively. Independent Audit 
consider that high performing boards share a 
number of common characteristics: a strong 
and effective chairman, an executive team 
which is open and receptive to challenge, and 
with trusting but questioning relationships 
within the board. The Company scored well  
on all of these, especially when the newness 
of the Board was taken into account. 
Since demerger, the relationship between 
the Chairman and the Chief Executive has 
transitioned to a more traditional role, 
whereby the Chairman’s key focus is now  
the leadership of the Board to ensure that  
the effective operation of the Board and its 
committees is in conformity with the highest 
standards of corporate governance. The Chief 
Executive is responsible for the leadership  
of the business and managing it within the 
authorities delegated by the Board.
Independent 
Directors’ report
42 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance 3 What is the visibility of the checks 
and balances between the Executive 
Directors?
The visibility of checks and balances between 
the Executive Directors is high. The Executive 
Directors show a willingness to openly debate 
and stimulate different perspectives in Board 
meetings enabling the Non-executive 
Directors to obtain a rounded view of the 
Executive Directors’ views. In addition, the 
Board have met with the Regional Chief 
Executives, both formally and informally, 
enabling a supplementary view to that of 
the Executive Directors.
4 Have questions asked by the 
Independent Directors in Board and 
Committee meetings been appropriately 
addressed?
Questions asked by the Independent 
Directors have been appropriately addressed 
throughout the year. The Independent 
Directors also meet separately during the 
year to discuss any relevant governance 
matters. The Independent Directors are 
satisfied that the corporate governance 
controls of Cable & Wireless Communications 
Plc are effective.
The Board of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc firmly believe in the 
principles of behavioural governance and 
consider that this report continues to be an 
appropriate way to embody the principles  
set out in the new UK Corporate Governance 
Code and have confirmed that they will publish 
an Independent Directors’ report for the year 
ended 31 March 2012.
Simon Ball 
Senior Independent Director
24 May 2011
Turning now to the four questions posed 
annually as part of Cable & Wireless 
Communications’ approach to measuring 
effective corporate governance:
1 What is the quality of the relationship 
between the Chairman and the Executive 
Directors?
The relationship between the Chairman  
and Chief Executive has made an effective 
transition to a more traditional form. Prior 
to demerger, the Chairman had four direct 
reports; post demerger, it is solely the 
Chief Executive who reports directly to  
the Chairman. As a consequence, the other 
Executive Directors have less frequent 
formal interaction with the Chairman but 
relationships remain strong and enable  
direct communication where necessary.
The Chairman has regular one-to-one 
meetings with the Chief Executive to review 
issues, opportunities and challenges in 
the Group.
Notwithstanding the challenge of moving to a 
different operating model post demerger, the 
relationship between the Chairman and the 
Executive Directors has been consistently 
strong throughout the year. 
2 How open are the Executive Directors 
with the Board?
The Executive Directors are very open with 
the Board. They are also very receptive to 
challenge. This view was reinforced in the 
findings of the external Board evaluation.
The flow of information to the Board is 
supplemented by meetings with the regional 
Chief Executives and local management 
teams as part of the overseas Board visits. 
The overseas Board visits require a  
significant time commitment but also create 
opportunities for informative discussion and 
debate to enhance openness between the 
Executive Directors and the Board. The 
understanding and trust engendered underpin 
a very positive, open atmosphere in which 
debate and challenge flourish.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 43 (resigned 21 July 2010), Simon Ball, Mary 
Francis, Kate Nealon, Ian Tyler (appointed 
1 January 2011) and Kasper Rorsted (resigned 
1 January 2011). Biographies of the current 
Directors, including details of their Committee 
memberships, are shown on pages 36 and 37.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
are separate with distinct responsibilities. The 
Chairman’s key areas of responsibility are the 
leadership of the Board, including setting its 
agenda, ensuring that it receives clear, timely 
and accurate information and facilitating the 
contribution of the Non-executive Directors. 
The Chairman is also responsible for corporate 
governance and for ensuring, together with 
the Senior Independent Director, that the 
Company maintains effective communication 
with shareholders and other stakeholders. The 
commitment of the Chairman as Chair of the 
PwC Public Interest Body is noted on page 36, 
and the Board considers that this is not a 
constraint on his agreed time commitment  
to the Company. 
The Chief Executive is responsible for the 
leadership of the business and managing it 
within the authorities delegated by the Board.
Details of Directors’ attendance at scheduled 
Board and Committee meetings are shown 
in the table below.
Role of the Board
The Board is accountable to shareholders for 
the creation and delivery of strong sustainable 
performance and the delivery of long-term 
shareholder value. To enable the Board to 
function effectively, full and timely access is 
given to all relevant information. The Board 
sets the strategic aims of the Group and is 
collectively responsible for matters of 
strategy, performance, resources, standards 
of conduct and accountability. In order to 
progress these aims the Board meets 
frequently and is responsible for organising 
and directing the Company and the Group 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s 
corporate governance system and is 
committed to maintaining high governance 
standards. The key policies and practices 
of the Company and the Group are set out 
in this Corporate governance report as well 
as in the reports of the Audit Committee 
on page 47 and the Remuneration 
Committee on pages 48 to 60. 
Furthermore, our independent Non-
executive Directors have prepared a report 
describing the corporate governance and 
behaviours of the Board on pages 42 and 
43 and details of significant shareholdings 
and rights, obligations, powers and 
procedures under the Company’s Articles 
of Association are set out in the Directors’ 
report on pages 39 to 41. Together, 
these reports provide shareholders with 
an insight into how our Board and senior 
management manage the business to 
increase shareholder value.
Compliance with the Combined Code
Throughout the year the Group has complied 
with all the provisions set out in Section One 
of the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (the Code).
A governance update was provided to the 
Board in November 2010, with periodic 
updates provided at board meetings in the 
Company Secretary’s report to the Board. 
Going forward, the Company intends to 
comply fully with the main and supporting 
principles of the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
The Code and the UK Corporate Governance 
Code are available on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website www.frc.org.uk.
Board Composition
During the year, the Board comprised Sir 
Richard Lapthorne (Chairman), Tony Rice, Tim 
Pennington, Nick Cooper, George Battersby 
Corporate 
governance report
Board and Committee meeting attendance
1 April 2010 – 31 March 2011
Board
Audit 
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Sir Richard Lapthorne 8/8 – 2/2 3/3
George Battersby
1
0/3 – – –
Nick Cooper 8/8 – – –
Tim Pennington 8/8 – – –
Tony Rice 8/8 – – –
Simon Ball 8/8 4/4 2/2 3/3
Mary Francis 8/8 4/4 2/2 3/3
Kate Nealon 8/8 4/4 2/2 3/3
Kasper Rorsted
2
3/6 0/3 1/1 0/2
Ian Tyler
3
2/2 1/1 1/1 1/1
1 Resigned with effect from 21 July 2010.
2 Resigned with effect from 1 January 2011.
3 Appointed with effect from 1 January 2011.
– Director is not a Committee member. 
44 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance Board Committees 
The reports of the Audit Committee and 
Remuneration Committee are set out on 
pages 47 and 48 to 60 respectively.
The members of the Nomination Committee 
during the year were Sir Richard Lapthorne 
(Chair), Simon Ball, Mary Francis, Kate Nealon, 
Ian Tyler (appointed 1 January 2011) and 
Kasper Rorsted (resigned 1 January 2011). 
The Nomination Committee has met on 
two occasions in the period 1 April 2010  
to 31 March 2011. The Committee reviews 
succession planning requirements and the 
need to ensure planned and progressive 
refreshing of the Board as and when required. 
When recommending the appointment of 
new directors to the Board, regard is given  
to the size of the Board, balance of Executive 
and Non-executive Directors, the skills, 
knowledge and experience already 
represented and likely future requirements. 
Going forward, the Nomination Committee 
will take into account gender diversity during 
the appointment process.
The full terms of reference of the Nomination 
Committee are available at www.cwc.com.
During the period under review, the 
Nomination Committee considered and 
recommended to the Board the appointment 
of Ian Tyler as a Non-executive Director,  
and as a member of the Remuneration, 
Nomination and Audit Committees. Ian Tyler 
was identified as an ideal candidate to 
complement the existing balance of skills and 
knowledge of the Board, with sufficient time 
to dedicate to the role. The suitability of his 
skills and knowledge were independently 
verified by Jan Hall, a partner at JCA Group, a 
boardroom consultancy firm. The Nomination 
Committee also commenced a process for  
the appointment of a further Non-executive 
Director to the Board.
business experience, as they all occupy or 
have occupied senior positions in industry 
and public life and, as such, each contributes 
significant weight to Board decisions.
The Non-executive Directors are initially 
appointed for a three year term with an 
expectation that they will continue for a 
further three year term.
The terms and conditions of appointment of 
the Non-executive Directors, together with 
service contracts for Executive Directors, are 
available for inspection by shareholders at our 
registered office during normal business hours 
and at our AGM.
All Directors have access to the advice of the 
Company Secretary as well as appropriate 
training and briefings on matters including 
corporate social responsibility, health & safety 
and governance matters. Additionally, any 
Director may take independent professional 
advice on any matter at the Company’s 
expense in the furtherance of his duties.
The Senior Independent Director
Simon Ball is the Senior Independent Director 
of the Company. The Senior Independent 
Director is available to meet shareholders on 
request and is the designated point of contact 
for shareholders to raise any concerns where 
contact through the normal channels of  
the Chairman or Executive Directors is 
inappropriate. Matters raised by major 
shareholders to any Director are brought  
to the attention of the Board.
As part of our commitment to regular 
dialogue, meetings have been held between 
the Executive Directors and investors on  
an ongoing basis throughout the year.  
The Chairman and the Senior Independent 
Director have, as in previous years, offered 
ongoing dialogue and meetings with 
shareholders to discuss any issues they wish 
to raise. The Company intends to continue 
this practice.
in a manner that promotes the success of  
the Company and is consistent with good 
corporate governance practice. Formal 
minutes recording decisions of all Board  
and Committee meetings are prepared and 
circulated to each Director as appropriate.  
If a Director objects to a particular proposal, 
this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant 
meeting. During the period under review, as 
for the period since incorporation, there were 
no such objections. 
There is a formal schedule of matters 
reserved to the Board including:
•	 Group strategy;
•	 Corporate governance;
•	 Financial reporting and control;
•	 Budgets and operating plans;
•	 Acquisitions and disposals;
•	 Appointments to the Board, Committees 
and some senior executive positions;
•	 Director and senior executive remuneration;
•	 Delegation of authority;
•	 Customer contracts and expenditure over 
a certain financial limit; and
•	 Approval of litigation.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated 
to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees, each with clearly defined terms 
of reference.
Full details on matters reserved to the Board 
and the terms of reference of its Committees 
can be found on our website at www.cwc.com.
Board Balance and Independence
The Board considers all the Company’s 
Non-executive Directors to be independent  
in character and judgement. Collectively the 
Non-executive Directors help to provide an 
effective Board with a strong mix of skills and 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 45 •	 Financial controls: the Group has dedicated 
resource to embed processes and controls 
across the businesses. It operates a number 
of additional self-assessment exercises, 
which include monthly certification of 
compliance with key financial controls and 
an annual controls self-assessment. The 
latter exercise requires management to 
assess the effectiveness of its fundamental 
operating controls over all aspects of its 
operations, in addition to the other financial 
controls covered by our Financial Controls 
Toolkit. The results of this exercise are 
utilised by Internal Audit in planning its  
work for the forthcoming year; and
•	 Whistle blowing: the Group operates an 
Ethics Helpline which is administered by  
an independent third party and is available  
to all employees.
Effectiveness of internal control
The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the 
internal control systems in operation during 
the financial year in accordance with the 
revised Turnbull guidance. The processes 
as set out above have been in place for the 
year under review and up to the date of this 
Annual Report. Where appropriate, necessary 
action has been or is being taken to remedy 
any failings and weaknesses identified as 
significant during this review.
The responsibility for internal control 
procedures within our joint ventures rests with 
the senior management of those operations. 
We monitor our investments and exert our 
influence through board representation.
Induction and Professional Development
On appointment, the induction of new Board 
members is undertaken by the Company 
Secretary at the request of the Chairman, 
who retains responsibility for the induction 
process. The induction includes the provision 
of information about the Company, details of 
procedures, governance issues and Directors’ 
responsibilities. The programme also includes 
meetings with senior management, and 
meetings with major shareholders may be 
arranged on request.
The Company intends to develop individual 
training and development programmes for  
all Directors.
Performance Evaluation
A full external performance evaluation of the 
Board as a whole has been undertaken by 
Independent Audit Limited. Independent Audit 
has no other connection with the Company or 
Group, and was appointed following a review  
of external providers due to their specialist 
experience and expertise in all aspects of board 
performance and governance. 
The evaluation process involved a thorough 
review of board documentation and individual 
interviews with members of the Board, the 
Company Secretary and other attendees 
including external advisers and members  
of the senior management team. 
The evaluation concluded that the Board is 
strong and effective with a good relationship 
between Executive and Non-executive 
Directors. The report on the findings of the 
review has been discussed by the Board at  
its meeting in May 2011 and an action plan  
to follow up on its recommendations will  
be implemented during the year.
The Non-executive Directors also appraised 
the Chairman’s performance and carefully 
reviewed the relationship between the 
Chairman and the Executive Directors  
to ensure that the Board structure and 
relationships continue to promote the 
creation of shareholder value.
By order of the Board
Clare Underwood 
Company Secretary
24 May 2011
Internal control, risk management  
and financial reporting
The Board is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness on a continual basis. The 
Group’s system of internal control is designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or 
loss. The concept of reasonable assurance 
recognises that the cost of control procedures 
should not exceed the expected benefits.
The Group operates a risk management 
process, under which the regional businesses 
identify the key risks to their plans, their 
likelihood and impact and the actions  
being taken to manage those risks and the 
effectiveness of steps taken to mitigate them. 
The risk register is presented to the Audit 
Committee on a rolling 12 month basis. The 
principal risks identified by the Group are set 
out on pages 34 and 35.
The Executive Directors report to the Board, 
on behalf of management, significant changes 
in the Group’s business and the external 
environment in which it operates. In addition, 
they provide the Board with monthly financial 
information, which includes key risk and 
performance indicators. The Group’s key 
internal control and monitoring procedures 
include the following:
•	 Financial reporting: each year, an annual 
budget is agreed and approved by the 
Board. At each Board meeting, actual 
results are reviewed and reported against 
budget and, when appropriate, revised 
forecasts;
•	 Investment appraisal: the Group has clearly 
defined policies for capital expenditure. 
These include annual budgets and detailed 
appraisal processes for such expenditure;
•	 Monitoring systems: internal controls are 
monitored through a programme of internal 
audits. The Internal Audit function reports 
to the Audit Committee on its examination 
and evaluation of the effectiveness and 
adequacy of systems of internal control;
Corporate 
governance report
continued
46 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, 
Corporate Services Director, Group Financial 
Controller, Head of Internal Audit and 
representatives from KPMG, the Company’s 
external auditor are also invited to attend all 
Committee meetings. In May and November 
when the full year and half year results  
are considered, the Chairman is also invited  
to attend.
The agenda for meetings is prepared by the 
Committee Chairman in conjunction with  
the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial 
Controller and the external auditor. Each 
scheduled meeting commences with a  
private session, attended only by Committee 
members, the external auditor and Head of 
Internal Audit, to take soundings on matters 
to be discussed at the meeting or any other 
matters attendees wish to highlight. At each 
meeting the Committee then receives reports 
from the Chief Financial Officer, the external 
auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, 
together with biannual litigation reports. 
During the year, the Committee also 
considered the specific items of business set 
out below, making recommendations to the 
Board where appropriate:
•	 Preliminary results and press release for  
the year ended 31 March 2010;
•	 The 2009/10 Annual Report, together  
with the Directors’ statement on compliance 
with Turnbull guidance on internal controls 
and risk management and the reporting and 
disclosure of the demerger of Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc;
•	 Interim results and press release for the  
six months ended 30 September 2010;
•	 Review of risk management within the 
Group;
•	 Review of the External Audit Strategy for 
the year ended 31 March 2011 taking into 
account this was the first full year audit for 
the Group post demerger;
•	 Review of the Group’s insurance cover;
•	 Effectiveness review of the internal and 
external auditors; and
•	 Review of the Group’s accounting and 
tax policies.
Disclosure Committee
To assist the Committee with the above, 
responsibility for identifying and considering 
disclosure matters in connection with the 
preparation of all market releases containing 
material financial information has been 
delegated to a Disclosure Committee. This 
Committee comprises members of senior 
management from finance, legal, company 
secretarial and investor relations.
During the preparation of the Annual  
Report, the Disclosure Committee obtains 
certifications from contributors prior to the 
document’s review by the Committee and 
approval by the Board.
Internal Audit
Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal 
Audit, supported by a team of in-house 
auditors based in the UK and Jamaica, 
supplemented by a third party to provide 
specific skills as required. The function has 
a formal charter that describes its purpose, 
authority and responsibility. Its audit plan is 
approved by the Audit Committee annually.
External audit
KPMG Audit Plc (KPMG) was appointed as 
auditor of the Company during the financial 
year 2009/10 and also acted as auditor 
of Cable and Wireless plc since 1991. The 
Committee evaluates KPMG’s tenure annually 
and is not restricted by any contractual 
obligations in its choice of auditors. The 
Board has accepted the Committee’s 
recommendation that KPMG should be 
reappointed for 2011/12. This 
recommendation was based on a detailed 
review of the 2009/10 audit of the Company 
which demonstrated overall satisfaction with 
the performance of KPMG as external auditor. 
The review included a survey of Committee 
members and key personnel involved in 
the audit, discussions with KPMG, senior 
management and Internal Audit, as well  
as an analysis of KPMG’s capabilities 
and independence.
The audit engagement partner responsible 
for the 2010/11 audit was assigned on 
19 March 2010.
The Committee has established a policy to 
maintain the independence of the external 
auditor and its personnel and to govern the 
provision of audit and non-audit services 
provided by the auditor and its associates. 
The policy clearly identifies permitted and 
prohibited services and sets out the 
procedure to be followed for the approval 
of all audit and non-audit services. All 
engagements with an expected fee in excess 
of US$400,000 require the prior approval 
of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2011 the Audit 
Committee approved fees for audit services 
of US$3.4 million, together with fees for audit- 
related regulatory reporting of US$0.4 million 
and non-audit work of US$1.7 million. The 
nature of the services provided is set out 
in note 7 to the consolidated financial 
statements. There is no limitation of liability 
in the terms of appointment of KPMG as 
auditor to the Company.
Meetings
The Audit Committee held four scheduled 
meetings during the year ended 31 March 
2011. Details of the number of meetings  
of the Audit Committee and individual 
attendance at the meetings by members  
are shown in the table on page 44.
Simon Ball 
Chairman, Audit Committee
24 May 2011
This report sets out the membership, 
purposes and activities of the Audit 
Committee of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc. This report should  
be read in conjunction with the Corporate 
governance report on pages 44 to 46. 
Membership and terms of reference
The Audit Committee (the Committee)  
is comprised solely of independent Non-
executive Directors. The members of the 
Audit Committee during the financial year 
were Simon Ball (Chairman), Mary Francis, 
Kate Nealon, Ian Tyler (appointed 1 January 
2011) and Kasper Rorsted (resigned 
1 January 2011).
The principal duties of the Committee are set 
out in the terms of reference and include:
•	 To review and monitor the effectiveness 
of internal controls, internal audit and risk 
management systems;
•	 To review and approve the internal audit 
programme, ensuring adequate resources 
and co-ordination with external auditors;
•	 To monitor the integrity of the financial 
statements and announcements relating 
to financial performance, and review 
significant judgements contained in them;
•	 To monitor the financial reporting process 
and the effectiveness of the statutory audit 
of the Annual Report; and
•	 To review and monitor independence  
and performance of external auditors, 
recommend their appointment,  
re-appointment and removal to the Board  
as appropriate and develop policy in relation 
to the provision of non-audit services.
The terms of reference also set out the 
authority of the Committee to carry out 
its duties. 
The Committee undertook a review of its 
objectives and terms of reference during  
the period and the full terms of reference  
are available at www.cwc.com.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one 
member of the Committee has recent and 
relevant financial experience and is confident 
that the collective experience of the 
members enables them to act as an effective 
Audit Committee. 
Report of the 
Audit Committee
  Cable & Wireless Communications 47 The Board is responsible for considering  
and approving recommendations from the 
Committee. In forming its recommendations 
the Committee receives input and advice 
from the Chief Executive, the Corporate 
Services Director and from independent 
consultants, Hewitt New Bridge Street 
(HNBS), who were appointed by the 
Remuneration Committee. HNBS provide 
advice on remuneration and share plans both 
for Executive Directors and the wider senior 
management population. In addition, HNBS 
provide measurement of our relative and 
absolute total shareholder return (TSR) 
performance and benchmark Non-executive 
Directors’ and the Chairman’s fee levels. 
HNBS are signatories to the Remuneration 
Consultants Group Code of Conduct and  
any advice provided by them is governed  
by that code. HNBS’s terms of engagement 
are available on request from the Company 
Secretary. HNBS is a trading name of Aon 
Hewitt (a part of Aon Corporation Inc) which, 
other than acting as independent consultants 
to the Committee, provided no further 
services to the Company during the year. 
The Chairman, the Executive Directors and 
any executives attending a meeting of the 
Committee abstain from any discussion  
on their own remuneration or contractual 
arrangements. In line with standard practice, 
the fees for Non-executive Directors are 
determined by the Board without 
consideration by the Committee. On these 
occasions the Non-executive Directors 
abstain from discussing and voting on their 
own remuneration arrangements.
Key activities of the Committee 2010/11 
During 2010/11, the Committee:
•	 Reviewed remuneration policy in light of 
the publication of the revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code. It decided to make no 
substantive changes;
•	 Reviewed the remuneration packages  
of the Executive Directors and senior 
executives. No changes have been made  
to quantum, including no increases in base 
salary for the coming year;
•	 Assessed annual performance of the 
Executive Directors and senior executives 
against the bonus targets which were set 
by the Committee at the beginning of the 
financial year;
Introduction
This report provides information on 
the remuneration of the Directors of 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2011, and 
the arrangements which will apply until 
31 March 2012. It will be subject to an 
advisory vote at the AGM on 22 July 2011.
The current remuneration structure for 
Executive Directors came into effect on 
26 March 2010 following the incorporation  
of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc  
and the subsequent demerger of Cable  
& Wireless Worldwide plc. The Remuneration 
Committee (the Committee) adopted the 
new arrangements following a review that 
recognised that the circumstances for 
managing Cable & Wireless Communications 
Plc were materially different from those 
affecting the former Cable and Wireless plc.
The Committee reviewed its remuneration 
policy again during 2010/11 in light of the 
revised UK Corporate Governance Code, and 
agreed that no further substantive changes 
were needed. The Committee will continue 
to keep its remuneration policy and its 
application under review.
The Committee remains committed to 
providing a remuneration framework which 
encourages, reinforces and rewards the 
delivery of outstanding shareholder value.
Committee membership and terms 
of reference
The Committee comprises Mary Francis 
(Chair), Simon Ball, Kate Nealon, Kasper 
Rorsted (resigned 1 January 2011), Ian Tyler  
(appointed 1 January 2011) and Sir Richard 
Lapthorne. The Board considers that all 
members of the Committee are  
independent of the Company in both 
character and judgement. 
The Committee held three meetings during 
the year. A summary of each member’s 
attendance can be found on page 44.
The Committee makes recommendations to 
the Board, within agreed terms of reference, 
on the framework of remuneration for the 
Chairman, Executive Directors and other 
senior executive management. The terms 
of reference of the Committee can be found 
on our website at www.cwc.com.
Directors’ 
remuneration report
48 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance Remuneration arrangements for 
Executive Directors in 2011/12
The Committee has agreed that the 
arrangements for 2011/12 will include no 
substantive changes from those of last year 
and remain as follows:
•	 Base salaries will be unchanged from their 
2010/11 levels;
•	 The annual bonus will continue to comprise 
a cash payment of up to 75% of base salary, 
with an equal payment in shares which will 
be deferred for 12 months and may be 
clawed back during that period at the 
discretion of the Committee. The deferred 
shares are counted towards each Director’s 
shareholding requirement; and
•	 Performance shares of between two and 
three times base salary will be awarded and 
will be subject to stretching absolute TSR 
performance conditions.
The chart below illustrates the average 
proportion of Executive Directors’ potential 
remuneration for 2011/12 that will be 
performance related. 
Figures reflect payment potential for a ‘target’ 
level of performance achieved for the annual 
bonus plan and the ‘expected value’ of 
performance shares to be granted in 2011/12.
1
Split of potential total target remuneration
2011/12
1 Salary 32%
2 Pension 8%
3 Performance-related
 annual bonus 28%
4 Performance-related
 long-term incentives 32%
2
3
4
•	 An appropriate mix of short and long-term 
incentives is offered so that Executive 
Directors are incentivised to maximise 
performance over both the short and 
medium to long-term;
•	 All aspects of remuneration for the 
Directors and selected senior executives 
are approved by the Committee;
•	 The Committee reviews the levels, 
structure and philosophy of remuneration 
for the Company on an annual basis;
•	 The Committee considers the pay and 
employment conditions of other employees 
in the Group when determining the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration, to 
ensure that the remuneration structure for 
Directors is consistent with that of other 
senior executives whilst also recognising 
their greater Group responsibilities. The 
geographic spread of the Group’s activities 
combined with senior managers being 
generally appointed from within those 
geographies, makes it necessary for  
the Committee to be aware of pay and 
employment conditions and trends  
within each of those geographies; and
•	 The Committee considers the impact of 
remuneration on the risk profile of the 
Company and ensures that the framework 
for incentivising behaviours is appropriate 
to that risk profile. In particular, it will 
continue to review the remuneration of 
key individuals who have the largest direct 
impact on the business’s risk profile.
Overall the Committee is satisfied that the 
remuneration policy promotes the long-term 
success of the Group and that the incentive 
structure and objectives do not encourage 
excessive risk taking. In particular, it feels  
that the choice of performance criteria in the 
short and long-term incentive arrangements 
will reward executives for achieving the 
Company’s key strategic goals.
•	 Set bonus targets for the Executive 
Directors and senior executives for the 
financial year 2011/12;
•	 Conducted a review of any risks arising 
from the remuneration policy; and
•	 Agreed the terms of a replacement 
Performance Share Plan to be introduced 
(subject to shareholders’ approval) on 
expiry of the previous long-term share 
arrangements which were introduced ten 
years ago. The rules of this new plan are 
more in line with current accepted practice 
but do not substantively change the 
approach to long-term incentives 
previously approved by shareholders.
Remuneration philosophy
The overall aim is to ensure that remuneration 
encourages, reinforces and rewards the 
delivery of outstanding shareholder value. 
This is underpinned by the following guiding 
principles:
•	 The philosophy is focused on a risk and 
reward structure that maintains an 
overall alignment with the interests 
of shareholders;
•	 Executive Directors are encouraged to 
maintain a significant investment in the 
shares of the Company; 
•	 Incentives are set with stretching targets 
and provide for below-market levels of 
reward for below-median performance  
and levels of reward in the top quartile of 
the market for exceptional performance;
•	 Remuneration packages are regularly 
monitored by independent analysis  
against comparator groups of companies. 
Benchmarking reflects the need to retain 
executives of the former Cable and 
Wireless plc, the enterprise value of the 
new entity which was specifically allocated 
the majority of Cable and Wireless plc 
group debt on demerger, and the 
complexity and geographic spread  
of the Group; 
•	 Base salaries and benefits are normally  
set at the mid-market level, with some 
flexibility to reflect executives’ experience 
and expertise;
  Cable & Wireless Communications 49 Annual bonus
Bonuses for 2010/11 for the Executive 
Directors were paid in accordance with the 
arrangement set out in last year’s report  
and were as shown in the table below.
EBITDA threshold targets were not met 
primarily due to the weak performance in the 
Caribbean. Stretching Net Cash Flow before 
Financing (NCFbF) targets were exceeded  
in the year, reflecting the focus on cash 
generation and repatriation to the UK.  
Tim Pennington’s personal targets for 
2010/11 related to achieving further 
improvements in processes and controls 
within the Group’s main businesses, to the 
Group’s tax rate and to other drivers for 
effective financial and team performance. 
Nick Cooper’s personal targets for 2010/11 
related to contract and litigation processes 
and controls, management development and 
succession planning and board development 
and governance. Personal objectives set for 
Tim Pennington and Nick Cooper at the start 
of the year were assessed by the Committee 
with input from the Chief Executive and 
deemed to have been met at the 60% level. 
The Chief Executive’s bonus targets are 
entirely financial, with no personal element. 
In accordance with the rules of the bonus 
scheme, half of each bonus awarded for 
2010/11 has been converted into shares 
which are deferred for 12 months and  
subject to forfeiture during that period,  
at the discretion of the Committee.
For 2011/12 the bonus opportunity and 
financial/personal performance targets split 
(where applicable) for Executive Directors will 
remain unchanged. Financial performance 
targets will be split equally between EBITDA 
and NCFbF. The EBITDA element will be a 
composite of the four regional businesses’ 
EBITDA targets. There will also be a minimum 
EBITDA underpin and Earnings per Share 
underpin for both the EBITDA and NCFbF 
elements.
The financial targets are carefully considered 
by the Committee in consultation with the 
Audit Committee, to ensure that they are 
appropriately stretching. 
The individual elements of Executive 
Directors’ remuneration arrangements are  
set out in more detail in the following sections.
Base salary
Executive Directors’ salaries are denominated 
in sterling as the Directors are based in the 
UK. The Executive Directors’ annual base 
salaries with effect from 1 April 2010 are set 
out in the table below. US dollar equivalents 
have been presented for reference purposes, 
however, these reference amounts will 
fluctuate with changes in exchange rates. 
Base salary 
in sterling
Base salary 
in US dollars*
George Battersby 
(from 1 April 2010 
to 21 July 2010) 128,864 199,288
Nick Cooper 350,000 541,275
Tim Pennington 500,000 773,250
Tony Rice 700,000 1,082,550
* Based on sterling to US dollar exchange rate of 1.5465, 
which was the average exchange rate used by the 
Group for 2010/11. 
There will be no increase in the base salaries 
of the Executive Directors for 2011/12.
Pension and other benefits 
Executive Directors either choose to receive a 
cash allowance of 25% of their base salary, or 
the Company will provide employer’s pension 
contributions at the rate of 25% of base 
salary. The Director is not required to pay any 
pension contributions. The Company made 
contributions to the defined contribution 
scheme on behalf of two Executive Directors, 
Nick Cooper and Tim Pennington, totalling 
US$135,431 in the year.
The Executive Directors are eligible to 
participate in employee benefit programmes 
including life, disability and health insurance 
plans. The value of these benefits is included in 
the Directors’ remuneration table on page 55.
Directors’ 
remuneration report
continued
Earnings before 
Interest, Tax,
Depreciation
and Amortisation 
(EBITDA)
Net 
Cash Flow 
before 
Financing 
(NCFbF) Personal
Total payable 
for 2010/11
% of salary 
awarded 
(Max payable)
% of salary 
awarded 
(Max payable)
% of salary 
awarded 
(Max payable)
% of salary 
awarded 
(Max payable)
Tony Rice 0% (75%) 75% (75%) 0% (0%) 75% (150%)
Tim Pennington and Nick Cooper 0% (60%) 60% (60%) 18% (30%) 78% (150%)
Annual bonus
50 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance ii) Share awards granted prior to demerger
Prior to demerger, Executive Directors 
received various awards under the Share 
Options and Performance Share Plan sections 
of the Cable & Wireless Incentive Plan 2001 
(IP2001). 
George Battersby, Nick Cooper and Tony Rice 
all received awards of share options between 
2004 and 2006, which have now vested. 
At demerger unexercised options continued 
over a stapled unit of one Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc share and one Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc share for each former 
Cable and Wireless plc share over which the 
option vested. The exercise price for each 
stapled unit remains fixed at the option price 
set on the original date of grant and the final 
exercise date remains unchanged. 
Before demerger, all Executive Directors 
received an award of performance shares  
in June 2009, with performance conditions, 
under IP 2001. Each of the Directors was 
granted awards equivalent to four times 
market salary (other than Nick Cooper who 
received two times market salary) vesting in 
June 2012. 
The following summarises the vesting 
schedules for those performance shares 
currently under award:
Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) over performance 
period % of award vesting
20% compound p.a. 
or higher 100%
Between 8% 
compound p.a. and 
20% compound p.a.
Straight-line between 
25% and 100%
Equal to 8% 
compound p.a. 25%
Less than 8% 
compound p.a. 0%
At demerger, Tim Pennington also held  
an award of Restricted Shares under the 
Restricted Share Plan 2005. This was  
adjusted to be an award over Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc shares only, having an 
equivalent value determined by reference to 
the average closing price of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc shares over the five dealing days 
commencing on the demerger effective date 
(26 March 2010). There are no performance 
conditions attached to this award. 
•	 Awards are made only to those top 
executives with strategic roles who have a 
clear line of sight and a good understanding 
of the performance condition;
•	 It contributes to an appropriate balance  
of measures across the package when 
operated alongside the annual bonus; and
•	 It provides for continuity as the Group has 
historically incorporated the use of absolute 
TSR in long-term incentives.
During the year, the Committee plans to 
undertake a review of the performance 
criteria for future performance share awards 
to ensure that the optimal measures and 
targets are in place as the Company’s 
businesses and strategy evolve. 
The performance targets for awards granted 
in 2010/11, which remain the same for those 
to be granted in 2011/12, are:
Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) over performance 
period % of award vesting
14% compound p.a. 
or higher 100%
Between 8% 
compound p.a. and 
14% compound p.a.
Straight-line between 
0% and 100% 
8% compound p.a. 
or lower 0%
TSR is defined as share price growth  
adjusted for dividends and capital actions.  
For the purpose of these awards, TSR will  
be calculated using a one month average 
share price at the beginning and end of the 
performance period in order to moderate the 
effect of short-term share price volatility. 
The Committee believes that these targets 
are appropriately challenging.
Irrespective of potential vesting arising from 
the above schedule, the Committee will, 
during the 12 months following the end of the 
three year performance period, also consider 
whether the underlying performance of the 
Group warrants release of the shares and will 
reduce the vesting percentage if appropriate. 
In considering underlying performance, the 
Committee may take account of (though not 
necessarily in isolation) the following metrics: 
revenue, EBITDA, operational spending, cost 
of sales, capital expenditure and quantum 
and timing of cash flows.
Long-term incentive awards
Executive Directors have received share 
awards under several different long-term 
incentive schemes, a number having been 
made before demerger. They are described 
in the following sections.
i) Performance share plan 
Performance shares are the only form of 
long-term incentive now being granted by 
the Company. They are awarded under the 
Cable & Wireless Communications Incentive 
Plan 2010 (IP 2010), which was previously 
approved by shareholders. Grants normally 
range between two and three times the 
Director’s base salary, with three year vesting, 
and are subject to stretching performance 
targets. Grants in 2010/11, as set out in last 
year’s Committee report, were 2.8 times base 
salary for Tony Rice and Tim Pennington, and 
2.0 times base salary for Nick Cooper. The 
same levels of grant will be made in 2011/12 
(see the table below).
Value of shares at grant
Face value 
US$m
2
‘Fair value’
1
US$m
2
Nick Cooper 
(2.0x base salary) 1,082,550 433,020
Tim Pennington 
(2.8x base salary) 2,165,100 866,040
Tony Rice 
(2.8x base salary) 3,031,140 1,212,456
1 Assumes ‘fair value’ of 40% of face value which is the 
estimated value of these awards at grant based on 
conditions prevailing at the date of this report.
2 Based on sterling to US dollar exchange rate of 1.5465, 
which is the average exchange rate used by the Group 
for 2010/11.
These awards will vest according to the 
achievement of absolute TSR targets for the 
Group above a minimum threshold, as detailed 
in the following table. 
The Committee believes absolute TSR 
represents the most appropriate performance 
condition at this stage in the Company’s 
development because it provides strong 
alignment with shareholders’ own returns. 
In particular:
•	 It is aligned with the policy of providing for 
a high dividend yield - an important 
component of TSR;
•	 It is aligned with the Group’s M&A activity 
(where a concentration on growing asset 
value to the benefit of shareholders is 
better recognised by an absolute TSR 
condition than a relative condition which 
may include peers with differing strategies);
  Cable & Wireless Communications 51 of £4 million to be converted into shares  
for 20 participants, which will vest over the 
next three years. The total payment pool  
over the five years of the plan is expected  
to be approximately £30 million excluding 
employer social security payments. A final 
determination of the value of individual units 
is expected to be made in early June 2011. 
Disclosures in this remuneration report have 
been made on the assumption that the total 
pool will be this amount. The methodology  
for calculating the reward pool and individual 
payments will be reviewed by independent 
third parties. The table on page 56 provides 
an estimate of the amounts receivable for 
each Executive Director, and summarises  
the performance conditions.
iv) Additional information
Performance graphs
The total shareholder return graph below 
shows the value by 31 March 2011 of £100 
invested in Cable & Wireless Communications 
Plc shares from 22 March 2010 (the date 
shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
were admitted to the Official List), compared 
with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 
350 Index (excluding Investment Trusts) and 
£100 invested in the FTSE All-World Telecoms 
Sector Index.
Cable & Wireless Communications 
business value compared to FTSE 350 and 
FTSE All-World Telecoms Sector Index
A similar graph over a five year period has also 
been presented on page 53 as the Committee 
believes this is more meaningful and relevant 
to our incentive plans. In this case the TSR for 
the Cable & Wireless Communications 
business has been calculated using the same 
methodology as the calculations made for  
the Cash LTIP (as explained on page 56). 
Executive Directors’ shareholdings 
The Company operates a policy of encouraging 
Executive Directors to align their interests 
closely with those of shareholders by requiring 
them to build up and maintain a holding of 
ordinary shares. Where the relevant holding 
has not already been attained, it is required to 
be achieved through the retention of any net 
awards received from share plans which vest. 
In addition, Executive Directors are eligible  
to participate in the all-employee Cable & 
Wireless Communications Share Purchase 
Plan (the Share Purchase Plan) on the same 
terms as other employees.
Details of historic awards granted under these 
plans to Executive Directors are summarised 
in the tables on pages 57 to 60. 
iii) Cash LTIP 
The Cable & Wireless Long Term Incentive 
Plan (Cash LTIP) was put in place before 
demerger, and approved by the shareholders 
of Cable and Wireless plc. It created a reward 
pool for Executive Directors and senior 
management depending on the extent to 
which the business grew in value from its 
adjusted base value at 1 April 2006. The base 
value in the scheme was adjusted at demerger 
to ensure that there were no windfalls/gains. 
The performance period for the Cash LTIP 
ended on 31 March 2011 and no further 
grants will be made.
At 31 March 2011 Tony Rice held units worth 
10% of the reward pool for the Group, Tim 
Pennington held units worth 5% of the reward 
pool for the Group and Nick Cooper held units 
worth 2.5% of the reward pool for the Group.
The Cash LTIP scheme had a five year 
performance period finishing on 31 March 
2011 (extended from four years in July 
2009), with part of the reward pool ordinarily 
payable to participants at the end of years 
three (31 March 2009) and four (31 March 
2010), and 100% (less payments already 
made) payable at the end of year five  
(31 March 2011). Tony Rice received his award 
on his appointment as Chief Executive on 
11 November 2008. It was structured with 
85% vesting at the end of year four (of which 
50% would be paid immediately and 35% 
deferred for a further year) with the balance 
vesting and payable in 2011. The awards to 
Tim Pennington and Nick Cooper are payable  
in 2011.
At the end of the period (31 March 2011), 
whilst the Committee had not determined  
the value of each unit, the payments in  
2011 were anticipated to be £5 million for  
nine participants, with a remaining amount  
Directors’ 
remuneration report
continued
Total shareholder return (TSR)
Value in £ from 22 March 2010 to 31 March 2011
150
125
100
75
50
22 Mar 2010 31 Mar 2011
 Cable & Wireless Communications
 FTSE All-World Telecoms Sector Index
 FTSE 350 Index (excluding Investment Trusts)
Value (£)
52 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance Communications Share Ownership Trust 
(formerly the Cable and Wireless Employee 
Share Ownership Trust) (the 1997 Trust), 
which is subject to a holding limit of no more 
than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital 
of the Company.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
The Committee’s policy is that Executive 
Directors’ service contracts should include a 
maximum notice period of one year. However, 
a longer notice period may apply initially 
where this is required to secure the services 
of executives in exceptional circumstances, 
though in all cases the notice period will 
reduce to one year or less after two years. 
Executive Directors’ service contracts 
continue until their normal retirement date. 
Date of 
appointment
Notice 
period
George Battersby 
(until 21 July 2010)
25 January 
2010 One year
Nick Cooper
25 January 
2010 One year
Tim Pennington
25 January 
2010 One year
Tony Rice
25 January 
2010 One year
The Executive Directors’ contracts provide 
that, in the event of a change of control of the 
Company and a Director’s employment being 
adversely changed, then he will receive a 
payment equal to base salary for the notice 
period and a time pro-rated annual bonus. 
The contracts do not provide for any other 
fixed payments. 
The Executive Directors’ service contracts 
contain no other provisions for compensation 
payable on early termination. In the event of 
early termination, the Committee will, within 
legal constraints, determine the approach to 
be taken according to the circumstances of 
each individual case, taking full account of 
the departing Executive Director’s obligation 
to mitigate loss. Except in cases of early 
The existing requirement is to build and 
maintain a holding of shares worth at least 
four times the Directors’ base salary for the 
CEO, three times the Director’s base salary 
for the CFO and two times the Director’s  
base salary for other Executive Directors. 
Replacement Performance Share Plan 
IP2010 is due to expire in 2011 and a 
replacement Performance Share Plan is  
being put to shareholders for approval at  
the 2011 AGM. The Committee proposes  
to continue with the current policy (i.e. to  
grant performance shares with the same 
performance targets, vesting schedule and 
grant levels), and it has taken this opportunity 
to align the rules of the plan with latest 
practice and to provide more clarity for 
shareholders. We propose, for example, to 
remove much of the flexibility that exists in 
the current plan (e.g. to remove the facility to 
grant share options and to specify a maximum 
award limit within the rules).
A summary of the details of the new plan can 
be found in the AGM shareholder circular.
Dilution
The Committee ensures that at all times the 
number of new shares which may be issued 
under any share option or share-based plans, 
including all employee plans, does not exceed 
the dilution limit of 10% of the Company’s 
issued share capital over any ten year rolling 
period. As at 31 March 2011, 8% of the 
issued shared capital was available for issue 
under our share-based plans. In calculating 
this figure, the Committee has taken into 
account historic awards of the former Cable 
and Wireless plc shares made to current or 
former employees of the Communications 
business and the adjustments to the awards 
as a result of the demerger.
Awards under the various share plans  
are funded by a mix of purchased and 
newly-issued shares, as determined by the 
Committee. Newly-issued shares are subject 
to the dilution limit outlined above. Purchased 
shares are held by The Cable & Wireless 
termination for cause, the Committee will 
take into account the relevant Executive 
Director’s current salary, notice period and 
contractual benefits when calculating any 
liability of the Company. The principal 
contractual benefits provided in addition to 
salary are pension and life insurance. Annual 
bonuses and long-term incentives are granted 
at the discretion of the Committee and would 
therefore be dealt with in accordance with the 
rules of the relevant scheme. A significant 
proportion of each Executive Director’s total 
remuneration is subject to performance 
conditions and therefore would not be 
payable to the extent that the relevant 
targets have not been met.
Chairman
The Chairman’s contract is effective from 
25 January 2010 with 12 months’ notice on 
either side, and the requirement to stand for 
annual re-election at the AGM. There are no 
contractual entitlements on early termination 
or following a change of control. His annual 
fee of £386,000 (US$596,949) was fixed 
until at least April 2011. The Committee 
reviewed this fee during 2010/11 and 
decided that it should remain unchanged  
in the current year.
The Chairman was granted an award over  
5.5 million Cable and Wireless plc shares in 
June 2007, with vesting of the award subject 
to demanding performance conditions. No 
shares vest if TSR at the specified date is at or 
below the mid point of the comparator group 
of companies in the FTSE GTSI, through to 
100% vesting for performance in the top 
10% of this comparator group, on a  
straight-line scale. 
As described in last year’s annual report, 
performance will be calculated by aggregating 
the TSR of the former Cable and Wireless plc 
for the period up to demerger with the 
combined TSR of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc for the period after demerger 
to 5 June 2011. The award continues over  
5.5 million shares in Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc and 5.5 million shares in 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc. A takeover, 
reconstruction or winding up in relation to 
either Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
or Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc would 
trigger early vesting of the award.
The award is also conditional upon the 
Chairman retaining a personal holding  
of at least 3.5 million Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc shares and 3.5 million 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares for  
the duration of the performance period and  
a positive TSR over the performance period.  
If 31 March 2011 had been the end of the 
performance period, then based on TSR 
performance to that date, the award would 
not have vested.
 Cable & Wireless Communications business LTIP                
 FTSE All-World Telecoms Sector Index
 FTSE 350 Index (excluding Investment Trusts)
175
Value (£)
150
125
100
75
50
Mar
2006
Mar
2007
Mar
2008
Mar
2010
Mar
2009
Mar
2011
Cable & Wireless Communications business value compared to FTSE 350 Index
(excluding Investment Trusts) and FTSE All-World Telecoms Sector Index
   
  Cable & Wireless Communications 53 Directors’ 
remuneration report
continued
Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors do not have 
service contracts with the Company, but 
instead have letters of appointment. Their 
fees are determined by the Board, within the 
limits set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association, with Non-executive Directors 
abstaining from any discussion or decision on 
their fees. Fee levels were last reviewed in 
March 2011 and no increases were approved 
for the coming year. The Non-executive 
Directors do not receive any incentive 
payments or pension provision.
Annual fees (based in sterling) payable to each 
Non-executive Director for 2011/12 are set 
out in the table below. US dollar equivalents 
have been presented for reference purposes. 
However these reference amounts will 
fluctuate with changes in exchange rates. 
Non-executive Directors are appointed for  
an initial three year term with the expectation 
that a further three year term will follow.  
After two three year terms, the continued 
appointment of any Non-executive Director 
may be extended on an annual basis at the 
invitation of the Chairman. Termination of the 
appointment may be earlier at the discretion 
of either party on one month’s written  
notice. None of the Non-executive Directors 
is entitled to any compensation if their 
appointment is terminated. Appointments  
will be subject to re-election at the AGM in 
accordance with the Articles of Association. 
Annual fees
£ US$*
George Battersby
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee of Hogg Robinson Group Plc (Until 21 July 2010) 10,855 16,787
Board of Ofsted (Until 21 July 2010) 1,255 1,941
Tony Rice  
Non-executive Director of Punch Taverns Plc 55,000 85,058
Non-executive Director of Alexander Mann Solutions 15,000 23,198
* Based on sterling to US dollar exchange rate of 1.5465, which is the average exchange rate used by the Group for 
2010/11.
Base fee 
in sterling
Base fee* 
in US dollars
Additional 
fees in 
sterling
Additional 
fees* in 
US dollars
Simon Ball 65,000 100,523 20,000
1
30,930
Mary Francis 65,000 100,523 20,000
2
30,930
Kate Nealon 65,000 100,523 – –
Ian Tyler 65,000 100,523 – –
* Based on sterling to US dollar exchange rate of 1.5465, which is the average exchange rate used by the Group for 
2010/11.
1 Additional fee for role of Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Deputy Chairman.
2 Additional fee for role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee. 
The annual fees (which are based in sterling) payable to each Non-executive Director for 
2011/12 are as follows:
External directorships
The Company allows Executive Directors to hold external directorships subject to agreement 
by the Chairman on a case by case basis and to retain the fees received from those roles.
Details of directorships held and the annual fees received for the financial year 2010/11 are 
given below:
54 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance Directors’ emoluments – audited section
The table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc during the period 
1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011.
For the statutory period 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011
Salaries 
total 
and fees 
US$*
Total 
cash
bonuses
5
US$*
Benefits 
in kind
2
US$*
Pension 
cash 
allowance
3
US$*
Long
Term
Incentive
Scheme
4
US$*
Total 
2010/11 
statutory 
period 
1 April 2010 
to 31 March 
 2011
2
US$*
Total 
2009/10 
for non 
statutory 
period 
1 April 2009 
to 31 March 
2010
6
US$
1
Total 
2009/10 
statutory 
period 
19 January 
2010 to 
31 March 
2010
6
US$
1
Chairman       
Sir Richard Lapthorne 596,949 – 116,415 – – 713,364 859,751 30,622
Executive Directors       
George Battersby 
(from 1 April 2010 to 21 July 2010) 199,288 – 15,627 49,822 – 264,737 840,655 29,942
Nick Cooper 541,275 211,097 6,330 – 247,435 1,006,137 97,246 
7
97,246 
7
Tim Pennington 773,250 301,456 5,538 193,313 – 1,273,557 960,932 187,600
Tony Rice 1,082,550 405,957 61,235 270,638 – 1,820,380 1,253,975 44,663
Non-executive Directors       
Simon Ball 131,453 – 2,080 – – 133,533 264,526 9,421
Mary Francis 131,453 – 2,255 – – 133,708 78,133 2,782
Kate Nealon 100,523 – 2,080 – – 102,603 138,847 4,945
Kasper Rorsted  
(from 1 April 2010 to 1 January 2011) 75,392 – 316 – – 75,708 146,880 5,231
Ian Tyler  
(from 1 January 2011 to 31 March 
2011) 25,130 – – – – 25,130 – –
Total 3,657,263 918,510 211,876 513,773 247,435 5,548,857 4,640,945 412,452
* Based on Sterling to US dollar exchange rate of 1.5465, which is the average exchange rate used by the Group for 2010/11.
1 Based on a Sterling to US dollar exchange rate of 1.5904, which is the average exchange rate used by the Group for 2009/10.
2 ‘Benefits in kind’ include Company provided life assurance, professional advice, chauffeur travel and reimbursement of costs associated with accommodation and relocation 
(as applicable).
3 Company pension contributions in 2010/11 have been paid to the Directors as either annual cash allowances or employer’s pension contributions. An amount of US$26 million 
(2009/10 – US$24 million) is included in the net pensions deficit figure in note 33 to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
4 The payment of US$247,435 to Nick Cooper was due to him from a long-term incentive scheme in which he participated prior to becoming an Executive Director. No further 
payments are due under that or any other similar scheme.
5 For Tony Rice and Nick Cooper an equivalent amount of the cash bonus will be received in the form of shares deferred for one year and subject to claw back at the discretion of 
the Committee. Tim Pennington has waived US$112 from his cash bonus as an equivalent amount was paid into the pension plan by the Company on his behalf and therefore the 
amount of bonus received by Tim Pennington in the form of shares deferred for one year and subject to claw back at the discretion of the Committee will be US$301,568.  
These shares will count towards each Director’s shareholding requirement.
6 As explained in last year’s annual report, we were required by statute to provide details of Director’s remuneration for the period 19 January to 31 March 2010 (i.e. from 
incorporation to the year end), but we also provided information for the full year ended 31 March 2010 to be more helpful to shareholders.
7 Nick Cooper was appointed to the Board of the Company on 25 January 2010.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 55 Directors’ shareholdings
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company as notified to the Company as at 
31 March 2011 were as follows:
Shares held at 
1 April 2010 
or date of 
appointment Shares acquired Shares disposed
Shares held at 
31 March 2011 
or date of 
resignation
Chairman    
Sir Richard Lapthorne 6,998,869 – – 6,998,869 
Executive Directors
1,2,3
    
George Battersby (resigned 21 July 2010) 1,290,551 791 – 1,291,342 
Nick Cooper
4
313,376 4,111 – 317,487
Tim Pennington 1,016,355 878,982 – 1,895,337
Tony Rice
4
 7,000,000 4,413,794 – 11,413,794
Non-executive Directors    
Simon Ball 298,294 17,463 – 315,757
Mary Francis 20,000 – – 20,000
Kate Nealon 34,960 – – 34,960
Kasper Rorsted (resigned 1 January 2011) 190,000 – – 190,000
Ian Tyler (appointed 1 January 2011) – – – –
1 In addition, as potential beneficiaries from outstanding awards which may be satisfied by shares held by the 1997 Trust, the Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest in 
all of the ordinary shares held by the 1997 Trust, which at 31 March 2011 amounted to 40,054,310 shares.
2 Included in the shares acquired during the year are shares purchased under the Share Purchase Plan as well as any dividends received on the purchased shares which are converted 
into additional shares. Matching shares allocated under the Share Purchase Plan are included if they have vested. No unvested Matching Shares as at 31 March 2011 are included. 
Details are disclosed on page 57.
3 Each of the Executive Directors will receive 50% of their total gross bonus payment for 2010/11 in the form of shares deferred for one year and subject to claw back at the 
discretion of the Committee. Once awarded these shares will count towards each Director’s shareholding requirement.
4 As at 24 May 2011, there were the following increases to the interest of Directors and their connected persons due to the vesting of Matching Shares under the Share Purchase 
Plan: Nick Cooper 987 shares; Tony Rice 987 shares.
Cash LTIP 
The table below provides an estimate of the Cash LTIP amounts receivable and the qualifying period end date under the Cash LTIP, as  
described below: 
For the period 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011
Cash LTIP 
interests 
at 1 April 
2010 
(units)
Cash LTIP 
interests 
awarded 
during the 
period 
(units)
Cash LTIP 
interests 
forfeited 
during the 
period 
(units)
Cash LTIP 
interests 
at 31 March 
2011 
(units)
Estimated 
gross 
cash LTIP 
receivable
 in 2011
£
Estimated 
gross 
cash LTIP 
receivable 
in 2011 
US$
1
Qualifying 
period 
end date
Nick Cooper 250 – – 250 687,500 1,063,219 31/03/11
Tim Pennington 500 – – 500 1,375,000 2,126,438 31/03/11
T ony Rice 1,000 – – 1,000 1,660,000 2,567,190 31/03/11
1 Based on Sterling to US dollar exchange rate of 1.5465, which is the average exchange rate used by the Group for 2010/11.
The base valuation at 1 April 2006 is adjusted over the performance period to create the Cash LTIP hurdle as follows: i) to reflect additional 
capital notionally treated as borrowed by the business; ii) to reflect capital notionally treated as returned by the business; and iii) increased by 
a hurdle rate being the notional weighted average cost of capital of the business (which will be at least 8% per annum compounded). If the value 
of the Group is lower than its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, there will be no reward pool. To the extent that the 
Group’s value exceeds its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, 10% of the growth in value over the adjusted base 
valuation goes into the reward pool.
Directors’ 
remuneration report
continued
56 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance Directors’ share awards
Awards under the Cable & Wireless Communications Plc incentive plans are detailed in the following two tables:
Restricted shares and Share Purchase Plan awards
For the period 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011
Name and scheme
Award 
date
Vesting 
date
Market price 
on date of 
award of 
Cable & Wireless 
Communications 
Plc shares 
(pence)
2
Market price 
on date of 
vesting
(pence)
Shares under 
award at 
1 April 2010
Shares 
awarded
Shares 
vested/ 
released
Shares lapsed, 
cancelled 
or forfeited
Shares under 
award at 
31 March 
2011 or 
date of 
resignation
Chairman
Sir Richard Lapthorne
Restricted Shares
1
6/6/07 5/6/11 74.0 – 5,500,000 – – – 5,500,000
 5,500,000 – – – 5,500,000
Executive Directors
George Battersby
Share Purchase Plan
MS
8/5/07 8/5/10 71.9 59.15 791 – 791 – –
Share Purchase Plan
MS
7/8/07 7/8/10 64.6 61.3 1 – 1 – 1
3
Share Purchase Plan
MS
 8/5/08 29/8/10 57.7 56.4 987 – 987 – 987
3
 
 1,779 – 1,779 – 988
Nick Cooper
Share Purchase Plan
MS
8/5/07 8/5/10 71.9 59.15 791 – 791 – –
Share Purchase Plan
MS
7/3/08 7/3/11 58.2 49.75 1 – 1 – –
Share Purchase Plan
MS
8/5/08 8/5/11 57.7 – 987 – – – 987
Share Purchase Plan
MS
12/5/10 12/5/13 60.2 – – 2,492 – – 2,492
 1,779 2,492 792 – 3,479
Tim Pennington
Restricted Shares 30/9/08 30/9/11 63.5 – 236,200 – – – 236,200
Share Purchase Plan
MS
7/10/08 7/10/11 58.4 – 975 – – – 975
Share Purchase Plan
MS
12/5/10 12/5/13 60.2 – – 2,491 – – 2,491
Share Purchase Plan
MS
9/6/10 9/6/13 57.34 – – 2 – – 2
 237,175 2,493 – – 239,668
Tony Rice
Share Purchase Plan
MS
8/5/07 8/5/10 71.9 59.15 791 – 791 – –
Share Purchase Plan
MS
7/3/08 7/3/11 58.2 49.75 1 – 1 – –
Share Purchase Plan
MS
8/5/08 8/5/11 57.7 – 987 – – – 987
Share Purchase Plan
MS
12/5/10 12/5/13 60.2 – – 2,492 – – 2,492
 1,779 2,492 792 – 3,479
MS Matching Shares
1 Full vesting of the restricted shares occurs only if the combined TSR performance for Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc is in the top  
10% when compared with the FTSE GTSI, on a straight-line scale.  No shares vest for TSR at or below the mid point of the comparator group of companies.
2 The market price on the date of awards prior to demerger has been adjusted in proportion to the market price value of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc to the combined 
share price of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc over the five days following demerger. This adjustment resulted in the market price  
on the date of award for all awards being adjusted to 38% of their original value.
3 Shares vested after date of resignation (21 July 2010) in accordance with the Share Purchase Plan rules.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 57 Performance share awards
For the period 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011
Name and scheme
Award 
date
Vesting 
date
Market price 
on date of 
award of 
Cable & Wireless 
Communications 
Plc shares 
(pence)
1
Market price 
on date of 
vesting
(pence)
Shares under 
award at 
 1 April 2010
2
Shares 
awarded
Shares 
vested
Shares lapsed, 
cancelled 
or forfeited
Shares under 
award at 
31 March 
2011 or 
date of 
resignation
Executive Directors
George Battersby 
Performance Shares
4
2/6/09 29/8/10 51.0 56.4 1,310,303 – 1,310,303 – 1,310,303
5
Performance Shares
DS
7/8/09 29/8/10 48.7 56.4 57,906 – 57,906 – 57,906
5
Performance Shares
DS
22/1/10 29/8/10 52.3 56.4 30,078 – 30,078 – 30,078
5
 
 1,398,287 – 1,398,287 – 1,398,287
Nick Cooper
Performance Shares
4
2/6/09 2/6/12 51.0 – 461,584 – – – 461,584
Performance Shares
DS
7/8/09 2/6/12 48.7 – 20,398 – – – 20,398
Performance Shares
DS
22/1/10 2/6/12 52.3 – 10,595 – – – 10,595
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 2/6/12 60.7 – – 27,023 – – 27,023
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 2/6/12 49.95 – – 15,794 – – 15,794
Performance Shares 4/6/10 4/6/13 60.3 – – 1,160,862 – – 1,160,862
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 4/6/13 60.7 – – 67,962 – – 67,962
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 4/6/13 49.95 – – 39,722 – – 39,722
 492,577 1,311,363 – – 1,803,940
Tim Pennington
Performance Shares
3
2/6/09 2/6/12 51.0 – 655,151 – – – 655,151
Performance Shares
DS
7/8/09 2/6/12 48.7 – 28,953 – – – 28,953
Performance Shares
DS
22/1/10 2/6/12 52.3 – 15,039 – – – 15,039
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 2/6/12 60.7 – – 38,355 – – 38,355
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 2/6/12 49.95 – – 22,418 – – 22,418
Performance Shares
3
2/6/09 2/6/12 51.0 – 1,725,527 – – – 1,725,527
Performance Shares
DS
7/8/09 2/6/12 48.7 – 76,255 – – – 76,255
Performance Shares
DS
22/1/10 2/6/12 52.3 – 39,609 – – – 39,609
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 2/6/12 60.7 – – 101,021 – – 101,021
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 2/6/12 49.95 – – 59,044 – – 59,044
Performance Shares 4/6/10 4/6/13 60.3 – – 2,321,724 – – 2,321,724
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 4/6/13 60.7 – – 135,925 – – 135,925
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 4/6/13 49.95 – – 79,445 – – 79,445
 2,540,534 2,757,932 – – 5,298,466
Tony Rice
Performance Shares 2/6/09 2/6/12 51.0 – 5,490,320 – – – 5,490,320
Performance Shares
DS
7/8/09 2/6/12 48.7 – 242,634 – – – 242,634
Performance Shares
DS
22/1/10 2/6/12 52.3 – 126,029 – – – 126,029
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 2/6/12 60.7 – – 321,431 – – 321,431
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 2/6/12 49.95 – – 187,868 – – 187,868
Performance Shares 4/6/10 4/6/13 60.3 – – 3,250,414 – – 3,250,414
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 4/6/13 60.7 – – 190,295 – – 190,295
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 4/6/13 49.95 – – 111,223 – – 111,223
 5,858,983 4,061,231 – – 9,920,214
Directors’ 
remuneration report
continued
58 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance DS Dividend Shares
1 The market price on the date of awards made prior to demerger has been adjusted in proportion to the market price value of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc to the 
combined share price of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc over the five days following demerger. This adjustment resulted in the market 
price on the date of award for all awards being adjusted to 38% of their original value.
2 The total number of shares comprised in each Performance Share award adjusted as a result of the demerger has been included in the table as at 1 April 2010 notwithstanding  
the fact that the equivalent value of these Performance Share Awards was determined by reference to the average closing price of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc  
ordinary shares and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc ordinary shares over the five trading days commencing on the demerger effective date, being 26 March 2010 and  
concluding on 1 April 2010. The adjusted awards were granted by The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (formerly the Cable & Wireless Employee  
Share Ownership Trust) on 13 May 2010.
3 The award of 1,310,302 Performance Shares granted to Tim Pennington on 2 June 2009 was split so that half the award is measured over TSR for Cable and Wireless plc prior to 
demerger and the combined Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc thereafter. The remaining half is measured over TSR for Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc. Subsequent to demerger one half of the award was adjusted in line with note 2 above.
4 Performance is measured on the absolute TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc up to demerger and the combined Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and  
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc thereafter.
5 Shares vested in full after the date of resignation (21 July 2010) in accordance with the IP2001 rules.
The aggregate gain on shares vested or released to Executive Directors whilst in office during the year was US$2,172.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 59 Directors’ share options
For the period 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011
Grant 
date
Date from 
which first 
exercisable
Date of 
expiry of 
option
Exercise 
price 
(pence)
Shares under 
option at 
1 April 2010
Granted 
between 
1 April 2010 
and 31 March 
2011 Exercised 
Lapsed, 
cancelled 
or forfeited
Shares under 
option at 
31 March 
2011 or 
at date of 
resignation
George Battersby         
SOP Unapproved
1
3/8/04 3/8/07 2/8/11 108.00 620,077 – – – 620,077 
SOP Unapproved
2
25/8/05 25/8/08 28/8/11 153.90 301,843 – – – 301,843 
SOP Unapproved 2/6/06 2/6/09 28/8/11 101.25 4,148,148 – – – 4,148,148 
     5,070,068  – – – 5,070,068 
Tony Rice         
SOP Unapproved
3
30/3/06 21/5/09 29/3/13 110.50 5,424,807 – – – 5,424,807 
     5,424,807 – –  – 5,424,807 
1 Award granted on 3 August 2004 partially vested on 3 August 2007. At the time, Cable and Wireless plc TSR was 76% which was a ranking of 9th out of 24. This equated  
to 79.17% of the award vesting.
2 Award granted on 25 August 2005 partially vested on 25 August 2008. At the time, Cable and Wireless plc TSR was 30.1%, which was a ranking of 12th out of 27. This equated  
to 53.09% of the award vesting.
3 Tony Rice agreed to delay the date on which options were to become first exercisable from March 2009 to May 2009. This was to avoid options becoming exercisable during  
a prohibited period.
Notes:
Following the demerger, these shares are linked to an equal number of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares and cannot be exercised separately.
These are unapproved (non-tax relieved) grants made under the Cable & Wireless Share Option Plan 2001 (SOP).
No amounts were paid by Directors for the award of the options listed in the table above. The closing mid-market price of an ordinary share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on 31 March 2011 was 45.56 and 52.45 pence respectively.
The highest closing mid-market price of an ordinary share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc during the period from 1 April 2010 to 
31 March 2011 was 63.70 and 93.00 pence respectively, and the lowest closing mid-market price was 44.37 and 52.45 respectively.
This report has been approved on behalf of the Board by:
Mary Francis CBE 
Chair, Remuneration Committee 
24 May 2011
Directors’ 
remuneration report
continued
60 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Governance The Directors are also required by the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules to include 
a report containing a fair review of the 
business and a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties facing the Group and 
the Company.
The Directors are responsible for  
the maintenance and integrity of the  
corporate and financial information  
included on the Group and Company’s 
website, www.cwc.com. Information 
published on the Company’s website is 
accessible in many countries with different 
legal requirements. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed on pages 36 and 37, 
confirm that, to the best of each person’s 
knowledge and belief:
•	 The Group financial statements, prepared  
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of  
the Group;
•	 The Company financial statements, 
prepared in accordance with UK GAAP give 
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the 
Company; and
•	 The Annual Report includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group and 
Company, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face.
Disclosure of information to auditors
So far as the Directors are aware, there is 
no relevant audit information (as defined in 
Section 418(3) of the Companies Act 2006) 
of which the auditor is unaware, and the 
Directors have taken all the steps that they 
ought to have taken as a Director in order to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the auditor 
is aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Clare Underwood 
Company Secretary
24 May 2011
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the annual report and the Group and 
Company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare Group and Company financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that 
law, the Directors have prepared the Group 
financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU) 
and applicable law. Further, they have elected 
to prepare the Company financial statements 
in accordance with UK accounting standards 
and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP)). 
Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of their profit and loss for 
that period. 
In preparing the Group and Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 Select suitable accounting policies and 
apply them consistently;
•	 Make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 For the Group financial statements, state 
whether they have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; 
•	 For the Company financial statements, 
state whether applicable UK accounting 
standards have been followed, subject  
to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the Company financial 
statements; and
•	 Prepare the financial statements on a going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the Group and Company will 
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Group and the Company and 
enable them to ensure that their financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, with regard to the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They have general responsibility for taking 
such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and the Company and for taking reasonable 
steps to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the 
Directors are also responsible for preparing  
a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration 
report and Corporate governance statement 
that complies with that law and those 
regulations.
Statement  
of Directors’ 
responsibilities 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 61 We have audited the Group financial 
statements of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc for the year ended 
31 March 2011 set out on pages 63 to 128. 
The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union (EU).
This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors 
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement 
of Directors’ responsibilities set out on 
page 61, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, 
and express an opinion on, the Group financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial 
statements
A description of the scope of an audit 
of financial statements is provided on the 
APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
•	 Give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2011 and 
of its profit for the year then ended;
•	 Have been properly prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU; and
•	 Have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by 
the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 The information given in the Directors’ 
report for the financial year for which the 
Group financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the Group financial 
statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of 
the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 Certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
•	 We have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review:
•	 The Directors’ statement, set out on  
page 41, in relation to going concern; 
•	 The part of the Corporate governance 
report on pages 44 to 46 relating to the 
Group’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified 
for our review; and
•	 Certain elements of the report to 
shareholders by the Board on Directors’ 
remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent 
Company financial statements of Cable & 
Wireless Communications Plc for the year 
ended 31 March 2011 and on the information 
in the Directors’ remuneration report that is 
described as having been audited.
Peter Meehan (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc 
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL
24 May 2011
Independent auditor’ s 
report to the members  
of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc
62 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
   2010/11  2009/10
 
 
 
 Note
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
 
Exceptional
items
1
US$m
 
 
Total
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
 
Exceptional
items
1
US$m
 
 
Total
US$m
Continuing operations      
Revenue 5 2,440 – 2,440 2,346 – 2,346
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 7 (1,592) 6 (1,586) (1,481) (49) (1,530)
Depreciation 20 (271) – (271) (295) – (295)
Amortisation 19 (50) – (50) (53) – (53)
Other operating income 8 5 – 5 4 – 4
Other operating expense 9 (33) – (33) (1) (33) (34)
Group operating profit/(loss)  499 6 505 520 (82) 438
Share of profits of joint ventures  21 31 – 31 30 – 30
Total operating profit/(loss)  530 6 536 550 (82) 468
Gains on sale of businesses  11 36 – 36 – – –
Losses on termination of operations  12 (2) – (2) (1) – (1)
Finance income  13 32 – 32 23 19 42
Finance expense  13 (140) – (140) (119) (7) (126)
Profit/(loss) before income tax  456 6 462 453 (70) 383
Income tax (expense)/credit  14 (119) 1 (118) (126) 6 (120)
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 337 7 344 327 (64) 263
    
Discontinued operations   
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 15 – – – 302 (122) 180
Profit/(loss) for the year 337 7 344 629 (186) 443 
    
Profit/(loss) attributable to:   
Owners of the Parent Company 189 8 197 486 (182) 304 
Non-controlling interests 148 (1) 147 143 (4) 139 
Profit/(loss) for the year 337 7 344 629 (186) 443 
Earnings per share attributable to the owners of the 
Parent Company during the year (cents per share) 16   
– basic 7.6  11.9
2
– diluted 7.5  11.8
2
Earnings per share from continuing operations 
attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 
during the year (cents per share) 16    
– basic 7.6  4.9
– diluted 7.5  4.8
Earnings per share from discontinued operations 
attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 
during the year (cents per share) 16    
– basic –  7.0
– diluted –  7.0
1 Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 7 and in the relevant note for each item.
2 Includes discontinued operations.
 
The notes on pages 69 to 128 are an integral part of these financial statements.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 63 2010/11 2009/10
 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m
Profit for the year 344 443
Other comprehensive income for the year:
Actuarial losses in the value of defined benefit retirement plans 33 (36) (463)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (9) (14)
Less: Amounts recognised in the income statement on  
disposal of foreign operations – 19
(9) 5
Exchange differences relating to hedging instrument – 3 
Fair value gain on available-for-sale assets 2 2
Other comprehensive income for the year (43) (453)
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 31 (3) – 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (46) (453) 
Total comprehensive income for the year 298 (10)
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company 149 (148) 
Non-controlling interests 149 138 
The notes on pages 69 to 128 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
64 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements  
 
 
 
 
Note
31 March
2011
US$m
31 March
2010
US$m
Assets   
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 19 433 414 
Property, plant and equipment 20 1,757 1,725 
Investments in joint ventures 21 243 231 
Available-for-sale financial assets 22 31 29 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 26 6 –
Other receivables 23 48 42 
Deferred tax asset 31 4 19 
Retirement benefit assets 33 43 35 
2,565 2,495 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 23 592 491 
Inventories 24 84 49
Cash and cash equivalents 25 379 573 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 26 27 65 
1,082 1,178 
Assets held-for-sale – 3 
1,082 1,181 
Total assets 3,647 3,676 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 27 753 769 
Loans and borrowings 28 116 58 
Financial liabilities at fair value 29 96 30 
Provisions 32 62 104 
Current tax liabilities 209 187 
1,236 1,148 
Net current (liabilities)/assets (154) 33 
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 27 20 3 
Loans and borrowings 28 1,257 1,179 
Financial liabilities at fair value 29 120 189 
Deferred tax liabilities 31 38 42 
Provisions 32 32 27 
Retirement benefit obligations 33 133 227 
1,600 1,667 
Net assets 811 861 
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 
Share capital 34 133 131 
Share premium 34 97 62 
Reserves 34 136 221 
366 414 
Non-controlling interests 445 447 
Total equity 811 861 
The notes on pages 69 to 128 are an integral part of these financial statements. These financial statements on pages 63 to 68 were approved 
by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2011 and signed on its behalf by: 
Tony Rice Chief Executive Tim Pennington Chief Financial Officer
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Registered number – 07130199
Consolidated statement of financial position
as at 31 March 201 1
  Cable & Wireless Communications 65 Share 
capital 
US$m 
Share 
premium 
US$m 
Foreign 
currency 
translation
and 
hedging 
reserve 
US$m 
Capital  
and  
other 
reserves 
US$m 
Retained 
earnings 
US$m 
 
Total 
US$m 
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
US$m 
Total 
equity 
US$m 
Balance at 1 April 2009 129 1,889 111 2,398  (1,877) 2,650 315 2,965
 
Profit for the year – – – – 304 304 139 443 
Net actuarial losses recognised (net of taxation) – – – – (462) (462) (1) (463)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – 5 – – 5 – 5
Exchange differences relating to hedging instrument – – 3 – – 3 – 3
Fair value movements in available-for-sale assets – – – 2 – 2 – 2
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 8 2 (158) (148) 138 (10)
Cash received in respect of employee share schemes – – – – 6  6  – 6  
Own shares purchased – – – – (1) (1) – (1)
Share-based payment expenses – – – – 25  25  – 25  
Issue of share capital 2 104 – (106) 106 106 – 106 
Equity element of the convertible bond (note 28) – – – 37 – 37 – 37
Dividends – – – – (355) (355) – (355)
Exchange differences – – – – 867 867 –  867
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business (note 2.1) – – – (37) (2,749) (2,786) – (2,786)
Court approved capital reduction scheme – (1,931) – 1,931 – – – – 
Total dividends and other transactions with  
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shareholders 2 (1,827) –  1,825 (2,101) (2,101) – (2,101)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – – (126) (126)
Non-controlling interest reallocation – – – – (11) (11) 11 – 
Purchase of non-controlling interest – – – 30 (6) 24 109 133 
Total dividends and other transactions with  
non-controlling interests – – – 30 (17) 13 (6) 7
Balance at 31 March 2010 131 62 119 4,255 (4,153) 414 447 861 
Profit for the year – – – – 197 197 147 344
Net actuarial losses recognised (net of taxation) – – – – (39) (39) – (39)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – (11) – – (11) 2 (9)
Fair value movements in available-for-sale assets – – – 2 – 2 – 2
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (11) 2 158 149 149 298
Equity element of the convertible bond – – – (2) – (2) – (2)
Cash received in respect of employee share schemes – – – – 1 1 – 1
Own shares purchased – – – – (34) (34) – (34)
Share-based payment expenses – – – – 3 3 – 3
Issue of share capital 2 35 – – – 37 – 37
Dividends – – – – (205) (205) – (205)
Transfers to retained earnings – – – (742) 742 – – –
Total dividends and other transactions with  
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shareholders 2 35 – (744) 507 (200) – (200)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – – – – (144) (144)
Purchase of non-controlling interest – – – 3 – 3 (7) (4)
Total dividends and other transactions with  
non-controlling interests – – – 3 – 3 (151) (148)
Balance at 31 March 2011 133 97 108 3,516 (3,488) 366 445 811
The notes on pages 69 to 128 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
66 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements  
 Note
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from continuing operations (page 68) 651 676
Cash generated from discontinued operations – 382
Income taxes paid (88) (110)
Net cash from operating activities 563 948 
Cash flows from investing activities
Continuing operations
Finance income 7 7 
Other (expense)/income (4) 1
Dividends received 9 30 
Decrease in available-for-sale assets 2 14
Decrease in held-for-sale assets 3 –
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 5 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (290) (267)
Purchase of intangible assets (42) (21)
Proceeds on disposal of businesses (net of cash disposed) 62 – 
Acquisition of subsidiaries and non-controlling interests (net of cash received and transaction costs) (17) 19
Net cash used in continuing operations (267) (212)
Discontinued operations – (394)
Net cash used in investing activities (267) (606)
Net cash flow before financing 296 342 
Cash flows from financing activities
Continuing operations
Dividends paid to the owners of the Parent Company (168) (268)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (152) (144)
Demerger finance costs – (27)
Repayments of borrowings (111) (620)
Finance costs (115) (105)
Payment to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for transfer of convertible bond – (366)
Transfer to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group for the 2009/10 final dividend (117) –
Proceeds from borrowings 200 1,064 
Proceeds on issue of shares on settlement of share options 1 24 
Purchase of own shares (30) (1)
Net cash used in continuing operations (492) (443)
Discontinued operations – 142
Net cash used in financing activities (492) (301)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
From continuing operations (196) (89)
From discontinued operations – 130
Less: cash held by the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business at demerger – (288)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (196) (247)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 573 790 
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 2 30 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 25 379 573 
The notes on pages 69 to 128 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
  Cable & Wireless Communications 67 The reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from continuing operations was as follows:
 
 
 
Note
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Continuing operations
Profit for the year 344 263
Adjustments for:
Tax expense 14 118 120 
Depreciation 20 271 295
Amortisation 19 50 53 
Loss on termination of operations 12 2 1
Gain on sale of businesses 11 (36) –  
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (3) (4)
Finance income 13 (32) (42)
Finance expense 13 140 126
Other income and expenses 26 –
Decrease in provisions (40) (16)
Employee benefits 32 16
Defined benefit pension scheme funding (149) (43)
Defined benefit pension scheme other contributions (17) (11)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 21 (31) (30)
Operating cash flows before working capital changes 675 728
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries)
Increase in inventories (35) (17)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (105) 10
Increase/(decrease) in payables 116 (45)
Cash generated from continuing operations 651 676
The notes on pages 69 to 128 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
68 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
1	 General	information	
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (the Company or the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (together Cable & Wireless Communications 
Group or the Group) is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. It operates through 
four business units being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
	
2	 Summary	of	significant	accounting	policies
2.1	 Basis	of	preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union (EU) as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year 
ended 31 March 2011.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars (US$) and rounded to the nearest million. They have been prepared on the 
historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value. Non-current assets and disposal groups held-for-sale are stated 
at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis (see page 41 of the Directors’ report for further detail).
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other 
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are 
discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Group reorganisation and demerger in the year ended 31 March 2010
On 19 March 2010, the Cable & Wireless Group effected a Group reorganisation whereby Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was inserted 
as a new holding company for the Cable & Wireless Group via a Scheme of Arrangement. Cable & Wireless Communications Plc therefore 
replaced Cable and Wireless plc (now Cable & Wireless Limited) as the Parent Company of the Cable & Wireless Group as at this date. On the 
same date, shareholders were given one ordinary share and one B share of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for every share of Cable and 
Wireless plc held on that date. At this time, the Cable & Wireless Group was renamed the Cable & Wireless Communications Group. Shares in 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange’s main market for listed securities on 22 March 2010.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
2.1	 Basis	of	preparation	continued
The Scheme of Arrangement was accounted for using the principles of reverse acquisition accounting contained within IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations. In the consolidated financial statements, the transaction to interpose the new holding company, Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc, was presented as though the Cable & Wireless Group acquired Cable & Wireless Communications Plc. This resulted in  
the legal acquiror, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, being treated for accounting purposes as having been acquired by its legal subsidiary, 
Cable & Wireless Limited. In these financial statements, this resulted in a continuation of the consolidated financial statements of the Cable  
& Wireless Group (renamed the Cable & Wireless Communications Group).
On 26 March 2010, the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group. The demerger 
was effected by a three-part transaction which involved the following:
•	 The B shares and associated share premium in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled to enable the Company to repay capital 
to shareholders;
•	 The entire share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited, the parent entity of the Worldwide Group of companies and the Cable  
& Wireless Worldwide Brand, were transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, an unrelated company; and
•	 In return for the share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Brand, Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc issued one ordinary share in itself to the holder of each Cable & Wireless Communications Plc B share prior to their cancellation 
as part of this transaction.
These transactions resulted in the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group 
and the holders of shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at 26 March 2010 received one share in Cable & Wireless Communications 
Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc held at that date. The results of 
the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business were shown as discontinued operations in the financial statements. See note 15 for further 
information on other significant aspects and transactions of the demerger.
Change of functional currency
Following the demerger of the Worldwide business, the functional currency of the Parent Company and the majority of holding and financing 
companies of the Group that previously had a sterling functional currency were changed to US dollars. The Directors consider the US dollar  
to most faithfully represent the economic effects of the underlying transactions, events and conditions for these companies within the Cable  
& Wireless Communications Group. The principal exchange rates used in preparing the Group financial statements are set out in note 4.
70 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 2.2		 Application	of	recently	issued	International	Financial	Reporting	Standards	(IFRS)
The Group considered the implications, if any, of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2011.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union (EU) and effective for the Group at dates from 1 April 2010 
adopted by the Group in 2010/11 
Title EU	eff ective	date Description Impact	on	the	Group
Amendments	to	
IFRS	2
Group Cash-settled
Share-based Payment
Transactions
Annual periods
beginning
on or after
1 January 2010.
IFRS 2 amended to clarify scope and accounting 
for Group cash-settled share-based payment (SBP) 
transactions in the separate financial statements of the 
entity receiving the goods or services when that entity 
has no obligation to settle the SBP transaction.
These amendments did not have a material 
impact on the Group.
Revised	IFRS	3
Business Combinations
(including 2010 
amendments)
Annual periods
beginning
on or after
1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition 
method to business combinations. However, all payments 
to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at 
the acquisition date, some contingent payments are 
subsequently re-measured at fair value through profit 
or loss, goodwill may be calculated based on the parent’s 
share of net assets or it may include goodwill related 
to the minority interest, and all transaction costs 
are expensed.
These changes have been effective for business 
combinations since 31 March 2010 and have 
been applied on a prospective basis.
IFRS 3 Revised contains provisions relating to 
contingent consideration which would have 
resulted in all of the movements in the fair  
value of the Monaco Telecom put option  
(note 29) being recorded through profit or loss. 
However, subsequent amendments contained  
in Improvements to IFRS 2010 have clarified 
that as the put option relates to a business 
combination effected under the 2004 version of 
IFRS 3 then movements in the fair value should 
continue to be recorded against goodwill. 
Revised	IAS	27
Consolidated  
and Separate
Financial Statements
Annual periods
beginning
on or after
1 July 2009.
The revisions specify that changes in a parent’s 
ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result 
in the loss of control must be accounted for as  
equity transactions.
These revisions did not have a material impact 
on the Group.
Amendments		
to	IAS	32
Classification of  
Rights Issues
Annual periods
beginning
on or after
1 February 
2010.
The amendment requires that rights, options or warrants 
to acquire a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are 
equity instruments if the entity offers the rights, options 
or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the 
same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
This amendment did not have a material impact 
on the Group.
Amendments		
to	IAS	39
Financial Instruments:
Recognition and 
Measurement:
Eligible Hedged Items
Annual periods
beginning
on or after
1 July 2009.
The amendment clarifies how existing hedge accounting 
principles should be applied to the designation of a 
one-sided risk in a hedged item and to inflation in a 
hedged item.
This amendment did not have a material impact 
on the Group.
IFRIC	17
Distribution of 
Non-cash Assets
to Owners
Annual periods
beginning
on or after
1 July 2009.
This interpretation applies to non-cash dividends 
excluding those controlled by the same party before 
and after the transaction. It clarifies the recognition 
and measurement of non-cash dividends payable  
and is applied to transactions on a prospective basis.
This interpretation did not have a material 
impact on the Group.
IFRIC	18
Transfers of Assets 
from Customers
Annual periods
beginning  
on or after 
1 November 
2009.
The IFRIC clarifies how existing IFRS are applied to 
agreements in which an entity receives an asset from  
a customer which it then uses to connect the customer 
to a network or provide ongoing access to goods  
or services.
This interpretation did not have a material 
impact on the Group.
Improvements		
to	IFRS	2009
Various dates,
earliest is 
annual periods 
beginning on  
or after  
1 July 2009.
The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous 
necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS. 
These improvements did not have a material 
impact on the Group.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
2.2		 Application	of	recently	issued	International	Financial	Reporting	Standards	(IFRS)	continued
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union (EU) but not yet effective and not adopted by the Group
Title EU	eff ective	date Description Expected	adoption	date	and	impact	on	the	Group
Revised	IAS	24
Related Party 
Disclosures
Annual periods
beginning on
or after
1 January 2011.
The revisions provide an exemption from disclosure 
requirements for transactions between state-controlled 
entities and removes some inconsistencies.
The Group will adopt for 2011/12. These 
revisions are not expected to have a material 
impact on the Group.
Amendments		
to	IFRIC	14
Prepayments of a 
Minimum Funding
Requirement
Annual periods
beginning on
or after  
1 January 2011.
The amendments permit entities to treat an early 
payment of a contribution to cover minimum funding 
requirements as an asset.
The Group will adopt for 2011/12. These 
amendments are consistent with current
Group policy.
IFRIC	19
Extinguishing Financial 
Liabilities with
Equity Instruments
Annual periods
beginning on
or after  
1 July 2010.
This IFRIC provides guidance on accounting for ‘debt to 
equity swaps’ where a debtor extinguishes the liability 
fully or partially by issuing equity instruments to  
the creditor.
The Group will adopt for 2011/12. This 
interpretation is not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group.
Improvements		
to	IFRS	2010
Various dates, 
earliest is  
annual periods 
beginning on  
or after  
1 January 2011.
The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous 
necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
The Group will adopt for 2011/12. These
improvements are not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group.
2.3		 Basis	of	consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Group’s 
share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures. The accounts of the Group’s main trading subsidiaries and joint ventures have been 
prepared to align with the Group’s reporting date. 
Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting 
rights that are currently exercisable are considered. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control 
until the date that control ceases. Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation. 
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 
Joint ventures 
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity 
method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment in joint ventures includes goodwill (net of any accumulated 
impairment loss) identified on acquisition. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with 
the policies adopted by the Group.
The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in profit or loss. Its share of post-acquisition movements 
in reserves is recognised in equity. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture exceeds its investment (including any other unsecured long-term receivables), the Group 
does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s investment in the 
joint ventures.
72 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 2.4		 Segmental	reporting	
Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider. It operates integrated telecommunications 
companies offering mobile, broadband, TV and fixed line services to residential and business customers. It has four principal operations which 
have been identified as the Group’s reportable segments, being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
The Board (the chief operating decision maker of the Group) considers the performance of each of these operations in assessing the 
performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources. Accordingly, these are the operating segments disclosed. 
There are no other operating segments identified by the Board. The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the Board.
The Group also has a London corporate centre that does not meet the definition of an operating segment. This function primarily acts as a 
portfolio manager and operational support provider for the reportable segments. This function is not considered to be an operating segment 
as it does not earn revenue from its activities. This non-operating central function is also disclosed in order to reconcile the reportable segment 
results to the Group results.
2.5		 Foreign	currencies	
a)  Functional currency
Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). 
b)  Foreign currency translation 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss. 
c)  Foreign operations 
The results and financial position of all the Cable & Wireless Communications Group entities that have a functional currency different from the 
Cable & Wireless Communications Group’s presentation currency of US dollars are translated as follows:
i)  Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date;
ii)  Income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions; and
iii) Resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate. On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the same 
period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholder’s equity. Where investments 
are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded 
as movements in the Group’s translation reserves and any excess taken to profit or loss.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy. 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
2.6		 Property,	plant	and	equipment	
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, plant and 
equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets and restoring sites on which they are located are included in the cost of property, 
plant and equipment. The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities 
and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that 
the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably. All other subsequent costs (primarily repairs and 
maintenance) are charged to profit or loss as incurred.
Finance costs relating to borrowings made to finance separately identifiable major capital projects (those that take six months or more to 
complete) are capitalised as part of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and 
the costs can be measured reliably. The finance costs included are only those that are incurred up to the time that those projects are ready 
for service.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction. Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, 
plant and equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Lives
Cables up to 20 years
Network equipment 3 to 25 years
Ducting 40 years
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less
Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written 
down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction. They are stated at 
cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads. The cost is determined on a weighted average basis. Allowance is made 
for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7	 Intangible	assets	
a)  Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the future economic benefits that arise from acquired assets that are not capable of being individually identified and 
separately recognised.
The goodwill recorded in the Group’s statement of financial position is calculated using two different methods, depending on the acquisition 
date, as a result of changes in accounting standards. 
All business combinations that occurred since 31 March 2010 are accounted for using the acquisition method. Goodwill represents the excess 
of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired. All transaction costs are expensed 
as incurred. 
All other business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2004). 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired. 
Costs attributable to these combinations are included in the cost of acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated 
to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. 
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures is included in the carrying value 
of those investments.
74 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements b)  Other intangible assets
Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are 
recognised as intangible assets. Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programmes beyond their original 
specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits 
are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset.
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts obtained as part of the Group’s business combinations are recorded initially at 
their fair values.
Other intangible assets that do not have indefinite useful lives are amortised over their respective lives which are usually based on contractual 
terms (including renewal periods if there is evidence to support renewal by the Group without significant cost). Other intangible assets are 
stated at cost less amortisation. 
Other intangible assets, other than those with indefinite useful lives, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the following periods:
Lives
Software 3 to 5 years 
Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter 
Customer contracts 4 to 15 years 
Other 3 to 5 years
2.8		 Financial	instruments	
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: cash and cash equivalents; trade and other receivables; financial assets 
at fair value through profit or loss; available-for-sale financial assets; and held-to-maturity investments. The classification depends on the 
purpose for which the assets are held. The Group does not currently classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments. 
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value 
through profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and Government securities. They are 
highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position is considered to approximate fair value. Bank 
overdrafts are included within loans and borrowings and classified in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable. The assets 
classified in this category by the Group comprise trade and other receivables and are presented in current assets in the statement of financial 
position, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the reporting date (where they are classified as non-current assets). 
Receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered recoverable 
(amortised cost). 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets that are either held for trading or those designated upon initial  
recognition. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated 
by management. Included in this category are shares held by the Group in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc which were retained on demerger 
together with derivative financial instruments. These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value 
are recognised in profit or loss. Assets classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented as current assets in the 
statement of financial position if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within one year of the reporting date. 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
2.8		 Financial	instruments	continued
Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category upon initial recognition or  
not classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment 
within one year of the reporting date and such assets recognised in this category by the Group include UK Government gilts and cash held as 
collateral. Purchases and disposals of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value, other  
than impairment losses and foreign currency differences, are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve 
(within Capital and Other reserves) in equity. When an asset is derecognised the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative 
is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not 
designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Group only hedges net investments in foreign operations. The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship 
between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge 
transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that  
are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of cash flows of hedged items.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges by recognising any gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in profit or loss.
Financial liabilities
The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following categories: trade and other payables; loans and borrowings; and financial liabilities 
at fair value. 
Management determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial liabilities other than those held at 
fair value. 
Loans and borrowings
Loans and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred and are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds received (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in profit or 
loss over the period of the loans using the effective interest method. The financial liabilities recognised in this category include secured and 
unsecured bonds and facilities and other loans held by the Group and are presented in loans and borrowings in current liabilities in the statement 
of financial position unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the reporting date 
(where they are then classified as non-current liabilities).
Convertible bonds (bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder) issued by the Group are initially recognised at  
fair value. The bonds are separated into liability and equity components. The liability component is initially recognised at the fair value of a 
similar liability without an equity conversion option. The equity component represents the fair value of the bond less the liability component. 
Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of the bond is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  
The equity component is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
Financial liabilities at fair value 
This category includes puttable instruments on non-controlling interests relating to the acquisition of Monaco Telecom, derivative financial 
instruments and the Group’s obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares. These financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair 
value. Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss except for changes in the fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option. 
The fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had 
been exercised at the reporting date. Movements in the fair value of the liability, together with dividends paid to non-controlling interests,  
are recognised as adjustments to goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2004), with the unwind of the discount on the 
fair value calculation being recognised in profit or loss in finance expenses.
76 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 2.9		 Impairment	of	assets	
Financial assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset not carried at fair value through profit 
or loss or a group of those financial assets is impaired. 
An impairment allowance is established for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (discounted at the effective interest rate) and is recognised in profit or loss in 
operating costs.
Non-financial assets
Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. All other non-current assets 
are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows  
(cash-generating units).
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Group’s assets (or cash-generating units to which it 
belongs) to their recoverable amounts, which is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Fair value represents 
market value in an active market. Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset. Future cash flows are 
determined with reference to the Group’s own projections using pre-tax discount rates. The approach, assumptions and results of the 
impairment test are set out in note 18.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
2.10		Inventories	
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies. It also 
includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs. Cost is based on 
the first-in, first-out (FIFO) principle. For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business less costs to sell. For materials and consumables, provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories 
as required.
2.11		Share	capital	
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, stand-alone options or the repurchase of shares are recognised in equity. 
2.12		Leases	
Leases of property, plant and equipment in which the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of 
minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability and finance charges in order to achieve a constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, 
are included in loans and borrowings in the statement of financial position. These payments are split between capital and interest elements 
using the annuity method. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life 
of the asset or the lease term.
All other leases are operating leases. Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to profit 
or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts. The component parts 
are then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
2.13		Employee	benefits	
Defined contribution pensions 
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a third party. The Group pays contributions to 
publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as operating costs as they are incurred through profit or 
loss. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit obligations 
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually 
dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. These schemes are generally funded through payments 
to insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. 
The asset (or liability) recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value 
of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date. Assets are only recognised to the extent that the 
present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed 
the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations. Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are 
calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of these obligations is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in 
which the benefits will be paid. The corporate bonds used have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in 
which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income. Past service costs are recognised immediately through profit or loss unless the 
changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In these 
cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan 
assets, are included within operating costs through profit or loss.
The IAS 19 Employee Benefits surplus or deficit of defined benefit funds is adjusted to reflect the future economic benefits available in the form 
of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions, allowing for minimum funding contributions in accordance with IFRIC 14 The limits on a 
Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction . Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded directly in equity. 
Other post-employment obligations 
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on 
the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these benefits 
are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans. Actuarial gains 
and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are dealt with in the same way as for defined benefit 
pension schemes. Independent qualified actuaries value these obligations annually. Current service costs are charged to operating costs 
through profit or loss.
Share-based compensation 
The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange 
for the grant of options over shares in the Company is recognised as an operating cost through profit or loss over the vesting period. The total 
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact 
of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included 
in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of 
options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in profit or loss, and a 
corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options 
are exercised. 
Termination benefits 
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee  
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits within other provisions when  
it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employee’s termination. Termination benefits falling due more than a year after  
the reporting date are discounted to present value. 
78 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Bonus plans 
The Group recognises a liability in the statement of financial position in relation to bonuses payable to employees where contractually obliged 
or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
The plan rewards Executive Directors of the Group and certain senior employees in the Cable & Wireless Communications Group. The plan 
is accounted for as an ‘other long-term employee benefit’ in accordance with IAS 19. The amount recognised as a liability represents the 
estimated present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
The LTIP creates a reward pool over a five-year period from 1 April 2006 (or until a vesting event, if earlier) depending on the extent to which 
the business has grown in value from its base valuation at the start of the period (this period was changed from four to five years in July 2009).
Base valuations are adjusted over the performance period:
i) To reflect additional capital notionally treated as borrowed by the business;
ii) To reflect capital notionally treated as returned by the business; and 
iii) Increased by the notional weighted average cost of capital of the business (which will be at least 8% per annum compounded). 
If the business’ value is lower than its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, there will be no reward pool. To the extent 
that the business’ value exceeds its adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, 10% of the excess growth in value goes into 
the reward pool.
Part of the reward pool was paid to participants up to the end of year three (31 March 2009), with a portion payable (less payments made at 
the end of year three) to participants at the end of year four (31 March 2010) and the balance in full at the end of year five (31 March 2011). 
Measurement of the size of the reward pool is carried out every six months to correspond with the Group’s accounting reporting periods. 
However, apart from awards held by participants who ceased employment as ‘good leavers’, no awards vested until the end of year three.  
In the event of a potential payment to an individual in excess of £20 million (US$32 million), the deferral period would be extended until  
31 March 2012 or for a period of up to one year following a vesting event, if earlier.
2.14		Tax	
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to 
items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from:
•	 The initial recognition of goodwill; or
•	 The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable 
profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing 
of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
2.15		Provisions	
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as 
a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be 
reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to 
settle the obligation. The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date. Provision charges and reversals are 
recognised in profit or loss. Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense. 
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments in onerous contracts as the difference between the rentals due and any income 
expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet. Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and discontinued 
operations, comprise employee termination payments. Legal provisions comprise legal fees and, where appropriate, expected settlement costs.
2.16		Revenue	recognition	
Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services 
provided to customers. It includes sales to joint ventures but does not include sales by joint ventures or sales between Group companies. 
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided. In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until 
provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided. Charges are negotiated separately 
and are subject to continual review. Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable 
to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Revenue from mobile, broadband, TV and fixed line products comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, 
airtime usage, messaging, and the provision of other telecommunications services. This includes data services and information provision and 
revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Monthly access charges from mobile, broadband, TV and fixed line products are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle. Airtime, 
either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid cards, is recorded in the 
period in which the customer uses the service. Unbilled revenue resulting from services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle 
date to the end of each period is accrued. Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
Contributions from a customer of property, plant and equipment (or cash to acquire such assets) are recognised in revenue immediately, except 
where such contributions are consideration for a future service, in which case they are recognised initially as deferred income in the statement 
of financial position with revenue subsequently recognised over the period in which the service is provided.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third-party providers. The Group assesses 
whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following 
factors:
•	 Whether the Group holds itself out as an agent;
•	 Whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, either directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services;
•	 Provision of customer remedies;
•	 Whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulfilling the order; and
•	 Assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunications equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities (generally the sale of telecom equipment and ongoing 
service) is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently, based on the estimated fair value of the components. 
The fair value of each component is determined by amounts charged when sold separately and by reference to sales of equivalent products 
and services by third parties.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised over the periods in which the service 
is provided.
Customer acquisition costs including dealer commissions and similar payments are expensed immediately.
80 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 2.17		Dividend	income	
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Dividend income is included within finance income.
2.18		Interest	income	
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.19		Exceptional	items	
Exceptional items are material items within profit or loss that derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group 
that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence. Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 7 and 
in the relevant note for each item.
2.20	Transactions	with	holders	of	non-controlling	interests
Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Group’s subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as 
equity transactions. In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in 
the Group’s relative interest in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the 
fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company.
2.21		 Non-cash	distributions	to	owners
Non-cash distributions to owners made prior to 1 April 2010 are accounted for at cost being the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at 
the date of the distribution. Subsequent non-cash distributions are recognised at fair value in accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 17 
Distribution of non-cash assets to owners.
	
3		 Critical	accounting	estimates	and	judgements	
In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of 
results of operations and the financial condition of the Group. Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions 
and conditions. The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Group’s most critical accounting estimates, which are those 
that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial condition and results. These particular policies require subjective and 
complex assessments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1	 Valuation	of	assets	for	purchase	accounting	
Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities 
acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition. The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill. Any 
value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by management 
based on cash flow projections. The latter situation includes estimates regarding expectations of the economic useful lives of the products and 
technology acquired. 
3.2	 Depreciation	of	property,	plant	and	equipment	
The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the 
intended use for those assets. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical 
condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates. Where the Group 
determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates the net book 
value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense. Any change in an asset’s 
life or residual value is reflected in the Group’s financial statements when the change in estimate is determined.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
3.3		 Impairment	of	property,	plant	and	equipment	and	intangible	assets	
The Directors assess property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value is less than its recoverable amount. Factors that are considered important and that could trigger 
an impairment review include the following:
•	 Obsolescence or physical damage;
•	 Significant changes in technology and regulatory environments;
•	 Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;
•	 Significant changes in the use of the assets or the strategy of the overall business;
•	 Significant negative industry or economic trends; and
•	 Significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets 
or cash-generating units requires significant consideration. Note 18 sets out the assumptions and estimates used during these assessments.
3.4		 Receivables	allowance
The impairment allowance for trade receivables reflects the Group’s estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Group’s 
customers to make required payments. The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness and the 
Group’s historical write-off experience. Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Group’s customers improves 
or deteriorates. An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs. Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have 
not been material to the Group’s financial position and results.
3.5		 Customer	and	supplier	commitments	
The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier 
commitments, including where the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators. The Group uses estimates of price or usage 
to determine the revenue and expense recognised in the period based on historical experience. The prices at which these services are charged 
are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment. These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or 
usage as such information becomes available or is agreed. As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate. The 
net impact of this is included in operating profit within the relevant line item.
3.6		 Tax	
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge involves a degree of estimation in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be 
finally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process. The final 
resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and/or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal 
processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve. Payments in 
respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items. As a result, there 
can be substantial differences between the tax charge in profit or loss and tax payments made.
3.7		 Recognition	of	deferred	tax	assets	
The recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent on whether it is probable that sufficient suitable taxable profits will be available in the 
future, against which the reversal of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted. Recognition therefore involves estimates 
regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
3.8		 Provisions	
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash outflows by a rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks specific to the liability. These provisions are estimates for which the amount and timing of actual cash flows are 
dependent on future events.
82 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 3.9		 Pensions	
The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees. The asset (or liability) recognised in the statement of 
financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined 
benefit obligations at the reporting date. The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment  
of such factors as:
•	 The life expectancy of the members;
•	 The length of service;
•	 The rate of salary progression;
•	 The rate of return earned on assets in the future;
•	 The rate used to discount future pension liabilities; and
•	 Future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 33 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which  
may not necessarily be borne out in practice but have been comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 100 companies. 
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the size of the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities and assets disclosed in note 33.
3.10		Fair	value	estimation	
The fair value of non-derivative financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available- 
for-sale securities) is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date. The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by  
the Group is the current bid price. The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price. The fair value  
of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of non-derivative financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. 
The Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are 
substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument. 
The nominal value of receivables (less estimated impairments) and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values. The fair value of 
financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate 
that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments. Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of 
remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market 
rates at the reporting date.
3.11	 Revenue	recognition	
Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue. 
This includes the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content provided by third 
parties. See note 2.16.
	
4		 Exchange	rates	
The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of these accounts are as follows:
2010/11 2009/10
£	:	US$ 	
Average 1.5465 1.5904 
Year end 1.6012 1.4884
€	:	US$
Average 1.3177 1.4131 
Year end 1.4106 1.3343
  Cable & Wireless Communications 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
5		 Revenue	
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Continuing	operations 	
Sales of telecommunication services and related operations 2,289 2,216 
Sales of telecom equipment and accessories 151 130 
Total	revenue 2,440 2,346 
	
6		 Segment	information	
Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider. It operates integrated telecommunications 
companies offering mobile, broadband, TV and fixed line services to residential and business customers. It has four principal operations which 
have been identified as the Group’s reportable segments, being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
The Group also has a London corporate centre (London) that does not meet the definition of an operating segment as it does not earn revenue 
from its activities. This function primarily acts as a portfolio manager and operational support provider for the reportable segments. 
The operating segment results from continuing operations for the two years ended 31 March 2011 are presented below. The non-operating 
London corporate centre is also disclosed within ‘Other and eliminations’ in order to reconcile the reportable segment results to the Group 
results. The central operating costs of Cable and Wireless plc prior to demerger have also been incorporated into this category in the 
comparative table.
During the year, the Group considered the allocation of joint ventures to the different segments. Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and 
Tobago Limited and our South Pacific joint ventures (Fiji International Telecommunications Limited, Solomon Telekom Company Limited and 
Telecom Vanuatu Limited) are hereby allocated to ‘other’ as these are managed through the London corporate centre. Telecom Development 
Company Afghanistan Ltd remains allocated to Monaco & Islands. This revised allocation reflects management reporting to the Board.
Year	ended	31	March	2011
Caribbean
US$m
Panama
US$m
Macau
US$m
Monaco	&	
Islands
US$m
Other	and
eliminations
1
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 850	 623	 377	 605	 (15) 2,440	
Cost of sales (236) (202) (171) (180) 7	 (782)
Gross	margin 614	 421	 206	 425	 (8) 1,658	
Pre-exceptional operating costs (385) (145) (53) (218) 15	 (786)
EBITDA
2
229	 276	 153	 207	 7	 872	
LTIP charge –	 –	 –	 –	 (24) (24)
Depreciation and amortisation (125) (78) (33) (78) (7) (321)
Net other operating income (3) –	 -	 1	 (26) (28)
Exceptional operating costs (5) –	 –	 (2) 13	 6	
Group	operating	profit/(loss) 96	 198	 120	 128	 (37) 505	
Share of profit after tax of joint ventures –	 –	 –	 3	 28	 31	
Total	operating	profit/(loss) 96	 198	 120	 131	 (9) 536	
Net other non-operating income 34	
Net finance expense (108)
Profit	before	income	tax 462
Income tax (118)	
Profit	for	the	year	from	continuing	operations 344	
1  Other and eliminations includes London expenses and eliminations for inter-segment transactions. In the prior financial year, it also includes the Central operating 
costs of Cable and Wireless plc prior to demerger.
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered by management to be a key financial metric. It is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation, LTIP credit/charge, net other operating and non-operating income/expense and exceptional items (note 44).
84 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Year ended 31 March 2010
Caribbean
US$m
Panama
US$m
Macau
US$m
Monaco & 
Islands
US$m
Other and
eliminations
1
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 873 621 316 552 (16) 2,346 
Cost of sales (227) (188) (125) (200) 11 (729)
Gross	margin 646 433 191 352 (5) 1,617 
Pre-exceptional operating costs (376) (150) (49) (178) 2 (751) 
EBITDA² 270 283 142 174 (3) 866 
LTIP charge – – – – (1) (1) 
Depreciation and amortisation (155) (75) (35) (76) (7) (348)
Net other operating income 1 1 – 1 – 3
Exceptional operating costs (31) – – (4) (47) (82)
Group	operating	profit/(loss) 85 209 107 95 (58) 438 
Share of profit after tax of joint ventures – – – 10 20 30
Total	operating	profit/(loss) 85 209 107 105 (38) 468
Net other non-operating expense (1)
Net finance expense (96)
Non-operating exceptional items 12
Profit	before	income	tax 383
Income tax (120)
Profit	for	the	year	from	continuing	operations 263
1  Other and eliminations includes London expenses and eliminations for inter-segment transactions. It also includes the Central operating costs of Cable and Wireless plc 
prior to demerger.
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered to be a key financial metric. It is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, 
LTIP credit/charge, net other operating and non-operating income/expense and exceptional items (note 44).
 
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments’ results and the Group’s results. 
There is no significant trading between the segments. Transactions between the segments are on commercial terms similar to those offered 
to external customers.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments’ assets and liabilities and the Group’s assets and liabilities. 
Furthermore, there are no asymmetrical allocations to reportable segments.
Entity-wide	disclosures	for	continuing	operations
The revenue for continuing operations from external customers are analysed by product below. The allocations reflect the Group’s latest 
product segments used in management accounts reported to the Board. Accordingly, comparative numbers have been represented to 
reflect this:
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Mobile 1,027 931
Broadband and TV 262 228 
Fixed voice 600 647
Enterprise, data and other 551 540 
Total 2,440 2,346 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
6		 Segment	information continued
Revenue for continuing operations from external customers can be classified by country as follows:
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
United Kingdom (country of domicile) – –
Panama 623 621 
Jamaica 239 248
Macau 377 316
Monaco 236 257 
All other countries and eliminations 965 904
Total	 2,440 2,346 
Revenue has been allocated to a country based on the location in which the telecommunications services were provided.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group does not have any customers from which revenue exceeds 10% of Group revenue.
Non-current assets in continuing operations (other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets) are 
classified by country as follows:
At	31	March
2011
US$m
At 31 March 
2010
US$m
United Kingdom (country of domicile) 15 17
Panama 483 455
Jamaica 306 264
Macau 103 111
Monaco 374 346 
All other countries and eliminations
1
1,200 1,219
Total	 2,481 2,412 
1  Other countries and eliminations includes non-operating assets and liabilities.
86 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 7	 Operating	costs	
An analysis of the operating costs from continuing operations incurred by the Group is presented below, classified by the nature of the cost:
2010/11 2009/10
Pre-	
exceptional
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre- 
exceptional
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Outpayments and direct costs 782 – 782 729 – 729 
Employee and other staff expenses 365 5 370 344 16 360 
Operating lease rentals:
– Networks 31 – 31 27 – 27 
– Property 14 – 14 27 – 27 
– Plant and equipment – – – 1 – 1 
Other administrative expenses 202 (11) 191 171 33 204 
Network costs 116 – 116 116 – 116 
Property and utility costs 82 – 82 66 – 66 
Operating	costs	before	depreciation	and	amortisation	 1,592 (6) 1,586 1,481 49 1,530 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 271 – 271 295 – 295 
Amortisation of intangible assets 50 – 50 53 – 53 
Operating	costs 1,913 (6) 1,907 1,829 49 1,878 
Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
Exceptional	items	
Exceptional items mainly relate to the One Caribbean programme (including redundancy, vacant property and onerous network costs) and the 
continuing programme to restructure the Group’s operations following the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
Exceptional items within operating costs are disclosed below while further information on other operating and non-operating exceptional items 
can be found in notes 9 and 13.
Note
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Exceptional	items	within	operating	costs 	
Staff costs (i) 5 16 
Other (income)/costs (ii) (11) 33 
Total	exceptional	operating	(income)/costs (6) 49 
i)  In 2010/11, exceptional staff costs were US$5 million arising from the restructuring of the Group’s Caribbean operations.
  In 2009/10, exceptional staff costs included US$10 million arising from the restructuring of the Group’s operations, principally in the 
Caribbean, and US$6 million relating to the closure of the Central division of Cable and Wireless plc.
ii)  In 2010/11, exceptional other costs included US$4 million professional fees as a result of the demerger, and US$2 million relating to the 
restructuring of our African operations within Monaco & Islands. In addition, US$17 million of exceptional income arose after successfully 
defending claims brought by a Caribbean competitor.
  In 2009/10, exceptional other costs included US$24 million relating to the One Caribbean transformation programme and US$9 million 
relating to costs of defending claims brought by a Caribbean competitor. The One Caribbean costs primarily consisted of US$20 million 
related to consulting and contractor fees and US$4 million related to rebranding and other costs incurred on the reorganisation programme.
 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
7	 Operating	costs continued
Auditor’s	remuneration
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Audit services: 	
Statutory audit services – in respect of the Group’s accounts 2.2 2.0 
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 2.2 2.0 
 
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: 
Statutory audit services – in respect of other statutory accounts 1.2 1.2 
Audit related regulatory reporting 0.4 0.5 
 3.8 3.7 
Tax services 0.3 0.6 
Services related to corporate finance activities 0.7 3.2
Other services 0.7 0.8 
5.5 8.3 
Auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services in respect of discontinued operations in 2009/10 was US$8 million. This amount is not 
included in the table above.
Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are included in the table above and are not disclosed in its individual accounts 
as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
	
8		 Other	operating	income	
In 2010/11 and 2009/10, other operating income primarily related to gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
	
9		 Other	operating	expense	
In 2010/11, other operating expenses of US$33 million related to US$17 million of foreign exchange translation movements on our UK defined 
benefit pension schemes, US$5 million of costs incurred following Hurricane Tomas in the Caribbean and US$11 million of transaction costs 
incurred relating to acquisition and other corporate finance activity. 
In 2009/10, other operating expenses of US$1 million related to losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment. 
In 2009/10, exceptional other operating costs of US$33 million related to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger. These costs primarily 
related to professional advisors fees.
88 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 10		 Employee	and	other	staff 	expenses	
The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses for continuing operations are set out below:
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Wages and salaries 327 317
Social security costs 7 12 
Share-based payments 9 19 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 24 1 
Pension costs:
– defined benefit plans 8 –
– defined contribution plans 7 8 
Temporary labour and recruitment 18 17 
400 374 
Less: Staff costs capitalised (35) (30)
Staff 	costs 365 344 
Exceptional employee and other staff expenses (note 7) 5 16
Total	staff 	costs 370 360
The average number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was:
2010/11 2009/10
London 153 199 
Caribbean 2,855 2,831 
Panama 1,737 1,765 
Macau 844 862 
Monaco & Islands 1,624 1,400 
Total	 7,213 7,057 
There were 6,575 employees in discontinued operations during 2009/10.
Key	management’s	remuneration	
Key management are Directors and senior employees that have regular access to inside information and have the power to make managerial 
decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Included in employee costs is key management remuneration relating to continuing operations as follows:
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits 5 6 
Post-employment benefits 1 – 
Share-based payments 2 4 
Long-Term Incentive Plan 6 – 
Total 14 10 
Included in the table above are aggregate Directors’ emoluments of US$11 million (2009/10 – US$8 million). Please refer to the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 48 to 60 for further information. Excluded from the table above are key management expenses of US$15 million 
relating to key management of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc included within discontinued operations in 2009/10.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
11		 Gains	on	sale	of	businesses
During the year ended 31 March 2011 the Group disposed of Cable & Wireless (Bermuda) Holdings and its subsidiaries, which were classified 
within the Monaco & Islands reportable segment. The disposal took place on 10 March 2011 to The Bragg Group for total consideration of 
US$70 million (excluding transaction costs) resulting in a gain on disposal of US$36 million. Cable & Wireless (Bermuda) Holdings does not 
constitute a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations due to its size.
During the year ended 31 March 2010 there were no gains on the sale of businesses.
	
12		 Gains	and	losses	on	termination	of	operations	
The pre-exceptional loss of US$2 million (2009/10 – loss of US$1 million) was the result of the run off activities of the Group’s former 
insurance operation, Pender Insurance Limited.
	
13		 Finance	income	and	expense
2010/11 2009/10
Total
US$m
Pre- 
exceptional
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Finance	income
Interest on cash and deposits 6 10 – 10 
Investment income 1 2 – 2 
Foreign exchange gains on deposits 3 11 – 11
Gains on derivative foreign exchange contracts 22 – 19 19
Total	finance	income 32 23 19 42 
Finance	expense
Interest on bank loans 42 36 – 36 
Interest on bonds 86 60 – 60 
Unwinding of discounts on provisions 2 5 – 5 
Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 13 21 – 21 
Unwinding of discount on Monaco 6% put option liability 1 1 – 1
Capitalised finance transaction costs written off – – 7 7 
 144 123 7 130 
Less: Interest capitalised (4) (4) – (4)
Total	finance	expense 140 119 7 126 
Tax relief of US$1 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2011 (2009/10 – US$1 million). Interest has been 
capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 6% (2009/10 – 6%) on qualifying capital expenditure.
In 2009/10, movements in the fair value of remaining open foreign exchange contracts relating to repatriation from the prior year, resulted 
in an exceptional finance gain of US$19 million.
90 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 14		 Income	tax	expense
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Current	tax	charge	–	continuing	operations 	
UK tax at 28% 6 16 
Double tax relief (6) (16)
– –
Overseas tax 117 113 
Adjustments relating to prior years (8) 23
Total	current	tax	charge	–	continuing	operations 109 136 
Deferred	tax	charge/(credit)	–	continuing	operations
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 30 (18)
Adjustments relating to prior years (21) 2
Total	deferred	tax	charge/(credit)	–	continuing	operations 9 (16)
Total	tax	charge	–	continuing	operations 118 120 
Income tax credit relating to discontinued operations (note 15) – (97)
Total	income	tax	charge 118 23
In 2010/11, the charge of US$118 million (2009/10 – US$120 million) is net of a US$1 million credit in respect of exceptional operating costs 
(2009/10 – US$6 million credit).
The Group’s effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows:
2010/11
%
2009/10
%
UK statutory tax rate 28.0 28.0 
Effect of overseas tax rates (9.2) (7.1)
Effect of accounting for joint ventures (1.3) (2.6)
Effect of withholding tax and intra-Group dividends 5.9 4.2
Net effect of income not taxable (6.5) (1.1)
Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 14.9 3.4
Adjustments relating to prior years (6.3) 6.5
Effective tax rate on continuing operations 25.5 31.3
Effect of discontinued operations (note 15) – (26.4)
Effective 	tax	rate	on	profit 25.5 4.9 
For the analysis of the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities at the reporting date, including factors affecting the future tax rates see note 31.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
15		 Discontinued	operations	
There were no businesses classified as discontinued operations during 2010/11.
During 2009/10 the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group was classified as a discontinued operation by virtue of the demerger, which was 
effected on 26 March 2010.
The results for discontinued operations were as follows:
2009/10
US$m
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group profit for the year (note 15 (i)(a)) 195
Foreign currency translation reserve balance recycled through profit or loss on demerger (19) 
Profit of businesses disposed of in prior periods (note 15 (ii)) 4
Total	profit	from	discontinued	operations 180 
i)	Year	ended	31	March	2010
At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide business. On 26 March 2010 (the demerger date), the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was transferred to an unrelated 
company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in return for the entire share capital of that company. The significant aspects of the demerger 
transaction were:
•	 Long-term intercompany debt owed to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group (formerly the Cable & Wireless Group)  
of US$1,386 million was capitalised prior to demerger without repayment being required;
•	 The convertible bond issued by Cable and Wireless plc (and subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc) 
was transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, along with the related cash of US$366 million (note 28);
•	 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group agreed to transfer cash of US$117 million to settle the Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
portion of the 2009/10 final dividend of the former Cable & Wireless Group on 1 April 2010; and
•	 Scheme assets and pension obligations of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund with a net IAS 19 Employee Benefits value 
of US$211 million were transferred to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group (note 33).
a) The results of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business before demerger were as follows:
For the period from 1 April 2009  
to 26 March 2010
Pre- 
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 3,543 – 3,543 
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (2,892) (99) (2,991) 
Depreciation (349) – (349)
Amortisation (71) – (71) 
Other operating expense (1) – (1) 
Total	operating	profit/(loss) 230 (99) 131 
Losses on sale of non-current assets (2) – (2) 
Finance income 3 – 3 
Finance expense (30) (4) (34)
Profit/(loss)	before	income	tax 201 (103) 98 
Income tax credit 97 – 97
Profit/(loss)	for	the	year	from	discontinued	operations 298 (103) 195
92 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements b)  The financial position of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business at 26 March 2010 (the date of demerger) was as follows:
26 March 
2010
US$m
Non-current	assets
Intangible assets 1,387
Property, plant and equipment 1,455
Available-for-sale financial assets 2
Other receivables 34
Deferred tax asset 173
3,051 
Current	assets 
Trade and other receivables 1,140
Inventories 25
Cash and cash equivalents 288
1,453
Current	liabilities
Trade and other payables 1,582
Loans and borrowings 37
Provisions 58
Current tax liabilities 20
1,697
Non-current	liabilities
Trade and other payables 1
Loans and borrowings 319
Provisions 229
Financial liabilities at fair value 2
Retirement benefit obligations 35
586
Net	assets 2,221 
ii)	Businesses	classified	as	discontinued	operations	in	prior	periods
In 2009/10, the net profit of US$4 million related to cash received in respect of the Group’s former US operations.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
16	 Earnings	per	share	
Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding.
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company 197	 304 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (millions) 2,607 2,544 
Dilutive effect of share options (millions) 22 24 
Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue used to calculate diluted earnings per share (millions) 2,629 2,568 
Basic	earnings	per	share	(cents	per	share) 7.6 11.9
Diluted	earnings	per	share	(cents	per	share) 7.5 11.8
Continuing	operations
Profit from continuing operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders 197 124 
Basic	earnings	per	share	from	continuing	operations	(cents	per	share) 7.6 4.9
Diluted	earnings	per	share	from	continuing	operations	(cents	per	share) 7.5 4.8
Discontinued	operations
Profit from discontinued operations for the financial year attributable to shareholders – 180
Basic	earnings	per	share	from	discontinued	operations	(cents	per	share)	 – 7.0
Diluted	earnings	per	share	from	discontinued	operations	(cents	per	share)	 – 7.0
As a result of the reorganisation of the Group’s legal structure, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc became the new Parent Company of 
the Cable & Wireless Communications Group during the previous financial year. Therefore, the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding in 2009/10 was calculated using the number of ordinary shares issued by Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at the date 
of the reorganisation (19 March 2010) and adjusted for:
•	 Movements in the number of ordinary shares of Cable and Wireless plc from the beginning of each period prior to the reorganisation 
date; and
•	 Movements in the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the reorganisation date to 31 March 2010 using the actual number 
of ordinary shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc outstanding during that period.
	
17	 Dividends	declared	and	paid
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Final dividend in respect of the prior year 135 227
Interim dividend in respect of the current year 70 128
Total dividend paid 205 355
During the year ended 31 March 2011 the Group declared and paid a final dividend of 3.34 pence per share (US4.97 cents per share) in respect 
of the year ended 31 March 2010 (2009/10 – 5.67 pence per share (US9.02 cents per share) in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009). 
Beginning with the interim dividend in respect of 2010/11, the Group declares dividends in cents per share. The Group declared and paid an 
interim dividend of US2.67 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011 (2009/10 – 3.16 pence per share (US5.03 cents per 
share) in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010).
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2011, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of US5.33 cents per share (2009/10 – final dividend 
totalling £86 million (US$135 million)), for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 22 July 2011. These financial statements do not 
reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 
31 March 2012.
94 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements The number of shareholders electing to take all or part of their dividends in shares varies from dividend to dividend. 13,443 shareholders 
(2009/10 – 12,015 shareholders) owning 701 million shares (2009/10 – 496 million shares) elected to take the 2009/10 final dividend  
(2009/10-2008/09 final dividend) wholly or partly in shares. Consequently, 41,039,703 total shares were issued with a value of US$37 million 
(2009/10 – a value of US$87 million). The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (formerly the Cable & Wireless Employee 
Share Ownership Plan Trust) waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the Trust.
The Company will offer a dividend reinvestment plan for the final dividend and future dividends. The scrip dividend scheme will no longer 
be offered. 
	
18	 Impairment	review	
The Group reviews goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment annually. The Group assesses the carrying amount of property, 
plant and equipment and intangible assets (except goodwill) for indications of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable by sale or through use. Factors that are considered important, which could trigger 
an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill
A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010. In performing this review, the 
recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of  
the continuing operations of the related businesses. The key assumptions used by the Group in the calculation of value in use for its goodwill 
balances are the discount rate (discussed separately below), revenue growth, operating cost margin and the level of capital expenditure 
required to maintain the network at its current level. The Group’s significant goodwill balances are discussed below.
During the prior year the Group’s goodwill allocated to certain cash-generating units (CGUs) were disposed of as part of the demerger of the 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide group.
Monaco Telecom
Goodwill of US$172 million was allocated to the Monaco Telecom group of CGUs at 31 March 2011 (31 March 2010 – US$153 million). 
Three relevant CGUs were identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecom (domestic including the cable 
television business, international business and other services). Goodwill was allocated to this group of CGUs based on the fair value at the time 
of acquisition. The value in use was determined for each CGU by discounting future cash flows (based on the approved five year business plan 
extrapolated at long-term growth rates of between 0% and 2% (2009/10 – 0% and 4%)) at pre-tax discount rates of between 9% and 22% 
(2009/10 – 7% and 15%) dependent on the risk-adjusted cost of capital of the different parts of the business. The value in use was higher than 
the fair value less costs to sell and no impairment was required in either period. 
Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive operating agreement in Monaco and management’s forecasts were based on historical 
experience for the business. 
The group of CGUs’ value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if revenue decreased or maintenance capital expenditure 
increased by more than US$17 million per year or the discount rate increased by more than 8 percentage points.
Dhiraagu (Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd)
Goodwill of US$25 million was allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2011 (31 March 2010 – US$25 million). One relevant CGU has been 
identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the Dhiraagu business. The value in use was determined by discounting future cash 
flows (based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of 2.5% (2009/10 – 0.0%)) at a pre-tax discount 
rate of 14.3% (2009/10 – 12.5%). The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs to sell and no impairment was required.
Afinis (formerly Connecteo)
Goodwill of US$9 million was recognised in relation to Afinis at 31 March 2011 (31 March 2010 – US$8 million). The goodwill initially 
recognised arose in 2007/08. In 2009/10, this goodwill was impaired by US$11 million. This was due to a decrease in its value in use,  
triggered by a change in the strategic direction of the operation.
Afinis has only one CGU that has been identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the business. The value in use was 
determined by discounting future cash flows (based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at a long-term growth rate  
of 1.5% (2009/10 – 5.0%)) at a pre-tax discount rate of 20% (2009/10 – 14%).
Property,	plant	and	equipment	and	other	intangibles
Dhiraagu (Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd)
Trade mark assets of US$18 million, with an indefinite useful life, were allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2011 (31 March 2010 – US$18 million). 
One relevant CGU has been identified for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the Dhiraagu business. The value in use was determined 
by discounting future cash flows (based on the approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of 2.5% (2009/10 – 
0.0%)) at a pre-tax discount rate of 14.3% (2009/10 – 12.5%). No impairment was required.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
18	 Impairment	review	continued
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd
A review of the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment of Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd, a subsidiary of the Group, was conducted  
at year end in light of the trading performance during the year. The value in use was determined by discounting future cash flows (based on the 
approved five year business plan extrapolated at long-term growth rates of 2% (2009/10 – 2%)) and at a pre-tax discount rate of 11.1% (2009/10 
– 12.9%). The calculation is sensitive to changes in the discount rate, terminal growth rate and underlying trading. No impairment was required.
Other
There were no other events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment 
and other intangible assets had been impaired.
	
19	 Intangible	assets
 
 
 
 
 
Goodwill
US$m
 
 
Software
US$m
Licences and 
operating
agreements
US$m
Customer
contracts and
relationships
US$m
 
 
Other
US$m
	
	
Total
US$m
Cost
At 1 April 2009 1,327 1,118 184 211 80 2,920	
Business combinations 35 – – 51 18 104	
Additions – 54 – – 6 60	
Disposals – – – – (45) (45)
Transfer between categories – – (30) – 30 –
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business (1,192) (1,049) (10) (216) – (2,467)
Exchange differences 26 28 1 5 2 62	
At 31 March 2010 196 151 145 51 91 634	
Business combinations 11 – – – – 11
Additions – 36 – – 6 42	
Transfer between categories – (1) 29 – (28) –
Disposals – (3) (1) – – (4)
Exchange differences 11 4 8 – 3 26	
At	31	March	2011 	218 	 187 	181 	51 	 72 709	
Amortisation	and	impairment
At 1 April 2009 – 1,018 42 67 66 1,193	
Charge for the year¹ 11 59 14 33 7 124	
Disposals – – – – (33) (33)
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business – (981) (4) (95) – (1,080)
Exchange differences (1) 18 (4) – 3 16	
At 31 March 2010 10 114 48 5 43 220	
Charge for the year – 23 11 7 9 50
Disposals – (3) – – – (3)
Transfer between categories – – 6 – (6) –
Exchange differences 2 3 3 (2) 3 9
At	31	March	2011 12 137 68 10 49 276
Net	book	value
At	31	March	2011 206	 50 113 41	 23	 433	
At 31 March 2010 186 37 97 46 48 414	
1 The charge for the year includes US$71 million relating to discontinued operations.
96 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Goodwill balances are allocated to the following cash-generating units:
 
 
 
Energis
1
US$m
 
 
THUS
1
US$m
 
 
Apollo
1
US$m
Monaco
Telecom
2
US$m
Afinis
2
(formerly
Connecteo) 
US$m
Dhivehi
Raajjeyge
Gulhun
Private Ltd
(Dhiraagu)
2
US$m
	
	
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2009 625 495 18 170 19 – 1,327	
Business combinations (note 38) – 27 – (17) – 25 35	
Impairment – – – – (11) – (11)	
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business 
(note 15) (642) (532) (18) – – – (1,192)
Exchange differences 17 10 – – – – 27	
At 31 March 2010 – – – 153 8 25 186	
Business combinations (note 38) – – – 11 – – 11	
Exchange differences – – – 8 1 – 9	
At	31	March	2011 –	 – –	 172 9 25	 206	
1 Reporting segment: Discontinued.
2 Reporting segment: Monaco & Islands.
20	 Property,	plant	and	equipment
	 	 	 2010/11   2009/10
 
 
 
Land	and
buildings
US$m
Plant	and
equipment
US$m
Assets	under
construction
US$m
	
Total
US$m
Land and
buildings
US$m
Plant and
equipment
US$m
Assets under
construction
US$m
 
Total
US$m
Cost
At 1 April 406 4,022	 238	 4,666	 841 11,349 268 12,458 
Business combinations – – – – 8 105 38 151 
Additions – 33 281 314 2 28 663 693 
Movements in asset retirement obligations (2) 2 – – (6) 1 – (5) 
Disposals (27) (165) – (192) (14) (220) – (234)
Transfers between categories 32 235	 (267) – 46 583 (629) –
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
business (note 15) –	 –	 –	 –	 (479) (8,002) (103) (8,584)
Exchange differences 7 35	 2	 44	 8 178 1 187
At	31	March 416 	4,162 	 254 4,832	 406 4,022 238 4,666 
Depreciation
At 1 April 177 2,764 – 2,941 545 8,937 – 9,482 
Charge for the year¹ 15 256 – 271 29 615 – 644 
Disposals (18) (146) – (164) (8) (199) – (207)
Transfers between categories 4 (4) – – 2 (2) – –
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
business (note 15) –	 –	 –	 –	 (399) (6,730) – (7,129)
Exchange differences 2 25 – 27 8 143 – 151 
At	31	March 180 	2,895 – 3,075	 177 2,764 – 2,941 
Net	book	value	at	31	March 236 1,267	 254	 1,757	 229 1,258 238 1,725 
1  The charge for the year ended 31 March 2010 includes US$349 million relating to discontinued operations.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
20	 Property,	plant	and	equipment	continued
The Group held no assets under finance leases at 31 March 2011 or 31 March 2010.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of US$4 million (2009/10 –  
US$4 million) and US$35 million (2009/10 – US$130 million) respectively. Of the US$130 million of own work capitalised during the year 
ended 31 March 2010, US$100 million related to discontinued operations.
	
21	 Investments	in	joint	ventures
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Gross	carrying	amount
At 1 April
– Cost 78	 89 
– Share of post-acquisition reserves 212 301 
290 390 
Share of profit after tax 31 30 
Dividends paid to Group companies (9) (52)
Transfer to subsidiary undertaking – (79)
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business – (4)
Loan from Group companies 1 3
Other movements (11) (2)
Exchange differences – 4 
At	31	March 302 290 
Impairment	allowance
At 1 April (59) (63)
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business – 4
At	31	March (59) (59)
Net	carrying	amount	at	31	March 243	 231 
The Group’s total interest in its joint ventures is presented below:
 
 
31	March
2011
US$m
31 March
2010
US$m
Non-current assets 343 338 
Current assets 125 182 
Current liabilities (120) (164)
Non-current liabilities (105) (125)
Share	of	net	assets 243 231 
98 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements  
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Revenue 381 384 
Operating costs (351) (342)
Operating profit 30 42 
Net financing costs – (4)
Share of profit before tax 30 38 
Income tax credit/(expense) 1 (8)
Dividends paid to Group companies (9) (52)
Share	of	retained	profit/(loss) 22 (22) 
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The carrying amount of the investments comprise the cost of the 
investment together with the Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss less any impairment allowances. 
There are no significant restrictions on joint ventures’ ability to transfer funds to the Group. The joint ventures have no significant contingent 
liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint ventures. 
The Group’s joint ventures have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 31 March 2011 (2009/10 – none).
On 21 October 2009, the Group purchased a further 7% of the share capital of Dhiraagu from the Maldives Government for cash 
consideration of US$40 million. This transaction resulted in the Cable & Wireless Communications Group reclassifying its joint venture 
investment in this entity to a subsidiary investment. For more details of this acquisition see note 38. 
	
22	 Available-for-sale	financial	assets
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
At 1 April 29 55
Fair value gain recorded in equity 2 2
Transferred on demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business (note 15) –	 (2)
Released to cash and cash equivalents (2)	 (30) 
Exchange differences 2 4
At	31	March 31	 29 
At 31 March 2011 available-for-sale financial assets consist of UK Government gilts (31 March 2010 – UK Government gilts and cash held 
as collateral). These assets were measured at fair value based on observable market data. The maximum exposure to credit risk for available-
for-sale financial assets is equal to their carrying value.
During the year ended 31 March 2010 cash held as collateral of US$30 million was released by the beneficiaries as the collateral was no longer 
required. This amount was included in cash and cash equivalents.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
23	 Trade	and	other	receivables
31	March
2011	
US$m
31 March
2010 
US$m
Gross trade receivables 312 298 
Impairment allowance (67) (62)
Net	trade	receivables 245 236 
Other receivables 81 53 
Prepayments and accrued income 263 189 
Taxation and social security receivables 2 9 
Amounts receivable from joint ventures 1 4 
Other	receivables	–	current 592 491 
Other receivables 41 42 
Prepayments and accrued income 7 – 
Other	receivables	–	non-current 48 42 
Total	trade	and	other	receivables 640 533 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value. There is no material difference between the carrying value 
and fair value of trade and other receivables presented.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated. Receivables 
predominantly relate to retail customers, Governments and corporate entities as well as other telecommunications operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer. These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment 
history analysis and credit approval limits. Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are 
neither past due nor impaired as low risk. There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the 
Group that indicate this would change in the future. During the periods presented there was an economic downturn in markets in which the 
Group operated. This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. However, management 
assessed this risk and, after providing additional valuation allowance where necessary, continued to support the assessment of credit quality 
as low risk.
An ageing analysis of the current ‘trade receivables’ and current ‘other receivables’ that are not impaired is as follows (excludes prepayments 
and accrued income, taxation and social security and amounts receivable from joint ventures):
 
 
31	March
2011
US$m
31 March
2010
US$m
Not yet due 165 124 
Overdue 30 days or less 79 83 
Overdue 31 to 60 days 30 29 
Overdue 61 to 90 days 26 26 
Overdue 91 days to 180 days 17 18 
Overdue 181 days or more 9 9 
Current	‘trade	receivables’	and	current	‘other	receivables’ 326 289 
100 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade and other receivables not 
past due or past due by up to 30 days. Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other 
carriers often have lengthy settlement periods. Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in receivables and payables 
balances with the same counterparty. Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs 
for a defined period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis. 
An analysis of movements in the trade receivables impairment allowance during the year is as follows:
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
At 1 April 62 100 
Bad debts written off (20) (51)
Increase in allowance 24 56
Demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business (note 15) –	 (48) 
Exchange differences 1 5
At	31	March 67 62 
There are no amounts held as collateral for trade and other receivables balances.
	
24	 Inventories	
Inventories represent equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held-for-sale.
Inventories of US$84 million (31 March 2010 – US$49 million) are presented net of an allowance of US$5 million (31 March 2010  
– US$4 million) made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held-for-sale that were expensed within operating costs in 
2010/11 was US$214 million (2009/10 – US$176 million). In the year ended 31 March 2010 US$18 million of this expense related 
to discontinued operations.
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Group’s borrowings.
	
25	 Cash	and	cash	equivalents
 
 
31	March
2011
US$m
31 March
2010
US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 230 140 
Short-term bank deposits 149 433 
Cash and cash equivalents 379 573 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits.
Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice. The effective 
interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2011 was 0.91% (31 March 2010 – 0.34%). At 31 March 2011, these deposits had 
an average maturity of 27 days (2009/10 – one day).
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those financial instruments.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
26	 Financial	assets	at	fair	value	through	profit	or	loss
2010/11 2009/10
CWW	shares
US$m
Derivative	
financial	
instruments
US$m
Total
US$m
CWW shares
US$m
Derivative 
financial 
instruments
US$m
Total
US$m
Total at 1 April 64 1 65 – – –
Reclassification of shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 
retained on demerger – – – 64 – 64
Delivery of shares to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc (30) – (30) – – –
Delivery of shares to employees (2) – (2) – – –
Fair value movement (15) – (15) – – –
Exchange differences 3 – 3 – – –
Movement in derivative financial assets – 12 12 – 1 1
Total	at	31	March 20 13 33 64 1 65
Financial	assets	at	fair	value	through	profit	or	loss	–	current 20 7 27 64 1 65
Financial	assets	at	fair	value	through	profit	or	loss	–	non-current – 6 6 – – –
On demerger, shares in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (formerly the Cable and Wireless Employee 
Share Ownership Plan Trust, (the Trust)) were converted from 43 million Cable and Wireless plc shares to 43 million Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc shares and 43 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares. The Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares held by the 
Trust have been classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss as they represent shares in an unrelated listed company. 
During the year, 22 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide shares with a market value of US$30 million were delivered to Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc as part of the demerger agreement.
The remaining shares are held for use in satisfying employee share-based arrangements (note 35).
Derivative	financial	instruments	
At 31 March 2011, the Group had foreign exchange swap contracts to sell US$260 million (31 March 2010  – US$40 million) in hedging future 
sterling obligations regarding the coupon and redemption of the 2012 and 2019 bonds and the repayment of other loan finance maturing in 
2012. The Group did not apply hedge accounting to these contracts and as such they were revalued to fair value in profit or loss. At 31 March 
2011, the fair value of these contracts was an asset of US$13 million (31 March 2010 – asset of US$1 million). 
	
27	 Trade	and	other	payables	
31	March
2011
US$m
31 March
2010
US$m
Trade payables 205 168 
Other taxation and social security costs 21 29 
Accruals 384 313 
Deferred income 67 53 
Other payables 76 206 
Trade	and	other	payables	–	current 753 769 
Accruals 4 3 
Deferred income 16 – 
Trade	and	other	payables	–	non-current 20 3 
Total	trade	and	other	payables 773 772 
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented. For liquidity risk exposure 
analysis purposes, the carrying amount of trade and other payables is the same as the contractual cash flows, with the contractual maturities 
of these financial liabilities all due in less than one year.
102 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 28	 Loans	and	borrowings
 
 
31	March
2011
US$m
31 March
2010
US$m
Loans
Sterling secured loans repayable in 2012 46 43 
US$500 million secured bonds due 2017 490 489
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 552 509
US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2038 285 196 
1,373 1,237 
Loans	–	current 116 58 
Loans	–	non-current 1,257 1,179 
The agreements for the facilities entered into during the year contain financial and other covenants which are standard to these type 
of arrangements.
For liquidity risk exposure analysis purposes, the following are the contractual maturities of loans (including the expected interest payable 
at rates prevailing at the reporting date):
 
 
31	March
2011
US$m
31 March
2010
US$m
Loans
Due in less than one year 220 157 
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 497 181 
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 304 574 
Due in more than five years 874 885 
Total	loans 1,895 1,797 
Less future finance charges on loans (522) (560)
Total	loans 1,373 1,237 
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis above could occur significantly earlier or at significantly different amounts. 
Sterling	secured	loan	repayable	in	2012
The Group has a US$46 million (£29 million) loan secured on the 2019 bonds that is repayable in February 2012. Interest is payable at 6%.
The carrying amount of this loan approximates to fair value.
US	dollar	secured	bonds	due	2017
During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group arranged US$500 million of Senior Secured Notes (the Bonds) with a coupon of 7.75% due 
in 2017. These bonds had a fair value of US$527 million at 31 March 2011 (31 March 2010 – US$520 million). This value was determined by 
reference to market values obtained from third parties. The bonds are secured on share pledges over the Group assets.
Sterling	unsecured	bonds	due	2012	and	2019
The Group has US$320 million (£200 million) listed bonds due in 2012 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2011, net of costs,  
of US$317 million (31 March 2010 – US$290 million). Interest is payable at 8.75% per annum.
The Group also has US$320 million (£200 million) listed bonds due in 2019 with a balance outstanding at 31 March 2011, net of bonds 
repurchased, of US$235 million (31 March 2010 – US$219 million). Interest is payable at 8.625% per annum.
The sterling unsecured bonds had a fair value of US$582 million at 31 March 2011 (31 March 2010 – US$547 million). This value was 
determined by reference to market values obtained from third parties.
US	dollar	and	US	dollar	linked	loans
Various US dollar and US dollar linked loans of US$285 million (31 March 2010 – US$196 million) are held by subsidiaries across the Group, 
with the majority in Panama. Interest on these loans ranges between 0.0% and 12.8%. The loans are repayable over a period up to 2038.
The carrying amount of the US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans approximates to fair value.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
28	 Loans	and	borrowings	continued
US	dollar	revolving	credit	facility	and	term	loan
During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million revolving credit facility with a maturity date of 2013 secured 
on share pledges over Group assets. Further, the Group arranged a US$100 million term loan facility. This was secured on share pledges over 
the Group assets.
This facility and the term loan were undrawn as at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010.
Convertible	bonds	demerged	during	the	year	ended	31	March	2010
On 24 November 2009, convertible bonds due in 2014 of £230 million were issued by Cable and Wireless plc. These bonds were subsequently 
transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc on 19 March 2010 before being transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on 
26 March 2010 as part of the demerger. An amount of US$2 million in relation to accrued interest was transferred post demerger. The 
bonds were separated into their loan and equity components on inception, being US$329 million of loan and US$37 million of equity on 
initial recognition.
Interest	rates
The weighted average interest rates at the reporting date were as follows:
31	March	
2011
31 March 
2010
 
 
 
 
 
 Type Currency
Interest
rate
% Currency
Interest
Rate
%
US$500 million secured bonds due 2017 Fixed USD 7.8 USD 7.8 
US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar loans and facilities repayable  
at various dates up to 2038
Fixed and 
floating USD 5.4 USD 6.4
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 and sterling secured  
loans repayable in 2012
Fixed and 
floating GBP 8.5 GBP 8.6
Interest was payable on loans and borrowings falling due after more than five years at rates of between 0.0% and 8.6%. In 2009/10 the rates 
were 0.0% and 8.6% respectively.
	
29	 Financial	liabilities	at	fair	value	
At	31	March	
2011
At 31 March 
2010
Current
US$m
Non-current
US$m
Total
US$m
Current
US$m
Non-current
US$m
Total
US$m
Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 96 120 216 – 189 189 
Obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares 	– 	– 	– 30 – 30 
Total	financial	liabilities	at	fair	value 96 120 216 30 189 219 
Monaco	Telecom	put	option
A put option is held by the non-controlling shareholder of Monaco Telecom, the Principality of Monaco (the Principality). This put option is 
measured at fair value using inputs that are not based on publicly observable market data. The liability for the put option represents 45% of the 
market value of Monaco Telecom. This market value has been determined by taking an average of published broker valuations for the Monaco 
& Islands business unit apportioned using key financial measures. The brokers have valued the business unit using a combination of discounted 
cash flow analysis and EBITDA multiples factoring in the expected growth and risk of the business unit. A US$10 million movement in the value 
of the put would have a US$1 million impact on profit or loss and a US$10 million impact on liabilities.
The balance within financial liabilities held at fair value represents the fair value of the put option held by the non-controlling shareholders of 
Monaco Telecom. Although the Cable & Wireless Communications Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being 
exercised, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless 
of the probability of exercise, as this is not within the Cable & Wireless Communications Group’s control. As this put option was issued as part of 
a business combination, accounted for in accordance with IFRS3 Business Combinations (2004), any change in remeasuring the derivative to 
fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill (note 38).
104 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements The put option held by the Principality is exercisable in two tranches. The first tranche enables the Principality to put 20% of the shares 
of Monaco Telecom to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group from six months post 18 June 2011, 2014 and 2017. The second tranche 
enables the Principality to put 25% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group three years after the first 
has been exercised.
A reconciliation of the movements in the value of the Monaco Telecom put option is as follows:
 
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
At 1 April 189 201
Changes in fair value recognised as an adjustment to goodwill 4	 (29) 
Increase in fair value of put option due to discount unwinding recognised as a finance expense 13	 21 
Foreign exchange movements recognised in the foreign currency reserve in equity 10	 (4) 
At	31	March 216	 189 
Obligation	to	transfer	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	shares
Shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc were reclassified in 2009/10 from equity to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Under 
the terms of the demerger, 22 million of the 43 million shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc held by the Cable & Wireless Communications 
Share Ownership Trust (formerly the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust) with a market value of US$30 million were 
transferred to a similar trust for the benefit of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group in June 2010 and this liability was extinguished.
	
30	 Financial	instruments	at	fair	value
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. The different levels are defined as follows:
Level	1	– Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level	2	– Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either 
directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Level	3	– Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
   	At	31	March	2011
 
 Note
Level	1
US$m
Level	2
US$m
Level	3
US$m
Total
US$m
  
UK Government Gilts 22 31 – – 31
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through profit or loss 26 20 – – 20
Derivative instruments 26 – 13 – 13
Total	financial	assets	at	fair	value 51 13 – 64
Financial liabilities measured at fair value:
Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 29 – – 216 216
Total	financial	liabilities	at	fair	value – – 216 216
  Cable & Wireless Communications 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
30	 Financial	instruments	at	fair	value	continued
   At 31 March 2010 
 
 Note
Level 1
US$m
Level 2
US$m
Level 3
US$m
Total
US$m
  
UK Government Gilts 22 27 – – 27
Cash held as collateral 22 2 – – 2
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through profit or loss 26 64 – – 64
Derivative instruments 26 – 1 – 1
Total	financial	assets	at	fair	value 93 1 – 94
Financial liabilities measured at fair value:
Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 29 – – 189 189
Obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares 29 30 – – 30
Total	financial	liabilities	at	fair	value 30 – 189 219
	
31	 Deferred	tax	
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows:
 
 
 
 
Capital
allowances on
non-current
assets
US$m
 
 
 
Tax losses
US$m
 
 
 
Pensions
US$m
 
 
 
Other
US$m
 
Financial
position
offset
US$m
 
 
 
Total
US$m
Deferred tax assets 91 49 6 7 (60) 93 
Deferred tax liabilities (90) – (13) (11) 60 (54)
At 1 April 2009 1 49 (7) (4) – 39
Credit to profit or loss¹ 101 18 (1) (4) – 114 
Tax charged to equity – – 2 – – 2
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business (note 15) (169) (4) – – – (173)
Exchange differences (4) (1) 1 (1) – (5)
At 31 March 2010 (71) 62 (5) (9) – (23)
Deferred tax assets 13 62 6 7 (69) 19 
Deferred tax liabilities (84) – (11) (16) 69 (42)
At 1 April 2010 (71) 62 (5) (9) – (23)
Charge to profit or loss 14 (22) (1) – – (9)
Tax charged to equity – – (3) – – (3)
Exchange differences (2) 3 (1) 1 – 1
At	31	March	2011 (59) 43 (10) (8) – (34)
Deferred tax assets 19 43 3 15 (76) 4
Deferred tax liabilities (78) – (13) (23) 76 (38)
At	31	March	2011 (59) 43 (10) (8) – (34)
1 Comprises a US$98 million credit relating to discontinued operations and a US$16 million credit relating to continuing operations. 
106 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences:
 
 
 
 
Capital allowances 
available on
non-current assets
US$m
Tax losses
US$m
Pensions
US$m
Other
US$m
Total
US$m
As	at	31	March	2011 295 5,653 118 158 6,224
As at 31 March 2010 269 5,041 199 98 5,607 
Tax losses (recognised and unrecognised) expire as follows:
 
 
31	March
2011
US$m
31 March
2010
US$m
Within 1 year – 2 
Within 3 years – – 
Within 5 years – 1 
Within 10 years 35 18 
After more than 10 years 245 173 
Other tax losses are not subject to expiry.
The US$5,653 million (31 March 2010 – US$5,041 million) tax losses include UK capital losses of US$5,264 million (31 March 2010  
– US$4,889 million).
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of remittance 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of temporary differences 
associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 
US$316 million (31 March 2010 – US$325 million). These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
Following the change in the UK tax treatment of dividends on 1 July 2009, no tax is expected to arise on distributions from Group entities and 
no temporary difference exists, except where withholding tax or other foreign tax could arise on the remittance.
The Budget on 23 March 2011 announced a change to the UK corporation tax rate to 26%. This was substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 
and is effective from 1 April 2011. 
Further reductions to the UK corporation tax rate were announced in the March 2011 Budget. The changes, which are expected to be enacted 
separately each year, will reduce the rate by 1% per annum, to 23% by 1 April 2014. The changes had not been substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date and therefore are not recognised in these financial statements.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
32	 Provisions
Property
US$m
Redundancy
costs
US$m
Network
and	asset
retirement
obligations
US$m
Demerger
US$m
Legal
and
other
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2010 6 10 25 34 56 131
Additional provisions – 5 1 4 7 17
Amounts used – (9) – (38) (1) (48)
Unused amounts reversed – – – – (8) (8)
Effect of discounting – – 2 – – 2
Exchange differences 1 – – – (1) –
At	31	March	2011 7 6 28 – 53 94
Provisions	–	current	 7 6 4 – 45 62
Provisions	–	non-current	 – – 24 – 8 32
Property
US$m
Redundancy
costs
US$m
Network
and asset
retirement
obligations
US$m
Demerger
US$m
Legal
and
other
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2009 115 35 191 – 86 427 
Additions from businesses acquired 11 – – – – 11 
Additional provisions 24 35 14 34 106 213 
Amounts used (29) (48) (17) – (95) (189)
Unused amounts reversed¹ (13) (3) (6) – (36) (58)
Effect of discounting 6 – 8 – – 14
Demerger of Cable & Wireless Worldwide business (note 15) (110) (9) (164) – (4) (287)
Disposals – – (3) – – (3) 
Exchange differences 2 – 2 – (1) 3 
At	31	March	2010 6 10 25 34 56 131 
Provisions	–	current	 6 10 4 34 50 104 
Provisions	–	non-current – – 21 – 6 27 
1  Unused amounts reversed include US$30 million relating to continuing operations and US$28 million relating to discontinued operations.
The net expense recognised in profit or loss from movements in provisions relating to discontinued operations for the year ended  
31 March 2010 was US$95 million.
Property
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties. 
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant 
properties being sublet. The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Redundancy
Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date. Amounts provided for  
and spent during the periods presented primarily relate to the restructuring programmes associated with the demerger and regional 
transformation activities. The provision is expected to be used within one year.
108 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Network	and	asset	retirement	obligations	
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity. The provision 
is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic and 
subsea cabling. This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises. Amounts utilised 
relate predominantly to cash expenditure against unavoidable costs associated with redundant network capacity.
Demerger
The provision comprised costs related to the demerger such as professional fees, redundancy costs and closure costs.
Legal	and	other
Legal and other provisions include amounts relating to specific legal claims against the Group together with amounts in respect of certain 
employee benefits and sales taxes.
The release of unused amounts reflected the reassessment of risks relating to litigation and indirect tax during the year.
	
33	 Retirement	benefits	obligations	
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group operates pension schemes for its current and former UK and overseas employees. These 
schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on employees’ remuneration and length of service,  
and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect  
of, employees. Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries  
who value the schemes.
Defined	contribution	schemes
The pension cost for the year for the defined contribution schemes of the Group was US$7 million (2009/10 – US$8 million). The pension 
cost of the defined contribution amounts in respect of the members of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF) was US$2 million 
(2009/10 – US$2 million related to Cable & Wireless Communications employees).
The defined contribution pension cost has been included in employee benefit expenses (note 10).
Defined	benefit	schemes
Cable & Wireless Communications operates the CWSF. This plan provides defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements for current 
and former employees of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group. These arrangements are provided on the same basis as when the plan 
was operated by the Cable & Wireless Group. The CWSF has been closed to new defined benefit members since 1998.
Additionally the Group operates unfunded defined benefit arrangements in the UK. These primarily relate to pension provisions for former 
directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap. The Group operates 
other defined benefit pension schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados and Guernsey, with post-retirement medical benefits in Barbados. 
Further, until the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Group operated defined benefit arrangements in Hong Kong 
and Ireland, the THUS Group pension scheme, and other small defined benefit retirement plans in the UK.
Demerger
As part of the demerger which took place on 26 March 2010, a portion of the scheme assets and pension obligations of the CWSF was 
transferred to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan (CWWRP), a new plan operated by the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group. 
The pension obligations transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide were determined based on members’ last known employer. The plan 
assets were determined by reference to the value of the obligations transferred. Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, this resulted in defined 
benefit plan assets of US$1.8 billion and defined benefit pension obligations of US$2.0 billion being transferred to the Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide Group on 26 March 2010, and being derecognised from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group accounts. 
Cable & Wireless Communications continues to operate the CWSF post demerger.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
33	 Retirement	benefits	obligations	continued	
Funding	valuation	–	Cable	&	Wireless	Superannuation	Fund
The latest triennial actuarial valuation of the CWSF was carried out by independent actuaries Towers Watson Limited as at 31 March 2010. 
An agreement was reached between the Trustee of the CWSF and Cable & Wireless Communications to remove the deficit calculated by this 
valuation by 2016.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement were set having regard to the actual experience of the CWSF’s pensioners 
and dependants over the three years ended 31 March 2010. In addition, allowance was made for future mortality improvements in line with 
medium cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum 
annual rate of improvement of 1.5%. These are the mortality rates used for calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 
31 March 2011. 
The mortality rates used for the figure in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2011 are the same as those which were used for 
calculating the statement of financial position for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 are as follows:
On 31
March
2011 
(years)
On 31 
March
2021 
(years)
On 31
March
2031 
(years)
Male pensioners and dependants 27.7 29.3 30.9 
Female pensioners 26.4 27.9 29.4 
Female dependants 32.3 33.9 35.5
The March 2010 actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term financial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future 
benefit accrual was 38.4% of pensionable earnings (33.4% employer’s and 5.0% employees’). This contribution rate will be reviewed when 
the next triennial valuation is carried out, as at 31 March 2013. The terms of the CWSF Trust Deed also allow the Trustee or the Company 
to call for a valuation at any time. The future service contribution rate includes an allowance of US$1.3 million per annum for administration 
expenses, excluding the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) levy. The PPF levy for 2010/11 was US$0.4 million (2009/10 – US$0.5 million of 
which US$0.4 million related to discontinued operations).
Cable & Wireless Communications paid a total contribution of US$157 million (£98 million) in 2010/11, comprising deficit funding of 
US$149 million and normal contributions of US$8 million, to the CWSF to meet the cost of future benefit accrual and expenses, to recover part 
of the deficit on the scheme funding basis, and to meet the cost of the agreed derisking of the CWSF’s investment strategy. A deficit recovery 
funding plan was also agreed with the Trustees during the year which includes additional payments from 2014 to 2016 totalling US$102 million 
(£64 million). These contributions are based on best estimated investment returns and are subject to the outcome of the next full valuation due 
in March 2013.
A US$160 million contingent funding agreement (2009/10 – US$149 million) was agreed with the CWSF Trustee, under which the Trustee can 
call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as material deterioration in the financial performance of the business.
Minimum	pension	indexation	–	Cable	&	Wireless	Superannuation	Fund	and	UK	unfunded	defined	benefit	arrangements
In July 2010, the Government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured by the Consumer 
Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index. 
The Group is currently taking external advice in respect of the Government’s announcement on the determination of liabilities in the CWSF. 
Dependent upon the outcome, this may lead to a reduction in scheme liabilities, however it is presently too soon to determine the likelihood 
or value of the impact. 
1 10 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements IAS	19	valuation	–	Cable	&	Wireless	Superannuation	Fund	and	other	schemes
The IAS 19 valuations of the major defined benefit pension schemes and medical plans operated by Cable & Wireless Communications have 
been updated to 31 March 2011 by qualified independent actuaries. Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP prepared the valuation for the CWSF and the 
UK unfunded arrangements. Towers Watson Limited reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all remaining schemes.
The main financial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes’ assets are as follows:
31	March	2011 31 March 2010
CWSF
Other
schemes CWSF
Other
schemes
Assets
US$m
Assumption
%
Assets
US$m
Assumption
%
Assets
US$m
Assumption
%
Assets
US$m
Assumption
%
RPI inflation assumption 3.4 4.3 3.6 4.6 
Salary increases 3.9 4.9 4.1 5.1 
Pension increases 2.2-3.3 3.1 2.3-3.5 3.2 
Discount rate 5.6 7.4 5.5 7.4 
Medical cost trends for post-retirement 
medical plans – 5.0 – 5.0 
Long-term expected rate of return 
on plan assets 
– Annuity policies 1,093 5.6 74 8.0 1,000 5.5 73 8.0 
– Equities 251 8.1 96 8.2 163 8.3 89 8.3
– Bonds and gilts 85 4.2 87 6.1 37 5.4 78 6.7
– Property 6 6.7 43 8.9 22 6.8 40 9.8
– Cash and swaps 163 4.3 28 5.7 90 3.9 27 6.0
 1,598 328 1,312 307 
Assumptions used are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice. 
The assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the CWSF liabilities by approximately US$34 million as at 
31 March 2011. The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be 
US$24 million. A 0.25% pa decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around 
US$60 million. The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be 
US$32 million. A 0.25% pa change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by a negligible amount.
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each 
pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class. The expected asset return for each asset class has 
been set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard 
to investment yields on the measurement date.
Using the projected unit method for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost is expected to increase when expressed as a percentage 
of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 1 1 1 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
33	 Retirement	benefits	obligations	continued	
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical plans operated by the Group were as follows:
31	March	2011 31 March 2010
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF*
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Total fair value of plan assets 1,598 328 1,926 1,312 307 1,619 
Present value of funded obligations (1,619) (281) (1,900) (1,477) (275) (1,752)
Excess of (liabilities)/assets of funded obligations (21) 47 26 (165) 32 (133) 
Present value of unfunded obligations – (41) (41) – (42) (42)
Impact of the minimum funding requirement (57) – (57) – – –
Effect of asset ceiling – (14) (14) – (17) (17)
Exchange differences (3) (1) (4) – – –
Net	deficit (81) (9) (90) (165) (27) (192)
Liabilities	
Defined benefit pension plans in deficit (81) (49) (130) (165) (54) (219)
Unfunded post-retirement medical plans – (3) (3) – (8) (8)
Total (81) (52) (133) (165) (62) (227)
Assets
Defined benefit pension plans in surplus – 43 43 – 35 35
* Net of amounts attributable to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business.
Included within these liabilities is an amount of US$26 million (2009/10 – US$24 million) to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension 
entitlements.
The deficit recovery funding plan agreed with the Trustees of the CWSF during the year constitutes a minimal funding requirement. 
An adjustment to the deficit in the CWSF to account for the minimum funding requirement has been calculated in accordance with IFRIC 14 
The limits on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction. The adjustment to the deficit, which is recorded 
directly in equity, was US$57 million as at 31 March 2011 (2009/10 – US$nil).
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available in 
the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions. Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded directly in equity. The effect of these 
adjustments, described as asset ceiling adjustments, were US$14 million as at 31 March 2011 (31 March 2010 – US$17 million).
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: 
31	March	2011 31 March 2010
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Continuing	operations
Current service cost (2) (6) (8) (1) (5) (6)
Interest cost (82) (20) (102) (35) (18) (53)
Expected return on plan assets 78 22 100 37 22 59 
Gains on curtailment or settlement – 2 2 – 4 4 
Total	net	(charge)/credit	–	continuing	operations (6) (2) (8) 1 3 4 
Charge related to discontinued operations – – – (5) (5) (10)
Total	net	charge (6) (2) (8) (4) (2) (6)
1 12 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements The pre-exceptional defined benefit charge for continuing operations has been included in employee benefit expenses (note 10). 
The exceptional defined benefit credit of US$nil (2009/10 – US$4 million) was recognised in exceptional staff costs (note 7).
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of US$120 million (2009/10 – gain of US$803 million).
The total amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2011 
is a loss of US$36 million (2009/10 – loss of US$463 million) and a loss of US$595 million (2009/10 – loss of US$559 million) respectively.
In 2010/11, net actuarial gains amounting to US$16 million (2009/10 – losses of US$460 million) have been recognised directly in equity. 
Further gains were recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of US$2 million contributions from Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc (2009/10 – US$nil) and US$3 million due to changes in asset ceilings (2009/10 – loss of US$4 million). A loss of US$57 million 
was recognised in respect of minimum funding requirements (2009/10 – US$nil). 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plan obligations are as follows: 
2010/11 2009/10
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Obligations at 1 April (1,477) (317) (1,794) (2,453) (428) (2,881)
Current service cost (2) (6) (8) (12) (12) (24)
Interest cost (82) (20) (102) (177) (33) (210)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in equity (23) 18 (5) (941) (104) (1,045) 
Employee contributions – (5) (5) (3) (5) (8)
Obligations extinguished on demerger – – – 1,983 239 2,222
Gains on curtailment or settlement – 2 2 2 3 5
Benefits paid 78 17 95 127 20 147 
Exchange differences (113) (11) (124) (3) 3 –
Obligations	at	31	March (1,619) (322) (1,941) (1,477) (317) (1,794)
Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets are as follows:
	 	 2010/11  2009/10
 
 
 
CWSF
US$m
Other	
schemes
US$m
	
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other 
schemes
US$m
 
Total
US$m
Fair value of assets as at 1 April 1,312 307 1,619 2,407 403 2,810 
Expected return 78 22 100 182 36 218 
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in equity 28 (7) 21 521 64 585
Contributions by employer 157 7 164 75 20 95 
Employee contributions – 5 5 3 5 8 
Assets divested (including asset transfers upon demerger 
in 2009/10) – – – (1,772) (197) (1,969)
Assets acquired 2 – 2 – – – 
Benefits paid (78) (17) (95) (127) (20) (147)
Exchange differences 99 11 110 23 (4) 19 
Fair	value	of	assets	as	at	31	March	 1,598 328 1,926 1,312 307 1,619 
  Cable & Wireless Communications 1 13 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
33	 Retirement	benefits	obligations	continued	
Experience gains on plan assets and liabilities at the end of the periods presented were as follows:
31	March	2011 31 March 2010 31 March 2009
CWSF
US$m
Other	
schemes
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Plan assets 1,598 328 1,312 307 2,407 403
Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations (1,619) (322) (1,477) (317) (2,453) (428)
Effect of minimum funding requirement (57) – – – – –
Exchange differences (3) – – – – –
(Deficit)/surplus	excluding	the	eff ects	of	the	asset	ceiling (81) 6 (165) (10) (46) (25) 
Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets 27 (7) 521 24 (946) (81)
Experience (losses)/gains on plan liabilities (23) 5 (27) (4) 35 2 
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Plan assets 4,229 454 4,081 412
Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plan obligations (3,479) (422) (3,997) (396)
Surplus	excluding	the	eff ects	of	the	asset	ceiling 750 32 84 16 
Experience (losses)/gains on plan assets (126) 2 60 9
Experience gains/(losses) on plan liabilities 28 (16) (13) 9 
The best estimate of contributions to the defined benefit schemes for 2011/12 is:
CWSF*
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Employer contributions* 2 8 10
Employee contributions –  4 4 
* Based on an employer contribution rate of 33.4% of pensionable earnings plus contributions due under the agreed recovery plan and the estimated PPF levy payable in 
the year ended 31 March 2012. 
The pension disclosures above include two post-retirement medical plans in Barbados. An increase in the assumed medical cost trend of 1% pa 
would have no material effect on the aggregate of current service costs and interest costs and would increase the accumulated defined benefit 
obligation by US$3 million (1% decrease will reduce the accumulated defined benefit obligation by US$3 million). 
	
34	 Equity
Share	capital
 
Number of
shares
(000)
 
US$m
Issued,	called-up	and	fully	paid	shares	of	US5	cents	each	 
At 1 April 2009 2,571,466 129 
Allotted under share options schemes 11,210 – 
Allotted under scrip dividends 41,896 2 
At	31	March	2010 2,624,572	 131	
Allotted under scrip dividends 41,040 2 
At	31	March	2011 2,665,612	 133	
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was US$2 million (2009/10 – US$2 million).
1 14 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Included within the number of shares disclosed in the table above are treasury shares and shares held by the The Cable & Wireless 
Communications Share Ownership Trust (formerly the Cable & Wireless Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (the Trust)). 
No treasury shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled during the periods presented. On 24 June 2009 and 
10 March 2010, Cable & Wireless plc transferred 3,000,000 and 28,259,496 treasury shares respectively to the Trust.
On 21 July 2010, the Group’s shareholders approved a resolution at the AGM for the Group to purchase up to 262 million ordinary shares. 
This authority to buy-back these shares expires at the conclusion of the Company’s AGM in 2011 or 30 September 2011, whichever is the 
earlier. Under the resolution, during the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company purchased 42,762,000 ordinary shares at an average price 
of 49 pence per share (US80 cents per share), with a nominal value of US$2 million, for consideration of US$34 million. Consideration included 
stamp duty and commission of US$0.2 million. At 31 March 2011 these are classified as treasury shares. This represented 2% of called-up 
share capital at the beginning of the year.
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2011 (excluding those held by the Trust) was US$2 million (2009/10 – 
US$nil) and US$31 million (2009/10 – US$nil) respectively. Disclosures in respect of the shares held by the Trust are included in note 35.
The Trust has waived its right to dividends.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, each share (other than those held in treasury) entitles the holder to one vote 
at General Meetings of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc. The Company’s shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary 
resolution but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors. There are no restrictions on the repayment of 
capital other than those imposed by law. For further information refer to pages 38 to 41 of the Directors’ report.
Allotments of ordinary shares of US5 cents each were made during the period as follows:
31	March	2011 31 March 2010
Number	of
allotted	
shares
(000)
Gross
consideration
received
US$000
Number of
allotted shares
(000)
Gross
consideration
received
US$000
Savings Related Share Option Scheme – – 929 814 
Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme – – 118 187 
Share Option Plan – Approved – – 131 213 
Share Option Plan – Unapproved – – 10,032 17,331 
Scrip dividends
1
41,040 – 41,896 –
Total 41,040 – 53,106 18,545 
1 Shares with a cash equivalent value of US$37 million (2009/10 – US$87 million) were issued during the year as payment for dividends by scrip. This was a non-
cash transaction.
Equity	attributable	to	the	owners	of	the	Parent	Company
As discussed in note 2.1, in the prior period Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was interposed as the new Parent Company of the 
Cable & Wireless Group (subsequently the Cable & Wireless Communications Group). This transaction was accounted for using the principles 
of reverse acquisitions.
The main principles used in the presentation of equity for the Cable & Wireless Communications Group were as follows:
•	 The retained earnings and other equity balances of the Cable & Wireless Group (now Cable & Wireless Communications Group) were carried 
forward as the retained earnings and other equity balances of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group at the date of the Scheme of 
Arrangement, 19 March 2010;
•	 The equity instruments of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were initially recognised at their fair value on the date of the Scheme 
of Arrangement;
•	 The movements in share capital prior to 19 March 2010 reflected the movements in the share capital of Cable and Wireless plc (now 
Cable & Wireless Limited). However, share capital for these prior year share issues was restated using the nominal value of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc shares at US5 cents each in order to present the movements as though Cable & Wireless Communications Group had 
been in existence in its current form since 1 April 2008. The difference arising on this restatement was included in the share premium; and
•	 Any difference between the fair value of these instruments on the date of the Scheme of Arrangement and the historical cost of the 
instruments on issue in Cable and Wireless plc (now Cable & Wireless Limited) were recorded in retained earnings.
See note 9 of the Parent Company accounts for information on the shares issued by Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 1 15 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
34	 Equity	continued
Capital	management	
The Group defines capital as equity, loans and borrowings (note 28) and cash and cash equivalents (note 25). The Group does not have any 
externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law.
The Board’s objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Group’s strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping 
the portfolio through mergers and acquisitions. In doing so the Board seeks to:
•	 Manage funding and liquidity risk;
•	 Optimise shareholder return; and
•	 Maintain credit ratings.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Group has taken initial steps to reshape the portfolio by the disposal of Cable & Wireless (Bermuda) Holdings and its subsidiaries during 
the period (note 11) and the acquisition of the Bahamas Telecommunications Company completed after the reporting period, on 6 April 2011 
(note 45).
Funding and liquidity risk are reviewed regularly by the Board and managed in accordance with the policies described in note 43.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to the lower of three times the adjusted capital and reserves of the Group 
or US$3 billion.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders and it 
intends to pursue a policy of dividend growth that reflects the underlying earnings and cash flow for the business. This process is managed 
through the Group’s budget and longer-term forecasting process. 
During the period the Group has maintained its credit rating on the US$500 million secured bonds due in 2017 with a Moody’s credit rating 
of Ba2 and Standard and Poor’s of BB. The sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 maintained a rating with Standard and 
Poor’s of B+.
Foreign	currency	translation	and	hedging	reserve
The foreign currency translation and hedging reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency 
different to the presentation currency of the Group. It also includes cumulative exchange differences arising on the translation of hedging 
instruments.
Capital	and	Other	reserves
In 2010/11, other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of US$152 million (2009/10 – US$152 million), a revaluation reserve of 
US$30 million (2009/10 – US$30 million), a fair value reserve of US$11 million (2009/10 – US$9 million), a special reserve of US$2,137 million 
(2009/10 – US$2,137 million) and a capital reserve of US$1,187 million (2009/10 – US$1,931 million), less a reserve relating to transactions 
with non-controlling interests of US$1 million (2009/10 – US$4 million). 
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited (formerly Cable and Wireless plc) 
in February 2004. It will reduce from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account of 
Cable & Wireless Limited after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a 
capitalisation of distributable reserves.
On 26 March 2010, a court-approved capital reduction became effective which had the effect of creating a capital reserve of US$1,931 million 
which may be released, in whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion (and upon the resolution) of the Board of 
Directors or a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors. 
In 2010/11 the Board approved the release of US$742 million from the capital reserve to distributable reserves.
1 16 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 35	 Share-based	payments
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, the majority of Cable & Wireless Communications participants’ outstanding 
Cable and Wireless plc share and option awards rolled over into Cable & Wireless Communications Plc equivalent awards. A limited number 
of participants retained their Cable and Wireless plc awards and had entitlement to one Cable & Wireless Communications Plc share and one 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc share in lieu of each Cable and Wireless plc share.
The quantity of shares under award were converted in accordance with plan rules to adjust for the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
business.
Options, share prices and outstanding share awards of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc are shown in pence reflecting the currency in 
which the ordinary shares are quoted. Options and share awards granted in the prior year relating to Cable and Wireless plc are shown in pence 
being the currency in which the ordinary shares are quoted.
Share	option	schemes	
The Group does not currently have any outstanding share option awards over its own shares (2009/10 – nil). There are 13,705,773 
outstanding share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior employees (2009/10 – 14,130,773 
outstanding options). These options were originally granted over Cable and Wireless plc shares at exercise prices between 100 to 149 pence 
(12,364,356 options) and 150 to 199 pence (1,341,417 options). All options have vested in full. Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement 
and demerger, these options have been redesignated as an option over a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc  
and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc (an unrelated company). The share prices of the two companies at 31 March 2011 were such 
that the obligation for these stapled unit options was US$nil (at 31 March 2010 – US$18 million, classified as an Other payable).
During the year, 575,000 options were exercised at an average share price of 104 pence (2009/10 – 13,982,000 options at an average share 
price of 101 pence). 425,000 of these were exercised by senior employees of the Group. The remainder were exercised by senior employees  
of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
Other	equity	instrument	awards
Performance shares
Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of outstanding performance shares is subject to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc absolute TSR performance conditions (see 
performance conditions for share-based award on pages 51 to 53). A dividend award supplement operates on these awards. Dividends that 
would have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be regarded as having been reinvested in additional shares at the notional date 
of distribution.
Prior to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, performance share awards made by Cable and Wireless plc were subject either to relative 
or to absolute TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc or the Cable & Wireless Communications business.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, some individuals’ awards were adjusted into an award over shares in Cable & 
Wireless Communications Plc and some individuals retained their right to an award over one Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc share for every Cable and Wireless plc share they previously held.
Restricted Share Plan
Restricted shares are awarded to senior management and selected other employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool. Generally, 
restricted shares vest over periods of one to three years from grant date.
Prior to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, restricted share awards made to Cable & Wireless Communications employees were made 
in respect of shares in Cable and Wireless plc. Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and demerger, these awards have been adjusted to 
be an award over Cable & Wireless Communications Plc ordinary shares of an equivalent value.
Stock appreciation rights
Stock appreciation rights are used to replicate exactly the types of awards described above, but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent. 
It is used in exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 1 17 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
35	 Share-based	payments	continued
Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan
The Company also offers its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, 
the opportunity to participate in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan which is a HMRC-approved share incentive plan. 
Under the Share Purchase Plan, employees can contribute up to £1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year (whichever is the lower), to buy 
partnership shares in the Company, and the Company will offer a matching award of one share for each partnership share purchased.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (formerly the Cable and Wireless Employee Share Ownership Trust)
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (the Trust) is a discretionary trust, which was funded by loans from Cable and 
Wireless plc (now Cable & Wireless Limited) to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc. Subsequent to the Scheme of Arrangement and 
demerger, the shares held by the Trust were converted into one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in Cable and Wireless plc held.
At 31 March 2011 the Trust held 40,054,310 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and 19,798,744 shares in Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc (2009/10 – 43,010,495 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, and 43,010,495 shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
plc) with a market value of US$46 million (2009/10 – US$94 million).
Share	awards
The equity instruments granted during the period can be summarised as follows:
Awards granted during 2010/11 and 2009/10
 
Awards	of	
Cable	&	Wireless	Communications	Plc
shares	granted	during	2010/11
Awards of 
Cable and Wireless plc
shares granted between 
1 April 2009 and 19 March 2010
 
 
 
Award
	
Shares
Weighted
average
fair	value
(pence/share)
Features	
incorporated
in	schemes
 
Shares
Weighted
average
fair value
(pence/share)
Features 
incorporated
in schemes
Restricted shares 577,621 45 – 717,236 130 – 
Stock appreciation rights – – – 589,039 142 – 
Share purchase plan scheme (matching shares) 147,264 57 – 1,801,989 140 – 
Performance shares
7,645,106 30
TSR
	conditions 17,596,285 71 
TSR 
conditions 
There were no Cable & Wireless Communications Plc share awards made between 19 March 2010 and 31 March 2010.
Only the performance share grants made during 2010/11 and 2009/10 have performance criteria attached. A fair value exercise was 
completed at 31 March 2011 for grants made during 2010/11 using the Monte Carlo method. The remaining awards had no performance 
conditions attached.
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the performance share grants in 2010/11 and 2009/10 were:
2010/11 2009/10
Weighted average share price (pence per share) 62.85 140.00 
Dividend yield 6.0% 6.2%
Expected volatility 36.0% 33.2%
Risk-free interest rates 1.35% 1.80%
Expected life in years 3.0	 years 2.9 years
The total expense for continuing and discontinued operations relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was 
US$3 million (2009/10 – US$27 million).
1 18 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements A summary of the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 are as follows:
31	March	2011 31 March 2010
 
 
 
 
Award
Number	of
shares
outstanding
Weighted
average
remaining	life
(rounded	to
nearest	year)
Number of
shares
outstanding
Weighted
average
remaining life
(rounded to
nearest year)
Restricted shares 1,964,956 1 4,696,130 1
Restricted shares (TSR) 5,500,000 – 5,500,000 1
Share purchase plan scheme (matching shares) 3,432,034 1 3,749,609 2
Performance shares 18,032,481 2 10,387,375 2
	
36	 Reconciliation	of	net	funds	
Funds are defined as cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits. Debt is defined as loans and bonds.
A reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds is as follows:
 
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
(Decrease)/increase in cash during the year (196) 41
Increase in debt financing (89) (268)
Cash	outflow	in	net	funds (285) (227)
Finance leases entered into during the year – (27)
Bond (amortisation)/net borrowing costs capitalised (5) 8
Net debt of businesses acquired – (2)
Demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business (note 15) – 68
Exchange differences (40) 62
Movement	in	net	funds	in	the	year (330) (118)
Net debt at 1 April (664) (546) 
Net	funds	at	31	March (994) (664)
Analysis of changes in net funds:
 
 
At 1 April 
2010 
US$m
 
Cash flow 
US$m
Bond
amortisation
US$m
Transfers
US$m
Exchange 
differences
US$m
At	31	March	
2011	
US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 141 87 – – 2 230
Short-term deposits 432 (283) – – – 149
Total	net	funds/(debt) 573 (196) – – 2 379
Debt due within one year (58) 37 – (95) – (116)
Debt due after more than one year (1,179) (126) (5) 95 (42) (1,257)
Total	debt (1,237) (89) (5) – (42) (1,373)
Total	net	debt (664) (285) (5) – (40) (994)
  Cable & Wireless Communications 1 19 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
37	 Commitments,	guarantees	and	contingent	liabilities	
Commitments
The Group had capital commitments at the end of the financial year relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of US$64 million  
(2009/10 – US$34 million). No provision has been made for these commitments. US$12 million (31 March 2010 – US$30 million)  
of these commitments relate to the Group’s share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures. 
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Group’s business. The most significant 
of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs. In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional 
contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses 
and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2011 is disclosed in note 7. The aggregate future minimum lease 
payments under operating leases are:
31	March
2011	
US$m
31 March
2010 
US$m
No later than one year 41 39 
Later than one year but not later than five years 88 98 
Later than five years 37 45 
Total	minimum	operating	lease	payments 166 182 
Guarantees	and	contingent	liabilities
Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows:
31	March
2011	
US$m
31 March
2010 
US$m
Trading guarantees 38 10 
Other guarantees 286 606 
Total	guarantees 324 616 
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the 
Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The nature of contracts includes 
projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials. The guarantees 
contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, property and other leases and letters of 
credit, and include guarantees in respect of the demerged business of Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
Total guarantees at 31 March 2011 include US$17 million of other guarantees (2009/10 – US$563 million) relating to discontinued operations. 
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group has provided guarantees to third parties in respect of trading contracts between third parties and 
the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group. The Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group has agreed a fee schedule with Cable & Wireless Communications 
Group for the benefit of these guarantees. To date, the Cable & Wireless Communications Group has not been required to make any payments 
in respect of its obligations under these trading guarantees.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide agree to provide each other with certain 
customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Cable & Wireless Communications Group may incur but which 
relate exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not 
relate exclusively to one Group or the other.
120 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Whilst Pender, the Group’s former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies 
in favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third 
party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers. Significant progress has been made in resolving 
these claims. Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of 
such claims.
In addition the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of 
disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although 
some uncapped indemnities have been given. The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including 
facility sharing agreements. Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund, it may be liable for future contributions to fund a portion 
of any future funding deficits. Currently, the amount of these potential liabilities cannot be quantified.
	
38	 Business	combinations	and	acquisitions	of	non-controlling	interests	
Continuing	operations
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd (Dhiraagu)
On 21 October 2009, the Group purchased a further 7% of the share capital of Dhiraagu from the Maldives Government for cash 
consideration of US$40 million. This transaction resulted in the Cable & Wireless Communications Group reclassifying its joint venture 
investment in this entity to a subsidiary investment. The goodwill recognised on acquisition was US$25 million and the net cash inflow on 
acquisition was US$36 million.
The Directors have made an assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities at the acquisition date. The fair values were as follows:
Book value
US$m
 Fair value
adjustments 
US$m
Final fair 
value at 
30 September
2010
 US$m
Property, plant and equipment 151 (3) 148 
Customer contracts and relationships – 51 51 
Trademarks and other intangibles – 18 18 
Trade and other receivables 19 – 19 
Inventories 3 (1) 2
Cash and cash equivalents 76 – 76 
Trade and other payables (91) – (91)
Total 158 65 223 
The Directors made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities at 31 March 2010. This assessment was updated at 
30 September 2010 to adjust for new information regarding the previously assessed balances. This resulted in a decrease to the fair value of 
property, plant and equipment of US$3 million and a decrease to the fair value of inventories of US$1 million.
In 2009/10, from the date of its acquisition on 21 October 2009, Dhiraagu contributed US$69 million to Group revenue and US$28 million to 
Group profit. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2009, the contribution to Group revenue for 2009/10 would have been US$148 million 
and the contribution to Group profit for 2009/10 would have been US$61 million.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of Dhiraagu included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing 
business, and the value of the workforce and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible 
Assets as they were unable to be separately identified.
Monaco Telecom
Goodwill in connection with the Group’s investment in Monaco Telecom SAM increased by US$19 million during the year (2009/10 – 
US$17 million decrease). The goodwill balance increased as a result of the payment of dividends to the Principality of Monaco, exchange 
movements and changes in the fair value of the put option.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
38	 Business	combinations	and	acquisitions	of	non-controlling	interests	continued
As part of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom a put option was issued (note 29). Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated 
as contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill. Cash dividends paid to the Principality of Monaco reflected an increase in the 
Cable & Wireless Communications Group’s investment in Monaco Telecom and therefore an increase to goodwill. 
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
At 1 April 153 170 
Increase/(decrease) as a result of changes in the fair value of Monaco put option 4 (29)
Dividends paid to the Principality 7 12
Increase due to exchange differences 8 – 
At	31	March 172 153
Connecteo
During 2010/11, the Group increased its effective interest in Connecteo Holding SA by 35% to 100% for cash consideration of US$1 million.  
Connecteo was subsequently rebranded as Afinis Communications.
	
39		 Related	party	transactions		
Transactions	with	joint	ventures	
All trade transactions with joint ventures arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of the Group’s products 
and services, network and access charges. There were no material trade transactions with joint ventures during the year.
The Group received dividends of US$9 million from joint ventures (2009/10 – US$52 million which included dividends from Dhiraagu before 
it became a subsidiary on 21 October 2010). At 31 March 2011, joint ventures owed US$1 million (31 March 2010 – US$4 million) in respect 
of trading balances.
Transactions	with	key	management	personnel
Two Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc own unsecured bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited (formerly Cable and Wireless 
plc) and Cable & Wireless International Finance BV. These bonds had a nominal value at 31 March 2011 of US$4,211,156 (£2,630,000) 
(31 March 2010 – US$3,914,492 (£2,630,000)). The interest earned on these bonds during 2010/11 was US$354,033 of which US$154,103 
remained unpaid at 31 March 2011 (2009/10 – US$364,082 of which US$143,247 remained unpaid at 31 March 2010).
Two Directors’ spouses hold bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited (formerly Cable and Wireless plc) and Cable & Wireless International 
Finance BV. These bonds had a nominal value at 31 March 2011 of US$784,588 (£490,000) (31 March 2010 – US$729,316 (£490,000)). 
The interest earned on those bonds during 2010/11 was US$65,378 of which US$2,000 remained unpaid at 31 March 2011 (2009/10 – 
US$66,888 of which US$1,859 remained unpaid at 31 March 2010). 
Transactions	with	other	related	parties
There are no controlling shareholders of the Group. There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Group. 
Pensions contributions to Group schemes are disclosed in note 33.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
122 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 40		 Licences	and	operating	agreements
In all countries in which it operates, the Group holds licences to operate or operating agreements. These licences and operating agreements 
take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly. The Group assumes that it will renew these licences and 
operating agreements as they expire. Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
No licences or operating agreements were renewed during 2010/11.
During 2009/10, the Seychelles licence was renewed until 2024. No material changes were made to the terms of the licence, though it remains 
subject to review once amendments to the local broadcasting and telecommunications legislation are finalised.
Whilst the operating agreements between Monaco Telecom and the Principality of Monaco are not due to expire until 2023 they are currently 
undergoing consolidation into a single operating agreement. It is anticipated that this consolidation will be completed in the near future and that 
the consolidated licence terms will take effect from 1 April 2011. The Group does not anticipate that the consolidation will materially affect the 
terms under which Monaco Telecom operates its business.
The Group does not have any concession agreements with Governments that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service Concession 
Arrangements.
On demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by, 
and for the continuing use of, the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Groups. As part of this transfer, Cable & 
Wireless Communications received a royalty-free licence, granting rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand in all of the Group’s jurisdictions 
with the exception of Macau and North and West Africa which are branded differently. Further, the Group retains a licence to use the 
Cable & Wireless logo globally.
There were no other significant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Group’s subsidiaries or operating agreements with 
Governments during the periods presented. 
	
41		 Legal	proceedings	
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews. The facts and 
circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outflow of 
funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient. Accordingly, significant management 
judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The Group does not 
expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
42		 Subsidiaries	and	joint	ventures	
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those 
companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the financial statements.
Issued 
share
capital
(million)
Ownership
%
Class of
shares
Country of
incorporation
Area of
operation Nature of business
Continuing	operations
Subsidiaries  
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd 16,817 82 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica Telecommunications
Cable & Wireless Panama, SA
1
316 49 Ordinary Panama Panama Telecommunications
Companhia de Telecomunicacoes de Macau, SARL
2
150 51 Ordinary Macau Macau 
and China
Telecommunications
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Ltd 72 81 Ordinary Barbados Barbados Telecommunications
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Ltd 5 100 Ordinary England Caribbean Holding Company
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Ltd
 3
190 52 Ordinary Maldives Maldives Telecommunications
Monaco Telecom SAM
5
2 49 Ordinary Monaco Monaco Telecommunications
Cable & Wireless Limited
 6
656 100 Ordinary England England Holding Company
Sable International Finance Limited – 100 Ordinary Cayman England Finance Company
Cable & Wireless International Finance BV 1 100 Ordinary Netherlands England Finance Company
Joint	ventures 
Cable & Wireless Trademark Management Ltd – 50 Ordinary England N/A Owner of the 
Cable & Wireless brand
Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd
 4
283 49 Ordinary Trinidad 
and Tobago
Trinidad 
and Tobago
Telecommunications
1 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through 
a shareholders’ agreement.
2 This company has a financial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders’ agreement.
3 This company is referred to as Dhiraagu. From October 2009, this entity is a subsidiary (formerly a joint venture).
4  This company is audited by a firm other than KPMG and its international member firms.
5  The Cable & Wireless Communications Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM via a contractual arrangement. See below  
for further discussion.
6  Formerly Cable and Wireless plc.
On 18 June 2004 the Group acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco-based telecommunications service provider, from Vivendi Universal. 
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless Communications transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to 
an unrelated third party. The Group contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In addition, the 
6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management 
control of Monaco Telecom to the Group.
The Group has also entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the Principality of Monaco (Principality) that contains, among other provisions, 
a prohibition on either the Group or the Principality (subject to certain limited exceptions) selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for five years, 
mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality. The Principality has a put option 
entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to the Group at certain times after 1 January 2008. The exercise price under the put 
option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom (note 29).
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s next Annual Return, to be filed 
with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
124 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 43		 Financial	risk	management	
Treasury	policy	
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk and interest 
rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the 
Group’s financial performance. Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Group’s treasury function (Treasury), within 
specified financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities. Material 
subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury. Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board. All subsidiaries are required to 
report details of their cash and debt positions to Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk. 
The majority of the Group’s cash resources (including facilities) and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group may use derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-
currency swaps and options, where appropriate, in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures. The use of these 
instruments is in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury and subject to policies approved by the Board. Derivatives 
are not used for trading or speculative purposes and derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported by Treasury on a regular 
basis and are subject to policies adopted by the Board.
Exchange	rate	risk
From the date of demerger on 26 March 2010, the Group’s presentational currency became US dollars, as this is the predominant transaction 
currency of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group. The Group trades in many countries and a proportion of its revenue is generated in 
currencies other than US dollars, notably in euros, sterling and Jamaican dollars. The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in 
relation to non-US dollar currency payments (including external dividends, the London corporate centre costs, pension and share buy-back 
costs), dividend income from foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries and the 
net asset carrying value of non-US dollar investments. Exchange risk is managed centrally by the London corporate centre on a matching cash 
flow basis including forecast foreign currency cash repatriation inflows from subsidiaries and forecast foreign currency payments. See note 4 
for key exchange rates used.
Where appropriate, the Cable & Wireless Communications Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and 
uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies 
do not naturally offset in the short term. The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create 
significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate. Where cost-effective and possible, foreign subsidiaries are financed 
in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of 
overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value 
of foreign investments.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
43		 Financial	risk	management	continued
The reported profits of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Overseas earnings are predominately 
in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar. However the Group also has overseas earnings in other currencies of which sterling and euros 
are the most significant.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in relation to financial instruments which are not in the functional currency of the entity that 
holds them. In broad terms, based on financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2011 the impact of a unilateral 10% weakening of the 
US dollar would have been to decrease profit by approximately US$23 million.
Interest	rate	risk
The Cable & Wireless Communications Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans 
although there is a degree of offset between the two. Treasury may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure 
whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate. There were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2011.
At 31 March 2011, 81% (31 March 2010 – 86%) of the Group’s loans were at a fixed rate. A reduction in interest rates would have an 
unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Group’s fixed rate loans. However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that 
it will be kept in place until maturity. As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on fixed rate borrowings and, as such, its effect has 
not been modelled.
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a US$3 million impact on the income received from the surplus cash balances of the 
Group and a US$3 million impact on the floating rate loans of the Group. The impact on equity is limited to the impact on profit or loss.
Credit	risk
Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty 
failed to perform as contracted. The carrying amount of the financial assets of the Group represents the maximum credit exposure of the 
Group. Management seeks to reduce this credit risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Group’s financial 
instruments are the core relationship banks, which are rated A1 short-term and/or AA long-term (or better) by Standard & Poor’s 
(or equivalent by Moody’s and/or Fitch). The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Cable & Wireless Communications Group Treasury policies approved 
by the Board. These policies contain limits on exposure for the Group as a whole to any one counterparty of approximately US$100 million.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 23.
126 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements Liquidity	risk
The Group ensures that the operating units manage their own operational liquidity supported by the London corporate centre, which manages 
its own liquidity to meet its financial obligations of servicing and repaying external debt, external dividends, London costs and strategic 
initiatives. The principal source of liquidity for the London corporate centre is repatriation cash inflows from the operating units supported 
by bank finance, bond issuances and asset disposals.
At 31 March 2011, the Cable & Wireless Communications Group had cash and cash equivalents of US$379 million. These amounts are highly 
liquid and are a significant component of the Group’s overall liquidity and capital resources, which also includes the undrawn revolving credit 
facility of US$500 million and an undrawn term loan facility of US$100 million. Of the undrawn facilities, an amount of US$160 million 
(2009/10 – US$149 million) is restricted as part of the contingent funding agreement in relation to the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund 
(note 33). After the reporting period, the Group utilised US$180 million of funding on the revolving credit facility to partly finance The Bahamas 
Telecommunications Company acquisition (note 45).
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance  
and that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements. The Directors  
also regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
Approximately 61% of the Group’s cash is invested in short-term bank deposits and money market funds (2009/10 – 76%).
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which may restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the Group from time to time.  
Where restrictions are severe, local cash balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
	
44		 Reconciliation	of	GAAP	to	non-GAAP	items
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Total	operating	profit 536 468 
Depreciation and amortisation 321 348 
LTIP charge 24 1
Net other operating expense/(income) 28 (3)
Share of profit after tax of joint ventures (31) (30)
Exceptional items (6) 82 
EBITDA 872 866
The Group uses EBITDA as a key performance measure as it reflects the underlying operational performance of the businesses. EBITDA is not a 
measure defined under IFRS. It is calculated as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating and 
non-operating income and expense and exceptional items.
  Cable & Wireless Communications 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 201 1
45	 Events	after	the	reporting	period
Business	combinations
Bahamas Telecommunications Company
On 6 April 2011, the Group acquired 51% of the share capital of the Bahamas Telecommunications Company (BTC) from the Government of 
the Commonwealth of The Bahamas for cash consideration of US$210 million. BTC is the exclusive mobile operator in The Bahamas as well  
as a leading provider of fixed-line and broadband services. It is complementary to the Group’s Caribbean business, LIME, which is the leading 
full-service telecommunications provider in the region. The goodwill recognised of US$71 million on acquisition was based on a provisional 
assessment of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The net cash outflow on acquisition was US$151 million. 
To partly finance the acquisition, the Group drew US$180 million of the US$500 million revolving credit facility (note 28).
The Directors have made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date. The fair values were 
as follows:
Book value
US$m
 Fair value
adjustments 
US$m
Fair value 
at 6 April 
2011
 US$m
Property, plant and equipment 384 (125) 259
Customer contracts and relationships – 31 31
Trademarks – 1 1
Available-for-sale assets 20 – 20
Trade and other receivables 57 (10) 47
Inventories 13 (5) 8
Cash and cash equivalents 59 – 59
Trade and other payables (96) (10) (106)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (2) – (2)
Provisions – (10) (10)
Loans and borrowings (34) – (34)
Total 401 (128) 273
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of BTC included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing business 
and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately 
identified. Acquisition-related costs of US$7 million were recorded in these financial statements as other operating expenses. Further 
acquisition-related costs are expected to be recorded in 2011/12 following completion. A non-controlling interest of US$134 million will be 
recognised in the 2011/12 accounts as at acquisition date measured at cost.
No revenue or profit related to BTC is included in these financial statements. For the statutory year ended 31 December 2010, BTC had total 
unaudited revenue of US$343 million and EBITDA of US$79 million.
Maldives	currency	partial	flotation
On 11 April 2011, the Government of the Maldives announced a partial flotation of the Maldivian rufiyaa (MRF) within a range of 20% in either 
direction around the previously fixed rate of MRF 12.85 for USD 1.00. 
The impact of the partial flotation is not reflected in these financial statements. However, a 20% devaluation of the Maldivian rufiyaa would have 
had the impact of reducing EBITDA by approximately US$14 million in 2010/11.
Accounts	approval
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2011 and authorised for issue.
128 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010/11 // Financial statements 	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 129
Independent auditor’ s 
report to the members 
of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In	 our	 opinion:
•	 The	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	
report	 to	 be	 audited	 has	 been	 properly	
prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	 Companies	
Act	 2006;	 and
•	 The	 information	 given	 in	 the	 Directors’	
report	 for	 the	 financial	 year	 for	 which	
the	 financial	 statements	 are	 prepared	 is	
consistent	 with	 the	 Parent	 Company	
financial	 statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
We	 have	 nothing	 to	 report	 in	 respect	 of	 the	
following	 matters	 where	 the	 Companies	 Act	
2006	 requires	 us	 to	 report	 to	 you	 if,	 	
in	 our	 opinion:
•	 Adequate	 accounting	 records	 have	 not	
been	 kept	 by	 the	 Parent	 Company,	 or	
returns	 adequate	 for	 our	 audit	 have	 not	
been	 received	 from	 branches	 not	 visited	
by	 us;	 or
•	 The	 Parent	 Company	 financial	 statements	
and	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	
report	 to	 be	 audited	 are	 not	 in	 agreement	
with	 the	 accounting	 records	 and	 returns;	 or
•	 Certain	 disclosures	 of	 Directors’	
remuneration	 specified	 by	 law	 are	 not	
made;	 or
•	 We	 have	 not	 received	 all	 the	 information	
and	 explanations	 we	 require	 for	 our	 audit.
Other matter
We	 have	 reported	 separately	 on	 the	 Group	
financial	 statements	 of	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Communications	 Plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 	
31	 March	 2011.
Peter Meehan (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, 
Statutory Auditor
Chartered	 Accountants	
15	 Canada	 Square	
London	
E14	 5GL
24	 May	 2011
We	 have	 audited	 the	 Parent	 Company	
financial	 statements	 of	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Communications	 Plc	 for	 the	 year	 ended	
31	 March	 2011	 set	 out	 on	 pages	 130	 to	 137.	
The	 financial	 reporting	 framework	 that	 has	
been	 applied	 in	 their	 preparation	 is	 applicable	
law	 and	 UK	 Accounting	 Standards	 (UK	
Generally	 Accepted	 Accounting	 Practice).
This	 report	 is	 made	 solely	 to	 the	 Company’s	
members,	 as	 a	 body,	 in	 accordance	 with	
Chapter	 3	 of	 Part	 16	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	
2006.	 Our	 audit	 work	 has	 been	 undertaken	
so	 that	 we	 might	 state	 to	 the	 Company’s	
members	 those	 matters	 we	 are	 required	
to	 state	 to	 them	 in	 an	 auditor’s	 report	 and	
for	 no	 other	 purpose.	 To	 the	 fullest	 extent	
permitted	 by	 law,	 we	 do	 not	 accept	 or	 	
assume	 responsibility	 to	 anyone	 other	 than	
the	 Company	 and	 the	 Company’s	 members,	 	
as	 a	 body,	 for	 our	 audit	 work,	 for	 this	 report,	
or	 for	 the	 opinions	 we	 have	 formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors 
and auditor
As	 explained	 more	 fully	 in	 the	 Statement	 	
of	 Directors’	 responsibilities	 set	 out	 on	 	
page	 61,	 the	 Directors	 are	 responsible	 for	 the	
preparation	 of	 the	 Parent	 Company	 financial	
statements	 and	 for	 being	 satisfied	 that	 they	
give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view.	 Our	 responsibility	 is	
to	 audit,	 and	 express	 an	 opinion	 on,	 the	 Parent	
Company	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	
with	 applicable	 law	 and	 International	
Standards	 on	 Auditing	 (UK	 and	 Ireland).	 Those	
standards	 require	 us	 to	 comply	 with	 the	
Auditing	 Practices	 Board’s	 (APB’s)	 Ethical	
Standards	 for	 Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial 
statements
A	 description	 of	 the	 scope	 of	 an	 audit	 of	
financial	 statements	 is	 provided	 on	 the	 APB’s	
website	 at	 www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/	
private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In	 our	 opinion	 the	 Parent	 Company	 financial	
statements:
•	 Give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view	 of	 the	 state	 of	 the	
Company’s	 affairs	 as	 at	 31	 March	 2011	 	
and	 of	 its	 profit	 for	 the	 year	 then	 ended;
•	 Have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	
with	 UK	 Generally	 Accepted	 Accounting	
Practice;	 and
•	 Have	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 the	
requirements	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006. 130	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Financial	 statements
Note
31 March
2011
US$m
31	 March
2010
US$m
Fixed assets investments
Investments	 in	 subsidiaries	 7	 6,089 6,086
Current liabilities 
Creditors:	 amounts	 falling	 due	 within	 one	 year	 8	 4,035 3,962
Net current liabilities (4,035) (3,962)
Net assets	 2,054 2,124
Capital and reserves	
Called-up	 share	 capital	 9	 133 131
Share	 premium	 10	 97 62
Reserves	 10	 1,824 1,931
Equity shareholders’ funds	 2,054 2,124
The	 notes	 on	 pages	 132	 to	 137	 are	 an	 integral	 part	 of	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Company.
The	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Company	 on	 pages	 130	 to	 131	 were	 approved	 by	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors	 on	 24	 May	 2011	 and	 signed	 on	 its	
behalf	 by:
Tony Rice Chief	 Executive Tim Pennington Chief	 Financial	 Offi cer
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Registered	 number	 –	 07130199
Company balance sheet
as at 31 March 2011 	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 131
Reconciliation of movements in equity  
shareholders’ funds for the Company
for the year ended 31 March 2011
2010/11
US$m
Period	 from
19	 January	
2010	 to
	 31	 March	
2010
US$m
Profit	 for	 the	 period	 130 –
Issue	 of	 share	 capital 37 6,103
Share-based	 payment	 expenses 3 –
Capital	 reduction	 and	 demerger	 of	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 business	 – (3,979)
Cash	 received	 in	 respect	 of	 employee	 share	 schemes 1 –
Own	 shares	 purchased (34) –
Equity	 element	 of	 the	 convertible	 bond (2) –
Dividends (205) –
(Decrease)/increase in equity shareholders’ funds	 (70) 2,124
Opening	 equity	 shareholders’	 funds	 2,124 –	
Closing equity shareholders’ funds	 2,054 2,124	
The	 notes	 on	 pages	 132	 to	 137	 are	 an	 integral	 part	 of	 the	 financial	 statements	 of	 the	 Company. 132	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Financial	 statements
1 Statement of accounting policies 
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 (the	 Company)	 (formerly	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Limited)	 was	 incorporated	 on	 	
19	 January	 2010.	
1.1 Basis of preparation 
The	 Company’s	 financial	 statements	 have	 been	 prepared	 in	 accordance	 with	 accounting	 standards	 applicable	 under	 generally	 accepted	
accounting	 principles	 in	 the	 United	 Kingdom	 and	 the	 provisions	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006.	 They	 have	 been	 prepared	 on	 the	 historical	 cost	
basis	 where	 appropriate.
These	 financial	 statements	 set	 out	 the	 position	 of	 the	 Company	 and	 not	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Group	 (the	 Group)	 which	 it	
heads.	 The	 following	 accounting	 policies	 have	 been	 applied	 consistently	 in	 dealing	 with	 items	 which	 are	 considered	 material	 in	 relation	 to	 the	
Company’s	 financial	 statements.
The	 Company	 is	 exempt	 under	 FRS	 29	 Financial Instruments: Disclosures	 from	 the	 requirement	 to	 provide	 its	 own	 financial	 instruments	
disclosures	 on	 the	 grounds	 that	 they	 are	 included	 in	 publicly	 available	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 which	 include	 disclosures	 that	 comply	
with	 the	 IFRS	 equivalent	 standard.
The	 financial	 statements	 are	 presented	 in	 US	 dollars	 (US$),	 as	 this	 is	 the	 functional	 currency	 of	 the	 Company	 at	 31	 March	 2011,	 and	 rounded	
to	 the	 nearest	 million.	 Until	 26	 March	 2010,	 the	 functional	 currency	 of	 the	 Company	 was	 sterling.	 The	 functional	 currency	 was	 changed	 after	
the	 demerger	 of	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 business	 as	 the	 Directors	 consider	 the	 US	 dollar	 to	 most	 faithfully	 represent	 the	 underlying	
transactions,	 events	 and	 conditions	 for	 the	 Company.
The	 preparation	 of	 financial	 statements	 in	 accordance	 with	 generally	 accepted	 accounting	 principles	 requires	 management	 to	 make	 estimates	
and	 assumptions	 that	 affect	 the	 reported	 amounts	 of	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 at	 the	 date	 of	 the	 financial	 statements	 and	 the	 reported	 amounts	 of	
revenues	 and	 expenses	 during	 the	 reporting	 period.	 Actual	 results	 could	 differ	 from	 these	 estimates.
FRS	 18	 Accounting Policies	 requires	 that	 a	 description	 of	 the	 impact	 of	 any	 change	 in	 estimation	 techniques	 should	 be	 provided	 where	 the	
change	 has	 a	 material	 impact	 on	 the	 reported	 results	 for	 the	 period.
1.2 Investments in subsidiaries
Investments	 in	 subsidiaries	 are	 included	 in	 the	 balance	 sheet	 at	 historical	 cost	 less	 any	 impairments	 recognised.	 Impairment	 reviews	 are	 	
carried	 out	 whenever	 events	 or	 changes	 in	 circumstances	 indicate	 that	 the	 carrying	 amount	 of	 the	 investment	 may	 not	 be	 fully	 recoverable.	
Impairments	 are	 determined	 by	 comparing	 the	 carrying	 value	 of	 the	 investment	 in	 the	 subsidiary	 to	 its	 recoverable	 amount,	 being	 the	 higher	 of	
the	 subsidiary’s	 fair	 value	 less	 costs	 to	 sell	 and	 its	 value	 in	 use.	 Fair	 value	 represents	 market	 value	 in	 an	 active	 market.	 Value	 in	 use	 is	 determined	
by	 discounting	 future	 cash	 flows	 arising	 from	 the	 subsidiary	 with	 reference	 to	 the	 Group’s	 own	 projections	 using	 pre-tax	 discount	 rates	 which	
represent	 the	 estimated	 weighted	 average	 cost	 of	 capital	 for	 the	 Company.	 Impairments	 are	 recognised	 in	 profit	 or	 loss.
1.3 Financial instruments 
Financial	 assets	 and	 liabilities
The	 Company	 classifies	 its	 financial	 assets	 into	 the	 following	 categories:	 financial	 assets	 at	 fair	 value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss,	 loans	 and	 receivables,	
held-to-maturity	 investments	 and	 available-for-sale	 financial	 assets.	 The	 classification	 depends	 on	 the	 purpose	 for	 which	 the	 assets	 are	 held.	
The	 Company	 currently	 does	 not	 hold	 or	 classify	 any	 financial	 assets	 under	 these	 categories.	 The	 basis	 of	 determining	 fair	 values	 is	 set	 out	
in	 note	 1.4.
Management	 determines	 the	 classification	 of	 its	 financial	 assets	 at	 initial	 recognition	 in	 accordance	 with	 FRS	 26	 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement	 and	 re-evaluates	 this	 designation	 at	 every	 reporting	 date	 for	 financial	 assets	 other	 than	 those	 held	 at	 fair	
value	 through	 profit	 or	 loss.
Recognition and measurement
Financial	 assets	 are	 derecognised	 when	 the	 rights	 to	 receive	 cash	 flows	 from	 the	 assets	 have	 expired	 or	 have	 been	 transferred	 and	
the	 Company	 has	 transferred	 substantially	 all	 risks	 and	 rewards	 of	 ownership.
The	 Company	 assesses	 at	 each	 reporting	 date	 whether	 there	 is	 objective	 evidence	 that	 a	 financial	 asset	 or	 a	 group	 of	 financial	 assets	
is		 impaired.
1.4 Fair value estimation
The	 nominal	 value	 (less	 estimated	 impairments)	 of	 receivables	 and	 payables	 are	 assumed	 to	 approximate	 their	 fair	 values.	 The	 fair	 value	
of	 financial	 liabilities	 is	 estimated	 by	 discounting	 the	 future	 contractual	 cash	 flows	 at	 the	 current	 market	 interest	 rate	 that	 is	 available	 	
to	 the	 Company	 for	 similar	 financial	 instruments.	 Discounted	 cash	 flows	 are	 used	 to	 determine	 the	 fair	 value	 for	 the	 majority	 of	 remaining	
financial	 instruments.
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2011 	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 133
1.5 Tax 
The	 charge	 for	 tax	 is	 based	 on	 the	 result	 for	 the	 period	 and	 takes	 into	 account	 tax	 deferred	 due	 to	 timing	 differences	 between	 the	 treatment	
of	 certain	 items	 for	 tax	 and	 accounting	 purposes.
Deferred	 tax	 assets	 are	 recognised	 to	 the	 extent	 that	 they	 are	 regarded	 as	 recoverable.	 Deferred	 tax	 assets	 are	 regarded	 as	 recoverable	 to	 the	
extent	 that	 on	 the	 basis	 of	 all	 available	 evidence,	 it	 can	 be	 regarded	 as	 more	 likely	 than	 not	 that	 there	 will	 be	 suitable	 taxable	 profits	 from	 which	
the	 future	 reversal	 of	 the	 underlying	 timing	 differences	 can	 be	 deducted.
Except	 where	 otherwise	 required	 by	 accounting	 standards,	 full	 provision	 without	 discounting	 is	 made	 for	 all	 timing	 differences	 that	 have	 arisen	
but	 not	 reversed	 at	 the	 balance	 sheet	 date.
1.6 Dividends
Dividends	 are	 recognised	 through	 equity	 on	 the	 earlier	 of	 their	 approval	 by	 the	 Company’s	 shareholders	 or	 their	 payment.
1.7 Share-based compensation
The	 Group	 operates	 various	 equity-settled,	 share-based	 compensation	 plans.	 The	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 employee	 services	 received	 in	 exchange	 for	
the	 grant	 of	 the	 options	 is	 recognised	 as	 an	 expense	 in	 the	 subsidiary	 companies	 over	 the	 vesting	 period.	 The	 total	 amount	 to	 be	 expensed	 over	
the	 vesting	 period	 is	 determined	 by	 reference	 to	 the	 fair	 value	 of	 the	 options	 granted,	 which	 excludes	 the	 impact	 of	 any	 non-market	 vesting	
conditions	 (for	 example,	 service,	 profitability	 and	 sales	 growth	 targets).	 Non-market	 vesting	 conditions	 are	 included	 in	 estimates	 about	 the	
number	 of	 options	 that	 are	 expected	 to	 vest.	 At	 each	 reporting	 date,	 the	 Group	 revises	 its	 estimates	 of	 the	 number	 of	 options	 that	 are	
expected	 to	 vest.	 It	 recognises	 the	 impact	 of	 the	 revision	 of	 original	 non-market	 estimates,	 if	 any,	 in	 the	 profit	 and	 loss,	 and	 a	 corresponding	
adjustment	 to	 equity	 over	 the	 remaining	 vesting	 period.
The	 proceeds	 received	 net	 of	 any	 directly	 attributable	 transaction	 costs	 are	 credited	 to	 share	 capital	 and	 share	 premium	 when	 the	 options	 are	
exercised.	 The	 Company	 recognises	 an	 additional	 investment	 in	 subsidiaries	 equivalent	 to	 the	 equity	 instruments	 granted,	 being	 a	 capital	
contribution	 to	 those	 subsidiaries.
 
2 Company’s profit and loss account 
The	 Company	 has	 taken	 advantage	 of	 the	 exemption	 contained	 in	 section	 408(3)	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 and	 has	 not	 presented	 its	 own	
profit	 and	 loss	 account.	 The	 profit	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2011	 amounted	 to	 US$130	 million	 (2009/10	 –	 US$0.2	 million	 profit).	
 
3 Remuneration of Directors
Information	 covering	 Directors’	 remuneration,	 interests	 in	 shares,	 share	 options	 and	 pension	 benefits	 is	 set	 out	 in	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	
report	 on	 pages	 48	 to	 60.
 
4 Scheme of arrangement and demerger
At	 a	 General	 Meeting	 on	 25	 February	 2010,	 the	 shareholders	 of	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc	 approved	 the	 demerger	 of	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Worldwide	 business.	 On	 19	 March	 2010,	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 was	 inserted	 as	 a	 new	 holding	 company	 for	 the	 Cable	 &	
Wireless	 Group	 (now	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Group)	 and	 on	 22	 March	 2010	 shares	 in	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 were	
listed	 on	 the	 London	 Stock	 Exchange.	 On	 26	 March	 2010	 (the	 demerger	 date),	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 businesses	 were	 transferred	
to	 an	 unrelated	 company,	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 plc,	 in	 exchange	 for	 the	 entire	 share	 capital	 of	 that	 company.
Refer	 to	 note	 15	 of	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements	 for	 further	 information.
 
5 Staff numbers and costs
The	 average	 monthly	 number	 of	 persons	 employed	 by	 the	 Company	 (including	 Directors)	 during	 the	 year	 was	 nil	 (2009/10	 –	 five).	 	
Their	 costs	 for	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2011	 were	 US$nil	 million	 (2009/10	 –	 US$nil	 million).
 
6 Share-based payments
The	 details	 of	 share	 option	 schemes	 and	 other	 share-based	 plans	 are	 disclosed	 in	 note	 35	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.	
The	 total	 additional	 investment	 in	 subsidiaries	 relating	 to	 equity	 settled	 share-based	 payments	 was	 US$3	 million. 134	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Financial	 statements
7 Fixed asset investments
Subsidiary
undertakings
US$m
Cost	
At	 1	 April	 2010	 6,086	
Capital	 contribution	 (note	 6) 3
At 31 March 2011 6,089	
Net book value	
At 31 March 2011 6,089
At	 31	 March	 2010 6,086	
 
8 Creditors
31 March
2011 
US$m
31	 March
2010	
US$m
Amounts falling due within one year	
Amounts	 owed	 to	 subsidiary	 undertakings 4,031 3,845	
Other	 creditors	 4 117	
Total creditors 4,035 3,962	
There	 is	 no	 material	 difference	 between	 the	 carrying	 amount	 and	 fair	 value	 of	 creditors	 at	 31	 March	 2011.
 
9 Called-up share capital
The	 Company	 was	 incorporated	 on	 19	 January	 2010.	 On	 incorporation,	 the	 Company’s	 authorised	 share	 capital	 was	 US$2	 consisting	 of	 two	
ordinary	 shares	 of	 US$1.
On	 25	 January	 2010,	 the	 Company	 issued	 two	 redeemable	 preference	 shares	 of	 £25,000	 each.	 The	 preference	 shares	 were	 allotted	 for	
cash	 and	 remained	 unpaid	 (by	 virtue	 of	 the	 holder	 giving	 an	 undertaking	 to	 pay	 up	 each	 share	 to	 such	 amount	 pursuant	 to	 section	 583(2)	
and	 583(3)	 of	 the	 Companies	 Act	 2006	 (the	 Act)).	 On	 the	 same	 date,	 the	 existing	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 US$2	 were	 subdivided	 into	 40	 ordinary	
shares	 of	 US5	 cents	 each.
On	 19	 March	 2010,	 the	 authorised	 share	 capital	 of	 the	 Company	 was	 increased	 to	 US$131	 million	 by	 the	 creation	 of	 2,624,571,984	 ordinary	
shares	 of	 US5	 cents	 each.	 In	 addition,	 2,624,571,984	 B	 shares	 were	 created	 of	 6.15	 pence	 each	 with	 a	 total	 nominal	 value	 of	 £161	 million	
(US$247	 million).
On	 19	 March	 2010,	 the	 Company	 issued	 2,624,571,984	 of	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 US5	 cents	 (US$131	 million)	 and	 the	 same	 number	 of	 B	 shares	 of	
5	 pence	 each	 (with	 a	 combined	 market	 value	 of	 239	 cents)	 to	 the	 public	 shareholders	 of	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc	 in	 exchange	 for	 the	 entire	 share	
capital	 of	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc	 as	 part	 of	 the	 Scheme	 of	 Arrangement.	 The	 ordinary	 shares	 and	 B	 shares	 were	 stapled	 to	 each	 other	 until	 demerger.
On	 26	 March	 2010,	 the	 Company	 demerged	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 business.	 This	 involved	 a	 court-approved	 capital	 reduction	 	
by	 cancelling	 the	 B	 shares	 in	 their	 entirety	 and	 the	 proportion	 of	 the	 share	 premium	 account	 attributable	 to	 the	 B	 shares.	 In	 consideration,	 	
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 plc	 issued	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 5	 pence	 each	 to	 the	 shareholders	 of	 the	 Company	 on	 the	 basis	 of	 one	 new	 	
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 plc	 share	 for	 every	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 B	 share	 held.	 The	 total	 market	 value	 of	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Worldwide	 plc	 shares	 issued	 was	 US$3,979	 million,	 being	 the	 market	 value	 of	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 business	 at	 this	 date.	
At	 the	 same	 time,	 the	 share	 premium	 relating	 to	 the	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 was	 reduced	 by	 US$1,931	 million	
to	 US$62	 million	 by	 way	 of	 a	 court-approved	 capital	 reduction	 scheme	 in	 accordance	 with	 section	 641	 of	 the	 Act.	 This	 had	 the	 effect	 of	
creating	 a	 capital	 reserve	 of	 US$1,931	 million,	 which	 may	 be	 released,	 in	 whole	 or	 in	 part,	 to	 distributable	 reserves	 of	 the	 Company	 at	 the	
discretion	 (and	 upon	 the	 resolution)	 of	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors	 or	 a	 duly	 constituted	 committee	 of	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors.
Immediately	 following	 demerger	 on	 26	 March	 2010,	 the	 preference	 shares	 were	 redeemed	 and	 pursuant	 to	 Article	 8	 of	 the	 Articles,	 the	
nominal	 amount	 of	 such	 redeemable	 preference	 shares	 comprised	 in	 the	 authorised	 share	 capital	 were	 subdivided	 and	 converted	 into	 	
ordinary	 shares	 of	 US5	 cents	 each.
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2011 	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 135
On	 12	 August	 2010	 the	 Company	 issued	 41,039,703	 ordinary	 shares	 of	 US5	 cents	 each	 with	 a	 cash	 equivalent	 value	 of	 US$37	 million	 as	
payment	 for	 dividends	 by	 scrip.	 This	 was	 a	 non-cash	 transaction.
In	 2010/11	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors	 approved	 the	 release	 of	 US$742	 million	 from	 the	 capital	 reserve	 to	 distributable	 reserves.
Number	 of
	 shares	
(000)
	
US$m
At	 1	 April	 2010	 2,624,572	 131	
Allotted	 under	 scrip	 dividends 41,040	 2	
At 31 March 2011 2,665,612 133 
 
10 Share capital and reserves
Share
capital
US$m
Share
premium
US$m
Other
reserve
US$m
Profit	
and	 loss
account
US$m
Total
US$m
At	 1	 April	 2010 131	 62	 1,931 – 2,124
Shares	 issued 2 35 – – 37
Profit	 for	 the	 period – – – 130 130
Transfers	 to	 retained	 earnings – – (742) 742 –
Equity	 element	 of	 the	 convertible	 bond – – (2) – (2)
Cash	 received	 in	 respect	 of	 employee	 share	 schemes – – – 1 1
Share-based	 payment	 expenses – – – 3 3
Own	 shares	 purchased	 – – – (34) (34)
Dividends – – – (205) (205)
At 31 March 2011 133 97 1,187 637 2,054
The	 Company	 had	 42,762,000	 treasury	 shares	 at	 31	 March	 2011	 (31	 March	 2010	 –	 nil).
The	 other	 reserve	 relates	 to	 the	 cancellation	 of	 the	 B	 shares	 and	 the	 capital	 reduction	 occurring	 on	 the	 demerger	 of	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Worldwide	 business.	 The	 other	 reserve	 may	 be	 treated	 as	 realised	 profit,	 subject	 to	 the	 resolution	 of	 the	 Directors.
Share buy-back
On	 21	 July	 2010,	 the	 Group’s	 shareholders	 approved	 a	 resolution	 at	 the	 AGM	 for	 the	 Group	 to	 purchase	 up	 to	 262	 million	 ordinary	 shares.	 	
This	 authority	 to	 buy-back	 these	 shares	 expires	 at	 the	 conclusion	 of	 the	 Company’s	 AGM	 in	 2011	 or	 30	 September	 2011,	 whichever	 is	 the	
earlier.	 Under	 the	 resolution,	 during	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2011,	 the	 Company	 purchased	 42,762,000	 ordinary	 shares	 at	 an	 average	 price	 	
of	 49	 pence	 per	 share	 (US80	 cents	 per	 share),	 with	 a	 nominal	 value	 of	 US$2	 million,	 for	 a	 consideration	 of	 US$34	 million.	 Consideration	
included	 stamp	 duty	 and	 commission	 of	 US$0.2	 million.	 At	 31	 March	 2011	 these	 are	 classified	 as	 treasury	 shares.	 This	 represented	 2%	 of	
called-up	 share	 capital	 at	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 year.
 
11 Related party transactions 
Under	 FRS	 8	 Related Party Disclosures,	 the	 Company	 is	 exempt	 from	 the	 requirement	 to	 disclose	 transactions	 with	 entities	 that	 are	 part	 of	
the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Group,	 or	 investees	 of	 the	 Group	 qualifying	 as	 related	 parties,	 as	 all	 of	 the	 Company’s	 voting	 rights	 are	
controlled	 within	 the	 Group.
Transactions with key management personnel
Two	 Directors	 of	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 own	 unsecured	 bonds	 issued	 by	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Limited	 (formerly	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	
plc)	 and	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 International	 Finance	 BV.	 These	 bonds	 had	 a	 nominal	 value	 at	 31	 March	 2011	 of	 US$4,211,156	 (£2,630,000)	 	
(31	 March	 2010	 –	 US$3,914,492	 (£2,630,000)).	 The	 interest	 earned	 on	 these	 bonds	 during	 2010/11	 was	 US$354,033	 of	 which	 US$154,103	
remained	 unpaid	 at	 31	 March	 2011	 (2009/10	 –	 US$364,082	 of	 which	 US$143,247	 remained	 unpaid	 at	 31	 March	 2010).
Two	 Directors’	 spouses	 hold	 bonds	 issued	 by	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Limited	 (formerly	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc)	 and	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 International	
Finance	 BV.	 These	 bonds	 had	 a	 nominal	 value	 at	 31	 March	 2011	 of	 US$784,588	 (£490,000)	 (31	 March	 2010	 –	 US$729,316	 (£490,000)).	
The	 interest	 earned	 on	 those	 bonds	 during	 2010/11	 was	 US$65,378	 of	 which	 US$2,000	 remained	 unpaid	 at	 31	 March	 2011	 	
(2009/10	 –	 US$66,888	 of	 which	 US$1,859	 remained	 unpaid	 at	 31	 March	 2010).	 136	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Financial	 statements
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2011
11 Related party transactions continued
Transactions with other related parties
There	 are	 no	 controlling	 shareholders	 of	 the	 Company	 (2009/10	 –	 no	 controlling	 shareholders).
There	 have	 been	 no	 material	 transactions	 with	 the	 shareholders	 of	 the	 Company	 (2009/10	 –	 no	 material	 transactions).
 
12 Subsidiaries and joint ventures
The	 Group	 comprises	 a	 large	 number	 of	 companies	 and	 it	 is	 not	 practical	 to	 include	 all	 of	 them	 in	 this	 list.	 The	 list	 therefore	 only	 includes	 those	
companies	 whose	 results	 or	 financial	 position,	 in	 the	 opinion	 of	 the	 Directors,	 principally	 affects	 the	 figures	 shown	 in	 the	 financial	 statements.
Issued
share
capital
(million)
Ownership
%
Class	 of
shares
Country	 of
incorporation
Area	 of
operation
Nature	 of	 	
business
Continuing operations
Subsidiaries
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Jamaica	 Ltd 16,817	 82	 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica Telecommunications
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Panama,	 SA
1
316	 49	 Ordinary Panama Panama Telecommunications
Companhia	 de	 Telecomunicacoes	 de	 Macau,	 SARL
2
150
	
51
	
Ordinary Macau Macau	 and	
China
Telecommunications
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 (Barbados)	 Ltd 72	 81	 Ordinary Barbados Barbados Telecommunications
Cable	 and	 Wireless	 (West	 Indies)	 Ltd 5	 100	 Ordinary England Caribbean Holding	 Company
Dhivehi	 Raajjeyge	 Gulhun	 Private	 Ltd
3
190 52 Ordinary Maldives Maldives Telecommunications
Monaco	 Telecom	 SAM
5
2	 49	 Ordinary Monaco Monaco Telecommunications
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Limited
6
656 100 Ordinary England England Holding	 Company
Sable	 International	 Finance	 Limited –	 100	 Ordinary Cayman England Finance	 Company
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 International	 Finance	 BV 1	 100	 Ordinary Netherlands England Finance	 Company
Joint ventures 	
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Trademark	 Management	 Ltd – 50 Ordinary England N/A Owner	 of	 the	 Cable	
&	 Wireless	 brand
Telecommunications	 Services	 of	 Trinidad	 and	 Tobago	 Ltd
4
283	 49	 Ordinary Trinidad	 and	
Tobago
Trinidad	 and	
Tobago
Telecommunications
1	 The 	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Group	 regards	 this	 company	 as	 a	 subsidiary	 because	 it	 controls	 the	 majority	 of	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors	 through	 	
a	 shareholders’	 agreement.
2	 This 	 company	 has	 a	 financial	 year	 end	 of	 31	 December	 due	 to	 the	 requirements	 of	 the	 shareholders’	 agreement.
3	 From 	 October	 2009,	 this	 entity	 is	 a	 subsidiary	 (formerly	 a	 joint	 venture).
4	 This 	 company	 is	 audited	 by	 a	 firm	 other	 than	 KPMG	 and	 its	 international	 member	 firms.
5	 The 	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Group	 holds	 an	 economic	 interest	 of	 55%	 in	 Monaco	 Telecom	 SAM	 via	 a	 contractual	 arrangement.
6	 Formerly 	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc.
The	 Company	 does	 not	 have	 any	 direct	 investment	 in	 the	 above	 subsidiaries	 and	 joint	 ventures,	 with	 the	 exception	 of	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Limited.
Full	 details	 of	 all	 subsidiary	 undertakings,	 joint	 ventures	 and	 trade	 investments	 will	 be	 attached	 to	 the	 Company’s	 Annual	 Return,	 to	 be	 filed	 with	
the	 Registrar	 of	 Companies	 in	 England	 and	 Wales.
 
13 Dividends
2010/11
US$m
Final	 dividend	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 prior	 year 135
Interim	 dividend	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 current	 year 70
Total	 dividend	 paid 205
During	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2011	 the	 Company	 declared	 and	 paid	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 3.34	 pence	 per	 share	 (US4.97	 cents	 per	 share)	 in	
respect	 of	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2010.	 Beginning	 with	 the	 interim	 dividend	 in	 respect	 of	 2010/11,	 the	 Group	 declares	 dividends	 in	 cents	
per	 share.	 The	 Group	 declared	 and	 paid	 an	 interim	 dividend	 of	 US2.67	 cents	 per	 share	 in	 respect	 of	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2011.
	 	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 137
In	 respect	 of	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2011,	 the	 Directors	 have	 proposed	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	 US5.33	 cents	 per	 share,	 for	 approval	 by	
shareholders	 at	 the	 AGM	 to	 be	 held	 on	 22	 July	 2011.	 These	 financial	 statements	 do	 not	 reflect	 the	 proposed	 dividend,	 which	 will	 be	 	
accounted	 for	 in	 shareholders’	 equity	 as	 an	 appropriation	 of	 retained	 earnings	 in	 the	 year	 ended	 31	 March	 2012.
The	 number	 of	 shareholders	 electing	 to	 take	 all	 or	 part	 of	 their	 dividends	 in	 shares	 varies	 from	 dividend	 to	 dividend.	 13,443	 shareholders	
owning	 701	 million	 shares	 elected	 to	 take	 the	 2009/10	 final	 dividend	 wholly	 or	 partly	 in	 shares.	 Consequently,	 41,039,703	 total	 shares	 were	
issued	 with	 a	 value	 of	 US$37	 million.	 The	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Share	 Ownership	 Trust	 (formerly	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Employee	
Share	 Ownership	 Plan	 Trust)	 waived	 its	 right	 to	 dividends	 on	 the	 shares	 held	 in	 the	 Trust.
 
14 Commitments 
The	 Company	 had	 no	 capital	 commitments	 at	 31	 March	 2011	 (31	 March	 2010	 –	 no	 capital	 commitments).
 
15 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Under	 the	 Separation	 Agreement,	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 and	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 plc	 agree	 to	 provide	 each	 other	 with	
certain	 customary	 indemnities	 on	 a	 reciprocal	 basis	 in	 respect	 of	 liabilities	 which	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 may	 incur	 but	 which	 relate	
exclusively	 to	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 Group	 and	 vice	 versa	 and	 in	 respect	 of	 an	 agreed	 proportion	 of	 liabilities	 which	 do	 not	 relate	
exclusively	 to	 one	 group	 or	 the	 other.
Whilst	 Pender,	 the	 Group’s	 former	 insurance	 operation,	 ceased	 to	 underwrite	 new	 business	 from	 April	 2003,	 it	 has	 in	 the	 past	 written	 policies	 	
in	 favour	 of	 the	 Group	 and	 third	 parties.	 Potentially	 significant	 insurance	 claims	 have	 been	 made	 against	 Pender	 under	 certain	 of	 these	 third	
party	 policies,	 which	 have	 also	 given	 rise	 to	 uncertainties	 and	 potential	 disputes	 with	 reinsurers.	 Significant	 progress	 has	 been	 made	 in	 resolving	
these	 claims.	 Details	 of	 these	 insurance	 claims	 and	 potential	 claims	 are	 not	 disclosed	 as	 such	 disclosure	 may	 be	 prejudicial	 to	 the	 outcome	 	
of	 such	 claims.
In	 addition	 the	 Company,	 as	 is	 considered	 standard	 practice	 in	 such	 agreements,	 has	 given	 guarantees	 and	 indemnities	 in	 relation	 to	 a	 number	 of	
disposals	 of	 subsidiary	 undertakings	 in	 prior	 years.	 Generally,	 liability	 has	 been	 capped	 at	 no	 more	 than	 the	 value	 of	 the	 sales	 proceeds,	 although	
some	 uncapped	 indemnities	 have	 been	 given.	 The	 Company	 also	 gives	 warranties	 and	 indemnities	 in	 relation	 to	 certain	 agreements	 including	
facility	 sharing	 agreements.	 Some	 of	 these	 agreements	 do	 not	 contain	 liability	 caps.
Whilst	 the	 Company	 has	 ceased	 participation	 in	 the	 Merchant	 Navy	 Offi cers	 Pension	 Fund,	 it	 may	 be	 liable	 for	 future	 contributions	 to	 fund	
a	 portion	 of	 any	 future	 funding	 deficits.	 Currently,	 the	 amount	 of	 these	 potential	 liabilities	 cannot	 be	 quantified.
 
16 Events after the reporting period
Events	 after	 the	 reporting	 period	 are	 detailed	 in	 note	 45	 to	 the	 consolidated	 financial	 statements.	 Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Shareholder	 information 138	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications
Shareholder 
information
Updates	 to	 the	 financial	 calendar	 will	 	
be	 available	 on	 the	 Company’s	 website	 	
www.cwc.com	 when	 they	 become	 available.
Dividends 
Dividends	 are	 declared	 by	 the	 Company	 in	
US	 dollars.	 The	 default	 payment	 currency	
for	 dividends	 is	 sterling	 and	 shareholders	
may	 elect	 to	 receive	 payment	 in	 US	 dollars.	
The	 actual	 sterling	 amount	 of	 any	 dividend	
payable	 by	 the	 Company	 from	 time	 to	 time	
will	 be	 based	 on	 the	 sterling/US	 dollar	
exchange	 rate	 in	 effect	 on	 a	 date	 chosen	 	
by	 the	 Directors	 nearer	 to	 the	 relevant	
payment	 date.
A	 Currency	 Mandate	 Form	 to	 receive	
dividends	 in	 US	 dollars	 may	 be	 requested	 from	
Equiniti	 or	 can	 be	 found	 on	 the	 Company’s	
website	 www.cwc.com.	 Any	 election	 to	
receive	 dividends	 in	 US	 dollars	 will	 remain	
in	 force	 until	 cancelled.
The	 table	 below	 sets	 out	 the	 sterling	 amounts	
of	 the	 interim,	 final	 and	 total	 gross	 dividends	
paid	 per	 ordinary	 share.
Pence	 per	 ordinary	 share
Year	 ended	 Interim Final Total
31	 March	
2010 3.16	 * 3.34	 **	 6.50
*	 Paid 	 by	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc
**	Paid 	 by	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc
The	 table	 below	 sets	 out	 the	 US	 dollar	
amounts	 of	 the	 interim,	 final	 and	 total	 gross	
dividends	 paid	 or	 proposed	 per	 ordinary	 share.
Cents	 per	 ordinary	 share
Year	 ended	 Interim Final Total
31	 March	
2011 2.67 5.33 8.00
If	 your	 dividend	 is	 paid	 directly	 into	 your	 	
bank	 or	 building	 society,	 you	 will	 receive	 one	
consolidated	 tax	 voucher	 each	 year,	 which	 	
is	 sent	 to	 you	 in	 January	 at	 the	 time	 that	 the	
interim	 dividend	 is	 paid.	 If	 you	 would	 prefer	 	
to	 receive	 a	 tax	 voucher	 with	 each	 dividend,	
please	 contact	 our	 shareholder	 helpline	 on	
0871	 384	 2104
1
.
If	 your	 dividend	 is	 not	 currently	 paid	 direct	 to	
your	 bank	 or	 building	 society	 and	 you	 would	
like	 to	 benefit	 from	 this	 service,	 please	 contact	
our	 shareholder	 helpline	 on	 0871	 384	 2104
1
.	
By	 receiving	 your	 dividends	 in	 this	 way	 you	 can	
avoid	 the	 risk	 of	 cheques	 getting	 lost	 in	 the	
post.	 It	 is	 also	 now	 possible	 for	 shareholders	 in	
over	 30	 countries	 worldwide	 to	 benefit	 from	 	
a	 similar	 service.	 Further	 information	 can	 be	
obtained	 from	 www.shareview.co.uk	 or	 by	
calling	 +44	 (0)121	 415	 7052.
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 will	
offer	 a	 dividend	 reinvestment	 plan	 for	 the	 	
final	 dividend	 and	 subsequent	 dividends.	
Shareholders	 wishing	 to	 join	 the	 dividend	
reinvestment	 plan	 for	 the	 final	 dividend	 and	
Registrar 
If	 you	 have	 any	 queries	 regarding	 your	
shareholding	 in	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Communications	 Plc,	 please	 contact:
Equiniti
Aspect	 House,	 Spencer	 Road
Lancing,	 West	 Sussex	 BN99	 6DA
Telephone	 0871	 384	 2104
1
	
(UK	 shareholders)
+44	 (0)121	 415	 7052	
(overseas	 shareholders)
Shareholders	 can	 view	 up-to-date	
information	 about	 their	 shareholding	 at	 	
www.shareview.co.uk
ShareGift 
If	 you	 have	 a	 small	 number	 of	 shares	 whose	
value	 makes	 them	 uneconomic	 to	 sell,	 you	
may	 wish	 to	 consider	 donating	 them	 to	
charity.	 ShareGift	 is	 a	 registered	 charity	
(no.	 1052686)	 which	 collects	 and	 sells	
unwanted	 shares	 and	 uses	 the	 proceeds	
to	 support	 a	 wide	 range	 of	 UK	 charities.	
Further	 information	 about	 ShareGift	 and	
the	 charities	 it	 supports	 is	 available	 at	 	
www.ShareGift.org	 or	 by	 contacting	 	
them	 at:
17	 Carlton	 House	 Terrace
London	 SW1Y	 5AH
Telephone	 +44	 (0)20	 7930	 3737
Registered Office and Company Secretary 
The	 Company’s	 Registered	 Offi ce	 and	
Head	 Offi ce	 is:
3rd	 Floor,	 26	 Red	 Lion	 Square
London	 WC1R	 4HQ
Telephone	 +44	 (0)20	 7315	 4000
Clare	 Underwood	 is	 the	 Company	 Secretary.
Investor Relations 
Enquiries	 may	 be	 directed	 to:
Director,	 Investor	 Relations
3rd	 Floor,	 26	 Red	 Lion	 Square
London	 WC1R	 4HQ
Telephone	 +44	 (0)20	 7315	 4000
Email:	 investor.relations@cwc.com
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend	 date 1	 June	 2011
Record	 date	 3	 June	 2011
Last	 date	 for	 election	 to	
join	 dividend	 reinvestment	
plan 15	 July	 2011
Last	 date	 for	 election	 to	
receive	 dividend	 in	
US	 dollars 15	 July	 2011
Notification	 of	 sterling	
dividend	 payment	 amount 21	 July	 2011
AGM	 22	 July	 2011
Payment	 of	 final	 dividend	 12	 August	 2011
Announcement	 of	 interim	
results	 2011/12 3	 November	 2011
1	 	Calls 	 to	 this	 number	 are	 charged	 at	 8p	 per	 minute	
from	 a	 BT	 landline.	 Other	 telephone	 providers’	 costs	
may	 vary. 	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 139
Electronic communication
Together	 with	 Equiniti,	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Communications	 Plc	 is	 able	 to	 offer	
shareholders	 the	 option	 to	 manage	 their	
shareholding	 online.	 To	 make	 use	 of	 this	 facility,	
please	 register	 at	 www.shareview.co.uk	
following	 the	 onscreen	 instructions.
future	 dividends	 should	 return	 a	 completed	
mandate	 form	 to	 the	 Registrar,	 Equiniti,	 	
by	 15	 July	 2011.	 Copies	 of	 the	 dividend	
reinvestment	 plan	 brochure	 can	 be	 obtained	
either	 from	 Equiniti	 or	 from	 our	 website,	
www.cwc.com.	 The	 scrip	 dividend	 scheme	
will	 no	 longer	 be	 offered	 to	 shareholders.
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
trading market 
The	 Company’s	 shares	 are	 traded	 on	 the	
London	 Stock	 Exchange.	 The	 Company	 had	 	
a	 market	 capitalisation	 of	 approximately	
£1,195	 million	 on	 31	 March	 2011.
The	 table	 below	 details	 the	 position	 in	 the	
FTSE	 All	 Share	 and	 the	 high	 and	 low	 middle	
market	 quotations	 for	 the	 ordinary	 shares	 	
on	 the	 London	 Stock	 Exchange	 as	 reported	 	
on	 its	 Daily	 Offi cial	 List.
The	 Company	 also	 offers	 shareholders	 the	
option	 to	 receive	 communications	 from	 the	
Company	 electronically	 as	 an	 alternative	 to	
receiving	 documents	 through	 the	 post.
Unsolicited mail
Company	 law	 allows	 people	 unconnected	
with	 the	 Company	 to	 obtain	 a	 copy	 of	 	
our	 share	 register.	 As	 a	 consequence,	
shareholders	 may	 receive	 unsolicited	 mail,	
including	 mail	 from	 unauthorised	 investment	
firms.	 For	 more	 information	 on	 unauthorised	
investment	 firms	 targeting	 UK	 investors,	 	
you	 should	 visit	 the	 website	 of	 the	 Financial	
Services	 Authority	 (www.moneymadeclear.
fsa.gov.uk/guides/staying_safe/staying_
safe_against_scams).
If	 you	 wish	 to	 limit	 the	 amount	 of	 unsolicited	
mail	 you	 receive,	 please	 contact:
The	 Mailing	 Preference	 Service
DMA	 House
70	 Margaret	 Street
London	 W1W	 8SS
Telephone	 0845	 703	 4599
Online	 www.mpsonline.org.uk
Documents on display 
Shareholders	 can	 view	 the	 service	 	
contracts	 of	 Executive	 Directors,	 the	 letters	
of	 appointment	 of	 Non-executive	 Directors	
and	 a	 copy	 of	 the	 draft	 rules	 of	 The	 Cable	 &	
Wireless	 Communications	 2011	 Performance	
Share	 Plan	 and	 a	 copy	 of	 the	 draft	 deed	 	
of	 trust	 constituting	 The	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Communications	 2011	 Employee	 Share	
Ownership	 Trust	 at	 the	 Company’s	 Registered	
Offi ce.	 Shareholders	 may	 also	 obtain	 copies	 of	
the	 Company’s	 Memorandum	 and	 Articles	 of	
Association	 at	 the	 Company’s	 Registered	
Offi ce	 or	 on	 the	 website	 (www.cwc.com).	
Distribution and classification of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shareholdings
Shares at 31 March 2011
Number
of accounts % of total
Number of
shares % of total
Up	 to	 1,000 65,329 67.96 27,526,001 1.03
1,001–10,000 28,206 29.34 73,043,561 2.74
10,001–100,000 2,107 2.19 49,243,952 1.85
100,001–1,000,000 298 0.31 110,786,751 4.16
1,000,001	 and	 over 193 0.20 2,405,011,462 90.22
Total 93,133 100.00 2,665,611,727 100.00
At	 24	 May	 2011,	 the	 Company	 had	 92,257	 shareholders	 on	 record.
LSE	 ticker:	 CWC.
ISIN:	 GB00B5KKT968
185
63.70
44.37
Position in the  
FTSE All share  
at the year end
Pence per ordinary share
High Low
31 March 2011 Annual	 report	 2010/11	 140	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications
Designed	 by	 Further™	
furthercreative.co.uk
The	 paper	 used	 in	 this	 Report	 is	 made	
from	 50%	 recovered	 fibre,	 therefore	
diverting	 waste	 from	 landfill,	 and	 is	 fully	
recyclable.	 It	 has	 been	 independently	
certified	 according	 to	 the	 rules	 of	 the	
Forest	 Stewardship	 Council	 (FSC).	 	
All	 pulps	 used	 are	 elemental	 chlorine	 	
free	 (ECF),	 and	 the	 inks	 used	 are	 all	
vegetable	 oil	 based.
The	 paper	 used	 in	 this	 report	 is	 Carbon	
Balanced,	 meaning	 the	 carbon	 intensity	
has	 been	 measured	 throughout	 the	
production	 process	 and	 equivalent	 carbon	
credit	 (offset)	 has	 been	 purchased.	 	
Both	 manufacturing	 mill	 and	 the	 printer	
are	 registered	 to	 the	 Environmental	
Management	 System	 ISO14001	 and	 	
are	 Forest	 Stewardship	 Council	 (FSC)	
chain-of-custody	 certified.
Printed	 at	 St	 Ives	 Westerham	 Press	 Ltd,	
ISO9001,	 ISO14001,	 FSC	 certified	 and	
CarbonNeutral®. Following	 the	 closure	 of	 the	 telegraph	 station	
in	 1970	 and	 the	 training	 school	 in	 1993,	 the	
Porthcurno	 (PK)	 Trust	 was	 formed	 to	 run	 the	
Porthcurno	 Telegraph	 Museum,	 to	 preserve	
and	 promote	 the	 unique	 history	 of	 the	 site	
and	 collection.
History of the Company
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 is	 proud	 to	
sponsor	 the	 Porthcurno	 Telegraph	 Museum	
and	 the	 PK	 Trust.	 The	 Trust	 maintains	 the	
historical	 archive	 of	 the	 old	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Group,	 from	 staff	 records	 to	 artefacts	 from	
the	 company	 and	 the	 places	 touched	 by	 the	
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 telegraph	 service.	 The	
museum	 is	 an	 educational	 charity,	 focused	 	
on	 the	 history	 of	 science	 and	 innovation.	
It	 is	 housed	 in	 heritage	 listed	 buildings,	 including	
the	 secret	 underground	 tunnels	 built	 in	 1941.	
The	 Porthcurno	 Telegraph	 Museum	 provides	
a	 great	 day	 out	 for	 young	 and	 old	 alike.
Tel: +44 (0) 1736 810 966
www.porthcurno.org.uk
World class Collection
Porthcurno	 Bay,	 in	 the	 far	 west	 of	 Cornwall,	
occupies	 an	 important	 position	 in	 history	 	
as	 one	 of	 the	 most	 strategically	 important	
communications	 sites	 in	 mainland	 Britain.	
As	 the	 landing	 point	 of	 Britain’s	 first	 undersea	
cable,	 laid	 in	 1870	 by	 the	 Eastern	 Telegraph	
Company	 (later	 to	 be	 renamed	 Cable	 &	
Wireless),	 Porthcurno	 grew	 to	 house	 the	
world’s	 largest	 submarine	 telegraph	 station.	
Telegraph	 technology,	 the	 use	 of	 electrical	
pulses	 to	 send	 morse	 code	 messages,	 was	 	
a	 breakthrough	 in	 communications	 enabling	
people	 to	 communicate	 internationally	 for	 the	
first	 time.	 This	 communications	 hub	 became	
so	 strategically	 important	 to	 Britain	 that	
during	 World	 War	 II	 the	 telegraph	 station	 was	
moved	 into	 underground	 tunnels	 to	 hide	 it	
from	 enemy	 attack.	 Porthcurno	 later	 became	
home	 to	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 international	
training	 college,	 a	 leading	 training	 institution	
for	 telegraph	 technology.
The important role that 
telecommunications played 
in the past and its ongoing 
contribution to societies around 
the world today is captured in 
the exhibitions and archives 
of the Porthcurno Telegraph 
Museum in Cornwall. 
Past & present
be	 construed	 as	 a	 profit	 forecast.	 There	 are	 several	 factors	
which	 could	 cause	 actual	 results	 to	 differ	 materially	 from	 those	
expressed	 or	 implied	 in	 forward	 looking	 statements.	 Among	
the	 factors	 are	 changes	 in	 the	 global,	 political,	 economic,	
business,	 competitive,	 market	 and	 regulatory	 forces,	 future	
exchange	 and	 interest	 rates,	 changes	 in	 tax	 rates	 and	 future	
business	 combinations	 or	 disposals.	 Summaries	 of	 the	
potential	 risks	 faced	 by	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 are	
set	 out	 on	 pages	 34	 to	 35.
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 cannot	 guarantee	 future	
results,	 levels	 of	 activity,	 performance	 or	 achievements.	 Cable	
&	 Wireless	 Communications	 undertakes	 no	 obligation	 to	 revise	
or	 update	 any	 forward	 looking	 statement	 contained	 within	 this	
Annual	 Report,	 regardless	 of	 whether	 those	 statements	 are	
affected	 as	 a	 result	 of	 new	 information,	 future	 events	 or	
otherwise,	 save	 as	 required	 by	 applicable	 laws	 or	 regulation.
Cautionary statement regarding forward looking 
statements
This	 Annual	 Report	 contains	 forward	 looking	 statements	 that	
are	 based	 on	 current	 expectations	 or	 beliefs,	 as	 well	 as	
assumptions	 about	 future	 events.	 These	 forward	 looking	
statements	 can	 be	 identified	 by	 the	 fact	 that	 they	 do	 not	
relate	 only	 to	 historical	 or	 current	 facts.	 Forward	 looking	
statements	 often	 use	 words	 such	 as	 ‘anticipate’,	 ‘target’,	
‘expect’,	 ‘estimate’,	 ‘intend’,	 ‘plan’,	 ‘goal’,	 ‘believe’,	 ‘will’,	 ‘may’,	
‘should’,	 ‘would’,	 ‘could’	 or	 other	 words	 of	 similar	 meaning.	
Undue	 reliance	 should	 not	 be	 placed	 on	 any	 such	 statements	
because,	 by	 their	 very	 nature,	 they	 are	 subject	 to	 known	 and	
unknown	 risks	 and	 uncertainties	 and	 can	 be	 affected	 by	 other	
factors	 that	 could	 cause	 actual	 results,	 and	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	
Communications’	 plans	 and	 objectives,	 to	 differ	 materially	
from	 those	 expressed	 or	 implied	 in	 the	 forward	 looking	
statements.	 Furthermore,	 nothing	 in	 this	 Annual	 Report	 should	
Addressees of the Annual Report
This	 Annual	 Report	 is	 addressed	 solely	 to	 the	 members	 of	
Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 Plc	 as	 a	 body,	 to	 assist	 them	
in	 assessing	 the	 strategies	 adopted	 by	 the	 Company	 and	 the	
potential	 for	 those	 strategies	 to	 succeed.	 Neither	 the	
Company	 nor	 its	 Directors	 accept	 or	 assume	 responsibility	 to	
any	 person	 for	 this	 Annual	 Report	 or	 any	 responsibility	 to	
update	 any	 statements	 in	 this	 Annual	 Report,	 save	 as	 required	
by	 applicable	 laws	 or	 regulation. Cable & Wireless Communications // Annual report 2010/11
For further information go to www.cwc.com
One & All
Annual report 2010/11
One & All
Annual report 2010/11
One & All
Annual report 2010/11
One & All
Annual report 2010/11 One & All
Annual review 2010/1 1
Shareholder 
information
Summary 
remuneration report
Registrar
If you have any queries regarding your shareholding 
in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc,  
please contact:
Equiniti 
Aspect House
Spencer Road, Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone 0871 384 2104* (UK shareholders)
+44 (0) 121 415 7052 (overseas shareholders)
Shareholders can view up to date information  
about their shareholding at www.shareview.co.uk
Company Secretary and Registered Office
Clare Underwood
3rd Floor, 26 Red Lion Square
London WC1R 4HQ
Telephone +44 (0) 207 315 4000
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date 1 June 2011
Record date 3 June 2011
Last date for election to join 
dividend reinvestment plan 15 July 2011
Last date for election to receive 
dividends in US dollars 15 July 2011
Notification of sterling dividend 
payment amount 21 July 2011
AGM 22 July 2011
Payment of final dividend 12 August 2011
Announcement of interim 
results 2011/12 3 November 2011
Dividends
Dividends are declared by the Company in US 
dollars. The default payment currency for dividends 
is sterling and shareholders may elect to receive 
payment in US dollars. The actual sterling amount 
of any dividend payable by the Company from 
time to time will be based on the sterling/US dollar 
exchange rate in effect on a date chosen by the 
Directors nearer to the relevant payment date.
Shareholders whose dividends are paid directly 
into a bank account will receive one consolidated 
tax voucher each year sent in January at the 
time that the interim dividend is paid. If you 
would prefer to receive a tax voucher with each 
dividend, please contact our shareholder helpline 
on 0871 384 2104*.
Shareholders who wish to be paid by direct bank 
transfer should contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2104*.
Electronic communication
Together with Equiniti, Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc is able to offer shareholders the 
option to manage their shareholding online. To make 
use of this facility, please register at www.shareview.
co.uk following the on screen instructions.
The Company also offers shareholders the option 
to receive communications from the Company 
electronically as an alternative to receiving 
documents through the post. 
Unsolicited mail
Company law allows people unconnected with the 
Company to obtain a copy of our share register. As a 
consequence, shareholders may receive unsolicited 
mail, including mail from unauthorised investment 
firms. For more information on unauthorised 
investment firms targeting UK investors, you should 
visit the website of the Financial Services Authority 
(www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk/guides/staying_
safe/staying_safe_against_scams).
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail 
you receive, please contact:
The Mailing Preference Service
DMA House
70 Margaret Street
London W1W 8SS
Telephone 0845 703 4599
Online www.mpsonline.org.uk
ShareGift
If you have a small number of shares whose value 
makes them uneconomic to sell, you may wish to 
consider donating them to charity. ShareGift is a 
registered charity (no. 1052686) which collects  
and sells unwanted shares and uses the proceeds  
to support a wide range of UK charities. Further 
information about ShareGift and the charities it 
supports is available at www.ShareGift.org or by 
contacting them at:
17 Carlton House Terrace 
London SW1Y 5AH 
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7930 3737
Remuneration philosophy
The overall aim is to ensure that remuneration 
encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery 
of outstanding shareholder value. This is 
underpinned by the following guiding principles:
•	  The philosophy is focused on a risk and 
reward structure that maintains an overall 
alignment with the interests of shareholders;
•	 Executive Directors are encouraged to 
maintain a significant investment in the 
shares of the Company; 
•	 Incentives are set with stretching targets and 
provide for below-market levels of reward 
for below-median performance and levels of 
reward in the top quartile of the market for 
exceptional performance;
•	 Remuneration packages are regularly 
monitored by independent analysis 
against comparator groups of companies. 
Benchmarking reflects the need to retain 
executives of the former Cable and Wireless 
plc, the enterprise value of the new 
entity which was specifically allocated the 
majority of Cable and Wireless plc group 
debt on demerger, and the complexity and 
geographic spread of the Group; 
•	 Base salaries and benefits are normally set at 
the mid-market level, with some flexibility to 
reflect executives’ experience and expertise;
•	 An appropriate mix of short and long-term 
incentives is offered so that Executive 
Directors are incentivised to maximise 
performance over both the short and 
medium to long-term;
•	 All aspects of remuneration for the Directors 
and selected senior executives are  
approved by the Remuneration Committee 
(the Committee);
•	 The Committee reviews the levels, structure 
and philosophy of remuneration for the 
Company on an annual basis;
•	 The Committee considers the pay and 
employment conditions of other employees 
in the Group when determining the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration, to 
ensure that the remuneration structure for 
Directors is consistent with that of other 
senior executives whilst also recognising 
their greater Group responsibilities. The 
geographic spread of the Group’s activities 
combined with senior managers being 
generally appointed from within those 
geographies, makes it necessary for 
the Committee to be aware of pay and 
employment conditions and trends within 
each of those geographies; and
•	 The Committee considers the impact of 
remuneration on the risk profile of the 
Company and ensures that the framework 
for incentivising behaviours is appropriate to 
that risk profile. In particular, it will continue 
to review the remuneration of key individuals 
who have the largest direct impact on the 
business’s risk profile.
Overall the Committee is satisfied that the 
remuneration policy promotes the long-term 
success of the Group and that the incentive 
structure and objectives do not encourage 
excessive risk taking. In particular, it feels that 
the choice of performance criteria in the short 
and long-term incentive arrangements will 
reward executives for achieving the Company’s 
key strategic goals.
Performance graphs
The total shareholder return graph shows the 
value by 31 March 2011 of £100 invested in 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares 
from 22 March 2010 (the date shares in 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were 
admitted to the Official List), compared 
with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 
350 Index (excluding Investment Trusts) 
and £100 invested in the FTSE All-World 
Telecoms Sector Index.
Cable & Wireless Communications business 
value compared to FTSE 350 and FTSE  
All-World Telecoms Sector Index
A similar graph over a five year period has 
also been presented below as the Committee 
believes this is more meaningful and relevant to 
our incentive plans. In this case the TSR for the 
Cable & Wireless Communications business has 
been calculated using the same methodology 
as the calculations made for the Cash LTIP.
Directors’ emoluments
The table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc during the period 1 April 2010 
to 31 March 2011. Directors’ salaries or fees are denominated in sterling as the Directors are based in the UK. US dollar equivalents have been 
presented for reference purposes, however these reference amounts will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates.
For the statutory period 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011
Salaries total 
and fees
US$*
Total cash
 bonuses
5
US$*
Benefits in
 kind
2
US$*
Pension cash
 allowance
3
US$*
Long Term
Incentive
 Scheme
4
US$*
Total 
2010/11
 statutory 
period
 1 April 2010
 to 31 March
2011
US$*
Total
 2009/10 for 
non statutory
 period 
1 April 2009
 to 31 March 
2010
6
US$
1
Total 
2009/10
 statutory 
period 
19 January 
2010 to 31
 March 2010
6
US$
1
Chairman       
Sir Richard Lapthorne 596,949 – 116,415 – – 713,364 859,751 30,622
Executive Directors       
George Battersby (from 1 April 2010  
to 21 July 2010) 199,288 – 15,627 49,822 – 264,737 840,655 29,942
Nick Cooper 541,275 211,097 6,330 – 247,435 1,006,137 97,246 
7
97,246 
7
Tim Pennington 773,250 301,456 5,538 193,313 – 1,273,557 960,932 187,600
Tony Rice 1,082,550 405,957 61,235 270,638 – 1,820,380 1,253,975 44,663
Non-executive Directors       
Simon Ball 131,453 – 2,080 – – 133,533 264,526 9,421
Mary Francis 131,453 – 2,255 – – 133,708 78,133 2,782
Kate Nealon 100,523 – 2,080 – – 102,603 138,847 4,945
Kasper Rorsted (from 1 April 2010  
to 1 January 2011) 75,392 – 316 – – 75,708 146,880 5,231
Ian Tyler (from 1 January 2011  
to 31 March 2011) 25,130 – – – – 25,130 – –
Total 3,657,263 918,510 211,876 513,773 247,435 5,548,857 4,640,945 412,452
 
*Based on Sterling to USD exchange rate of 1.5465 which is the average exchange rate used by the Group for 2010/11
1 Based on a Sterling to USD exchange rate of 1.5904 which is the average exchange rate used by the Group for 2009/10.
2 “Benefits in kind” include Company provided life assurance, professional advice, chauffeur travel and reimbursement of costs associated with accommodation and 
relocation (as applicable).
3 Company pension contributions in 2010/11 have been paid to the Directors as either annual cash allowances or employer’s pension contributions. An amount of 
US$26 million (2009/10 – US$24 million) is included in the net pensions deficit figure to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
4 The payment of US$247,435 to Nick Cooper was due to him from a long-term incentive scheme in which he participated prior to becoming an Executive Director. 
No further payments are due under that or any similar scheme.
5 For Tony Rice and Nick Cooper an equivalent amount of the cash bonus will be received in the form of shares deferred for one year and subject to claw back at the 
discretion of the Committee. Tim Pennington has waived US$112 from his cash bonus as an equivalent amount was paid into the pension plan by the Company on 
his behalf and therefore the amount of bonus received by Tim Pennington in the form of shares deferred for one year and subject to claw back at the discretion of 
the Committee will be US$301,568. These shares will count towards each Director’s shareholding requirement.
6 As explained in last year’s annual report, we were required by statute to provide details of Directors’ remuneration for the period 19 January to 31 March 2010 
(i.e. from incorporation to the year end) but we also provided information for the full year ended 31 March 2010 to be more helpful to shareholders.
7 Nick Cooper was appointed to the Board on 25 January 2010.
Cable & Wireless Communications business LTIP                
FTSE All-World Telecoms Sector Index
FTSE 350 Index (excluding Investment Trusts)
175
Value (£)
150
125
100
75
50
Mar
2006
Mar
2007
Mar
2008
Mar
2010
Mar
2009
Mar
2011
Total shareholder return (TSR)
Value in £ from 22 March 2010 to 
31 March 2011
150
125
100
75
50
22 Mar 2010 31 Mar 2011
 Cable & Wireless Communications
 FTSE All-World Telecoms Sector Index
 FTSE 350 Index (excluding Investment Trusts)
Value (£)
* Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from  
a BT landline. Other telephone providers’ costs may vary. Designed by Further™ 
furthercreative.co.uk Chairman’ s 
review
Chief Executive’ s 
review
“  We have made a positive 
start as an independent 
Group and will continue 
building the foundations for 
future success. Shareholders 
should feel confident that our 
business is well-positioned 
to exploit the exciting new 
opportunities which 
are emerging.”
Sir Richard Lapthorne
Chairman 
“  We have been positioning our 
businesses for the future – 
developing propositions for 
mobile data, pay TV /triple 
play, high speed broadband, 
managed services and 
undersea cables.”
Tony Rice
Chief Executive 
Cable & Wireless Communications 
(CWC) has made good progress since 
our demerger in March 2010. We have 
reported improved revenues (up 4% to 
US$2.4 billion), EBITDA (up 1% to US$872 
million) and profit before tax (up 21% to 
US$462 million). We saw strong trading 
performances in three of our business 
units, Panama, Macau and Monaco & 
Islands. Our Caribbean business made 
solid operational progress, but its results 
continue to be challenged by weak or 
declining economies across the region.
Each of the businesses continues to generate 
a high cash conversion of profits. The Board 
has recommended a full year dividend of 
US8 cents per share, US2.67 cents of which 
was paid in January, with a further US5.33 
cents to be paid in August 2011, subject to 
the approval of shareholders. We are also in 
the process of returning further capital to 
shareholders through a US$100 million share 
buyback programme. The buyback is an 
effective and risk-free use of our cash, 
saving a dividend payment on the shares 
we purchase. 
The demerger has brought increased focus  
to our business, particularly at Board level. 
Prior to separation, Board discussion was 
dominated by the turnaround of Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide and the demerger. The 
focus is now on ensuring that CWC captures 
the emerging growth opportunities for full 
service telecoms businesses, particularly 
mobile data, enterprise and carrier services. 
Our businesses are well placed to do so.
Usage of mobile data and fixed and mobile 
broadband is growing, particularly in Panama 
and Macau. Demand for our data centre and 
hosting services is also growing and we are 
How do you assess the Company’s 
performance in 2010/11?
I am pleased with the progress we made  
in delivering our strategy and improving 
operations. 
To finish the year with revenues up 4% and 
EBITDA up 1% is a respectable performance 
in the circumstances. Our Macau, Panama 
and Monaco & Islands businesses performed 
well. The Caribbean environment was difficult, 
and continues to be difficult, but the strength 
of our portfolio limited the impact in our 
financial results. 
Most importantly, all of our businesses  
have been positioning for the future – 
developing propositions for mobile data,  
pay TV/triple play, high speed broadband, 
managed services and undersea cables.  
We also maintained our commitment to our 
corporate social responsibility programmes. 
What are your aims for the business  
in 2011/12?
This year will be about putting in place  
the building blocks to grow the business. 
To capture the opportunity of mobile data, 
we will be investing further in our networks 
and accelerating the roll out of smartphones.  
I also want to see more business units 
providing managed services for enterprises 
and governments. We’ll also continue to 
pursue opportunities to reshape our Group, 
building on areas of strength.
How important were the decisions to  
sell the business in Bermuda and invest  
in The Bahamas? 
Both transactions showed our commitment  
to bring more focus to the Group.
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company 
(BTC) is in a region we understand and in 
which we have scale. The restructuring 
opportunity at BTC will also provide further 
impetus to the turnaround of our Caribbean 
business. We expect BTC to make a major 
contribution in future.
expanding our subsea cable infrastructure to 
meet demand in the carrier market. We are 
also building our capability to supply managed 
services to both governments and large 
corporate customers. 
We also made progress on our reshaping  
of the Group, disposing of our Bermuda 
operations and purchasing a majority 
shareholding in the Bahamas 
Telecommunications Company in April. 
Reshaping the portfolio will require patience 
as in most territories we are a provider of  
key national infrastructure. Whilst the shape 
changes, our mission and purpose remain 
clear. We operate in local markets, assisting 
them to grow by delivering world class 
communications services and expertise 
adapted for each specific environment. 
Our Board of Directors has seen change with 
Kasper Rorsted retiring and Ian Tyler joining 
in the year. Kate Nealon will also retire at the 
end of our AGM in July. George Battersby, our 
HR Director, stepped down from the Board 
in July 2010, and sadly passed away shortly 
afterwards. The Board of Directors felt a  
deep sense of loss of such a fine colleague.
The CWC Board has continued our rigorous 
approach to corporate governance. Our 
approach to governance is focused on driving 
good behaviours within the business. Our 
model rightly places the Board of Directors  
as the stewards of the business, working on 
behalf of shareholders. 
Overall, we have made a positive start as 
an independent Group and will continue  
building the foundations for future success. 
Shareholders should feel confident that  
our business is well positioned to exploit  
the exciting new opportunities which  
are emerging. 
Bermuda was not a full service business. 
We found a committed buyer who received 
the support of the Bermudan Government, 
so we took the opportunity to divest. 
The Caribbean is facing a challenging 
environment again next year. When do  
you expect the situation to improve there?
Our business felt the strain of depressed 
economies and ‘austerity’ budgets across  
the Caribbean. Disposable income dictates 
consumer spending on telephony and this 
remains weak. We don’t expect to see much 
improvement this year. Jamaica, in particular, 
remains difficult with potential for further 
structural declines if there is no change to  
the regulatory environment. 
Our Caribbean team is taking the right steps 
to drive better performance – upgrading 
networks, improving customer services 
and revitalising our branding. Last year we 
launched a fightback in the Jamaica mobile 
market, stealing a march with our mobile 
TV product. 
Panama’s performance was down slightly, 
although the second half was strong. 
What were the key levers? 
Mobile, enterprise, broadband and pay TV 
were the key levers. In a four player market, 
our mobile business maintained market share 
above 50% and posted a 1% rise in revenue. 
Broadband and TV revenue also increased 
– our +TV Digital service grew to over 44,200 
subscribers at year end. In enterprise services, 
we had a particularly good second half, 
winning several government projects. I am 
very proud of these social telecoms projects, 
which utilise our expertise to deliver public 
services more efficiently. Last year we 
provided a telemammography service, which 
will ensure more Panamanian women have 
access to preventative screenings. In April, we 
were selected to provide a 911 emergency 
services platform in El Salvador. In all, a 
strong performance.
Summary 
Directors’  
report
Our services
Business review
Panama
Macau
Caribbean
Monaco & Islands
“ We  have launched the first telemammography network
in Latin America, building upon our teleradiology
network. This will reduce the time it takes to diagnose
patients and ensure more women receive preventative
testing. We are proud to have developed this service.”
Jorge Nicolau 
Chief Executive Officer, Panama
“  Monaco  Telecom helped to play a vital role in the
principality’s digital switchover. Our new TV and
broadband services will ensure Monaco’s residents
receive the highest quality communications
services available.”
Denis Martin 
Chief Executive Officer, Monaco & Islands
“ The  mobile penetration rate in Macau is one of the
highest in the world. 83% of our mobile customers 
use 3G and we have maintained our leading position
despite keen competition in this market.”
Vandy Poon 
Chief Executive Officer, Macau
“ In  February, we completed the installation of our new
East-West undersea cable system linking Jamaica, the
British Virgin Islands and the Dominican Republic.
The East-West cable is a valuable addition to our carrier
network, increasing the capability and service LIME
provides to our carrier customers throughout the
Americas and the Caribbean.”
David Shaw
Chief Executive Officer, Caribbean
To read more about our performance go to www.cwc.com
Independent auditor’ s 
statement to the members 
of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc
We have examined the summary financial 
statements for the year ended 31 March 2011, 
which comprises the Summary consolidated 
income statement, Summary consolidated 
statement of financial position, Summary 
consolidated cash flow statement, Summary 
Directors’ Report and Summary Directors’ 
Remuneration Report set out in this document.
This statement is made solely to the 
Company’s members, as a body, in accordance 
with section 428 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in 
such a statement and for no other purpose.  
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our work, for this 
statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors 
and auditor
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Review in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our 
opinion on the consistency of the summary 
financial statements within the Annual Review 
with the full annual financial statements,  
the Directors’ Report and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, and its compliance with 
the relevant requirements of section 428 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations 
made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained 
in the Annual Review and consider the 
implications for our report if we become 
aware of any apparent misstatements or 
material inconsistencies with the summary 
financial statements.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with 
Bulletin 2008/3 The auditor’s statement on 
the summary financial statement in the United 
Kingdom issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. Our report on the Group’s full annual 
financial statements describes the basis of our 
audit opinion on those financial statements, 
the Directors’ Report and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
Opinion on summary financial statements
In our opinion the summary financial 
statements are consistent with the full annual 
financial statements, the Directors’ Report and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report of Cable 
& Wireless Communications plc for the year 
ended 31 March 2011 and complies with the 
applicable requirements of section 428 of  
the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations 
made thereunder.
Peter Meehan (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc 
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London 
E14 5GL
24 May 2011
Board of Directors
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE  
NR
Chairman,  
Chairman of the  
Nomination Committee
Tony Rice
Chief Executive
Tim Pennington
Chief Financial Officer
Nick Cooper
Corporate Services Director
Simon Ball 
ANR
 
Deputy Chairman,  
Senior Independent Director,  
Chairman of the  
Audit Committee
Mary Francis, CBE 
ANR
Chair of the  
Remuneration Committee
Kate Nealon 
ANR
Non-executive Director
Ian Tyler 
ANR
Non-executive Director
A Denotes membership of 
Audit Committee.
N Denotes membership of 
Nomination Committee.
R Denotes membership of 
Remuneration Committee.
Revenue  
by region*
Group financial performance summary
Full year ended 31 March 2011 Full year ended 31 March 2010
1
Pre-
exceptional
US$m
Exceptional
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
US$m
Exceptional
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 2,440  –  2,440  2,346 –  2,346 
Gross margin 1,658  –  1,658  1,617 –  1,617 
Operating costs (786) 6 (780) (751) (49) (800)
EBITDA
2
 872  6  878  866 (49) 817 
Depreciation and amortisation (321) – (321) (348) – (348)
Net other operating (expense)/income (28) – (28) 3 (33) (30)
Joint ventures 31  –  31  30  –  30 
LTIP charge (24) – (24) (1) – (1)
Total operating profit/(loss) 530  6  536  550 (82) 468 
Finance income 32  –  32  23  19  42 
Finance expense (140) – (140) (119) (7) (126)
Other non-operating income/(expense) 34  –  34 (1) – (1)
Profit/(loss) before tax from 
continuing operations 456  6  462  453 (70) 383 
Income tax (119) 1 (118) (126) 6 (120)
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
continuing operations 337  7  344  327 (64) 263 
1 2009/10 results include the consolidated results for the Maldives from October 2009 after control was obtained.
2  EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating and non-operating income / (expense) and 
exceptional items.
Financial review
Summary consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2011
2010/11 2009/10
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Continuing operations
Revenue 2,440   –   2,440   2,346   –   2,346  
Operating costs before depreciation and 
amortisation (1,592) 6  (1,586) (1,481) (49) (1,530)
Depreciation (271) –  (271) (295) –  (295)
Amortisation (50) –  (50) (53) –  (53)
Other operating income 5   –   5   4   –   4  
Other operating expense (33) –  (33) (1) (33) (34)
Group operating profit/(loss) 499   6   505   520  (82) 438  
Share of profit of joint ventures 31   –   31   30   –   30  
Total operating profit/(loss) 530   6   536   550  (82) 468  
Gains on sale of businesses 36   –   36   –   –   –  
Loss on termination of operations (2) –  (2) (1) –  (1)
Finance income 32   –   32   23   19   42  
Finance expense (140) –  (140) (119) (7) (126)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 456   6   462   453  (70) 383  
Income tax (expense)/credit (119) 1  (118) (126) 6  (120)
Profit/(loss) for the year from  
continuing operations 337   7   344   327  (64) 263  
 
Discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued 
operations –  –   –   302  (122) 180  
Profit/(loss) for the year 337   7   344   629  (186) 443  
Profit/(loss) attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company 189   8   197   486  (182) 304  
Non-controlling interests 148  (1) 147   143  (4) 139  
Profit/(loss) for the year 337   7   344   629  (186) 443  
Earnings per share attributable to the owners 
of the Parent Company during the year  
(cents per share)
– basic  7.6  11.9 
1
– diluted 7.5  11.8 
1
Earnings per share from continuing  
operations attributable to the owners 
of the Parent Company during the year  
(cents per share)
– basic  7.6 4.9
– diluted 7.5 4.8
1 Includes discontinued operations.
Summary consolidated  
statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2011
Summary consolidated  
statement of financial position
as at 31 March 2011
31 March
2011
US$m
31 March
2010
US$m
Assets
Non-current assets 2,565 2,495
Current assets 1,082 1,178
Non-current assets held-for-sale – 3
Total assets 3,647 3,676
Liabilities
Current liabilities 1,236 1,148
Non-current liabilities 1,600 1,667
Total liabilities 2,836 2,815
Net current (liabilities)/assets (154) 33
Net assets 811 861
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to 
the owners of the Parent Company
Share capital 133 131
Share premium 97 62
Reserves 136 221
366 414
Non-controlling interests 445 447
Total equity 811 861
The Summary consolidated income statement, the Summary 
consolidated statement of financial position and the Summary 
consolidated statement of cash flows were approved by the 
Board of Directors on 24 May 2011 and signed on its behalf by:  
Tony Rice 
Chief Executive
Tim Pennington 
Chief Financial Officer
2010/11
US$m
2009/10
US$m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from continuing 
operations  651  676 
Cash generated from discontinued 
operations –   382 
Income taxes paid (88) (110)
Net cash from operating activities 563  948 
Cash flows from investing activities 
Net cash used in continuing operations (267) (212)
Discontinued operations –  (394)
Net cash used in investing activities (267) (606)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Net cash used in continuing operations (492)  (443) 
Discontinued operations – 142
Net cash used in financing activities (492) (301)
Net (decrease)/ increase in cash and 
cash equivalents
From continuing operations (196) (89)
From discontinued operations –   130 
Less: cash held by the Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide Group at demerger –  (288)
Net decrease in cash and cash 
equivalents (196) (247)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April  573  790 
Exchange gains on cash and cash 
equivalents 2  30 
Cash and cash equivalents  
at 31 March 379 573 
2010/11 2009/10
Revenue US$623m US$621m
Gross margin 68% 70%
EBITDA US$276m US$283m
Capital expenditure US$(106)m US$(94)m
Mobile customers 2.53m 2.46m
Mobile ARPU US$11.0 US$12.4
2010/11 2009/10
Revenue US$377m US$316m
Gross margin 55% 60%
EBITDA US$153m US$142m
Capital expenditure US$(25)m US$(31)m
Mobile customers 402,000 387,000
Mobile ARPU US$19.9 US$17.2
2010/11 2009/10
Revenue US$850m US$873m
Gross margin 72% 74%
EBITDA US$229m US$270m
Capital expenditure US$(140)m US$(114)m
Mobile customers 1.29m 1.27m
Mobile ARPU US$19.3 US$21.3
2010/11 2009/10
Revenue US$605m US$552m
Gross margin 70% 64%
EBITDA US$207m US$174m
Capital expenditure US$(77)m US$(64)m
Mobile customers 5.39m* 4.08m*
Mobile ARPU US$36.8 US$49.5
*includes mobile subscribers of Roshan, our Afghan joint venture.
Mobile
We are investing in 
faster and higher capacity 
mobile networks. Our core 
services are increasingly 
supplemented by mobile 
broadband and a range 
of other mobile data 
products. 
Fixed line
Our Group has been 
providing fixed line 
services for over 
140 years. We remain 
the market leader 
in almost all the 
territories we serve.
Broadband
We provide high  
speed broadband to  
our customers homes  
and workplaces and  
are investing in our 
infrastructure so we can 
deliver on ever increasing 
demands for capacity. 
Entertainment 
We offer pay TV services 
in several markets and 
plan to roll out services 
in more. Our triple play 
services are a ‘bundle’ of 
pay TV, broadband and 
fixed line services. 
 
Data centres and 
hosting
We operate a number of 
data centres across the 
globe in which we securely 
transit, store and host 
data for large corporate 
customers and heavy 
internet users. 
Managed Services/
Social Telecoms
For corporate and 
government customers, 
we provide a managed 
telecoms service – taking 
on the responsibility  
for the infrastructure, 
processes and people 
who deliver the service 
to the customer. 
Caribbean
US$850m
Revenue
Panama
US$623m
Revenue
Monaco & Islands
US$605m
Revenue
Macau
US$377m
Revenue
26% 25% 1 5%
* Revenue from joint 
venture businesses 
and intra-group 
eliminations are 
excluded
Principal activities
Cable & Wireless Communications 
Plc is a global full-service 
communications business. We 
operate leading communications 
businesses through four regional 
units – the Caribbean, Panama, 
Macau and Monaco & Islands. 
Our services include mobile, 
broadband, domestic and 
international fixed line services 
in most of our markets as well as 
pay TV, data centre and hosting 
carrier and managed service/
social telecom (telecom enabled 
public service) solutions. 
Dividends
The Directors recommend a  
final dividend of US5.33 cents  
per ordinary share payable on  
12 August 2011 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register at 
the close of business on 3 June 
2011. This final dividend, together 
with the interim dividend of 
US2.67 cents per share paid by 
the Company on 13 January 2011, 
makes a total dividend payment 
to shareholders of the Company 
of US8 cents per ordinary share 
for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Directors
The names and positions of 
the Directors are set out within  
this Annual Review. All of the 
Directors were appointed to 
the Board of the Company 
on 25 January 2010 with the 
exception of Ian Tyler, who 
was appointed to the Board 
on 1 January 2011.
Ethics
The Company is committed to 
sound business conduct in its 
relationships with key stakeholders 
(shareholders, employees, 
customers, business partners 
and suppliers), governments 
and regulators, communities and 
the environment. The Group’s 
ethics policy applies to all Group 
companies and employees. 
Where the Group operates 
in conjunction with business 
partners, third parties or in joint 
venture arrangements without 
management control, it aims to 
promote the application of this 
policy. The Group seeks to conduct 
its operations with honesty, 
integrity and openness, and with 
respect for the human rights and 
interests of our employees. 
The Group respects the legitimate 
interests of all those with whom it 
has relationships. During the year, a 
review of the Group’s anti-bribery 
policy has been undertaken to 
ensure that our policies and 
procedures will meet the standards 
required by the Bribery Act 2010.
Internal control and 
risk management
The Board is responsible for the 
Group’s system of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness 
on a continual basis. The Group’s 
system of internal control is 
designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable, but 
not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. 
The concept of reasonable 
assurance recognises that the 
cost of control procedures should 
not exceed the expected benefits.
The Group operates a risk 
management process, under 
which the regional businesses 
identify the key risks to their plans, 
their likelihood and impact and the 
actions being taken to manage 
those risks and the effectiveness 
of steps taken to mitigate them. 
The risk register is presented to 
the Audit Committee on a rolling 
12 month basis.
The Executive Directors report  
to the Board, on behalf of 
management, significant changes 
in the Group’s business and the 
external environment in which it 
operates. In addition, they provide 
the Board with monthly financial 
information, which includes key 
risk and performance indicators. 
The Group’s key internal control 
and monitoring procedures 
include the following: Financial 
reporting; Investment appraisal; 
Monitoring systems; Financial 
controls and Whistle-blowing.
Going concern
After reviewing budgets and other 
longer-term plans and making 
enquiries, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources  
to continue in operation for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Full Annual Report
This Annual Review and Summary 
Financial Statements are only a 
summary of information derived 
from the Company’s Annual 
Report and Financial Statements. 
It does not contain the full text 
of the Directors’ Report or 
the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report but information derived 
from those reports and does not 
contain sufficient information to 
allow as full an understanding of 
the Company’s results, state of 
affairs and its policies and 
arrangements on Directors’ 
remuneration as would be 
provided by the full Annual 
Report and Financial Statements. 
Copies of the Annual Report can 
be obtained free of charge from 
our website www.cwc.com or 
by contacting the Company 
Secretary at the address given  
in the Shareholder Information 
section. Shareholders and other 
entitled persons who have 
elected to receive this Annual 
Review can elect to receive the 
full Annual Report for all future 
financial years using the details 
provided in the Shareholder 
Information section. The auditor’s 
report on the annual accounts 
and the auditable section of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
was unqualified; contained no 
statement under section 498 
of the Companies Act 2006; 
and it contained no qualification 
in respect of the consistency 
of the Directors’ Report and 
the financial statements.
00p
00p
Revenue
EBITDA
Recommended 
full year dividend
35%
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP) charge and net other operating and non-operating 
income and expense. Unless otherwise stated, EBITDA 
excludes exceptional items. Exceptional items are material 
items which derive from individual events that fall within  
the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as 
exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
