 We have built strong foundations 
and, as demand for our data 
services grows, we are well 
placed for the future.
Annual report 2011/12 Our revenue and EBITDA 
increased last year with great 
performances in Macau and 
The Bahamas and resilient efforts 
in other businesses. Our mobile 
data and enterprise services are  
in increasing demand. And we 
are reshaping our portfolio of  
businesses. We believe we are 
well placed for growth.
Contents
Introduction
01 Highlights 
02  A Group of world  
class businesses
04  An introduction from  
the Chairman
06 Chief Executive’s review
08  Our industry and our 
strategic approach
Business review
10 Panama
12 Macau
14 Caribbean
16 Monaco & Islands
18 Corporate social responsibility
20 Financial review
28 Risk overview
Governance 
32 Board of Directors
34  Directors’ and corporate 
governance report
41 Independent Directors’ report
42 Audit Committee report
44 Directors’ remuneration report
58  Statement of Directors’  
responsibilities 
Financial statements 
60 Independent auditor’s report
61 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements
67  Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements
11 2 Company ﬁnancial statements
Shareholder information 
118 Shareholder information
For more about our business 
go to www.cwc.com
▶
Deﬁnitions
This Annual Report of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc has been prepared in 
accordance with English legal and UK Listing Rules requirements. The Annual 
Review for the year ended 31 March 2012 is published as a separate document. 
Unless otherwise stated in this Annual Report, the terms ‘Cable & Wireless 
Communications’, the ‘Group’, ‘Cable & Wireless Communications Group’, ‘it’, ‘we’, 
‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and its subsidiaries 
collectively. The term ‘Company’ and ‘Parent Company’ refers to Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc. The terms ‘Cable & Wireless’ and ‘Cable & Wireless Group’ 
refer to the former Cable and Wireless plc and its subsidiaries collectively. The 
term ‘Cable & Wireless Worldwide group’ refers to Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
plc and its subsidiaries collectively, which was demerged from the former Cable 
and Wireless plc on 26 March 2010.
Unless otherwise indicated, any reference in this report to ﬁnancial statements is 
to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Cable & Wireless Communications on 
pages 60 to 111. References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise 
indicated, references to the year ended 31 March 2012 (the ﬁnancial year).
Cable & Wireless Communications prepares its ﬁnancial information in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) applicable for 
use in the European Union (EU). The Company prepares its ﬁnancial information 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(UK GAAP).
In this report, ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information is, unless otherwise 
indicated, stated on the basis of the Group’s ﬁnancial year. EBITDA is deﬁned as 
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) charge and net other operating and non-operating income and 
expense. Unless otherwise stated, EBITDA excludes exceptional items. 
Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall 
within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identiﬁed as exceptional items 
by virtue of their size, nature or incidence. Operating cash ﬂow is deﬁned as 
pre-exceptional EBITDA less balance sheet capital expenditure. Adjusted earnings 
per share (adjusted EPS) is before exceptional items, LTIP charge, transaction 
costs, gain/(loss) on disposals and amortisation of acquired intangibles. 
A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is provided on page 111.
Where appropriate to aid understanding of our results compared to the prior 
year, we refer to ﬁnancial performance on a like-for-like and/or constant 
currency basis. Like-for-like for the year ended 31 March 2012 is calculated by 
adjusting the prior year’s results by removing Bermuda, a business we sold in 
March 2011, and including The Bahamas, a business we acquired in April 2011. 
Constant currency ﬁgures are calculated by retranslating prior year ﬁgures at 
the exchange rates used during 2011/12 to eliminate the impact of movements 
in exchange rates.
Information has been updated to the most practical date prior to the approval 
date of the document, being 23 May 2012.
Companies Act 2006
Pages 1 to 31 constitute the Chairman’s statement and Business review of 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and, for the purposes of section 463 
of the Companies Act 2006, are incorporated by reference into the Directors’ 
report set out on pages 34 to 41 and shall be deemed to form part of that report.
English law 
Pages 1 to 58 inclusive consist of a Directors’ report that has been drawn up 
and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company law. The 
liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the 
limitations and restrictions provided by such law.  US $2 . 9bn
Revenue (2010/11 US$2.4bn)
US$90 1m
EBITDA (2010/11 US$872m)
US$492m
Operating cash flow (2010/11 US$518m)
US6.5c
Adjusted earnings per share (2010/11 US7.2c)
US8c
Dividend (2010/11 US8c)
Highlights
Cable & Wireless Communications 1 Key facts and figures
 11 .8m
Mobile customers*
 66 7 k
Broadband customers*
 1. 7 m
Fixed line customers*
 82%
Growth in mobile data revenue 
 19
Capacity on 19 subsea cable systems in 
the pan-American region
Our services
Mobile
We are the market leader in 21 out of 
the 27 jurisdictions in which we provide 
mobile services. We are investing in faster 
and higher capacity mobile networks to 
support new mobile data services, which 
are growing rapidly.
Broadband
We provide high speed broadband to 
homes and workplaces and are investing 
to meet ever increasing demands for speed 
and reliability. We are the market leader 
in 25 out of 28 jurisdictions in which we 
supply broadband.
Fixed line
We are the leading provider of ﬁxed line 
(voice) telephony in 25 of the 27 markets 
we serve. We provide ﬁxed line services 
to many different customer groups, from 
residential subscribers through to large 
scale enterprises and governments.
Entertainment
We offer pay TV services in Monaco, 
Panama, Barbados and St. Lucia, and mobile 
TV in Jamaica. Pay TV services allow us 
to offer customers convenient and good 
value ‘bundles’ of products like triple play 
(TV, ﬁxed line and broadband) and quad play 
(TV, ﬁxed line, broadband and mobile).
Managed Services/Social Telecoms
We manage, as well as install and operate, 
telecommunications services for businesses 
and governments. Our social telecoms projects 
are helping governments revolutionise 
the way they provide public services.
Carrier/Data Centres 
Our extensive subsea cable network carries 
large amounts of voice and data traffic on 
behalf of consumers, enterprises and other 
carriers. In a number of jurisdictions we also 
store data on behalf of major enterprises.
A Group of world class businesses
We have over 1 40 years of telecoms 
experience and are the leader  
in a spread of global markets.
*Includes joint ventures
2 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Introduction Our markets
Panama
EBITDA 
US$256m
Operating  
cash ﬂow 
US$131m
We are Panama’s market leader in mobile, 
ﬁxed line and broadband services. We are 
also a major provider of pay TV, carrier, 
enterprise and social telecoms services.
www.cwpanama.com
For more information see page 10 ▶
Macau
EBITDA 
US$165m
Operating  
cash ﬂow 
US$127m
Operating under the CTM brand, we are the 
market leader in mobile, ﬁxed and broadband 
in one of the world’s most popular tourist 
destinations. 2011 was the 30th anniversary 
of our business in Macau.
www.ctm.net
For more information see page 12 ▶
Caribbean
EBITDA
US$284m
Operating  
cash ﬂow
US$120m
We are the leading full service telecoms 
provider in the Caribbean. In April 2011 we 
expanded to The Bahamas, our 14th market 
in the region.
www.lime.com
For more information see page 14 ▶
Monaco & Islands
EBITDA 
US$186m
Operating  
cash ﬂow 
US$103m
Our Monaco & Islands business is a portfolio 
in small and emerging markets with interests 
in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Indian and 
Atlantic oceans. Its largest markets are in 
Monaco, Guernsey and the Maldives.
www.cwc.com/mi
For more information see page 16 ▶
Cable & Wireless Communications 3 It gives me pleasure to introduce the 
2011/12 Cable & Wireless Communications 
Annual report.
Progress 
We have made steady progress during the 
year. At Group level we posted a strong, 
18% increase in revenue, and delivered EBITDA 
of US$901 million, with our outlook met or 
exceeded in four business units. We also 
generated a healthy rate of cash ﬂow.
There have been some excellent results 
from our businesses, particularly in Macau 
and The Bahamas, as well as some resilient 
performances from our other businesses 
in more competitive and economically 
difficult conditions.
Each market we operate in has its own 
economic background, its own political 
agenda and its own industry regulator. Our 
job is to manage our business within those 
frameworks. For example, in Macau and the 
Maldives we beneﬁted from strong growth 
in visitor numbers and consequent favourable 
economic activity. However, we also had to 
deal with the impact of currency devaluation 
in the Maldives and Seychelles, an unbalanced 
regulatory regime in Jamaica and an 
unexpected acceleration in a regulatory 
change affecting mobile number portability 
in Panama which prompted unbudgeted 
promotional spending in order to successfully 
defend our market share. Despite these 
issues we have delivered strong results.
Strong financial management
Revenue, EBITDA and operating profit 
before exceptionals all increased in the 
2011/12 financial year.
For more information see page 20 ▶
An introduction from the Chairman
4 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Introduction In most of our territories we operate ﬁxed 
line telecoms infrastructure which underpins 
all mobile services and is fundamental to the 
communications systems of each country. 
The proﬁtability of our ﬁxed line business has 
continued to decline, partly as a result of the 
growing popularity of mobile services, but 
also because regulatory regimes designed 
to facilitate new entrants have not been 
brought into line with new market shares. 
Frequently, these regulations prevent us 
pricing our services sufficiently in order 
to make an adequate return. 
Our business, however, is seeing robust 
growth in a number of newly emerging 
products. Mobile data services are a once 
in a generation opportunity for our industry, 
and our investment in them is increasingly 
bearing results. Mobile data revenue rose 
strongly across our business during 
2011/12, as more of our customers switched 
to smartphones and began using mobile 
internet applications. We expect this 
growth to accelerate.
We have continued to deliver high-end 
managed services to governments and 
enterprises. We are particularly proud of the 
services we provide to governments, which 
we call social telecoms. During the year our 
businesses have been involved in introducing 
telemedicine services in the Maldives, an 
e-learning network in the Caribbean and a 
911 emergency services calling platform for 
El Salvador’s police force.
Dividend
The Board of Directors has recommended 
a full year dividend of US8 cents for the 
2011/12 year, maintaining the commitment 
we made when we demerged the business 
in 2010. US2.67 cents per share was paid 
in January following our interim results, 
with a further US5.33 cents payable in 
August 2012, subject to the approval 
of shareholders.
With the payment of this dividend we will 
have returned more than US$500 million to 
shareholders since our demerger in 2010. 
In the past two years we have faced global 
economic uncertainty which has impacted our 
business especially in the Caribbean. Having 
reassessed the ﬁnancial outlook for the Group, 
as well as our opportunities to invest and 
achieve attractive returns, the Board has 
decided to reset the dividend in 2012/13 
to a level we believe is both sustainable and 
capable of progressive future growth.
The majority of our businesses are jointly 
owned with local partners, often with the 
host government. Our economic ownership 
varies with averages of around 50% for 
Panama, Macau and The Bahamas, 65% for 
Monaco & Islands, and around 90% for the 
Caribbean, excluding The Bahamas. Equally, 
corporation tax rates vary from zero to 35%. 
Consequently, headline changes in EBITDA 
do not ﬂow evenly into Group earnings. This 
is why the performance of the Caribbean 
has become so arithmetically important 
in determining Group dividend policy.
Board changes
There have been changes to the Board, 
with Kate Nealon and Mary Francis retiring 
as Non-executive Directors and Mark Hamlin 
and Alison Platt being appointed.
Both Kate and Mary helped steer the Company 
through demerger and its early stage as an 
independent business. I thank them both for 
their distinguished contributions.
We have strong replacements in Mark 
and Alison. Mark has consulted to global 
businesses for more than 25 years, advising in 
areas including strategy, culture and corporate 
change, while Alison is the Managing Director 
for Bupa, the healthcare group, in North 
America and Europe.
Outlook
The communications services we provide 
have always been vital to our customers, but 
with the increasing versatility and availability 
of mobile services, the demand for what we 
provide will strengthen.
Anticipating and exploiting these new 
opportunities will not be possible without a 
capable and talented team. Our progress in 
the past year is a credit to the 8,000 people 
we employ. I thank them all for their efforts, 
and am conﬁdent that they can continue to 
take our business forward.
We are conﬁdent in the outlook for our 
business, and will remain focused on delivering 
income and returns to our shareholders.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
A focus on governance
Driving good behaviours remains at 
the core of our approach to corporate 
governance. Our Independent Directors’ 
report outlines this approach.
For more information see page 41 ▶
The communications services we provide 
have always been vital to our customers, 
but with the increasing versatility and 
availability of mobile services, the demand 
for what we provide will strengthen. ”
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE 
Chairman
 “ 
Cable & Wireless Communications 5 The 2011/12 year was about managing 
the continuing and accelerating migration 
of our business model from voice to data and 
establishing strong foundations for the future 
success of that model whilst maintaining 
good performance during that transition. 
Performance
Despite being faced with some challenging 
markets, and operating in a sector which has 
shown little or no growth for the past two 
to three years, our business increased both 
revenue and EBITDA.
Mobile data was the fastest growing segment 
of our services. Mobile data revenue rose 
82% across the Group, and now accounts 
for 21% of mobile service revenues.
Across the Group two of our businesses 
exceeded their targets (Macau, The 
Bahamas), two businesses met their targets 
(Caribbean, Monaco & Islands) and one 
ﬁnished below (Panama). Overall, it was 
a resilient performance.
Macau recorded its ninth straight year of 
record proﬁts, on the strength of our market 
leading position and continuing rapid growth 
in the local economy. 
The Bahamas, which we acquired at the 
beginning of the year, was another solid 
performer. We made good strides in 
restructuring and improving the business. 
It has made a stronger than expected early 
contribution to our performance, and we 
expect further progress in the current year.
After several difficult years, the rest of our 
Caribbean region performed in line with the 
outlook we set out at the start of the year. 
Trading conditions remained difficult, but the 
business now has a solid platform on which 
to build.
Our Monaco & Islands business was also on 
target, delivering good underlying results 
despite some currency headwinds and 
a loss in Aﬁnis, our ﬂedgling African 
enterprise business. 
In Panama we maintained mobile market 
share despite exceptional levels of 
competition. Mobile revenue increased by 
3%, but our margins were affected by intense 
price competition following the introduction 
of mobile number portability. The largest 
impact on performance was in our enterprise 
business which had a slower year.
Five year vision
Looking forward, we are putting in place the 
foundations for the evolution of our business 
over the next ﬁve years. The main focus of 
our investment is in data services, on both 
our mobile and ﬁxed networks.
As a full service operator we have the 
signiﬁcant competitive advantage of being 
able to deliver services to customers on 
any device, in any location. We can provide 
consumers with bundles of telecoms services 
(mobile, ﬁxed, broadband and pay TV) which 
meet growing demand for internet-based 
services, social telecoms services to 
governments and managed services 
to enterprises. 
Our investment in new data services will, 
however, be subject to the same demanding 
return on capital tests as all of our capital 
expenditure. We believe that return on 
invested capital (ROIC) is one of the most 
important metrics to help manage our 
business, and for this reason we will be 
setting progressive internal targets and 
reporting on it to shareholders each year.
We will also look to develop geographically, 
with particular focus on the pan-American 
region. Our approach in the past year has 
reﬂected this – expanding into The Bahamas, 
and selling our minority investments in 
Vanuatu and Fĳi. 
Next year
In 2012/13 we expect to see a further 
acceleration in data services, which 
will balance the continuing decline in 
voice services. 
We are focused on improving our ROIC, 
currently 17%, as we continue to increase 
penetration of smartphones and the take up 
of mobile data services. We will also look to 
step up the pace of reshaping the Group, and 
will consider acquisitions and disposals if, and 
when, suitable opportunities arise at the 
right values.
Clear strategic approach
Our strategy is focused on delivering world 
class service to our customers, competing 
in our markets and generating increasing 
financial returns.
For more information see page 8 ▶
Chief Executive’ s review
6 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Introduction We are looking for progress in our most 
difficult Caribbean market, Jamaica. In May 
2012, we were very pleased to see new 
telecoms legislation, which should improve 
the regulation of the industry and our ability 
to compete. We have the opportunity to 
ﬁght on a level playing ﬁeld and regain mobile 
market share for the ﬁrst time in over a 
decade. Elsewhere in the Caribbean we will 
continue to focus on improving our cost base 
and building on the successful restructuring 
we have done in The Bahamas. The Panama 
market will remain competitive, particularly 
in mobile, but we will work hard to maintain 
our market leading position. Our Macau 
business will have to adapt to the introduction 
of ﬁxed line competition, but we expect 
continued growth there while our Monaco 
& Islands business should also continue its 
steady progress.
With a clear strategy and strong 
foundations in place, I feel conﬁdent that 
we are well placed to make progress over 
the foreseeable future, as always with the 
caveat that economic conditions around 
the world do not deteriorate further.
Tony Rice 
Corporate social responsibility
Our businesses operate responsibly and 
make an active and positive contribution 
to the communities in which we are 
present.
For more information see page 18 ▶
Mobile data was the fastest growing segment 
of our services. Mobile data revenue rose 
82% across the Group, and now accounts 
for 21 % of mobile service revenues. ”
Tony Rice 
Chief Executive
 “ 
Cable & Wireless Communications 7 Our industry and our strategic approach
The shift in the way people communicate, 
with data services becoming more 
important, is driving a fundamental 
change in our business and industry .
 
Key industry trends 
impacting our business
Why we are well placed 
for the future
Proliferation of smart devices – 
smartphones, tablets, ebooks, game 
consoles, laptops and PCs – creating a huge 
base of connected customers
New services rapidly being developed via 
the internet, application ‘stores’ and online 
developers – bringing further competition 
to telecoms operators’ traditional voice and 
messaging services
Faster, more widely available mobile and  
ﬁxed networks allowing customers to do 
‘anything everywhere’
Huge traffic growth on telecoms networks, 
as new devices and richer and faster services 
allow greater customer consumption of data
The challenge of ‘monetising’ the data growth 
through new pricing and services – as well 
as facing new internet-enabled competition
We are the leader in most of our markets 
 —Mobile: 21 out of 27 markets 
 — Fixed: 25 out of 27
 — Broadband: 25 out of 28
We are a full service provider in most of 
our markets – providing mobile, ﬁxed, 
broadband and TV to consumers, managed 
services to enterprises and governments and 
carrier services to other operators. With this 
full suite of services we are able to give 
customers ‘anything everywhere’
We have invested in ‘next generation’ 
networks, including mobile data networks 
to meet future demand
Our markets have sustainable competitive 
environments, with pro-investment 
regulatory frameworks in most territories
Several of our markets have strong 
economic growth rates, while others are 
set for a rebound
8 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Introduction The core elements 
of the strategy
1  Migrating to new products and services
 Mobile and ﬁxed data – for consumers
 Managed services – for enterprises
 Social telecoms – for governments
 Carrier services – for other operators
2  Enhancing our 
geographic focus
  Managing our portfolio 
actively, with a focus on 
building regional scale 
and strength
  Becoming ‘go-to’ player 
in the pan-American 
region, where we have 
strong market positions, 
and a leading network 
presence
3  World class 
customer experience
  Investing in customer 
service and relationship 
management
  Designing customer 
service solutions to suit 
new data services
  Implementing new 
network technologies 
to deliver fastest speeds 
and best coverage. 
Introducing new pricing 
structures – to ‘monetise’ 
our traffic growth and 
ensure customers pay for 
what they receive
4  Increasing shareholder returns
  Ensuring all new investment meets 
high hurdle rates of return on invested 
capital (ROIC)
 Rigorous cost management
 Growing cash generation 
  Sustainable dividend with future 
progressive growth in line with 
performance of the business
Our strategic approach
What we provide, how we charge for it and who 
we compete with are all evolving, prompting new 
approaches and investment in each of our markets. 
Our strategy aims to ensure we deliver a world class 
service to customers; improve our ability to compete 
in our markets; and generate increasing financial 
returns, through EBITDA, cash flow and return 
on invested capital.
Cable & Wireless Communications 9 Performance
Our Panama business, Cable & Wireless Panama, endured a 
challenging year but delivered revenue of US$601 million, EBITDA 
of US$256 million and operating cash ﬂow of US$131 million.
We maintained over 50% mobile market share and increased mobile 
revenue by 3%, although signiﬁcant pricing pressure following the 
introduction of mobile number portability impacted margins.
Our enterprise, data and other operations had a slower year, with 
revenues falling 18%, but we are conﬁdent the business retains a 
healthy future potential.
Mobile data
Mobile data usage continued to increase as customers embraced 
new high speed mobile data services and upgraded to smartphones 
like the BlackBerry, iPhone and Samsung Galaxy S2.
More than three-quarters of our postpaid mobile customers are  
now using mobile data services.
Social Telecoms
We have been a pioneer of managed services and social telecoms 
in Panama. We are now seeing opportunities across the pan-American 
region. In El Salvador, we have successfully implemented a 911 
emergency services calling platform for the national police force.
Within Panama we delivered further social telecoms projects 
including moving the country’s civil administration onto digital 
platforms as part of the Government’s ‘Panama without Paper’ 
initiative.
We began the 2012/13 year by winning a contract to modernise 
Panama’s national registry by creating digital storage for official 
documents and licences, and a new online customer interface. 
Outlook and priorities
Our business will beneﬁt from Panama’s growing economy and our 
market leadership. Panama’s economy posted GDP growth of 10% 
in 2011, and is forecast to have another strong year in 2012. Work 
is continuing on the project to widen the Panama Canal and double 
its capacity – the project is due to complete in 2014 and should 
provide a signiﬁcant economic boost to the region. Panama also 
signed a Free Trade Agreement with the United States in 2011.
Panama’s mobile market will remain highly competitive with four 
operators vying for customers, but we expect continued growth 
in demand for mobile data.
Our Panama business is well positioned to compete effectively in its 
domestic market and is seeking opportunities to introduce social 
telecoms and enterprise services throughout Central America.
Highlights
—  Maintained mobile 
market share above 
50% despite intense 
competition
—  Introduced high speed 
mobile data services 
and the iPhone
—  Panama’ s economy posted 
10% GDP growth in 2011 
—  Installed 9 11 emergency 
call service and 
established a presence 
in El Salvador
Our brands
Jorge Nicolau 
Chief Executive Officer
Panama
Maintaining market leadership
Panama
10 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review Improving security in El Salvador
We have installed a 911 emergency services call 
platform in El Salvador, our first social telecoms 
contract outside Panama.
The project will help El Salvador’s national police 
force to optimise response times to emergency calls. 
By enabling police to quickly react when there 
is a crime or traffic accident the project is supporting 
the Government’s efforts to tackle delinquency 
and violent crime.
3% Increase in mobile revenue
 105% Increase in mobile data revenue
US$2. 40
Increase in average revenue from 
each mobile customer
US$ 1 1m
Value of ‘Panama without Paper’ 
social telecoms contract
Cable & Wireless Communications 11 Performance
Our Macau business, CTM, which celebrated its 30th anniversary in 
2011, is a market leader in a strong economy. The business delivered 
its ninth straight year of record proﬁts in 2011/12 and revenue of 
US$524 million, EBITDA of US$165 million and operating cash ﬂow 
of US$127 million.
Mobile data and broadband
Mobile data services continued to grow rapidly in Macau and 
now account for 32% of mobile services revenue. This followed 
continued strong demand for smartphones, led by exceptional sales 
of the iPhone and other devices. Mobile revenue grew by 81% and 
we maintained a leading mobile market share of nearly 50% despite 
competition from three other operators.
Broadband subscribers and revenue also increased as our ﬁbre 
broadband network, with an increased download speed of up to 
250 megabits per second, was extended to reach every business 
in Macau and more residential households.
Enterprise
Our Macau business is a supplier of enterprise services to the 
major casinos in Macau, many of its banks and the Government. 
We completed a large scale installation of front and back of house 
communication services for the Galaxy casino, which opened in 
2011, and continue to manage the service. We also provided services 
for the latest stage of another major casino, the Venetian. Both 
projects helped increase enterprise, data and other revenue by 9%.
Outlook and priorities
The territory attracted 28 million visitors in 2011 who increased 
their spending (excluding gaming) by 20% year on year to over 
US$5 billion, helping to grow Macau’s GDP by 21%. Macau’s 
economy is forecast to grow strongly again next year. Visitor 
numbers are also expected to be strong with the opening of further 
new casinos, including the Sands Cotai Central resort in April 2012. 
The economic growth will underpin the progress of our business. 
The growth in mobile revenue is expected to continue with a further 
strong contribution from mobile data, and continuing demand for 
new smartphones from consumers.
In ﬁxed line, we expect to see a competitor enter the market 
following the issue of a new licence by the Macau Government. 
CTM is well prepared for this new competition.
In partnership with Cisco, we plan to launch cloud-based services for 
our enterprise customers. Cloud services use the internet to improve 
the delivery of telecoms and IT services.
Macau’s strong economy and the willingness of our customers to 
embrace the new telecoms technology that CTM is introducing 
has created a positive environment for continuing growth.
Highlights
—  Ninth straight year 
of record profits
—  Exceptional growth of 
smartphone sales and 
mobile data
—  Increased broadband 
download speed to  
world-leading 250 mbps
—  Continued economic 
growth: Macau GDP +21 % 
in 2011
Our brand
Vandy Poon
Chief Executive Officer 
Macau
Mobile data growth
Macau
12 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review Promoting technology in schools
In 2012, CTM created the ‘Digital Campus’ project, 
providing schools with superfast broadband 
connections at preferential prices to encourage 
use of the internet.
The Digital Campus will enable students to submit 
assignments and complete assessments online, and 
have access to databases containing resources such 
as past exam papers and teaching notes. Teachers will 
maintain an electronic register and incorporate more 
multimedia elements into lessons.
52000 Additional mobile customers
 50%
Of customers subscribing 
to mobile data plans 
28m Visitors to Macau in 2011
90%
Customer satisfaction rating 
according to CTM survey
Cable & Wireless Communications 13 Performance
Our Bahamas business had a good ﬁrst year while the rest of 
the Caribbean performed in line with our expectations. Revenue 
was US$1.2 billion including a contribution from The Bahamas of 
US$352 million. EBITDA was US$284 million and operating cash 
ﬂow was US$120 million. Following a review of assets and past 
investment, we took a US$184 million non-cash write down of 
our Jamaican assets.
Mobile data and Social Telecoms
Mobile data usage in the Caribbean accelerated following the roll out 
of high speed mobile data networks in Barbados, The Bahamas, and the 
Cayman Islands. We also exclusively launched the iPhone during the year.
We delivered several social telecoms projects in the region including 
a public internet capability for schools, libraries, post offices and other 
locations across Jamaica and a region-wide e-learning network. 
Developing our Caribbean hub
In April 2011, we purchased a controlling shareholding in the Bahamas 
Telecommunications Company (BTC) and began a restructuring 
process to improve the business.
We have made a number of changes to BTC, including introducing a 
reduced, single rate for mobile calls across The Bahamas, improving 
customer service facilities and launching several refurbished retail 
outlets. We also undertook a voluntary separation programme, which 
reduced the employee base to a level in line with our other businesses.
In addition, we established a presence in the Dominican Republic 
providing wholesale broadband capacity to local internet service 
providers via our East-West cable, which has tripled the amount 
of bandwidth available in the country.
Outlook and priorities
The Caribbean has suffered a deep economic recession and 
conditions are unlikely to recover substantially in 2012/13, although 
some modest improvements are expected in visitor arrivals and 
tourist income. The business will continue to focus on reducing its 
cost base against a backdrop of rising inﬂation in the region.
The turnaround of our Jamaica business remains a key priority, and this 
will be helped by the introduction of a new Telecommunications Act. 
The new legislation will substantially improve the competitive conditions 
for us, providing a real possibility to improve our mobile market share.
We will also continue to introduce mobile data services in more 
Caribbean markets where we see demand and a strong take up of 
smartphones by customers.
We have recently launched pay TV in Barbados and intend to extend 
services to other Caribbean markets in future.
Our Caribbean operating unit has been boosted by The Bahamas 
and across the region we have a strong platform to build on.
Highlights
—  Strong first year in 
The Bahamas
—  High speed mobile data 
networks introduced 
in key markets
—  New telecoms legislation 
in Jamaica should 
improve regulatory 
environment
—  Rolled out Caribbean 
e-learning network
Our brands
David Shaw 
Chief Executive Officer
Caribbean
Good start in The Bahamas
Caribbean
14 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review Introducing e-learning in the Caribbean
We worked with the Caribbean Knowledge and 
Learning Network to create a broadband network 
connecting Caribbean universities and colleges 
regionally and internationally. It is the region’s first 
research network, effectively an ‘academic internet’.
The network provides students with the ability to 
access courses and educational resources remotely. 
Lecturers and researchers can share work easily 
and securely and create new online academic 
communities which will collaborate on new 
ideas and initiatives to tackle regional issues.
 12%
Growth in mobile data revenue 
in the Caribbean ( excluding 
The Bahamas ) 
7
BTC retail outlets refurbished 
and relaunched in The Bahamas
US$6.5m
Contract to create ‘ academic 
internet’ for the Caribbean
 130
Channels available 
on new Barbados  
TV service
Cable & Wireless Communications 15 Performance
Our Monaco & Islands businesses performed well in 2011/12, 
delivering revenue of US$586 million, EBITDA of US$186 million 
and operating cash ﬂow of US$103 million.
Our businesses in Monaco and the Maldives delivered strong 
underlying results, although the latter was affected by a currency 
devaluation in the Maldives. Aﬁnis, our start-up African enterprise 
business, suffered a higher than anticipated start-up loss, necessitating 
a US$18 million non-cash write down.
Mobile data 
Mobile data usage grew across the portolio. 
In the Maldives our mobile broadband network was extended and 
now covers nearly 80% of the population. On an underlying basis 
revenue increased by 3%, largely driven by mobile data and more 
roaming activity by tourists.
Monaco Telecom, which renewed its operating licence in the 
Principality in 2011, grew its domestic mobile customer base by 
9%, aided by smartphone sales, and demand for ‘quad play’ bundles 
(mobile, broadband, ﬁxed line and pay TV). Pay TV subscribers grew 
by 8% in the year, with many households taking up quad play. 
Monaco’s mobile data revenue grew by 38%.
In Guernsey competition in mobile saw total revenue reduce by 3%, 
but we maintained strong market share and saw increased take up 
of smartphones and mobile data services.
Enterprise
Enterprise revenue also made a signiﬁcant contribution to Monaco 
& Islands’ performance. Monaco Telecom extended its mobile 
services contract with Post & Telecommunications of Kosovo (PTK) 
during the year, continuing a long-standing relationship.
Enterprise services also made a strong contribution to underlying 
performance in the Maldives where we completed a contract 
for the Government to implement telemedicine services in 
36 remote islands.
Outlook and priorities
Macroeconomic conditions remain positive in our key territories 
of Monaco, the Maldives and Guernsey. We expect to continue 
accelerating the introduction of data services in key markets next 
year. The launch of an undersea cable network in the Maldives will 
deliver high speed ﬁxed broadband between the islands and facilitate 
the extension of social telecoms services. 
We also have an interest in a cable linking the Seychelles to East 
Africa which will enable us to launch cable TV services. This is set 
to be operational later this year.
We continue to invest across the portfolio to drive growth and 
deliver world class services to our customers.
Highlights
—  Completed telemedicine 
contract in Maldives
—  Renewal of operating 
licence in Monaco 
—  Strong penetration of 
smartphones and take  
up of mobile data plans  
in Guernsey
—  Growth in mobile 
data revenue across 
the portfolio
Our brands
Denis Martin 
Chief Executive Officer  
Monaco & Islands
Data drives mobile growth
Monaco & Islands
16 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review Improving medical care in 
remote communities
Telemedicine is an ideal solution for the Maldives 
where the population is spread across 200 islands.
Last year we completed a Government contract 
to connect medical centres across the Maldives, 
enabling patients to consult over video link with 
specialist doctors in the capital Malé. 
The introduction of telemedicine has led to faster 
diagnosis of conditions, vital earlier treatment 
and has reduced the cost of delivering medical 
care in the country.
 90%
Of Monaco & Islands EBITDA 
is from Monaco, the Maldives 
and Guernsey
 26%
Of mobile customers in the 
Maldives have a smartphone
 43 %
Of Guernsey customers use 
mobile data
 30%
Mobile data revenue accounts 
for 30% of Monaco T elecom 
mobile revenue
Cable & Wireless Communications 17  1
Contribute positively to the social 
and economic development of the 
communities in which we operate
Our services directly contribute to the 
economy of the countries in which we 
operate. We also invest in the social 
development of the communities where 
our colleagues and customers live.
Across the globe we sponsor sporting 
activities and athletes. In the Caribbean 
we sponsored the 2011 and 2012 CARIFTA 
Games, a major platform for the region’s 
young athletes, many of whom go on to 
become World and Olympic champions.
We are also a strong supporter of education, 
and in Jamaica and St. Kitts and Nevis our 
‘Skool Aid’ event helped thousands of 
children prepare for the new school year by 
providing free school supplies, haircuts and 
medical, dental and eye checks.
In Panama, the Cable & Wireless Panama 
Foundation donated school supplies, 
backpacks and shoes to a school in Coclé 
province and partnered with the UK embassy 
to create a new computer room for a school 
in Colón province.
We also work to support vulnerable groups, 
such as in Macau where 20 colleagues from 
our volunteer team organised and participated 
in a Christmas Gathering for The Macau 
Association for the Mentally Handicapped.
Following an increase in youth drug abuse in 
the Maldives, we assisted the Ministry of 
Health & Family in establishing a toll free 
24/7 conﬁdential National Helpline providing 
support and information on substance 
misuse and treatment options.
Corporate social responsibility
Our priorities
We are committed to making a positive contribution 
to the countries in which we operate.
Below are some examples of how our business units 
deliver corporate social responsibility programmes 
meeting our four responsibility principles.
18 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review  4
Seek continuous improvement in 
our environmental performance 
Our environmental commitment focuses 
on energy conservation, recycling, waste 
management, responsible water usage 
and reducing our carbon footprint.
We have introduced an online system to report 
on our energy use and carbon emissions. 
The system ensures consistent reporting 
and provides us with a useful reference 
point against which to measure reductions 
in energy usage and carbon emissions.
We estimate our carbon footprint to be 
153,858 tonnes of CO2 equivalent based on 
our Scope 1,2 & 3 greenhouse gas emissions. 
Our energy consumption has reduced from 
351,530 megawatt hours last year to 
288,288 megawatt hours this year.
We continue to use video conferencing 
facilities to reduce business travel, although 
travel is still necessary due to our geographical 
spread, and we estimate that created 4,599 
tonnes of CO2 usage in 201 1/1 2.
In Panama we started to recycle paper and 
obsolete IT equipment, as we do in several 
other businesses. 
Our Panama team also took part in ‘Earth 
Hour’, joining people across the globe in 
turning off lights and any electrical devices 
for an hour.
Our Macau colleagues and their families 
took part in the United Nations ‘Plant for 
the Planet: Billion Tree Campaign’ to create 
a greener territory while educating young 
people about caring for the environment.
Beach cleaning programmes take place 
in many of our business units. In the 
Maldives, colleagues cleaned beaches 
in Addu, the largest chain of islands in 
the south of the country.
 2
Respect cultures, values and 
human rights throughout 
our operations
We conduct business with honesty, 
integrity, openness and with respect 
for the human rights and interests of 
our colleagues and the communities 
in which we operate.
Our business in the Cayman Islands has been 
the sponsor for Cayman Carnival Batabano 
since 2003. This colourful celebration of life 
has a street parade as its main event.
In Dominica we contributed to Domfesta, 
a two-week celebration of local culture 
and heritage where playwrights, poets, 
artists, singers, musicians and many others 
come together to show Dominica’s rich 
arts heritage.
In Panama thousands of high school students 
from across the country entered our annual 
National Oratory Contest, a public speaking 
competition. The winner was Santiago 
Gallardo from the Guna Yala Indian 
Reservation, an island community just off 
Panama’s Caribbean coast, who spoke about 
his desire to use the university scholarship 
prize to become a doctor and provide better 
healthcare for his community.
We also sponsored the festival of St. John the 
Baptist in the Panamanian towns of Chitré 
and Aguadulce. The celebrations combine the 
religious and folk traditions of Panama.
Our Panama Foundation participated in the 
IX Ibero-American Congress of Information 
Technology and Special Education which is 
for former Spanish colonies in Latin America. 
The event’s theme was ‘Towards a Better 
Inclusive Society’.
3
Nurture best practice 
in our activities 
Our businesses share best practice 
across the Group, beneﬁtting from the 
in-depth experiences gained in each 
other’s markets.
In Macau our Future Communications Leader 
Training Program gave four university students 
the opportunity to work in our Company. 
The programme provided an opportunity 
for the students to apply what they learned 
in school to a real life work environment, 
and to share their views and ideas on the 
telecoms industry.
In Panama we hosted a ‘Small Business 
and Enterprise Workshop’ to highlight 
the latest trends in technology and 
management, helping local employers 
to improve their businesses.
Our social telecoms services help 
governments to improve delivery of public 
services. In Panama we welcomed delegations 
from the governments of El Salvador and the 
Cayman Islands to learn about such services, 
including the 911 emergency services call 
platform, telemedicine, teleradiology and 
CCTV surveillance.
We also provided training to Panamanian 
English teachers using a system for Computer 
Assisted Language Learning which provides 
a wide range of online lessons, support 
materials, teacher guides, lesson plans, and 
homework and lab assignments for students.
In Barbados we partnered with the Queen 
Elizabeth Hospital to enhance the delivery 
of patient care through telemedicine. In a 
signiﬁcant change to the way radiology is 
delivered, the hospital now has digital CT 
scans, x-rays and ultrasound images which 
doctors can view at the hospital or remotely.
Cable & Wireless Communications 19 Returns to shareholders 
Rigorous cost management, growing cash 
generation and achieving high rates of 
return on our investments are key areas of 
focus to deliver returns to our shareholders.
For more information see page 9 ▶
Financial review
US$500m
Returned to shareholders since demerger 
US$ 1 bn
Invested in business since demerger 
Our 2011/12 ﬁnancial performance demonstrates 
the broad strength we have across our Group.
Despite a weak global economy and challenging conditions 
in some of our markets, particularly the Caribbean, we 
have met or exceeded our outlook in four business units.
Since our demerger in 2010 we have invested around 
US$1 billion into the business, increased our return on 
invested capital and returned more than US$500 million 
to our shareholders.
To continue being able to invest and develop our business 
in the future we have taken the decision to rebase our 
dividend for 2012/13. This decision, when combined with 
a successful US$1 billion reﬁnancing exercise during the 
year, puts our Group ﬁnancing on a strong footing and 
allows us to look forward with conﬁdence.
Tim Pennington 
Chief Financial Officer
Return on invested capital (ROIC)
18
17
16
15
14 
ROIC is deﬁned as net operating proﬁt before exceptional 
items after tax divided by total assets less non-interest 
bearing current liabilitites
%
2009/10
16.2%
2010/11
16.1%
2011/12
16.8%
20 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review Financial statements 
Our Group financial statements provide 
further information required by 
accounting standards and statute.
For more information see page 59 ▶
Group ﬁnancial performance summary
Year ended 31 March 2012 Year ended 31 March 2011
1
 
 
 
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 2,875  –  2,875  2,440  –  2,440 
Cost of sales (958) –  (958) (782) –  (782)
Gross margin 1,917  –  1,917  1,658  –  1,658 
Operating costs  (1,016) (66) (1,082) (786) 6  (780)
EBITDA
2
 901  (66) 835  872  6  878 
LTIP charge –  –  –  (24) –  (24)
Depreciation and amortisation (358) (244) (602) (321) –  (321)
Net other operating expense (12) –  (12) (28) –  (28)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 531  (310) 221  499  6  505 
Share of proﬁts of joint ventures and associates 26  –  26  31  –  31 
Total operating proﬁt/(loss) 557  (310) 247  530  6  536 
Net ﬁnance expense (156) (156) (108) (108)
Net other non-operating income 13  –  13 34 – 34
Proﬁt/(loss) before income tax 414  (310) 104  456  6  462 
Income tax (expense)/credit (88) 10  (78) (119) 1  (118)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year 326  (300) 26  337  7  344 
Attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company 158  (235) (77) 189  8  197 
Non-controlling interests 168  (65) 103  148  (1) 147 
Balance sheet capital expenditure (409) (354)
Cash exceptionals (69) (29)
Operating cash ﬂow
3
492 518
Earnings per share (cents) (3.1) 7.6 
Adjusted earnings per share (EPS)
4
 (cents) 6.5  7.2 
Headcount (full time employees at period end) 8,100 7,347
1 Full year ended 31 March 2011 includes the consolidated results for Bermuda (disposed March 2011) and excludes The Bahamas (acquired April 2011)
2 EBITDA is deﬁned as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating income/(expense) and exceptional items
3 Operating cash ﬂow is deﬁned as EBITDA less balance sheet capital expenditure 
4 Adjusted EPS is before exceptional items, LTIP charge, transaction costs, gain/(loss) on disposals and amortisations of acquired intangibles
Cable & Wireless Communications 21 Financial review  
continued
Group EBITDA before exceptional items grew by 5% 
on a constant currency basis and 3% at actual rates.
Revenue increased by 18% to US$2,875 million including a ﬁrst time 
contribution of US$352 million from The Bahamas business acquired 
in April 2011. We saw a strong performance in Macau where handset 
sales and mobile service revenue drove a 39% rise in total revenue. 
Group non-voice mobile revenue grew as data penetration and usage 
levels rose.
Group EBITDA before exceptional items grew by 5% on a constant 
currency basis and 3% at actual rates to US$901 million following 
the strong performance in Macau, together with the addition of 
The Bahamas.
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items was US$557 million 
compared to US$530 million in the prior period. During the year 
we took an exceptional restructuring charge of US$66 million 
primarily related to the voluntary separation programme (VSEP) 
in The Bahamas where we have completed the initial phase ahead 
of schedule and booked the majority of our expected restructuring 
costs in this period. We also took a non-cash exceptional impairment 
charge, largely in respect of Jamaica, and as part of the network 
upgrade programme in the Caribbean there was also an accelerated 
depreciation charge. 
Proﬁt for the period before exceptional items was down 3% to 
US$326 million due to an increase in ﬁnance expense. Adjusted 
earnings per share for the period was US6.5 cents. The Board 
has recommended a full year dividend of US8 cents per share.
On a like-for-like basis, adjusting the prior period by removing 
Bermuda, a business we sold in March 2011, and including 
The Bahamas in the prior year and at constant currency, revenue 
for the Group was 5% higher and EBITDA for the Group was 
2% lower than last year.
Panama
(US$m)
Year ended 
31 March 
2012
Year ended 
31 March 
2011
Change 
%
Mobile 315 307 3
Broadband 60 57 5
Fixed voice 136 149 (9)
Enterprise, data and other 90 110 (18)
Revenue 601 623 (4)
EBITDA 256 276 (7)
Margin % 43 44
Revenue at US$601 million was 4% lower than the same period 
last year due to lower enterprise and ﬁxed voice revenue.
Mobile revenue was up 3% to US$315 million and the business 
maintained its market share above 50%. Data penetration within 
our subscriber base increased this year to 24% as we launched our 
high-speed mobile data network resulting in growth of non-voice 
revenue by 105%. The appetite of our subscribers for non-voice 
services more than offset the decline in voice revenue which, 
together with lower subscribers, resulted in a blended average 
revenue per user (ARPU) 22% higher this year. Although prepaid 
subscribers ﬂuctuated due to promotional activity in the market, 
postpaid subscribers grew by 9% despite the launch of mobile 
number portability in November.
Broadband and TV revenue grew 5% to US$60 million and the 
number of pay TV subscribers taking an additional triple play service 
increased to over 70%. Subscribers reduced during the year largely 
due to a new strategy to focus on higher ARPU customers.
Fixed voice revenue declined by 9% to US$136 million largely due 
to a substitution-driven reduction in payphone traffic, a lower rate 
per minute for national calls and lower international volumes.
Our enterprise, data and other segment endured a slower year, 
with revenues falling 18%, but we are conﬁdent the business retains 
a healthy future potential. We have focused on executing contracts 
awarded over the last year including: a contract to supply, install and 
support new systems enabling the Panamanian Government to share 
information electronically; and a contract to supply and manage 
an emergency services call system for the national police force in 
El Salvador. We are the leading player in the region and see good 
opportunities to expand our expertise outside of Panama.
Gross margin decreased by 5% to US$402 million due to a reduction 
in ﬁxed voice and enterprise, data and other revenue.
Operating costs at US$146 million were in line with the same period 
last year. At the beginning of this year we started a restructuring 
programme to increase efficiency and reduced headcount by 266, 
leading to an exceptional charge of US$9 million in the period with 
an expected payback of two years.
As a result of the reduction in gross margin, EBITDA of US$256 million 
was 7% lower compared to last year. EBITDA as a percentage of 
revenue was broadly in line with the prior period at 43%.
Our proportionate ownership of Panama EBITDA for the year ended 
31 March 2012 was 49%.
22 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review Caribbean
(US$m)
Year ended 
31 March 
2012
Year ended 
31 March 
2011
Change 
%
Mobile 531 302 76
Broadband 122 105 16
Fixed voice 323 278 16
Enterprise, data and other 196 165 19
Revenue 1,172 850 38
EBITDA 284 229 24
Margin % 24 27
Revenue in the Caribbean increased by 38%, to US$1,172 million, 
largely due to the introduction of The Bahamas. Gross margin 
improved by 46% representing a slightly higher gross margin to sales 
ratio in The Bahamas. After operating costs, which were 59% higher, 
EBITDA was 24% up on last year at US$284 million.
On 6 April 2011, we completed our purchase of a 51% stake in the 
Bahamas Telecommunications Company (BTC) in The Bahamas for a 
cash consideration of US$204 million. The company is the exclusive 
mobile operator in The Bahamas as well as a leading provider of ﬁxed 
line and broadband services. 
The Bahamas business delivered a strong ﬁnancial performance in 
the year. Excellent progress was made in developing the business. 
The voluntary separation programme was executed ahead of 
schedule and with an uptake in line with expectations. During the 
year we have invested in a new high speed mobile broadband 
network, launched new ﬂagship retail stores as part of the ongoing 
overhaul of our retail and distribution network, enhanced our 
customer service facilities and launched new customer focused 
initiatives, such as removing inter-island surcharges. We are 
preparing to face mobile competition in the future. Under the terms 
of the acquisition, the liberalisation process for the mobile sector 
will commence no sooner than three years after privatisation, 
and we will continue to implement the transformation agenda 
throughout the coming ﬁnancial year.
For the Caribbean excluding The Bahamas (the LIME business) trading 
remained difficult. The revenue decline slowed in Jamaica and there 
was a more positive EBITDA performance based on better control 
of customer acquisition costs and operating costs. The rest of the 
LIME business witnessed challenging conditions especially in prepaid 
mobile with little or no relief from the economic environment.
Total revenue was US$1,172 million of which The Bahamas 
contributed US$352 million and the LIME business contributed 
US$820 million, 4% down on last year.
Mobile revenue was US$531 million of which The Bahamas 
represented US$246 million and the LIME business US$285 million, 
a reduction of 6% on the prior year. This was driven by a net 
reduction in subscriber numbers especially in prepaid and lower 
handset sales due to reduced subsidies. There was an improving 
mobile performance in Jamaica where mobile service revenue 
increased driven by growth in inbound roaming and prepaid ARPU 
beneﬁted from tighter control of discounted voice minutes. Mobile 
data has seen growth throughout the region following the launch of 
high-speed networks in a number of islands during the year. We plan 
to make similar investments elsewhere in the Caribbean subject to 
commercial viability and as the penetration of the iPhone and other 
smartphone devices increase.
Broadband & TV revenue was US$122 million of which The Bahamas 
contributed US$15 million. There was some growth in subscribers 
and ARPU with the exception of Jamaica, where competition saw our 
broadband subscriber base decline.
Fixed voice revenue was US$323 million of which The Bahamas was 
US$59 million. Voice substitution continued to affect ﬁxed line revenue, 
although the rate of decline has slowed compared with prior periods.
Enterprise, data and other revenue was US$196 million of which 
The Bahamas contributed US$32 million. Excluding The Bahamas, 
revenue in the LIME business was ﬂat.
Operating costs were US$611 million of which The Bahamas 
contributed US$201 million whist the LIME business contributed 
US$410 million, a 6% increase driven by inﬂationary pressures in 
staff costs. Notwithstanding, across the Caribbean business we 
have made good progress in the period with our cost reduction 
programmes. We have engaged our employees and union partners 
to realign our compensation structure so that it is sustainable, 
market driven and provides greater emphasis around incentive driven 
pay, and have completed a programme of beneﬁt restructuring and 
buyouts. We have benchmarked our operational and support areas 
with best practice and are commencing programmes to improve 
efficiency over the medium term.
In The Bahamas, since July 2011 over 470 colleagues have left the 
business. The cost of this restructuring was fully funded by the cash 
balances of BTC.
Additionally, we will implement a further cost reduction programme 
across the region but primarily targeted at the LIME business which 
will see a net headcount reduction during the course of 2012/13 
largely through a combination of early retirement and voluntary 
schemes. The overall cost of this programme is estimated at 
US$30-35 million with an expected two-year payback.
EBITDA for the Caribbean was US$284 million representing an 
EBITDA of US$91 million in The Bahamas and US$193 million in the 
LIME business. 
Our proportionate ownership of EBITDA for the Caribbean (including 
The Bahamas) for the year ended 31 March 2012 was 76%.
Cable & Wireless Communications 23 Financial review  
continued
Macau
(US$m)
Year ended 
31 March 
2012
Year ended 
31 March 
2011
Change 
%
Mobile 322 178 81
Broadband 55 53 4
Fixed voice 73 78 (6)
Enterprise, data and other 74 68 9
Revenue 524 377 39
EBITDA 165 153 8
Margin % 31 41
The Macau economy again achieved exceptional growth with real 
GDP growth of 21% in the 2011 calendar year. Likewise, gaming 
revenue and visitor numbers were up 37% and 13% respectively.
Revenue increased by 39% to US$524 million, with strong growth 
in mobile compared to the same period last year. 
Mobile revenue of US$322 million was up 81% on last year. Mobile 
equipment sales surged to over US$220 million, driven by the 
popularity of the iPhone and other smartphones. Mobile services 
revenue grew 4% to US$97 million as subscriber numbers grew. 
Mobile non-voice revenue now represents 32% of subscriber 
service revenue as smartphones and mobile broadband usage 
increased. Inbound roaming revenue showed a decline in the 
second half due to a lower settlement rate with a major 
international roaming counterparty.
Broadband subscribers grew by 5% with ARPU also increasing 
as subscribers demanded greater bandwidth. Broadband revenue 
increased by 4% to US$55 million despite a reduction in tariffs 
being offered to customers midway through the year.
Fixed voice revenue of US$73 million decreased compared to the 
same period in 2010/11 as substitution reduced both subscribers 
and ARPU by 1% and 6% respectively. The tender process for new 
ﬁxed line licensees closed in March. It is anticipated that the regulator 
will make a decision on the outcome within the next six months.
Enterprise, data and other revenue of US$74 million improved by 
9% as the business grew its performance on the prior year and won 
managed service contracts with the Macau Government and casinos 
including the Galaxy and Venetian.
Gross margin of US$223 million was up 8% compared with last year 
reﬂecting strong underlying performance in the mobile and 
enterprise segments.
Operating costs of US$58 million were 9% higher than the prior year. 
The higher revenue drove increased network and administration 
costs though this was limited by strong cost controls. Advertising 
and marketing costs were also higher as a result of promotional 
activity around the businesses’ 30th anniversary celebrations earlier 
in the year. At 16% of revenue, excluding iPhone equipment sales 
which commenced in November 2010, operating costs were one 
percentage point higher than the same period last year.
Due to the strong mobile performance, EBITDA was 8% higher at 
US$165 million. Adjusting for iPhone equipment sales the underlying 
EBITDA margin was 43%.
Our proportionate ownership of Macau EBITDA for the year ended 
31 March 2012 was 51%.
Monaco & Islands (M&I)
(US$m)
Year ended 
31 March 
2012
Year ended 
31 March 
2011
Change 
%
Mobile 234 240 (3)
Broadband 49 47 4
Fixed voice 80 96 (17)
Enterprise, data and other 223 222 –
Revenue 586 605 (3)
EBITDA 186 207 (10)
Margin % 32 34
Revenue at US$586 million was 5% higher on a like-for-like basis. Our 
Monaco business saw strong revenue growth, while in the Maldives, 
a devaluation of the local currency, the ruﬁyaa, saw revenue reported 
in US dollars fall despite increasing in local currency.
Monaco performed very well, particularly in the ﬁrst half of the year 
with revenue up strongly, mainly driven by the enterprise segment 
due to increased traffic volumes and new business lines for our 
international operations. Mobile subscribers rose by 9% on last year 
whilst non-voice ARPU growth offset the lower rate per minute. 
We also saw growth of our outbound roaming revenues in the year. 
Monaco beneﬁted from a favourable euro to US dollar exchange rate 
compared to the prior year.
In local currency, the Maldives had a good underlying performance, 
with revenue up 3% on last year largely driven by non-voice services 
and higher roaming activity as tourists continue to visit the Maldives. 
Fixed voice was marginally lower due to subscriber churn and reduced 
usage but this was more than offset by higher enterprise revenue from 
new services such as telemedicine. During the period the Government 
of the Maldives introduced a limited free ﬂoat of the ruﬁyaa. This 
prompted a devaluation of approximately 20% resulting in US dollar 
revenue of US$134 million, being 14% lower than last year.
In Guernsey, revenue decreased by 3% as competition in mobile 
remained vigorous, however, we still managed to grow our active 
subscriber base by 3%. Broadband revenue grew due to a 7% 
increase in subscribers but this was offset by lower international 
ﬁxed voice.
24 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review On a like-for-like basis, adjusting the prior year by removing 
Bermuda, a business we sold in March 2011, and at constant 
currency, gross margin was 6% higher at US$401 million. 
Gross margin was 6% lower than last year on a reported basis.
Operating costs of US$215 million were in line with last year but 
9% higher on a like-for-like basis largely due to additional staff 
costs incurred in our African enterprise business.
EBITDA at US$186 million was 2% higher on a like-for-like basis, 
but 10% lower than the same period last year on a reported basis, 
largely reﬂecting the disposal of Bermuda, with the balance  
relating to the devaluation of the ruﬁyaa.
Operations in the Maldives, Monaco and Guernsey represented 
approximately 83% of Monaco & Islands revenue and approximately 
90% of EBITDA in the period.
Our proportionate ownership of Monaco & Islands EBITDA for the 
year ended 31 March 2012 was 65%.
Joint ventures and associates
Our share of proﬁt after tax from joint ventures was US$26 million, 
US$5 million lower than the same period last year primarily due 
to a release of US$17 million in allowances in the prior period which 
were held against former joint ventures subsequently liquidated.
Our share of TSTT proﬁts increased by US$6 million due to reduced 
staff costs. Roshan continues to maintain its market leadership with 
mobile subscriber growth of 23% increasing our share of proﬁts 
by US$3 million.
On 12 October 2011, CWC sold its 50% interest in Telecom 
Vanuatu Limited to Mauritius Telecom Limited. On 15 March 2012, 
CWC sold its 49% interest in Fĳi International Telecoms Limited 
to Amalgamated Telecoms Holdings Limited. The combined cash 
consideration for both of these transactions was approximately 
US$15 million.
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure was US$409 million, 16% higher than the same 
period last year, representing 14% of revenue.
Our principal customer-facing investments were in 4G/HSPA+ mobile 
data networks supporting smartphone sales in Panama, Macau, The 
Bahamas, Barbados and Cayman, selective pay TV investments, and 
improvements to our ﬁxed broadband network. The ﬁxed broadband 
investment has included continuing our ﬁbre to the home (FTTH) roll- 
out in Macau and ﬁbre to the curb (FTTC) roll-out in the Caribbean. 
We have also invested in transmission capacity and cable systems 
to support both retail and carrier sales. We continue to advance 
our billing and customer relationship management systems. 
Included this year, for the ﬁrst time, is our investment in The Bahamas. 
Here our focus is to improve the speed and the capacity of our 
ﬁxed and mobile networks, providing an improved service to our 
customers and preparing for future market competition. 
In the Maldives we have continued our multi-year investment in a 
domestic cable network that will allow us to provide data services 
to the population and to the tourist resorts.
Pre-exceptional depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation and amortisation at US$358 million was US$37 million 
higher than 2010/11 primarily due to the inclusion of The Bahamas.
Net other operating expense
The US$12 million net other operating expense incurred in the year 
comprised US$7 million stamp duty in connection with the purchase 
of a 51% stake in BTC in The Bahamas and US$5 million hurricane 
restoration costs of which US$4 million also related to The Bahamas.
Exceptional restructuring costs
Net exceptional items (excluding impairments and accelerated 
depreciation) moved from an income of US$6 million to a charge 
of US$66 million with the cost in the current year predominantly 
relating to the redundancy and restructuring programmes in The 
Bahamas and Panama. The prior year income included the receipt 
of US$17 million after successfully defending claims brought by 
a Caribbean competitor.
Exceptional impairment and depreciation charges
We recognised a non-cash impairment and accelerated depreciation 
charge of US$244 million in the year ended 31 March 2012. This 
was primarily due to our difficult market position and poor ﬁnancial 
performance in Jamaica. The accelerated depreciation charge was 
in relation to legacy mobile assets as part of the network upgrade 
programme in the Caribbean.
Net ﬁnance expense
The US$156 million net ﬁnance expense for the Group consists of 
ﬁnance income of US$11 million (US$32 million in 2010/11) and 
ﬁnance expense of US$167 million (US$140 million in 2010/11). 
The movements in ﬁnance income and expense compared to the 
prior period relate primarily to foreign exchange gains in the prior 
period, and increased borrowings largely due to the acquisition of 
BTC in The Bahamas.
Income tax expense
The income tax charge of US$78 million (US$118 million for 
2010/11) was in respect of overseas taxes. This charge represents 
an effective tax rate of 21% pre-exceptional items which is below 
our outlook range of 25% to 29%, largely due to the settlement of 
a tax audit in the Caribbean region. We expect the Group effective 
tax rate in 2012/13 to be around 25%, pre-exceptional items.
Cable & Wireless Communications 25 Financial review  
continued
Group cash ﬂow
1
2011/12 
US$m 
2010/11 
US$m 
EBITDA
2
901 872 
Balance sheet capital expenditure (409) (354)
Operating cash ﬂow before exceptional 
items 492 518 
Movement in working capital and other 
provisions
3
20 (12)
Investment income
4
13 17 
Underlying free cash ﬂow 525 523 
Fixed charges:
Income taxes paid (90) (88)
Interest paid (125) (115)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests
5
(183) (159)
Underlying equity free cash ﬂow 127 161 
Underlying equity free cash ﬂow per share 5.1c 6.2c
Dividends paid to shareholders (204) (168)
Net cash ﬂow before one-off items and 
exceptional items (77) (7)
One-off items and exceptional items:
Cash exceptional restructuring costs (69) (29)
Share buyback (70) (30)
LTIP (9) (9)
Acquisitions and disposals
5
(122) 55 
Pension funding (2) (149)
Transfer to Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
for 2009/10 ﬁnal dividend – (117)
Net cash ﬂow after one-off items and 
exceptional items (349) (286)
Movement in share capital and own shares 
held – 1 
Net proceeds from borrowings 299 89 
Net cash ﬂow (50) (196)
1 Based on our management accounts
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP, net other 
operating and non-operating income and exceptional items
3 Includes movement in capital expenditure accruals
4 Includes dividends received from joint ventures of US$4 million in 2011/12 
(US$9 million in 2010/11) and interest income
5 Monaco Telecom dividend paid to minority interest of US$17 million in 2011/12 
(US$7 million in 2010/11) has been reallocated to dividends paid to non-controlling 
interests, but for IFRS purposes is included in acquisitions and disposals
Cable & Wireless Communications generated operating cash ﬂow 
before exceptional items of US$492 million for the year ended 
31 March 2012, slightly lower than for the prior year as the Group 
made the decision to invest heavily in mobile data networks within 
key markets. US$409 million was invested in capital expenditure 
compared to US$354 million in the prior year. The inﬂow from 
movements in working capital and provisions largely reﬂected 
good collections and an increase in capital expenditure accruals.
Investment income of US$13 million included US$8 million of 
interest received on cash balances, with the balance primarily 
relating to dividends received from joint ventures and non-trading 
foreign exchange gains.
Fixed charges
We paid US$90 million relating to income tax in 2011/12, US$2 million 
higher than last year. Interest of US$125 million was paid on our 
external borrowings as the level of borrowings increased compared 
to last year. We paid dividends and loans to non-controlling interests 
of US$183 million in the period. This was US$24 million higher than 
prior year as we included The Bahamas, distributed existing cash 
balances in the Maldives and achieved higher distributions from 
Macau and Monaco.
Dividends paid to our shareholders were higher than the prior year 
as a scrip dividend scheme was not offered in relation to the ﬁnal 
dividend for 2010/11 and the interim dividend for 2011/12.
One-off items and exceptional items
The net cash outﬂow included US$69 million for exceptional items 
which predominantly related to restructuring costs in Panama and 
The Bahamas, where our restructuring programme has progressed 
faster than anticipated. In February 2011, we announced a 
US$100 million share buyback programme of which US$30 million 
was returned to shareholders in the last ﬁnancial year. The ﬁnal 
US$70 million was returned to shareholders earlier this year under 
the programme purchasing 94,727,000 shares held in treasury. In 
April, the Group made a ﬁnal cash payment of US$9 million for the 
previous LTIP. We incurred acquisition costs in the ﬁrst half of this 
year primarily relating to the purchase of BTC in The Bahamas in April 
2011 for a cash consideration of US$204 million partially offset by 
the consolidation of its US$56 million cash balances. We also made 
an investment in a subsea cable consortium in the Seychelles.
Group cash and debt
As at 
31 March 
2012 
 US$m
As at 
31 March 
2011
US$m
Cash and cash equivalents 312 379
Sterling secured loan repayable in 2012 – (46)
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 (317) (317)
Sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2019 (234) (235)
US$500 million secured bonds due 2017 (492) (490)
US$400 million secured bonds due 2020 (390) –
Other regional debt facilities (274) (285)
Total debt (1,707) (1,373)
Total net debt (1,395) (994)
During October 2011, the Group entered into new ﬁve-year 
borrowing arrangements for US$600 million of revolving credit 
facilities. The facilities replace the Group’s US$500 million revolving 
credit facility and US$100 million term loan which were due to expire 
in March 2013. The new facilities are with a syndicate of nine leading 
international banks.
26 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review The new facilities have a maturity date of October 2016 and 
a margin of 2.50% over LIBOR. Consistent with the prior facilities, 
the new facilities are secured on share pledges over the Group’s 
assets. As at 31 March 2012 the new facilities were undrawn. 
During January 2012, the Group issued US$400 million of secured 
senior bonds to reﬁnance the £200 million sterling unsecured bonds 
repayable in August 2012. The new USD notes have a maturity date 
of January 2020 and a margin of 8.75%. Consistent with the 
US$500 million secured bonds due in 2017, the new bonds are 
secured by share pledges over the Group’s assets.
Pensions
As at 31 March 2012, the deﬁned beneﬁt section of the Cable 
& Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF) had an IAS 19 deﬁcit of 
£81 million, compared to a deﬁcit of £51 million as at 31 March 
2011 and a deﬁcit of £78 million as at 30 September 2011.
Cash contributions have been agreed with the trustees from 2014 
to 2016 in order to eliminate the actuarial deﬁcit. These payments 
are subject to the outcome of the next actuarial valuation as at 
March 2013. This future deﬁcit funding constitutes a minimum 
funding agreement and, in accordance with accounting standards, we 
are required to account for this within our IAS 19 deﬁcit. The increase 
in the IAS 19 deﬁcit in the year is mainly due to a fall in the corporate 
bond rate used to discount liabilities. The IAS 19 deﬁcit recorded at 
31 March 2012 represents the present value of the maximum 
amount committed under the minimum funding agreement.
The AA corporate bond rate used in the IAS 19 valuation was 4.9% 
compared with 5.6% at 31 March 2011.
The fund assets at 31 March 2012 were invested approximately 74% 
in the bulk annuity policy, 19% in equities, and 7% in bonds, property, 
swaps and cash. During the year the fund was further derisked with 
an additional 233 members transferred into the annuity policy with 
the associated cost covered by the CWSF.
There are other unfunded pension liabilities in the UK of £26 million 
(£24 million at 31 March 2011). The Group holds investments in gilts 
of £22 million to partially back the UK unfunded pension liabilities. 
Other schemes in Cable & Wireless Communications have a net IAS 19 
surplus of US$22 million (US$29 million surplus at 31 March 201 1).
Dividend
For the ﬁnancial year 2011/12 the Board is recommending a ﬁnal 
dividend of US5.33 cents per share. This represents two-thirds of 
our previously announced intention to pay a full-year dividend of 
US8 cents per share.
Since the demerger we have faced global economic uncertainty 
which has impacted our business, especially in the Caribbean. Having 
reassessed the ﬁnancial outlook for the Group, combined with the 
opportunity to invest and achieve attractive returns, the Board has 
decided to rebase the dividend to US4 cents per share for the 
ﬁnancial year 2012/13, subject to performance of the business 
in the coming year.
Having rebased the dividend to a sustainable level, moving forward, 
the Board is targeting progressive growth that reﬂects the 
underlying cash generation and growth outlook of the business.
Cable & Wireless Communications 27 Risk overview
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
recognises that there are risks in 
operating our businesses
Risk description Risk controls
Investment
Possibility of unsuccessful investment, mergers and 
acquisitions and/or potential new sources of growth 
prove insufficient or fail to develop.
 ▶ Group Board approval required for material transactions
 ▶ We undertake due diligence, employ experienced and 
knowledgeable individuals, obtain external specialist advice 
and ensure thorough debate at Board level
 ▶ Management maintains oversight on business activities
Business development
Development of mobile data, pay TV and value added 
services fail to perform as anticipated.
The Group fails to identify or mobilise into new 
business lines in sufficient time.
 ▶ Ensure focused attention on marketing and product 
development activities and encourage cross-regional leveraging
 ▶ Focus on pricing of new data services to beneﬁt from data 
growth
 ▶ Engage with experts to look at external product developments
 ▶ Post-implementation reviews of business cases as part 
of business unit performance reviews
Competitive activity
Competitor activity, new entrants to market and 
further liberalisation could, through a combination 
of aggressive pricing and promotional activity, reduce 
our market share and margins, which in turn could 
impact revenue, cash ﬂow and proﬁt.
 ▶ Continued investment in our networks to enhance our customer 
relationship systems and advance our quality of service
 ▶ Focus on our retention activity and loyalty programmes 
 ▶ Conduct market analysis and targeted marketing promotions
Business change
Business change strategies fail to achieve business 
improvements which in turn affect the carrying value 
of our investments.
Maintenance and upgrades to our networks or 
systems do not deliver expected improvements 
or cause disruption to existing services.
 ▶ Employ high calibre individuals with proven experience and 
expertise of working on business turnaround/ change projects
 ▶ Focus business resources on targeting the key issues and 
thoroughly plan the implementation of any upgrade works
 ▶ Hold regular reviews with Group senior management during 
the year to discuss progress on existing projects and any risks 
or issues identiﬁed during implementation
Economic conditions
A signiﬁcant downturn in the global economic 
climate or poor local or national economic conditions 
may adversely affect our operations and trading, 
impacting our proﬁtability and ability to obtain 
ﬁnance and pay dividends.
 ▶ Our businesses are well spread geographically and this assists 
in reducing our overall exposure
 ▶ We continue to monitor key economic indicators in each of our 
markets and remain prepared to take action to address any 
economic impact on our business
28 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review Risk description Risk controls
Licences, regulation and political risk
Whilst our Company continues to actively engage 
with governments, opposition parties and regulators 
in all our regions, a change in the political environment 
could lead to changes in regulation, law and/or 
government policy which could impact:
 ▶ the renewal or revocation of licences and/or 
operating agreements
 ▶ the ability of the Company to obtain new or 
additional licences to implement new services 
or technology
The overall effect of these risks is that they could 
impact the value of our investments, cause a business 
to stop operating, severely restrict its operations 
and/or limit the Group’s revenues and proﬁtability.
 ▶ We actively liaise with governments and regulators to 
encourage and participate in a positive working relationship 
of open dialogue at senior levels
 ▶ We monitor developments in the regulatory environment 
for all our businesses
Technology
New technology developments may render 
our existing products, services and supporting 
infrastructure obsolete or non-competitive. As a 
result this may require the Group to increase its rate 
and level of investment in new technologies which 
may affect cash ﬂow and proﬁt.
Concerns are occasionally expressed that mobile 
phones and transmitters may pose long-term health 
risks which, if proven, may result in the Group losing 
a strategic revenue stream or being exposed 
to litigation.
 ▶ New technology developments are under constant review 
within our business and new technologies are introduced 
when appropriate
 ▶ We continue to stay abreast of the latest research on the 
potential health risks of mobile phones and transmitters and 
provide information to our customers when appropriate
Service disruption
Disruption to our network and IT systems from events 
such as natural disasters, ﬁre, security breaches or 
human error could result in loss of customers or 
claims from customers for loss of service.
 ▶ All our businesses have business continuity policies and major 
incident management plans in place, which we continue to 
review to ensure that they remain up to date
 ▶ We also have insurance cover and employ network resilience 
to mitigate the effects of these risks
The Group has a risk management 
framework which our business units 
and the Group utilise to review their 
risks. Below is a summary of some of the 
key risks identified which could affect 
our business. Investors should consider 
these risks along with other information 
provided in this Annual Report.
Cable & Wireless Communications 29 Risk overview  
continued
Risk description Risk controls
Counterparty
Insolvency of a customer or supplier, or a default on 
their organisation, could affect the proﬁtability or 
cash ﬂow of the Group and/or its ability to perform.
 ▶ Contract governance procedures are in place including new 
business and procurement sign-off papers
 ▶ We have robust procurement processes with regular reviews 
and management of our key customers and suppliers
Litigation
Similar to most large organisations, there is a risk of 
litigation against our business units.
 ▶ The Group’s governance framework requires immediate 
reporting of material litigation claims so that the risk can be 
quantiﬁed and appropriate steps taken to mitigate it
 ▶ In the event that litigation is received, pending or threatened, 
we will defend our position vigorously using appropriate legal 
advice and support
Network and data security
Third parties or employees may gain unauthorised 
access to the network and to sensitive data.
 ▶ The Group has information security procedures and controls 
in place which are regularly reviewed
 ▶ Remedial action plans are implemented where necessary
 ▶ Testing of our security systems is undertaken periodically
People
Our people are one of our most important assets and 
our businesses face risk of disruption and lost 
productivity in the event of losing key personnel, 
industrial action or a national emergency.
 ▶ Incentive, succession and retention plans are in place to limit 
the risk of losing key employees
 ▶ We actively engage with unions and undertake colleague 
engagement surveys to keep abreast of and monitor any 
employee issues
 ▶ We have business continuity plans in place to deal with industrial 
action or emergency events
Corporate ethics
There is a risk of people or third parties not complying 
with the Company’s ethics policy or core values.
 ▶ The Business has in place anti-bribery and ethics policies
 ▶ The Group’s anti-bribery policy has been updated to incorporate 
the Bribery Act 2010, and mandatory training has been rolled 
out across the Company’s employee base
Foreign exchange and taxation
The Group generates all of its revenue from outside the UK, 
and so revenue (and associated investments) are exposed 
to exchange rate ﬂuctuations and changes to tax law.
The Group also ﬁnances its operations by way of 
borrowings in several currencies. These factors create 
a potential risk of adverse ﬁnancial impact on the results 
of business units and the Group as a whole.
 ▶ We use foreign exchange hedging contracts and, where 
appropriate, we borrow locally (or in linked currencies) to match 
operating and ﬁnancial cash ﬂow
 ▶ The risk of changes to tax laws are managed by development 
of close working relationships with ﬁscal authorities, continuous 
monitoring of proposed legislative change and consideration 
of changes to the Group contracting arrangements, tax 
compliance processes and holding structure
30 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Business review Risk description Risk controls
Liquidity
Liquidity risk could arise where the Group does not 
have sufficient ﬁnancial resources available to meet its 
obligations and commitments as they fall due, or can 
only access funding at excessive cost.
Exceptional market events could adversely impact any 
of our business units and affect their ability to meet 
obligations as they fall due.
 ▶ The Group forecasts and monitors cash generation and the 
maturity proﬁle of its ﬁnancing facilities by ensuring sufficient 
liquidity to fund both the business units and the Group’s ﬁnancial 
obligations
 ▶ We have raised sufficient credit lines to meet our medium-term 
liquidity needs and continue to maintain good relationships 
with our core banks
Funding
Our ﬁnancing agreements are subject to certain 
covenants. If we were to be in breach of these 
covenants, we may face early repayment of the 
funding facilities, thereby affecting our cash position.
 ▶ The Group regularly checks its ﬁnancial covenants against 
our forecast and budgets to ensure that we operate within 
the prescribed limits
Pensions
The value of the Group’s pension schemes assets and 
liabilities are affected by market movements. The 
Group may also have to make additional contributions 
to the schemes if scheme assumptions change.
 ▶ The Company maintains regular dialogue with the scheme 
trustees who manage the scheme’s assets with appropriate 
external advice along with independent advisers
Shared brand
Both Cable & Wireless Communications and 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide are subject to restrictions 
in using the ‘Cable & Wireless’ trademarks outside of 
their own allocated territories. Breach by either party 
on the agreement of how the Cable & Wireless 
trademark can be used could result in litigation or 
reputation issues.
 ▶ We have procedures in place to identify any potential 
branding infringements and we monitor and deal with 
any problematic issues
Joint venture
There is a risk to the performance of joint ventures 
where we do not have management control.
 ▶ We endeavour to have operational involvement and 
engagement with local management as well as regular 
interaction with major stakeholders and attendance 
at the Joint Venture Board meetings
Cable & Wireless Communications 31 Board of Directors
Sir Richard 
Lapthorne, CBE
 NR
Chairman, Chairman 
of the Nomination 
Committee
Tony Rice
Chief Executive 
Tim Pennington
Chief Financial Officer
Nick Cooper
Corporate Services 
Director
Sir Richard Lapthorne is 
Chairman of the Company 
having been Chairman of Cable 
and Wireless plc since January 
2003. He is also Chairman of 
the Nomination Committee. In 
March 2012 he was appointed 
Chairman of the Foresight 
Group on UK Manufacturing, 
and is Chairman of the PwC 
Public Interest Body and a 
Non-executive Director of 
Sherritt International, based 
in Toronto.
Between June 2009 and April 
2010, he was Chairman of the 
McLaren Group. From 1996 to 
May 2003 Richard was Chairman 
of Amersham International plc 
(now GE Healthcare) having 
joined its Board as a Non-
executive Director in 1989. He 
was Finance Director of British 
Aerospace plc from July 1992 
and Vice Chairman from April 
1998 until his retirement in 1999.
Richard is a Trustee of 
Tommy’s Campaign, the charity 
researching still and premature 
birth. He was Non-executive 
Chairman of New Look Group 
and Morse plc until November 
2007 and February 2008 
respectively and Her Majesty 
the Queen’s Trustee at The 
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew 
until his retirement in 
September 2009.
Tony Rice is Chief Executive of 
the Company and has been so 
since demerger in March 2010, 
having previously served as 
CEO of the predecessor Cable 
& Wireless Communications 
business since November 2008. 
He was Group Finance Director 
of Cable and Wireless plc from 
March 2006 onwards, having 
been a Non-executive Director 
since January 2003. Tony was 
at British Aerospace and its 
successor company BAE Systems 
for 16 years as Group Treasurer 
and ultimately Group Managing 
Director, Commercial Aircraft 
responsible for its Airbus and 
Regional Aircraft business units. 
From 2002 he was CEO of 
Tunstall Holdings Ltd, Europe’s 
leading telecare company until 
its sale in September 2005. 
Tony was appointed the Senior 
Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee of Spirit Pub 
Company plc which listed on 
the London Stock Exchange on 
1 August 2011. Tony also became 
a Director of the Commonwealth 
Business Council Limited on 
1 April 2011 and has been a 
Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of Alexander Mann 
Solutions from 2008.
Tim Pennington is Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company. 
He previously served as the 
Group Finance Director for Cable 
and Wireless plc and as Chief 
Financial Officer for the Cable 
& Wireless Communications 
business. Previously, Tim was 
CFO and an Executive Director 
of Hutchison Telecommunications 
International Ltd, a company 
listed in Hong Kong and New 
York. Tim was also Finance 
Director of Hutchison 3G (UK) 
(Hutchison Whampoa’s UK 
mobile business) and has 
corporate ﬁnance experience 
with HSBC Investment Bank 
and Samuel Montagu & Co.
Nick Cooper is an Executive 
Director of the Company, having 
served as Corporate Services 
Director for the Cable & Wireless 
Communications business since 
December 2008 and Group 
General Counsel and 
Company Secretary for Cable 
and Wireless plc from January 
2006 to demerger. He has 
Board level responsibility for 
Human Resources, Brand, 
PR & Communications, Legal 
& Regulatory Affairs, Insurance, 
Corporate Social Responsibility, 
Procurement and IT. Nick 
qualiﬁed as a solicitor with 
London law ﬁrm Herbert Smith. 
He has held in-house positions 
as company solicitor with Asda 
and George Clothing and as 
General Counsel and Company 
Secretary of The Sage Group Plc 
and JD Wetherspoon Plc. In 
September 2002, Nick was 
appointed Company Secretary 
and was part of the Executive 
Management Board of Energis 
until its acquisition by Cable and 
Wireless plc. 
32 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Simon Ball
 ANR
Deputy Chairman, 
Senior Independent 
Director, Chairman of 
the Audit Committee
Mary Francis, CBE
 ANR
Chair of the 
Remuneration 
Committee
Mark Hamlin
 ANR
Non-executive Director
Ian Tyler
 ANR
Non-executive Director
Simon Ball is a Non-executive 
Director of the Company 
having previously served as 
a Non-executive Director of 
Cable and Wireless plc since 
May 2006. He is also the Deputy 
Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director, Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. From 1 June 
2012 Simon will replace Mary 
Francis as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Simon 
is a Non-executive Director of 
Tribal Group plc and of Allied Irish 
Banks plc. Previously, Simon was 
Group Finance Director for 3i 
Group plc until November 2008 
and also held a series of senior 
ﬁnance and operational roles 
at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, 
served as Group Finance 
Director for the Robert Fleming 
Group and was Director General, 
Finance for the Department for 
Constitutional Affairs.
Mary Francis is a Non-executive 
Director of the Company, 
having previously served as a 
Non-executive Director of Cable 
and Wireless plc since July 2009. 
Mary became the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee in 
March 2010. Mary is also a 
member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees. Mary 
is Senior Independent Director 
of Centrica plc and a Non-
executive Director of Aviva plc. 
She has previously been a 
Non-executive Director of the 
Bank of England, of Alliance & 
Leicester plc and of St Modwen 
Properties plc. Mary has held a 
number of positions in the UK 
Civil Service including Financial 
Counsellor at the British Embassy 
in Washington DC, Private 
Secretary to the Prime Minister 
and Deputy Private Secretary 
to the Queen. From 1999 to 
2005, Mary was Director 
General of the Association of 
British Insurers, and in addition 
to her non-executive roles is 
currently a senior adviser to 
Chatham House.
Mark Hamlin has been a 
Non-executive Director of the 
Company since his appointment 
on 1 January 2012, and is 
a member of the Audit, 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. Mark is a chartered 
Clinical Psychologist, and is the 
Chairman of the Organisation 
Resource Group of Companies. 
He is a senior adviser to the 
boards of global businesses in 
many areas including strategy, 
culture and corporate change 
programmes in international 
markets. Born in Johannesburg, 
he is involved with a number 
of charities in Africa, some 
aimed at creating additional 
income for subsistence farmers 
and their families, and others 
establishing life skills education 
centres for young people. Mark 
is the President of Wedmore 
Opera, a community based 
music performance charity 
in Somerset.
Ian Tyler has been a Non-
executive Director of the 
Company since his appointment 
on 1 January 2011. Ian is 
also a member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. From 1 June 2012 
Ian will replace Simon Ball as 
Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. Ian is a chartered 
accountant and has been Chief 
Executive of Balfour Beatty plc 
since January 2005, having 
joined the company in 1996 as 
Finance Director and having 
become Chief Operating Officer 
in August 2002. From 1993 to 
1996 Ian was Finance Director of 
ARC Limited, one of the principal 
subsidiaries of Hanson Plc, having 
previously been Hanson’s Group 
Financial Comptroller since 1991. 
Prior to that, from 1988, he held 
the positions of Group Treasurer 
and Financial Controller at 
Storehouse Plc, the retailing 
group. Ian is also President of 
CRASH, the charity for homeless 
people around the UK.
A Denotes membership of 
Audit Committee.
N Denotes membership of 
Nomination Committee.
R Denotes membership of 
Remuneration Committee.
Committee membership shown  
as at 31 March 2012.
Cable & Wireless Communications 33 Directors’ 
and corporate 
governance report
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure 
that the Group is governed properly and 
responsibly. The Board is accountable to 
shareholders for the creation and delivery 
of strong sustainable performance and long-
term shareholder value. The Board sets the 
strategic aims of the Group and is collectively 
responsible for matters of strategy, 
performance, resources, governance, 
standards of conduct and accountability.”
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE  
Chairman
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
Throughout the year the Group has complied with all 
relevant provisions set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code).
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website www.frc.org.uk
  “ 
Board Membership
Biographies of the current Directors, including details of their 
Committee memberships, are shown on pages 32 and 33. 
Details of Directors’ attendance at scheduled Board meetings 
are shown in the table below:
Membership and attendance at meetings 
Sir Richard Lapthorne 8/8
Nick Cooper 8/8
Tim Pennington 8/8
Tony Rice 8/8
Simon Ball 8/8
Mary Francis 8/8
Mark Hamlin
1
2/2
Kate Nealon
2
3/3
Ian Tyler 8/8
1 Mark Hamlin was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2012.
2 Kate Nealon resigned with effect from 22 July 2011.
With effect from 1 June 2012 Alison Platt will be appointed to the 
Board as a Non-executive Director, and Mary Francis will retire as a 
Non-executive Director with effect from the end of her current term 
on 30 June 2012.
There is a balance of formal and informal meetings throughout the 
year, which creates an environment that encourages challenge, the 
sharing of information, innovative thinking and open communication. 
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with distinct 
responsibilities. The Chairman’s key areas of responsibility are the 
leadership of the Board, including setting its agenda, ensuring that 
it receives clear, timely and accurate information and facilitating the 
contribution of the Non-executive Directors. The Chairman is also 
responsible for corporate governance and for ensuring, together 
with the Senior Independent Director, that the Company maintains 
effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The commitment of the Chairman as a Non-executive Director 
of Sherritt International, a company listed on the Toronto Stock 
Exchange and as Chairman of the Foresight Group on UK 
Manufacturing are noted on page 32, and the Board considers 
that these appointments are not a constraint on his agreed 
time commitment to the Company. 
The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership of the business 
and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board. 
Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the Group’s corporate governance 
system and is committed to maintaining high governance standards. 
In order to progress the objectives of the Group the Board meets 
on a regular basis and is responsible for organising and directing the 
Company and the Group in a manner that promotes the success of 
the Company and is consistent with good corporate governance 
practice. To enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely 
access is given to all relevant information. 
The key policies and practices of the Company and the Group are 
set out in this report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee 
on page 42 and the Remuneration Committee on pages 44 to 57. 
Furthermore, our independent Non-executive Directors have 
prepared a report describing corporate governance and behaviours 
of the Board on page 41 and details of signiﬁcant shareholdings and 
rights, obligations, powers and procedures under the Company’s 
Articles of Association are set out in the Statutory Information on 
pages 37 to 40. Together, these reports provide shareholders with 
an insight into how our Board and senior management seek to 
manage the business to create and deliver long-term success and 
increase long-term shareholder value. 
Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board and Committee 
meetings are prepared and circulated to each Director as 
appropriate. If a Director objects to a particular proposal, this is 
recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting. During the period 
under review there were no such objections. 
34 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance 34 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board 
which includes:
 — Strategy and management: 
Approval of long-term objectives and strategy, extension of 
Group activities into new business or geographic areas, any 
decision to cease to operate any material part of the Group’s 
business, review of Group performance and the approval of 
annual budget
 — Corporate governance: 
Annual formal reviews of its own performance, a review of Group 
corporate governance arrangements, receiving reports on the 
views of shareholders and determining the independence of 
Non-executive Directors
 —Financial reporting and controls: 
Approval of announcements of interim and ﬁnal results, annual 
report and accounts, approval of dividend policy and approval 
of signiﬁcant changes in accounting policies and practices
 — Board membership and other appointments: 
Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, 
membership and chairmanship of Board Committees, ensuring 
adequate succession planning, appointment of the Senior 
Independent Director and the appointment or removal of 
the Company Secretary
 —Remuneration: 
Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors and other 
senior executives and the introduction of new share incentive 
plans or major changes to existing plans to be put to shareholders 
for approval
 — Delegation of authority: 
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive and receiving reports from Board Committees 
on their activities
 —Contracts/Expenditure: 
Approval of all signiﬁcant contracts and expenditure and all 
investments or disposals in shares in which the Group holds 
an interest
 —Internal Controls: 
Receiving reports on and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk and control processes to support its strategy and 
objectives and assessing these annually
Other speciﬁc responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees, each with clearly deﬁned terms of 
reference. Each Committee reviews their terms of reference annually 
to ensure that they remain appropriate and effective.
Full details on matters reserved to the Board and the terms of 
reference of its Committees can be found on our website at  
www.cwc.com.
Board Balance and Independence
The Board considers all the Company’s Non-executive Directors 
to be independent in character and judgement. Collectively the 
Non-executive Directors contribute to an effective Board with a 
strong mix of skills and business experience. As they all occupy or 
have occupied senior positions each contributes signiﬁcant weight 
to Board decisions.
The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year 
term with an expectation that they will continue for a further three 
year term.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive 
Directors, together with service contracts for Executive Directors, 
are available for inspection by shareholders at our registered 
office during normal business ho urs and at our Annual General 
Meeting (AGM).
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary 
as well as appropriate training and brieﬁngs on matters including 
corporate social responsibility, health & safety and governance 
matters. Additionally, any Director may take independent 
professional advice on any matter at the Company’s expense in 
the furtherance of his or her duties.
The Senior Independent Director
Simon Ball is the Senior Independent Director of the Company. 
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders 
on request and is the designated point of contact for shareholders 
to raise any concerns where contact through the normal channels of 
the Chairman or Executive Directors is inappropriate. Matters raised 
by major shareholders to any Director are brought to the attention 
of the Board.
As part of our commitment to regular dialogue, meetings have been 
held between the Executive Directors and investors on an ongoing 
basis throughout the year. The Chairman and the Senior Independent 
Director have, as in previous years, offered ongoing dialogue and 
meetings with shareholders to discuss any issues they wish to raise, 
and held meetings where appropriate or requested. The Company 
intends to continue this practice.
Internal control, risk management and ﬁnancial reporting
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis. The Group’s 
system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost 
of control procedures should not exceed the expected beneﬁts.
The Group operates a risk management process under which the 
regional businesses identify the key risks to their plans, their likelihood 
and impact and the actions being taken to manage those risks and 
the effectiveness of steps taken to mitigate them. The risk register 
is presented to the Audit Committee on a rolling 12 month basis. The 
principal risks identiﬁed by the Group are set out on pages 28 to 31.
The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of management, 
signiﬁcant changes in the Group’s business and the external environment 
in which it operates. In addition, they provide the Board with monthly 
ﬁnancial information, which includes key risk and performance 
indicators. The Group’s key internal control and monitoring 
procedures include the following:
 — Financial reporting: each year, an annual budget is agreed and 
approved by the Board. At each Board meeting, actual results are 
reviewed and reported against budget and, when appropriate, 
revised forecasts
 —Investment appraisal: the Group has clearly deﬁned policies for 
capital expenditure. These include annual budgets and detailed 
appraisal processes for such expenditure
 —Monitoring systems: internal controls are monitored through a 
programme of internal audits. The Internal Audit function reports 
to the Audit Committee on its examination and evaluation of the 
effectiveness and adequacy of systems of internal control
Cable & Wireless Communications 35 Directors’ and corporate 
governance report  
continued
Board Committees 
The reports of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee 
are set out on pages 42 to 43 and 44 to 57 respectively.
Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee Membership
Membership and attendance at meetings 
Sir Richard Lapthorne 2/2
Simon Ball 2/2
Mary Francis 2/2
Mark Hamlin
1
1/1
Kate Nealon
2
0/0
Ian Tyler 2/2
1 Mark Hamlin was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 January 2012.
2 Kate Nealon resigned from the Committee with effect from 22 July 2011.
Alison Platt will become a member of the Committee upon her 
appointment to the Board as a Non-executive Director effective 
1 June 2012.
Meetings
The Nomination Committee (the Committee) has met on 
two occasions in the period 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012. 
The principal duties of the Committee are set out in the terms 
of reference and include:
 —To review the structure, size and composition of the Board 
and make recommendations with regard to any changes
 —To give full consideration to succession planning for key roles
 —To identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, 
having evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board
 —To review the time commitment required from Non-executive 
Directors
 —To ensure that the balance of the Board and its Committees 
is consistent with good corporate governance and complies with 
the minimum requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code
In accordance with the terms of reference, the Committee 
has reviewed succession planning requirements and the need to 
ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the Board as and 
when required. 
We are supportive of the recommendations in Lord Davies’ report 
but not of the implementation of quotas for FTSE companies.
Our policy is that we recruit based on merit with the quality of 
the candidate being a primary consideration. When recommending 
the appointment of new directors to the Board, the Committee 
considers a number of factors including the size of the Board, 
the balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors, the skills, 
knowledge, experience and diversity already represented and the 
likely future requirements.
During the period under review, the Committee considered and 
recommended to the Board the appointment of Mark Hamlin as a 
Non-executive Director, and as a member of the Audit, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committees. Mark Hamlin was identiﬁed as a 
candidate who would complement the existing balance of skills and 
knowledge of the Board, with sufficient time to dedicate to the role. 
The suitability of his knowledge and skills was independently veriﬁed 
by JCA Group, a boardroom consultancy ﬁrm.
 —Financial and non–ﬁnancial controls: the Group has dedicated 
resource to embed processes and controls across the businesses. 
It operates a number of self-assessment exercises, which include 
monthly and quarterly processes to certify compliance with key 
ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial controls via the Business Assurance 
Checklist (BAC). The BAC requires management to assess and 
certify the effectiveness of its fundamental controls over all 
aspects of its operations. The results of this exercise are utilised 
by Internal Audit in planning its work for the forthcoming year
 —Whistle blowing: the Group operates an Ethics Helpline which is 
administered by an independent third party and is available to all 
employees
Effectiveness of internal control
The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems 
in operation during the ﬁnancial year in accordance with the revised 
Turnbull guidance. The processes as set out above have been in place 
for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual report. 
Where appropriate, necessary action has been or is being taken to 
remedy any failings and weaknesses identiﬁed as signiﬁcant during 
this review.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within our joint 
ventures rests with the senior management of those operations. 
We monitor our investments and exert our inﬂuence through board 
representation where possible.
Induction and professional development
On appointment, the induction of new Board members is undertaken 
by the Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who 
retains responsibility for the induction process. The induction 
includes the provision of information about the Company, details 
of procedures, governance issues and Directors’ responsibilities. 
The programme also includes meetings with senior management 
and key advisers, with meetings with major shareholders arranged 
on request.
The ongoing training and development programme for the Directors 
includes:
 —Regular visits to the overseas business units to meet the local 
teams, enabling knowledge of the business operations to be 
enhanced and to meet local external stakeholders
 — Technology brieﬁng papers to enhance understanding of the 
Group’s products and services
 — Governance updates from external advisers or via the Company 
Secretary’s report
 — Additional presentations to provide an external stakeholder or 
market perspective
In addition, individual training requirements are agreed and arranged 
with Directors as required.
36 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance In addition, the Committee considered and recommended the 
re-appointment of Non-executive Director, Simon Ball for a further 
one year period. Simon Ball has been on the Board of the Company 
since demerger in March 2010, and prior to this served as a Non-
executive Director of Cable and Wireless plc from 1 May 2006. The 
re-appointment of Simon Ball was considered in the light of the Code 
requirements for his continued independence and the need to ensure 
progressive refreshing of the Board. 
Terms of reference
The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to 
carry out its duties.
The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms of 
reference during the period and the full terms of reference of the 
Committee are available at www.cwc.com.
Performance evaluation
In 2011 an external performance evaluation of the Board as a whole 
was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited. Independent Audit 
has no other connection with the Company or Group, and was 
appointed following a review of external providers due to their 
specialist experience and expertise in all aspects of board 
performance and governance. 
The evaluation process involved a thorough review of board 
documentation and individual interviews with members of the Board, 
the Company Secretary and other attendees including external 
advisers and members of the senior management team. 
The evaluation concluded that the Board is strong and effective with 
a good relationship between Executive and Non-executive Directors. 
The report on the ﬁndings of the review was discussed by the Board 
at its meeting in May 2011. For 2010/11, the ﬁndings of the 
external evaluation were positive. The evaluation made a number 
of observations. It was agreed that it would be helpful to increase 
the time spent on strategic matters. In addition to the twice yearly 
strategy sessions, a number of discussions in relation to principal 
strategic themes have been held during the year. The balance and 
structure of overseas board meetings was also reviewed to allow 
more time for informal discussions. All actions have been reviewed 
by the Board and its Committees as appropriate and followed up 
during the year.
An internal Board evaluation has been conducted for 2011/12 using a 
structured questionnaire which covered the operations of the Board 
and its principal Committees. Questionnaires were also issued, in the 
case of each of the Board Committees, to those participants who 
regularly attend these meetings.
The Non-executive Directors also appraised the Chairman’s 
performance and carefully reviewed the relationship between the 
Chairman and the Executive Directors to ensure that the Board 
structure and relationships continue to promote the creation of 
long-term shareholder value.
Other statutory information
Principal activities, business review and results
The Group’s principal activities are detailed on pages 2 and 3. 
Through this Annual report, including the Chairman’s review and 
the Business review sections (pages 1 to 31) that precede this report 
and the preceding corporate governance section (pages 34 to 37), 
the Board seeks to present a balanced and clear assessment of 
the Group’s activities, position and prospects. Each of those sections 
is incorporated by reference into the Directors’ report, which 
is comprised of those sections, the information set out below and 
the other information which is incorporated by reference. The 
Group’s results for the ﬁnancial year are shown in the consolidated 
income statement on page 61. 
Directors
The names and biographical details of the Directors are set out 
on pages 32 and 33.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code which 
speciﬁes that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject 
to annual election by shareholders, all Directors will stand for 
election or re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting (AGM).
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the 
shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, along with details 
of their share awards, are contained in the Directors’ remuneration 
report set out on pages 44 to 57.
No Director had a material interest in any signiﬁcant contract with 
the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year. For further 
information, refer to note 31 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its Directors 
against personal ﬁnancial exposure that they may incur in the course 
of their professional duties as Directors of the Company and/or any 
subsidiaries (as applicable). These indemnities are qualifying third 
party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 
2006 (the 2006 Act). They were granted on appointment of the 
Directors and are still in force. Officers of wholly-owned subsidiary 
companies within the Group have also been granted indemnities.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of US5.33 cents per 
ordinary share payable on 10 August 2012 to ordinary shareholders 
on the register at the close of business on 1 June 2012. This ﬁnal 
dividend, together with the interim dividend of US2.67 cents per 
share paid by the Company on 12 January 2012, makes a total 
dividend payment to shareholders of the Company of US8 cents 
per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Share capital and treasury shares
The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details of 
shares allotted during the year, are shown in note 8 to the Company 
ﬁnancial statements. At the 2011 AGM, the Company was authorised 
by shareholders to purchase up to 257 million of its own ordinary 
shares, representing approximately 10% of its issued share capital 
(excluding shares held in treasury) as at 8 June 2011. Under the 
authority granted by shareholders at the 2010 AGM to purchase up 
to 262 million of its own ordinary shares, on 23 February 2011 the 
Company announced a share buyback programme up to a value of 
US$100 million in order to return capital to shareholders. During the 
period 1 April 2011 to 20 July 2011, the Company purchased 
94,726,873 shares with a nominal value of US$0.05 each for an 
aggregate consideration of US$66 million, and these are held as 
treasury shares (31 March 2011 – 42,762,000 shares in treasury). 
The total number of shares held in treasury as at 31 March 2012 
is 137,488,873. 
The Board intends to seek shareholder approval at the forthcoming 
AGM on 20 July 2012 to make market purchases of up to 10% of its 
issued share capital (excluding shares held in treasury). Details of the 
proposed resolution are included in the Notice of Meeting. The 
Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority to 
purchase the Company’s ordinary shares but will keep the matter 
under review, taking into account other investment opportunities. 
The authority would only be exercised if and when, in the light of 
market conditions prevailing at the time, the Directors believe that 
the effect of such purchases will be in the best interests of 
shareholders generally.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights.
Further details on the share capital of the Company are set out in 
note 8 to the Company ﬁnancial statements on page 116 and 
are incorporated into this report by reference.
Cable & Wireless Communications 37 The Company has no intention of making donations to what are 
generally regarded as political parties within the European Union. 
As a precautionary measure and in the light of the wide deﬁnitions 
of European Union political organisations for the purposes of the 
2006 Act, a resolution was passed at the 2010 AGM permitting the 
Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure. 
In aggregate the sum of US$233,167 was made to non-EU political 
parties by non-EU subsidiary companies.
Supplier payment policy
The Company did not enter into any purchase contracts with suppliers 
which required payment during the year to 31 March 2012. It is the 
Group’s policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in advance 
with suppliers and to make payment in accordance with those terms 
and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with them.
Employee inclusion and diversity
The Group operates in many countries with diverse employment 
practices. Whilst respecting local circumstances, wherever we 
operate we follow the principles of equal opportunity in recruitment, 
development, remuneration and advancement. The Group’s 
employment policies also comply with local requirements and meet 
relevant standards on employment of disabled people. Full and fair 
consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment and 
training, and career development is encouraged on the basis of 
aptitude and ability. It is Group policy to retain employees who 
become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialist 
training where appropriate.
Ethics
The Company is committed to sound business conduct in its 
relationships with key stakeholders (shareholders, employees, 
customers, business partners and suppliers), governments and 
regulators, communities and the environment. The Group’s ethics 
policy applies to all Group companies and employees. Where the 
Group operates in conjunction with business partners, third parties 
or in joint venture arrangements without management control, it 
aims to promote the application of this policy. The Group seeks to 
conduct its operations with honesty, integrity and openness, and 
with respect for the human rights and interests of our employees. 
The Group respects the legitimate interests of all those with whom 
it has relationships. During the year, a review of the Group’s anti-
bribery policy has been undertaken to ensure that our policies and 
procedures meet the standards required by the Bribery Act 2010. 
Charitable and political donations
During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group gave US$3 million 
(2010/11 – US$1.07 million) to charitable organisations including 
US$144,312 (£90,000) (2010/11 – US$95,207 (£60,000)) to the 
Porthcurno Trust, a charitable organisation in the United Kingdom. 
The Group actively supports corporate social responsibility in the 
communities in which it operates and more information on these 
activities is set out on pages 18 and 19.
Company’s shareholders
As at 31 March 2012 and the date of this report, the Company had been notiﬁed of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the 
issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
As at 31 March 2012 As at 23 May 2012
 
 
No. of 
ordinary shares
% of voting
rights Nature of holding
No. of 
ordinary shares
% of voting
rights Nature of holding
Newton Investment 
Management Limited 252,784,845 9.99
As a discretionary 
fund manager 252,784,845 9.99
As a discretionary 
fund manager
Orbis Holdings Limited 383,881,946 15.18 Indirect 383,881,946 15.18 Indirect
Franklin Mutual Advisers LLC 242,437 ,048 9.24 Indirect 242,437 ,048 9.24 Indirect
Legal & General Group Plc 98,421,834 3.75 Direct 98,421,834 3.75 Direct
Directors’ and corporate 
governance report  
continued
38 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Employee communication
The Group communicates with employees in many ways, including 
regular brieﬁngs by management, newsletters and intranet sites. 
These communications help to achieve a common awareness among 
employees of the ﬁnancial and operational performance of the Group.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes
The Trustees of The Cable & Wireless Communications Share 
Ownership Trust exercise the voting rights on shares held in the 
employee trust in accordance with their ﬁduciary duties as Trustees, 
which include the duty to act in the best interests of the beneﬁciaries 
of the Trust.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 11am on Friday 20 July 2012 at The 
Mermaid, Conference & Events Centre, Puddle Dock, Blackfriars, 
London EC4V 3DB. Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 
AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
Auditor
Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as our external auditor and 
to authorise the Directors to set the auditor’s remuneration will be 
proposed at the AGM.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information (as deﬁned in Section 418(3) of the 2006 Act) of which 
the auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all reasonable 
steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and ensure the 
auditors are aware of such information.
Change of control
The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change 
of control clauses. These primarily relate to ﬁnancing facilities, 
bonds, licences and operating agreements.
Under the Group’s US$500 million and US$100 million revolving 
credit facility agreements, on a change of control the lenders are not 
obliged to fund any further sums and, if the majority lenders require, 
on not less than ten days’ notice, the facility can be cancelled and 
all outstanding loans, together with related charges, become 
immediately due and payable.
Under the terms of the US$500 million 7.75% 2017 Senior 
Secured Notes and the US$400 million 8.75% 2020 Senior Secured 
Notes (the Bonds), if a change of control event occurs, each holder 
of the Bonds will have the right to require the repurchase of all or 
any part of their Bonds at a redemption price equal to 101% of the 
principal amount of the Bonds purchased, together with accrued 
(but unpaid) interest.
A number of the Group’s operating licences and shareholders’ 
agreements include change of control clauses which may be 
triggered by the sale of all or a controlling stake in a business, 
or certain types of restructuring.
In the event of a change of control, these clauses may require 
consideration to determine their impact on the Group. At present, 
risks arising from a change of control are not considered to be 
signiﬁcant. The Group will take appropriate action to mitigate any 
risks arising from these events should they occur. Change of control 
provisions in relation to Directors’ service contracts are explained 
in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 44 to 57.
Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares
The following section summarises the rights and obligations in 
the Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles) relating to the 
ordinary shares of the Company. The full Articles can be found 
on the Company’s website www.cwc.com.
Amendment of Articles: The Articles may be amended by a special 
resolution of the shareholders passed at a general meeting of 
the Company.
Voting: Each share (other than those held in treasury) allows the 
holder to have one vote at general meetings of the Company on 
votes taken on a poll.
Dividends: The Company’s shareholders can declare dividends by 
passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the 
amount recommended by the Directors. The Directors may also pay 
interim dividends without shareholder approval if they consider that 
the ﬁnancial position of the Company justiﬁes it. The Directors may 
operate dividend reinvestment plans or, subject to shareholder 
approval, operate scrip schemes or pay dividends by distributing 
assets. No dividend carries a right to interest from the Company. 
If dividends remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited by 
the shareholder and revert to the Company.
Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien on all partly paid shares 
(and dividends), which has priority over claims of others to such 
shares covering any money owed to the Company for the shares. 
The Directors may sell all or any of such shares where: (i) the money 
owed by the shareholder is payable immediately; (ii) the Directors 
have given notice demanding payment, stating the amount due and 
that the shares will be sold on non-payment; and (iii) the money 
has not been paid within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any money 
which has not yet been paid to the Company for their shares. If a 
call is unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay interest and all 
expenses incurred by the Company as a result of non-payment if 
the call remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the date of a notice. 
In addition, failure to comply with any such notice may result in 
forfeiture of any share which is the subject of the notice, including 
any unpaid dividends.
The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any shares that 
are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent 
dealings from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder shall 
not be entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Company or at 
any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares 
in the Company or exercise any other right conferred by membership 
in relation to general meetings if the shareholder has not paid all 
amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the 
meeting, or if the shareholder is given a notice following a failure by 
that shareholder or someone who appears to be interested in the 
shares to comply with a notice under section 793 of the 2006 Act. 
Further, if a shareholder holding 0.25% or more of the issued shares 
of a class (excluding treasury shares) or interested person is in 
default of a section 793 notice, the Directors may also state in the 
notice that: (i) the payment of any dividend shall be withheld; (ii) 
the shareholder shall not be entitled to elect to receive shares in 
place of dividends withheld; and (iii) the transfer of the shares held 
by such shareholder shall be restricted.
Certiﬁcated shares: The Company can sell any certiﬁcated shares at 
the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale if: (i) in a 
period of 12 years at least three dividends have become payable and 
no dividends have been claimed; (ii) the Company has published a 
notice after the 12 year period stating that it intends to sell the 
shares; and (iii) during the 12 year period and for three months after 
the notice, the Company has not heard from the shareholder or any 
person entitled to sell the shares.
The Directors may decline registration of certiﬁcated shares if: (i) a 
share transfer form is used to transfer more than one class of shares; 
(ii) transfers are in favour of more than four joint holders; or (iii) the 
share transfer form is not delivered to the office, or such other place 
decided on by the Directors, accompanied by the share certiﬁcate 
relating to the shares being transferred (unless the transfer is by 
a person to whom the Company was not required to, and did not, 
send a certiﬁcate) and any other evidence reasonably asked for by 
the Directors to show entitlement to transfer the shares.
Cable & Wireless Communications 39 Powers of Directors
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and 
the Articles. As provided in the Articles, the Directors may exercise 
all the Company’s powers provided that the Articles or applicable 
legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised 
by the members. The Directors have been authorised to issue and 
allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 12. The powers under 
Article 12 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal. 
Shareholders are also requested to renew the Directors’ power 
to make market purchases of shares at each AGM. Any shares 
purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Conﬂicts of interest
The Articles permit the Directors to authorise conﬂicts and potential 
conﬂicts. Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by 
Directors of any such conﬂicts and also for the consideration and 
authorisation of these conﬂicts by the Board. These procedures 
allow  for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when 
authorising any conﬂict, if they think this is appropriate.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Business reviews on pages 1 to 31 including the Financial 
review on pages 20 to 27. The ﬁnancial position of the Group, its cash 
ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Financial review on pages 20 to 27. Further, notes 27 and 35 to the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital; its ﬁnancial risk 
management objectives; details of its ﬁnancial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
The Directors believe that the Group’s wide geographic spread, 
robust monitoring and forecasting processes leave it well placed 
to manage its business risks in the current economic conditions. 
In addition, the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking into 
account possible changes in trading performance which could be 
reasonably anticipated, indicate that the Group is able to operate 
within the level of its current available facilities. A formal process 
for monitoring compliance with debt covenants is also in place. 
Further information on debt can be found in note 21 to the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
After reviewing budgets and other longer-term plans and making 
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
By order of the Board
Clare Underwood
Company Secretary
23 May 2012
Uncertiﬁcated shares: The Directors may decline registration of 
uncertiﬁcated shares if the transfer is in favour of more than four 
joint holders or otherwise in accordance with the Uncertiﬁcated 
Securities Regulations 2001.
Interests in shares: Except where express rights are given, the 
Company will only recognise a current and absolute right to whole 
shares. The fact that any share, or any part of a share, may not be 
owned outright by the registered owner is not of any concern to 
the Company.
US Holders: The Directors may require a shareholder or other person 
appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose information relating 
to the ownership of such shares or to show that such shares are not 
held by a US Holder (deﬁned in the Articles as being: (i) persons 
resident in the US who hold shares in the Company and (ii) persons 
who appear to the Directors to fall within sub-paragraph (i) of the 
deﬁnition of a US Holder). The Directors may require a US Holder to 
sell their shares to someone who is not a US Holder, failing which, the 
Company may effect a sale of such shares on the US Holder’s behalf.
Disputes: Any disputes between a shareholder and the Company 
and/or the Directors arising out of or in connection with the Articles 
shall be exclusively and ﬁnally resolved under the Rules of Arbitration 
of the International Chamber of Commerce, as amended from time 
to time, in accordance with the Articles.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are 
contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is eligible to be 
elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate 
such persons. 
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary 
resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, provided 
that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this way retires and 
stands for election at the ﬁrst AGM following his appointment.
The Company’s members may remove a Director by passing an 
ordinary resolution for which special notice has been given. Any 
Director will automatically cease to be a Director if: (i) they resign; 
(ii) they offer to resign and the other Directors accept that offer;  
(iii) all the other Directors (being at least three) require it; (iv) they 
are suffering from mental ill health and the Directors require them  
to cease to be a Director; (v) they have missed Directors’ meetings  
for a continuous period of six months without permission and the 
other Directors resolve that they shall cease to be a Director; (vi) a 
bankruptcy order is made against them, or they make an arrangement 
or composition with their creditors; (vii) they are prohibited from being 
a Director by law; or (viii) they cease to be a Director under legislation 
or are removed from office under the Articles.
Directors’ and corporate 
governance report  
continued
40 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Independent 
Directors’ report
The Board of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc ﬁrmly 
believe in the principles of behavioural governance. Prior 
to demerger the Board of Cable and Wireless plc produced 
a report on behaviours for six years and the Company has 
continued to do so for the last two years. The Board is pleased 
that behavioural governance themes have been embodied 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board has eight scheduled Board meetings each year. The 
annual meeting plan includes detailed reports and presentations 
on a number of recurring items to inform a structured debate. In 
addition, a number of unstructured debates took place during the 
year covering strategy, remuneration and risk. These discussions 
enable the Board to freely discuss and challenge the Company’s 
approach to such matters without the constraints of slides or 
pre-determined opinions.
A number of the Board meetings take place in the regional business 
unit locations. These visits give the Independent Directors an insight 
into the business unit operations, the local teams and the culture and 
environment within which they operate. They also facilitate a close 
understanding of the operational governance of the Executive team. 
During the year the Board visited Panama and The Bahamas enabling 
them to receive a ﬁrst hand view of progress since the acquisition of 
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company Limited (BTC) in April 
2011 and meet with the regional Chief Executives and management 
teams as well as external stakeholders. 
During the course of the year, the Board has reviewed and focussed on 
a number of new legislative and governance developments including 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Bribery 
Act 2010. The Group’s anti-bribery policies and procedures were 
reviewed and updated and a detailed implementation plan was 
executed to communicate and roll out the policy. This included 
discussion at the London and Business Unit Senior Management 
Team meetings, adoption of the policy by the Group’s local subsidiary 
boards and face to face and mandatory online training programmes for 
employees across the Group to enhance awareness and understanding 
of the policy. The Board also discussed Lord Davies’ report and gender 
diversity, the performance measures used to drive behaviours within 
the business and reviewed the on-going training and development 
programme which includes meetings with the regional business unit 
teams and external stakeholders, technology brieﬁngs, governance 
updates, and informal discussions for the Directors as well as the 
induction programme for new Directors. This is supported by the 
annual board evaluation which focussed on a discussion and analysis 
of the behaviours of the Board.
Mark Hamlin, Chairman of the Organisation Resource Group of 
companies, joined the Board as an Independent Director in January 
2012. Mark’s insight and experience gained as a senior adviser to the 
boards of global companies on culture and transformation reinforces 
the Board’s commitment to behaviours.
Turning now to the four questions posed annually as part of 
Cable & Wireless Communications’ approach to measuring 
effective corporate governance:
1 What is the quality of the relationship between the 
Chairman and the Executive Directors?
The relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive takes 
a traditional form with the Chairman being responsible for the 
leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive being responsible 
for the running of the business. There is a clear understanding of the 
authorities of each party and the Chairman and the Chief Executive 
have regular contact including one to one meetings.
The other Executive Directors, being the Chief Financial Officer 
and the Corporate Services Director, report directly to the Chief 
Executive. The Executive Directors maintain a strong relationship 
with the Chairman with direct contact and discussion as needed.
The relationship between the Chairman and the Executive Directors 
has remained consistently strong throughout the year. 
2 How open are the Executive Directors with the Board?
The Board receives detailed reports and presentations from 
Executive Directors in advance of Board meetings as well as 
oral updates at the meetings. Members of the London Senior 
Management team are invited to attend Board and Committee 
meetings to present and discuss a number of matters including 
remuneration, risk and operational governance. The meetings with 
the regional Chief Executives and local management teams as well 
as external stakeholders facilitate an open forum for discussion and 
unstructured debate with the Executive and the local senior teams.
3 What is the visibility of the checks and balances 
between the Executive Directors?
The visibility of checks and balances between the Executive 
Directors is high. 
The Executive Directors show a willingness to openly debate and 
stimulate different perspectives in Board meetings, enabling the 
Non-executive Directors to obtain a rounded view of the Executive 
Directors’ views. In addition, formal and informal meetings with the 
regional Chief Executives enable a supplementary view to that of 
the Executive Directors. 
4 Have questions asked by the Independent Directors in Board 
and Committee meetings been appropriately addressed?
The Independent Directors are comfortable that questions have 
been answered in a professional and constructive manner 
throughout the year. 
As part of the annual corporate governance programme, the 
Independent Directors met separately during the year to discuss any 
relevant governance matters. They also met twice with the Chairman 
present and once with the Chairman and Chief Executive present. 
The Independent Directors are satisﬁed that the corporate 
governance controls of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
are effective.
The Board of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc consider that 
this report continues to be an appropriate way to embody the 
principles set out in the new UK Corporate Governance Code and 
have conﬁrmed that they will publish an Independent Directors’ 
report for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Simon Ball
Senior Independent Director
23 May 2012
Cable & Wireless Communications 41 Audit  
Committee  
report
This report sets out the membership, purposes 
and activities of the Audit Committee. During 
the year, the Committee has undertaken a 
number of key activities, including reviews 
of judgemental accounting and disclosure 
issues such as asset impairment and revenue 
recognition, the risk management framework 
and the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit arrangements.” 
Simon Ball 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
2011/12 Key Activities
 — Reviewing the annual report and accounts, 
preliminary results and press release for the year 
ended 31 March 2011
 — Reviewing the composition and balance of trade 
receivables and accrued income during the year 
to assess the level of exposure within the Group
 — Reviewing the nature and disclosure of exceptional 
items
 — Reviewing the Group’s revenue recognition policies 
and their application
 — Reviewing the internal control and risk management 
framework processes and how they are implemented 
by the regional business units
 — Reviewing the effectiveness of the in-house audit team 
and the co-source arrangements as well as the internal 
audit plan
 — Reviewing the status of Group litigation
 — Assessing the external auditor’s independence and 
undertaking an evaluation of the external auditor
 — Reviewing external audit strategy and fees
 — Review of tax risk and treasury, accounting and tax 
policies
 — Reviewing the interim results and press release for the 
six months ended 30 September 2011
 — Monitoring Group insurance cover
  “ 
This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors’ and 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 34 to 40. 
Audit Committee Membership 
The Audit Committee (the Committee) is comprised solely of 
independent Non-executive Directors. 
Membership and attendance at meetings 
Simon Ball 5/5
Mary Francis 5/5
Mark Hamlin
1
1/1
Kate Nealon
2
2/2
Ian Tyler 5/5
1 Mark Hamlin was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 January 2012.
2 Kate Nealon resigned from the Committee with effect from 22 July 2011.
With effect from 1 June 2012, Ian Tyler will become the 
Chairman of the Committee and Alison Platt will become 
a member of the Committee upon her appointment to the Board 
as a Non-executive Director.
The Board has satisﬁed itself that at least one member of the 
Committee has recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience and is 
conﬁdent that the collective experience of the members enables 
them to act as an effective Audit Committee. The outcomes 
of Committee meetings are reported to the Board.
The principal duties of the Committee are set out in the terms 
of reference and include:
 —To review and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls, 
internal audit and risk management systems
 —To review and approve the internal audit programme, ensuring 
adequate resources and co-ordination with external auditors
 —To monitor the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements and 
announcements relating to ﬁnancial performance, and review 
signiﬁcant judgements contained in them
 —To monitor the ﬁnancial reporting process and the effectiveness 
of the statutory audit of the Annual report
 —To review and monitor independence and performance of external 
auditors, recommend their appointment, re-appointment and 
removal to the Board as appropriate and develop policy in relation 
to the provision of non-audit services
Meetings
The Committee held ﬁve scheduled meetings during the year ended 
31 March 2012. Details of Committee membership and individual 
attendance at the meetings by members are given in the table above.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Services 
Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and 
representatives from KPMG Audit Plc (KPMG), the Company’s 
external auditor, are also invited to attend all Committee meetings. 
In May and November when the full year and half year results are 
considered, the Chairman is also invited to attend.
The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee Chairman 
in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial 
Controller and the external auditor. Each scheduled meeting 
commences with a private session, attended only by Committee 
members, the external auditor and Head of Internal Audit, to take 
soundings on matters to be discussed at the meeting or any other 
matters attendees wish to highlight. At each meeting the Committee 
then receives reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the external 
auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, together with biannual 
litigation reports. 
42 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Terms of reference
The terms of reference also set out the authority of the Committee 
to carry out its duties. 
The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms 
of reference during the period and the full terms of reference are 
available at www.cwc.com.
Disclosure Committee
To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for identifying 
and considering disclosure matters in connection with the preparation 
of all market releases containing material ﬁnancial information has 
been delegated to a Disclosure Committee. This Committee comprises 
members of senior management from ﬁnance, legal, company 
secretarial and investor relations.
During the preparation of the Annual report, the Disclosure 
Committee obtains certiﬁcations from contributors prior to the 
document’s review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
Whistle blowing
The Company provides an Ethics Helpline which is administered by 
an independent third party and is available to all Group employees. 
This provides a mechanism for employees to raise concerns where 
they either do not feel comfortable raising the matter with local 
management or they are not satisﬁed with the local management 
response.
Internal Audit
Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal Audit, supported 
by a team of in-house auditors based in the UK and Jamaica, 
supplemented by a third party to provide speciﬁc skills as required. 
The internal audit plan is approved by the Committee annually.
External audit
KPMG was appointed as auditor of the Company during the ﬁnancial 
year 2009/10 and also acted as auditor of Cable and Wireless plc 
from 1991. The Committee evaluates KPMG’s tenure annually and is 
not restricted by any contractual obligations in its choice of auditor. 
The Board has accepted the Committee’s recommendation that 
KPMG should be reappointed for 2012/13. This recommendation 
was based on a detailed review of the 2010/11 audit of the Company 
which demonstrated overall satisfaction with the performance of 
KPMG as external auditor. The review included a survey of 
Committee members and key personnel involved in the audit, 
discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit, 
as well as an analysis of KPMG’s capabilities and independence.
The audit engagement partner responsible for the 2011/12 audit 
was assigned on 19 March 2010.
The Committee has established a policy to maintain the 
independence of the external auditor and its personnel and to govern 
the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditor 
and its associates. The policy clearly identiﬁes permitted and 
prohibited services and sets out the procedure to be followed for the 
approval of all audit and non-audit services. All engagements with 
an expected fee in excess of US$400,000 require the prior approval 
of the Chairman of the Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2012 the Audit Committee approved 
fees for audit services of US$3.9 million, together with fees for 
audit-related regulatory reporting of US$0.6 million and non-audit 
work of US$0.5 million. The nature of the services provided is set 
out in note 6e to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. There is no 
limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of KPMG as auditor 
to the Company.
Simon Ball
Chairman, Audit Committee
23 May 2012
Cable & Wireless Communications 43 Directors’ 
remuneration  
report
We have focussed this year on ensuring that 
the Company’ s remuneration arrangements 
are aligned with its evolving strategy. 
We believe that the overall approach to 
remuneration which was adopted at demerger 
in 2010 continues to incentivise and reward 
the Executive Directors appropriately. Looking 
ahead to the financial year 2012/13, based on 
feedback from last year and our understanding 
of market conditions, we have concluded that 
some changes should be made to the targets 
we set for long term share incentives, in line 
with the Board’ s priorities for the business 
over both the short and longer term. These 
are described in detail in the report.” 
Mary Francis, CBE 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
2011/12 Key Activities
 — Finalising executive remuneration arrangements for 
2011/12, on the basis described in last year’s Annual 
report. This included implementing the new share plan 
rules (PSP2011) approved at the 2011 AGM; approving 
the annual bonus payments relating to performance 
in 2010/11; implementing the new deferred bonus 
arrangement with claw back and approving the amounts 
for deferral for 2011
 — Monitoring performance against the short and longer term 
targets set for the year and finalising the annual bonus 
award in respect of performance during 2011/12. It is 
anticipated that the award of performance shares made 
in 2009, which are due to vest in June 2012, will lapse
 — Undertaking a risk audit of executive remuneration 
policies. This will be an annual exercise from now on
 — Reviewing incentive arrangements for the forthcoming 
year, 2012/13, and in particular considering whether 
the targets for the PSP2011 remained appropriate. The 
Committee concluded that the targets should be changed 
from absolute Total Shareholder Return (TSR) growth to 
a combination of relative TSR growth against comparable 
telecoms companies, and growth in Earnings Per Share 
(EPS), and that levels of awards should be reduced. 
Details of the proposed changes are set out in the table 
on pages 47 to 48 and have been the subject of 
consultation with shareholders by the Committee
 — Retaining our shareholding guidelines which are at 
the upper decile for all FTSE companies thus creating 
effective claw back and alignment between Executive 
Directors and shareholders
 — Reviewing the Chairman’s remuneration for 2012/13
  “ 
This report provides information on the remuneration of the 
Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for the year 
ended 31 March 2012 and the arrangements that will apply until 
31 March 2013. It will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM 
on 20 July 2012.
The report covers:
 —An overview of our remuneration policy
 —Committee governance
 —Remuneration arrangements for 2012/13 and their alignment 
with Board strategy
 —Remuneration outcomes in 2011/12
 —Additional information
 —Audited appendices
Remuneration Committee Membership
Since 1 April 2012, there have been a number of changes to the 
membership of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) 
as reported in the table below. Mary Francis will be succeeded 
as Chair of the Committee by Simon Ball, effective 1 June 2012. 
With effect from the same date Sir Richard Lapthorne will cease to 
serve as a member of the Committee, and Alison Platt will become 
a member of the Committee on her appointment to the Board as 
a Non-executive Director.
Membership and attendance at meetings 
Simon Ball 3/3
Mary Francis 3/3
Mark Hamlin
1
1/1
Ian Tyler 3/3
Sir Richard Lapthorne
2
3/3
Kate Nealon
3
1/1
1 Mark Hamlin was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 January 2012.
2 Sir Richard Lapthorne will cease to be a member of the committee on 1 June 2012.
3 Kate Nealon resigned from the Committee with effect from 22 July 2011.
Meetings
The Committee held three scheduled meetings during the year 
ended 31 March 2012. Details of committee membership and 
individual attendance at the meetings by members are given in 
the table above.
No person is present during any discussion relating to their own 
remuneration.
The principal duties of the Committee are detailed below:
 —To recommend to the Board the policy for the remuneration 
of the Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior 
executive management
 —To review the remuneration policy and consider its alignment 
with strategy on an on-going basis
 —To review the design of all new share incentive plans, policy 
on equity incentive awards and performance conditions
 —To determine whether performance measures for incentive 
plans have been satisﬁed
 —To approve any amendments to the service contracts of the 
Chairman and Executive Directors
 —To oversee any major changes to employee beneﬁt structures
 —To monitor the Group’s pension plan
In forming its recommendations, the Committee receives input and 
advice from the Executive Directors, the HR Director and New Bridge 
Street (NBS) who are the Committee’s independent adviser. The 
outcomes of Committee meetings are reported to the Board.
44 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Terms of reference
The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee 
to carry out its duties.
The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms 
of reference during the period and the full terms of reference can 
be found on our website at www.cwc.com.
Overview of our Remuneration Policy
The current structure of remuneration for Executive Directors 
was adopted on demerger in March 2010. The Committee 
recognised that the circumstances for managing Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc were materially different from those affecting 
the former Cable and Wireless plc and signiﬁcantly amended its 
policy to a more standard arrangement. 
Our policy
Overview
The overall aim is to ensure that remuneration encourages, 
reinforces and rewards the delivery of outstanding business 
performance. This is underpinned by the following guiding principles
 — The risk and reward structure must maintain an overall alignment 
with the interests of shareholders
 — Executive Directors are encouraged to maintain a signiﬁcant 
investment in the shares of the Company
 — There is a strong focus on performance-related pay
 — Targets must be stretching and provide for median levels of 
reward for median performance against the targets, and median 
to top quartile levels of reward for exceptional performance
How do we do this?
 —By setting ﬁxed pay levels by reference to mid-market 
comparators and recruitment/retention considerations, while 
retaining some ﬂexibility to reﬂect executives’ experience 
and expertise
 — By carefully balancing the variable pay opportunities provided 
through our performance-related short and long term incentive 
plans, to ensure executives are incentivised to maximise 
performance over both the short and longer term
 —By providing for a signiﬁcant proportion of the package 
to be delivered and retained in shares and therefore subject 
to claw back
 — By requiring Executive Directors to build up and maintain 
a substantial holding of ordinary shares 
 — By ensuring that all aspects of remuneration for the Executive 
Directors and selected senior employees are approved by the 
Committee and by reviewing the levels, structure and philosophy 
of remuneration on an annual basis
 —By taking account of the pay and employment conditions 
of other employees in the Group when determining the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration
 — By considering the impact of remuneration on the risk proﬁle 
of the Company
What key changes have we made for 2012/13?
No change is planned in the overall structure of remuneration in 
2012/13. However, the Committee has conducted a comprehensive 
review of the conditions to be attached to the awards under the 
PSP2011, to ensure that longer term incentives are aligned with the 
Board’s strategy. It will be changing the performance conditions used 
to a combination of relative TSR and EPS and will be substantially 
reducing award levels.
In the annual bonus plan the proportional split between EBITDA 
(Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortisation) and 
NCFbF (Net Cash Flow before Financing) has been changed to 65% 
EBITDA and 35% NCFbF, with 20% of the bonus based on personal 
performance for all the Executive Directors.
Salaries have been maintained at current levels for the CEO and 
CFO for the last two years. The Corporate Services Director’s salary 
has been increased to reﬂect a signiﬁcant increase in the scope of 
his role and responsibilities on an on-going basis. The aggregate 
increase of 1.6% of base salary for the Executive Directors is below 
the average increase of 2.5% of base salary which will apply for 
UK based employees.
Details of these proposed changes are on page 47, together with 
a summary of how these measures are aligned with Group strategy 
on page 49.
Committee Governance
Advisers to the Committee
NBS provide advice on remuneration and share plans both for 
Executive Directors and the wider senior management population, 
and were appointed by the Committee. In addition, NBS provide 
measurement of the Company’s relative and absolute TSR 
performance and benchmark Non-executive Directors’ and 
the Chairman’s fee levels. 
NBS are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code 
of Conduct and any advice provided by them is governed by that 
code. NBS’s terms of engagement are available on request from the 
Company Secretary. NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt (a part of 
Aon plc) which, other than acting as independent consultants to the 
Committee, provided no further services to the Company during 
the year. 
Cable & Wireless Communications 45 Directors’ 
remuneration report 
continued
Remuneration arrangements for 2012/13 and their alignment with strategy
Set out below are:
 —A summary of the remuneration arrangements which will apply in 2012/13, compared with 2011/12 
 —Pie charts showing, for each Executive Director, the proportion of remuneration from ﬁxed annual salary, performance-related annual 
bonus, and performance-related three year share incentive scheme
Summary of remuneration arrangements for 2012/13, compared to 2011/12
Director
Base pay 
2011/12 
£000
Base pay 
2012/13 
£000
Annual 
bonus 
opportunity 
2011/12
(% of salary)
Annual 
bonus 
opportunity
 2012/13
(% of salary)
Performance
 share 
awards 
201 1/1 2 
(% of salary)
Performance
 share 
awards 
201 2/13 
(% of salary)
Tony Rice 700 700 0 – 150 0 – 150 280 200
Tim Pennington 500 500 0 – 150 0 – 150 280 200
Nick Cooper 350 375 0 – 150 0 – 150 200 150
The fair value of awards granted in 2011/12 was estimated to be 40% of the face value of the award. For 2012/13 the fair value of the 
awards is estimated to be 55% of the face value. Total theoretical pay levels thus remained unchanged. Shares will vest after three years, 
depending on performance, at between 0% and 100% of the awards.
Proportionate split of total remuneration at target level versus maximum level of performance
1
1
Split of potential total target and maximum remuneration 2012/13
T ony Rice and Tim Pennington
1 Salary 31% 21%
2 Pension 8% 5%
3 Performance- 27% 32%
 related annual
 bonus 
4 Performance- 34% 42%
 related long-
 term incentives
Max
(inner)
T arget
(outer)
2
2
3
3
4
4
N.B. Does not take account of any share price growth
The overall aim of the arrangements in 2012/13 will be unchanged. It is to ensure that remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the 
delivery of outstanding business performance, and is aligned with our strategy, without encouraging excessive risk. 
1
1
1
Split of potential total target and maximum remuneration 2012/13
Nick Cooper
1 Salary 34% 24%
2 Pension 8% 6%
3 Performance- 30% 35%
 related annual
 bonus 
4 Performance- 28% 35%
 related long-
 term incentives
Max
(inner)
T arget
(outer)
2
2
3
3
4
4
N.B. Does not take account of any share price growth
46 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance The structure of remuneration arrangements will also be unchanged. The following table sets out the key elements and identiﬁes changes to 
targets and award levels. 
Key features of the annual bonus, long term incentive plan and pension/beneﬁt arrangements for 2012/13
Remuneration element Policy Key features Arrangements for 2012/13
Base salary Base salaries are set by reference to 
median market practice in comparable 
companies and recruitment and retention 
considerations, with some ﬂexibility to 
reﬂect an executive’s experience and 
expertise. The pay and employment 
conditions of other UK based employees 
are taken carefully into account. 
The CEO’s and CFO’s base salaries will remain 
unchanged from their 2010/11 levels.
The Corporate Services Director’s salary has been 
increased from £350,000 to £375,000 to reﬂect a 
signiﬁcant increase in the scope of his role, as during 
2011/12 he took on additional responsibility for 
Group-wide IT and Procurement. He has not received 
a salary increase since demerger, and despite this 
adjustment, his salary is below median against a 
comparator group of companies with similar levels 
of turnover. 
The aggregate increase of 1.6% of base salary for the 
Executive Directors is below the average increase of 
2.5% of base salary which will apply for UK based 
employees.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses are rewards for short 
term performance during the year and 
are intended to incentivise executives 
to increase in year shareholder value by 
maximising EBITDA and cash generation. 
Incentives are set with stretching targets 
and provide for below market levels of 
reward for below median performance 
and top quartile levels of reward for 
exceptional performance.
Bonus 
opportunity
Bonus opportunity of 0% - 150% of base salary for 
all Executive Directors, dependent on performance.
Apportionment 
of the bonus 
between 
ﬁnancial and 
other non-
ﬁnancial targets
For all the Executive Directors 80% of the bonus is 
based on ﬁnancial performance and 20% on personal 
performance.
Financial targets 65% based on EBITDA performance calculated as 
a composite of the four regional businesses.
35% based on NCFbF of the Group.
There is a minimum EBITDA underpin for both the 
EBITDA and NCFbF targets.
Non-ﬁnancial 
targets
The personal targets for all the executives are aligned 
to the strategic deliverables for the year. The objectives 
include: EPS improvements, progressing government 
relations and inﬂuencing the regulatory agenda, IT 
initiatives on mobile billing and customer relationship 
management and progression on restructuring the 
Company’s portfolio.
Claw back 
arrangements
Half of any gross bonus awarded will be converted into 
shares which are deferred for 12 months and subject to 
claw back during that period in the event of any fraud, 
error or misrepresentation by any person which gives 
rise to a restatement of the Company’s ﬁnancial 
accounts, or in certain other circumstances at the 
discretion of the Committee.
Pension/Beneﬁt 
arrangements
Beneﬁts are normally set at the 
mid-market level
No change from 2011/12. Executive Directors may 
choose to receive either a cash allowance of 25% 
of their base salary, or the Company will provide 
employer’s pension contributions equal to 25% of base 
salary. The Director is not required to pay any pension 
contributions.
The Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in 
employee beneﬁt programmes including life, disability 
and health insurance plans. The value of these beneﬁts 
is included in the Directors’ emoluments table on 
page 53.
Cable & Wireless Communications 47 Directors’ 
remuneration report 
continued
Remuneration element Policy Key features Arrangements for 2012/13
PSP2011 The PSP201 1 rewards performance over 
a three year period and is intended to align 
executives’ performance closely with 
increases in shareholder value. Similar to 
the annual bonus, targets are stretching 
and provide for below market levels of 
reward for below median performance 
and top quartile levels of reward for 
exceptional performance.
Face value of 
awards
200% of salary (reduced from 280%) for the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and 150% 
of salary (reduced from 200%) for the Corporate 
Services Director.
Performance 
targets
Following consultation and shareholder feedback 
for 2012/13 the performance measures are as set 
out below:
Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR)
Earnings Per Share  
(EPS)
50% of the award based 
on cumulative growth in 
TSR against a comparator 
group comprising 
companies predominantly 
from the European 
Telecoms sector. The 
median TSR of the 
comparator group will 
be calculated over the 
performance period. If 
the Company achieves 
the same level of TSR, 
12.5% of the shares 
awarded will vest.
For the full 50% of the 
total shares awarded (i.e. 
all the shares measured 
against TSR) to vest, the 
Company must achieve an 
upper quartile TSR ranking.
Vesting between 
threshold and maximum 
performance will be 
calculated on a straight 
line basis.
50% of the award is based 
on EPS growth targets over 
the performance period.
Min-max range determined 
on basis of analyst views on 
EPS ranges for the wider 
Telecoms sector in the 
forthcoming years.
For 12.5% (i.e. 25% of the 
shares measured against 
EPS) to vest, the compound 
annual growth in EPS must 
be 5%.
For 50% of the total shares 
awarded (i.e. all the shares 
measured against EPS) to 
vest, the compound annual 
growth in EPS must be 
10%.
Vesting between threshold 
and maximum performance 
will be calculated on a 
straight line basis.
TSR is deﬁned as share price growth adjusted for dividends and capital actions. For the purposes of awards, TSR will be calculated using a one 
month average share price at the beginning and end of the performance period in order to moderate the effect of short term volatility.
48 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Why are we making changes to the long term share scheme 
for 2012/13? 
The Committee has reduced the award levels that will normally 
be made to each of the Executive Directors. This reduction reﬂects 
the higher theoretical expected value of awards under the new 
performance conditions compared with awards previously made. 
The Committee’s overriding intention has been that the expected 
value of awards remains broadly equivalent despite the change to 
the performance conditions. 
The main change the Committee has made, in response to feedback 
from shareholders and after consultation, has been to move from 
a performance target based on absolute growth in TSR, to a dual 
target based on growth in TSR relative to a comparator group of 
telecoms companies, and growth in underlying EPS. The Committee 
has been mindful that given the current uncertainty within the 
ﬁnancial markets and the wider Eurozone, an absolute measure 
of performance may not be truly reﬂective of management’s 
performance given that macro-economic factors outside their 
control can have a signiﬁcant bearing on absolute performance 
both positively and negatively. On a relative basis, on the other 
hand, the impact is more reﬂective of their actual performance. The 
introduction of an EPS target is in line with our objective of delivering 
proﬁtable growth and supports and reinforces the Company’s 
progressive dividend policy. In the context of our dividend yield and 
the generally low growth expectations for the telecoms sector, the 
EPS range has been set to require stretching growth in the context of 
analysts’ current views. In setting targets for each annual award the 
Committee will assess the Company’s views of its prospects and 
analysts’ views on both the Company and sector more generally. 
How do the arrangements for 2012/13 align with Group 
strategy?
The performance targets set for the Executive Directors and their 
regional management teams have been carefully aligned with the 
Group’s strategy. This is illustrated in the following table:
Strategic Objective Annual bonus scheme metric Long term incentive metric
Delivering superior returns 
to our shareholders
The blend of earnings and cash targets in the annual 
bonus plan creates a focus on improving gross margin, 
reducing operating costs and strong cash management 
through tight working capital discipline, OPEX 
(Operational Expenditure) reduction and CAPEX 
(Capital Expenditure) control. All these aspects 
combined, help to drive share price performance and 
generate cash to reinvest for future expansion and to 
distribute via dividends to shareholders.
Focus on EPS to support prevailing dividend 
cover policy, and underlying sustainable 
proﬁtability of our operations.
Optimising shareholder value 
through portfolio reshaping
Speciﬁc non-ﬁnancial objectives around portfolio 
reshaping.
Opportunities to realise value reﬂected through 
TSR performance.
Maintaining our leading 
market position (where 
applicable) and growing 
market share in our other 
territories
Speciﬁc non-ﬁnancial objectives on shaping regulatory 
change, embedding the use of growth metrics in the 
business units and progressing mobile data.
Maintaining our leading market position should 
ﬂow through to our annual performance and be 
reﬂected in improvements in both TSR and EPS.
Expansion of services through 
value added products e.g. 
Social Telecoms and mobile 
data
Stretching annual bonus targets require the exploration 
of organic growth opportunities to supplement 
revenue streams.
Non-ﬁnancial objectives supporting the expansion of 
our services beyond existing geographical boundaries.
Balancing risk and reward Deferral of 50% of any annual bonus award into shares 
for a year. This reduces the risk of large payments 
where an event occurs which has a signiﬁcant effect 
on the performance of the Group’s business for the 
ﬁnancial year in respect of the award or requires a 
restatement of the Company’s accounts.
High personal (at upper decile level) 
shareholding requirements create greater 
alignment with shareholders and reduce the 
potential for behaviours and actions which are 
not beneﬁcial for the long term health of the 
organisation.
Payment in shares is an additional claw back 
where share price performance is negative.
Executive Directors’ shareholdings
The Company operates a policy of encouraging Executive Directors 
to align their interests closely with those of shareholders by requiring 
them to build up and maintain a holding of ordinary shares which is in 
the upper decile of FTSE companies. Where the relevant holding has 
not already been attained, it is required to be achieved through the 
retention of any net awards received from share plans which vest, 
which has the effect of creating a rolling claw back mechanism on 
our executive awards.
Director Directors shareholding requirement as a % of base salary
Tony Rice 400%
Tim Pennington 300%
Nick Cooper 200%
Cable & Wireless Communications 49 Directors’ 
remuneration report 
continued
An overview of our EBITDA performance (being the composite 
of the four regional businesses’ EBITDA targets) and NCFbF 
performance (Group target) relative to the bonus targets is 
summarised in the table below. 
EBITDA 
guidance for 
2011/12
EBITDA 
performance 
relative to bonus 
targets
NCFbF 
performance 
relative 
to bonus targets
Caribbean $240 - $290m At low end 
of range
Below threshold
Panama $270 - $295m Below threshold Below threshold
M&I $170 - $190m Upper half 
of range
Above maximum 
of range
Macau $150 - $160m Above maximum 
of range
Above maximum 
of range
CWC Group N/A for bonus 
purposes but 
at upper half 
of range
At maximum 
of range 
EBITDA and 
EPS underpins
EBITDA and EPS underpins achieved
Strong overall EBITDA performance has ﬂowed through to our cash 
performance and when combined with signiﬁcant improvements in 
working capital, a portion of the sales proceeds from the in-year 
strategic divestments and the successful negotiation of reductions 
to tax payments in the Caribbean, this has delivered cash 
performance at the top of our NCFbF bonus range.
Tim Pennington’s personal targets for the last year included 
extending measurement of EPS and all elements of the ﬁnancial 
accounts down to earnings. Nick Cooper’s personal targets included 
focussing on government relations across the territories together 
with starting formal processes for succession planning for senior 
roles around the world. These objectives were assessed by the 
Committee with input from the Chief Executive and performance is 
detailed in the table below. Tony Rice’s bonus targets were entirely 
ﬁnancial, with no personal element.
The table below provides details on the extent to which the 
different elements of the bonus were paid out for each of the 
Executive Directors. 
Earnings before
Interest, Tax,
Depreciation
and Amortisation
(EBITDA)
Net
Cash Flow
before
Financing
(NCFbF) Personal
Total payable
for 2011/12
% of total 
opportunity paid
% of total 
opportunity 
paid
% of total 
opportunity 
paid
% of total 
opportunity
 paid
Tony Rice 25% 50% N/A 75%
Tim Pennington 20% 40% 13% 73%
Nick Cooper 20% 40% 17% 77%
In accordance with the rules of the bonus scheme, half of each gross 
bonus awarded for 2011/12 will be converted into shares which are 
deferred for 12 months and subject to forfeiture during that period. 
During the deferral period the shares carry cash dividend rights and 
any dividends awarded are also deferred during the deferral period. 
The Committee may exercise its discretion as to whether claw back 
is applicable at any time prior to the date in the following year, when 
the shares are due to be released.
Remuneration in the ﬁnancial year 2011/12
Base salaries
Base salary 
in sterling
Nick Cooper 350,000
Tim Pennington 500,000
Tony Rice 700,000
The Executive Directors’ base salaries in 2011/12 were unchanged 
from those paid in the previous year. 
Pension and other beneﬁts
Executive Directors either choose to receive a cash allowance of 
25% of their base salary, or the Company will provide employer’s 
pension contributions at the rate of 25% of base salary. The Director 
is not required to pay any pension contributions. The Company 
made contributions to the pension plan on behalf of two Executive 
Directors, Nick Cooper and Tim Pennington, totalling £232,827 in 
the year. This amount is inclusive of a payment of £162,013 which 
Tim Pennington waived from his 2010/11 cash bonus and an 
equivalent amount was paid into the pension plan by the Company.
The Executive Directors participated in employee beneﬁt 
programmes including life, disability and health insurance plans. 
The value of these beneﬁts for 2011/12 is included in the 
Directors’ emoluments table on page 53.
Annual bonus payments 
Bonuses in 2011/12 for the Executive Directors were based on 
ﬁnancial and (where applicable) personal performance targets. 
Financial performance was based, in equal parts, on EBITDA and 
NCFbF. The EBITDA element was a composite of the four regional 
businesses’ EBITDA targets. There was also a minimum EBITDA 
underpin and EPS underpin for both the EBITDA and NCFbF elements. 
For 2011/12 threshold EBITDA bonus targets were set between 
the mid-point and upper quartile of guidance with the maximum of 
the bonus range set above the top end of guidance.
50 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Vesting of long term incentive awards granted prior 
to demerger
The ﬁnal payment under the Cable & Wireless Long Term Incentive 
Plan (Cash LTIP) was made in 2011/12. This was the only long term 
incentive payment made to the Executive Directors in the year. 
The Annual report from last year provided estimated ﬁgures for the 
Executive Directors’ entitlements under the Cash LTIP. The actual 
ﬁgures were conﬁrmed and approved by the Committee at the 
beginning of June 2011 and the payment information is on page 53. 
There is no difference between the estimated ﬁgures and the actual 
ﬁgures paid. 
In June 2009, prior to demerger, all Executive Directors received an 
award of performance shares under the Cable and Wireless Incentive 
Plan 2001 (IP 2001). Each Executive Director was granted an award 
equivalent to 4.0 times market salary (other than Nick Cooper who 
received 2.0 times market salary) vesting in June 2012. 
The following table summarises the performance targets and levels 
of vesting for the awards. The 2009 awards will lapse in June 2012 
with no shares vesting.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
over performance period % of award vesting
20% compound p.a. or higher 100%
Between 8% compound p.a. 
and 20% compound p.a.
Straight-line between 
25% and 100%
Equal to 8% compound p.a. 25%
Less than 8% compound p.a. 0%
Vesting of long term incentive awards granted after demerger
In June 2010 and 2011, performance share awards equal to 
2.8 times base salary for Tony Rice and Tim Pennington and 2.0 
times base salary for Nick Cooper were granted which vest in June 
2013 and June 2014 respectively. Based on share price performance 
to the end of April 2012, the minimum performance targets have not 
yet been met and therefore currently 0% of the awards would vest.
The performance targets and levels of vesting for these awards are:
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
over performance period % of award vesting
14% compound p.a. or higher 100%
Between 8% compound p.a. 
and 14% compound p.a.
Straight-line between 
0% and 100%
8% compound p.a. or lower 0%
TSR is deﬁned as share price growth adjusted for dividends and 
capital actions. For the purpose of these awards, TSR will be 
calculated using a one month average share price at the beginning 
and end of the performance period in order to moderate the effect 
of short-term share price volatility. The Committee believes that 
these targets are appropriately challenging.
In addition to reviewing performance against the targets set out in 
the above two tables, the Committee will, within 12 months following 
the end of each three year performance period, also consider 
whether the underlying performance of the Group warrants release 
of the shares. It will reduce the vesting percentage if appropriate. 
In considering underlying performance, the Committee may take 
account of (though not necessarily in isolation) the following metrics: 
revenue, EBITDA, operational spending, cost of sales, CAPEX and 
quantum and timing of cash ﬂows.
Details of historic awards granted under all these plans to Executive 
Directors are summarised in the tables on pages 55 to 57. 
Share purchase plan
Previously Executive Directors have been eligible to participate in 
the all-employee Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase 
Plan (the Plan) on the same terms as other employees. With effect 
from 13 April 2012 no further shares will be available for award 
under the Plan.
Additional Information
Performance graphs
The graph below shows the total shareholder return by 31 March 
2012 for a £100 holding in the Company’s shares for the period from 
22 March 2010 (the date shares in the Company were admitted to 
the Official List), compared with £100 invested in the FTSE Europe 
Telecoms Sector.
Total shareholder return (TSR)
Value in £ from 22 March 2010 to 31 March 2012
120
100
80
60
40 
20 
0 
31 Mar 2010 31 Mar 2011 31 Mar 2012
 Cable & Wireless Communications
 FTSE Europe Telecoms Sector
Value (£)
Dilution
The Committee ensures that at all times the number of new shares 
which may be issued under any share option or share-based plans, 
including all employee plans, does not exceed the dilution limit of 
10% of the Company’s issued share capital over any ten year rolling 
period. As at 31 March 2012,8% of the issued share capital was 
available for issue under our share-based plans. In calculating this 
ﬁgure, the Committee has taken into account historic awards of 
the former Cable and Wireless plc shares made to current or former 
employees of the Communications business and the adjustments 
to the awards as a result of the demerger.
Awards under the various share plans are funded by a mix of 
purchased and newly-issued shares, as determined by the Committee. 
Newly-issued shares are subject to the dilution limit outlined above. 
Purchased shares are held by The Cable & Wireless Communications 
Share Ownership Trust, which is subject to a holding limit of no more 
than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Cable & Wireless Communications 51 Directors’ 
remuneration report 
continued
Executive Directors’ service contracts
The Committee’s policy is that Executive Directors’ service 
contracts should include a maximum notice period of one year. 
Executive Directors’ service contracts continue until their normal 
retirement date. 
Date of appointment Notice period
Nick Cooper 25 January 2010 One year
Tim Pennington 25 January 2010 One year
Tony Rice 25 January 2010 One year
The Executive Directors’ contracts provide that, in the event of a 
change of control of the Company and a Director’s employment 
being adversely changed, then he will receive a payment equal to 
base salary for the notice period and a time pro-rated annual bonus. 
The contracts do not provide for any other ﬁxed payments. 
The Executive Directors’ service contracts contain no other 
provisions for compensation payable on early termination. In 
the event of early termination, the Committee will, within legal 
constraints, determine the approach to be taken according to the 
circumstances of each individual case, taking full account of the 
departing Executive Director’s obligation to mitigate loss. Except 
in cases of early termination for cause, the Committee will take 
into account the relevant Executive Director’s current salary, notice 
period and contractual beneﬁts when calculating any liability of the 
Company. The principal contractual beneﬁts provided in addition to 
salary are pension and life insurance. Annual bonuses and long-term 
incentives are granted at the discretion of the Committee and would 
therefore be dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant 
scheme. A signiﬁcant proportion of each Executive Director’s total 
remuneration is subject to performance conditions and therefore 
would not be payable to the extent that the relevant targets have 
not been met.
Chairman
The Chairman’s contract is effective from 25 January 2010 with 
12 months’ notice on either side and the requirement to stand for 
annual re-election at the AGM. There are no contractual entitlements 
on early termination or following a change of control. His annual fee of 
£386,000, effective from his appointment as Chairman of Cable and 
Wireless plc in January 2003, was reviewed by the Committee in 
March 2012 and will remain unchanged for 2012/13. His share 
incentive arrangements granted in June 2007 matured in the year 
with nothing vesting. The Chairman has received a car since 2003. 
This arrangement was reviewed by the Committee during the year 
and will be changed to a cash allowance from May 2012. 
Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with 
the Company, but instead have letters of appointment. Their fees are 
determined by the Board, within the limits set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association, with Non-executive Directors abstaining 
from any discussion or decision on their fees. Fee levels were last 
reviewed in March 2012 and no increases were approved for the 
coming year. The Non-executive Directors do not receive any 
incentive payments or pension provision.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year 
term with the expectation that a further three year term will follow. 
After two three year terms, the continued appointment of any 
Non-executive Director may be extended on an annual basis on 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee. Termination of 
the appointment may be earlier at the discretion of either party on 
one month’s written notice. None of the Non-executive Directors 
is entitled to any compensation if their appointment is terminated. 
Appointments will be subject to re-election at the AGM in 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The annual fees payable to each Non-executive Director for 
2012/13 are shown in the table below. The same base fee will apply 
to Alison Platt, with effect from her appointment to the Board on 
1 June 2012:
Appointment Date
3
Base fee 
in sterling
Additional 
fees in 
sterling
Simon Ball 1 May 2006 65,000 20,000
1
Mary Francis 1 July 2009 65,000 20,000
2
Ian Tyler
4
1 January 2011 65,000 –
Mark Hamlin 1 January 2012 65,000 –
1 Additional fee for role of Senior Independent Director, Chairman 
of the Audit Committee and Deputy Chairman. 
2 Additional fee for role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
3 Appointment dates include any term as a Non-executive Director 
of Cable and Wireless plc.
4 Additional fee will apply from 1 June 2012 upon appointment as committee chair.
External Directorships
The Company allows Executive Directors to hold external 
directorships subject to agreement by the Chairman on a case 
by case basis and to retain the fees received from those roles.
Tony Rice
Annual fees 
in sterling
Non-executive Director of Punch Taverns Plc/ 
Spirit Pub Company plc
1
 55,000
Non-executive Director of Alexander Mann Solutions 15,000
Director of the Commonwealth Business Council Limited
2
–
1 Tony Rice is a director of Spirit Pub Company plc which demerged from  
Punch Taverns Plc on 1 August 2011.
2 Appointed 1 April 2011.
52 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Directors’ emoluments – audited section
The table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc during the period 
1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012
 
 
 
Salaries 
and fees 
£
Total 
cash 
bonuses
3
 
£
Beneﬁts 
in kind
1
 
£
Pension 
cash 
allowance
2
£
Total 
2011/12 
statutory 
period 
1 April 2011 
to 31 March 
2012
£
Total 
2010/11
 statutory 
period 
1 April 
2010 to 
31 March 
2011 
£
Chairman      
Sir Richard Lapthorne 386,000 – 95,527 – 481,527 461,276
Executive Directors      
Nick Cooper 350,000 202,440 2,330 37,520 592,290 650,590
Tim Pennington 500,000 276,700 2,261 104,167 883,128 823,509
Tony Rice 700,000 396,690 34,961 175,000 1,306,651 1,177,097
Non-executive Directors      
Simon Ball 85,000 – 443 – 85,443 86,345
Mary Francis 85,000 – 785 – 85,785 86,458
Ian Tyler 65,000 – 621 – 65,621 16,250
Kate Nealon (from 1 April 201 1 to 22 July 201 1) 20,250 – 333 – 20,583 66,345
Mark Hamlin (from 1 January 2012 to 31 March 2012) 16,250 – 267 – 16,517 –
Past directors’ emoluments (for comparative purposes) –  – – – – 220,139
Total 2,207,500 875,830 137,528 316,687 3,537,545 3,588,009
1 ‘Beneﬁts in kind’ include Company provided life assurance, professional advice, car and chauffeur provision and reimbursement of costs associated with travel, accommodation 
and relocation (as applicable).
2 Company pension contributions in 2011/12 have been paid to the Directors as either annual cash allowance or employer’s pension contributions. An amount of £18 million 
(2010/11 – £17 million) is included in the net pensions deﬁcit ﬁgure in note 26 to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
3 The Executive Directors will receive an equivalent amount of their cash bonus in the form of shares deferred for one year and subject to claw back at the discretion of the 
Committee. These shares will count towards each Director’s shareholding requirement. 
4 A payment of £124,356 was made to the estate of George Battersby. This payment relates to the value of the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
dividends that would have accrued in January 2011 and August 2011, being the dividends paid for his performance shares held in the Trust, in the period between vesting and 
release of shares.
5 The emoluments table is presented in sterling as salaries, beneﬁts and bonuses are paid in sterling. 
The ﬁnal payment under the Cable & Wireless Long Term Incentive Plan (Cash LTIP) was made in 2011/12. The Cash LTIP rewarded performance 
over a ﬁve year period and was the only long term incentive payment made to the Executive Directors in the year. The Annual Report from last 
year provided estimated ﬁgures of the Executive Directors’ entitlements under the Cash LTIP . The actual ﬁgures were conﬁrmed and approved 
by the Committee at the beginning of June 201 1 and the payment information is below. There is no difference between the estimated ﬁgures 
and the actual ﬁgures paid.
Payments of £1,660,000 for Tony Rice, £1,375,000 for Tim Pennington and £687 ,500 for Nick Cooper were made in June 2012 but referable 
for the performance period up to 31 March 201 1, the date the qualifying units vested, and are not included in the table above. At 31 March 201 1 
a total of 1,000, 500 and 200 units were held by the respective Directors as reported in 2011. 
Cable & Wireless Communications 53 Directors’ 
remuneration report 
continued
Directors’ shareholdings
 
 
 
Shares held at 
1 April 2011 
or date of 
appointment Shares acquired Shares disposed 
Shares held at 
31 March 2012 
or date of 
resignation
Chairman    
Sir Richard Lapthorne 6,998,869 1,501,131 – 8,500,000
Executive Directors
1,2,3,4
Nick Cooper 317,487 307,009 – 624,496
Tim Pennington
5
1,895,337 673,406 119,200 2,449,543
Tony Rice 11,413,794 9,088,134 – 20,501,928
Non-executive Directors
Simon Ball 315,757 46,272 – 362,029
Mary Francis 20,000 15,123 – 35,123
Kate Nealon (resigned 22 July 201 1) 34,960 – – 34,960
Ian Tyler – 4,000 – 4,000
Mark Hamlin (appointed 1 January 2012) 2,000 30,000 – 32,000
1 In addition, as potential beneﬁciaries from outstanding awards which may be satisﬁed by shares held by The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust, the 
Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest in all of the ordinary shares held by the Trust, which at 31 March 2012 amounted to 37,524,230 shares.
2 Included in the shares acquired during the year are shares purchased under the Share Purchase Plan as well as any dividends received on the purchased shares which are converted 
into additional shares. Matching shares allocated under the Share Purchase Plan are included if they have vested. All unvested Matching Shares as at 31 March 2012 are not 
included. Details are disclosed on page 57. As at 23 May 2012, there were the following increases to the interests of Directors and their connected persons due to partnership 
shares purchased under the Share Purchase Plan: Tim Pennington – 4,839 shares.
3 Included in the shares acquired during the year are shares awarded under the Deferred Bonus Plan under which 50% of gross bonus awarded to Executive Directors is paid in shares 
deferred for one year. These amounts are: Nick Cooper 304,551 shares, Tim Pennington 435,073 shares, Tony Rice 585,676 shares. A proportion of these deferred shares may 
be sold at the end of the deferral period to meet tax obligations relating to their acquisition/vesting.
4 Each of the Executive Directors will receive 50% of their total gross bonus payment for 2011/12 in the form of shares deferred for one year and subject to claw back at the 
discretion of the Committee. Once awarded these shares will count towards each Director’s shareholding requirements. A proportion of these deferred shares may be sold at 
the end of the deferral period to meet tax obligations relating to their acquisition/vesting.
5 Shares disposed of by Tim Pennington were a compulsory sale for tax obligations as a result of the vesting of a share award.
54 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Directors’ Share Awards
 
 
Name and scheme  
Award 
Date
Vesting 
Date
Market price 
on date of 
award of 
Cable & Wireless 
Communications 
Plc shares 
(pence)
1
Shares under
 award at
1 April 2011
2
Shares
 awarded
Shares 
vested
Shares 
lapsed, 
cancelled 
or forfeited
Shares under 
award at 
31 March 
2012
Executive Directors
Nick Cooper
Performance Shares
4
2/6/09 2/6/12 51.0 461,584 – – – 461,584
Performance Shares
DS
7/8/09 2/6/12 48.7 20,398 – – – 20,398
Performance Shares
DS
22/1/10 2/6/12 52.3 10,595––– 10,595
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 2/6/12 60.7 27,023––– 27,023
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 2/6/12 49.95 15,794––– 15,794
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 2/6/12 33.88 – 44,706 – – 44,706
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 2/6/12 37.99 – 20,861 – – 20,861
Performance Shares 4/6/10 4/6/13 60.3 1,160,862 – – – 1,160,862
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 4/6/13 60.7 67,962––– 67,962
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 4/6/13 49.95 39,722––– 39,722
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 4/6/13 33.88 – 112,433 – – 112,433
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 4/6/13 37.99 – 52,466 – – 52,466
Performance Shares 2/6/11 1/6/14 43.29 – 1,592,718 – – 1,592,718
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 1/6/14 33.88 – 154,260 – – 154,260
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 1/6/14 37.99 – 71,984 – – 71,984
     1,803,940 2,049,428 – – 3,853,368
Tim Pennington
Performance Shares
3
2/6/09 2/6/12 51.0 655,151––– 655,151
Performance Shares
DS
7/8/09 2/6/12 48.7 28,953––– 28,953
Performance Shares
DS
22/1/10 2/6/12 52.3 15,039––– 15,039
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 2/6/12 60.7 38,355––– 38,355
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 2/6/12 49.95 22,418––– 22,418
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 2/6/12 33.88 – 63,453 – – 63,453
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 2/6/12 37.99 – 29,610 – – 29,610
Performance Shares
3
2/6/09 2/6/12 51.0 1,725,527 – – – 1,725,527
Performance Shares
DS
7/8/09 2/6/12 48.7 76,255––– 76,255
Performance Shares
DS
22/1/10 2/6/12 52.3 39,609––– 39,609
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 2/6/12 60.7 101,021––– 101,021
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 2/6/12 49.95 59,044––– 59,044
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 2/6/12 33.88 – 167,123 – – 167,123
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 2/6/12 37.99 – 77,987 – – 77,987
Performance Shares 4/6/10 4/6/13 60.3 2,321,724 – – – 2,321,724
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 4/6/13 60.7 135,925––– 135,925
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 4/6/13 49.95 79,445––– 79,445
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 4/6/13 33.88 – 224,867 – – 224,867
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 4/6/13 37.99 – 104,932 – – 104,932
Performance Shares 2/6/11 1/6/14 43.29 – 3,185,437 – – 3,185,437
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 1/6/14 33.88 – 308,521 – – 308,521
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 1/6/14 37.99 – 143,969 – – 143,969
     5,298,466 4,305,899 – – 9,604,365
Cable & Wireless Communications 55 Directors’ 
remuneration report 
continued
Directors’ Share Awards continued
 
 
Name and scheme  
Award 
Date
Vesting 
Date
Market price 
on date of 
award of 
Cable & Wireless 
Communications 
Plc shares 
(pence)
1
Shares under
 award at
1 April 2011
2
Shares
 awarded
Shares 
vested
Shares 
lapsed, 
cancelled 
or forfeited
Shares under 
award at 
31 March 
2012
Executive Directors
Tony Rice
Performance Shares 2/6/09 2/6/12 51.0 5,490,320 – – – 5,490,320
Performance Shares
DS
7/8/09 2/6/12 48.7 242,634 – – – 242,634
Performance Shares
DS
22/1/10 2/6/12 52.3 126,029––– 126,029
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 2/6/12 60.7 321,431––– 321,431
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 2/6/12 49.95 187,868––– 187,868
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 2/6/12 33.88 – 531,757 – – 531,757
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 2/6/12 37.99 – 248,141 – – 248,141
Performance Shares 4/6/10 4/6/13 60.3 3,250,414 – – – 3,250,414
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/10 4/6/13 60.7 190,295––– 190,295
Performance Shares
DS
13/1/11 4/6/13 49.95 111,223––– 111,223
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 4/6/13 33.88 – 314,814 – – 314,814
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 4/6/13 37.99 – 146,906 – – 146,906
Performance Shares 2/6/11 1/6/14 43.29 – 4,459,613 – – 4,459,613
Performance Shares
DS
12/8/11 1/6/14 33.88 – 431,929 – – 431,929
Performance Shares
DS
12/1/12 1/6/14 37.99 – 201,557 – – 201,557
  9,920,214  6,334,717 – –  16,254,931
DS Dividend Shares 
1 The market price on the date of awards made prior to demerger has been adjusted in proportion to the market price value of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc to the combined 
share price of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc over the ﬁve days following demerger. This adjustment resulted in the market price on the 
date of award for all awards being adjusted to 38% of their original value.
2 The total number of shares comprised in each Performance Share award adjusted as a result of the demerger has been included in the table notwithstanding the fact that the 
equivalent value of these Performance Share Awards was determined by reference to the average closing price of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc ordinary shares and Cable 
& Wireless Worldwide plc ordinary shares over the ﬁve trading days commencing on the demerger effective date, being 26 March 201 0 and concluding on 1 April 2010. The 
adjusted awards were granted by The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust on 13 May 2010.
3 The award of 1,310,302 Performance Shares granted to Tim Pennington on 2 June 2009 was split so that half the award is measured over TSR for Cable and Wireless plc prior to 
demerger and the combined Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc thereafter. The remaining half is measured over TSR for Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc. Subsequent to demerger one half of the award was adjusted in line with note 2 above.
4 Performance is measured on the absolute TSR performance of Cable and Wireless plc up to demerger and the combined Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc thereafter.
The aggregate gain on shares vested or released to Executive Directors whilst in office during the year was £94,168.
56 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Restricted Shares and Share Purchase Plan awards
For the period 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012
 
 
Name and scheme Award date
Vesting 
Date
Market price 
on date of 
award of 
 Cable & Wireless 
 Communications 
Plc shares 
(pence)
2
Market price 
on date of 
vesting
(pence)
Shares under
 award at
1 April 2011
Shares
 awarded
Shares 
vested/ 
released
Shares 
lapsed, 
cancelled 
or forfeited
Shares under 
award at 
31 March 
2012
Chairman
Sir Richard Lapthorne
Restricted Shares
1
6/6/07 5/6/11 74.0 – 5,500,000 – – 5,500,000 –
 5,500,000 – – 5,500,000 –
Executive Directors
Nick Cooper
Share Purchase Plan 
MS
8/5/08 8/5/11 57.7 47.06 987 – 987 – –
Share Purchase Plan 
MS
12/5/10 12/5/13 60.2 – 2,492––– 2,492
 3,479 – 987 – 2,492
Tim Pennington
Restricted Shares 30/9/08 3/11/11 63.5 39.33 236,200 – 236,200 – –
Share Purchase Plan 
MS
7/10/08 7/10/11 58.4 35.05 975 – 975 – –
Share Purchase Plan 
MS
12/5/10 12/5/13 60.2 – 2,491––– 2,491
Share Purchase Plan 
MS
9/6/10 9/6/13 57.34 – 2––– 2
 239,668 – 237,175 – 2,493
Tony Rice
Share Purchase Plan 
MS
8/5/08 8/5/11 57.7 47.06 987 – 987 – –
Share Purchase Plan 
MS
12/5/10 12/5/13 60.2 – 2,492––– 2,492
 3,479 – 987 – 2,492
MS Matching Shares 
1 Full vesting of the restricted shares would have occurred if the combined TSR performance for Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 
is in the top 10% when compared with the FTSE GTSI, on a straight-line scale. No shares vest for TSR at or below the mid point of the comparator group of companies.
2 The market price on the date of awards prior to demerger has been adjusted in proportion to the market price value of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc to the combined share 
price of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc over the ﬁve days following demerger. This adjustment resulted in the market price on the date 
of award for all awards being adjusted to 38% of their original ﬁgure.
3 As at 23 May 2012, there was an increase of 4,839 shares to the interest of Tim Pennington in Matching Shares. 
Directors Share Options
 
 Grant
Date
Date from 
which ﬁrst 
exercisable
Date of 
expiry of 
option
Exercise 
price 
(pence)
Shares 
under 
option at 
1 April 2011
Granted 
between 
1 April 2011
 and 31 March
 2012 Exercised
Lapsed,
 cancelled 
or forfeited
Shares under 
option at 
31 March 
2012
Tony Rice
SOP Unapproved
1
30/03/2006 21/05/2009 29/03/2013 110.50 5,424,807 – – – 5,424,807 
 5,424,807 – – – 5,424,807 
1  Tony Rice agreed to delay the date on which options were to become ﬁrst exercisable from March 2009 to 21 May 2009. This was to avoid options becoming exercisable during 
a prohibited period.
Notes:
Following the demerger, these shares are linked to an equal number of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares and cannot be exercised separately.
These are unapproved (non-tax relieved) grants made under the Cable & Wireless Share Option Plan 2001 (SOP).
No amounts were paid by Directors for the award of the options listed in the table above. The closing mid-market price of an ordinary share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on 31 March 2012 was 32.29 and 34.00 pence respectively.
The highest closing mid-market price of an ordinary share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc during the period from 1 April 2011 to 
31 March 2012 was 48.92 and 55.00 pence respectively, and the lowest closing mid-market price was 31.25 and 14.20 respectively.
This report has been approved on behalf of the Board by:
Mary Francis, CBE
Chair, Remuneration Committee
23 May 2012
Cable & Wireless Communications 57 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report 
and the Group and Company ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that 
law, the Directors have prepared the Group ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the European Union (EU) and applicable law. Further, 
they have elected to prepare the Company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable law (UK 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP)). 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial 
statements unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of 
their proﬁt and loss for that period. 
In preparing the Group and Company ﬁnancial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
 — Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently
 —Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent
 —For the Group ﬁnancial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU 
 — For the Company ﬁnancial statements, state whether applicable 
UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Company 
ﬁnancial statements
 — Prepare the ﬁnancial statements on a going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will 
continue in business
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the ﬁnancial position of the Group and the Company and 
enable them to ensure that their ﬁnancial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to the Group ﬁnancial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them 
to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company and for taking 
reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration 
report and Corporate governance statement that complies with that 
law and those regulations.
The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules to include a report containing a fair review of the business and 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group 
and the Company.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Group and 
Company’s website, www.cwc.com. Information published on the 
Company’s website is accessible in many countries with different 
legal requirements. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 32 and 33, conﬁrm that, to the best of each person’s 
knowledge and belief:
 —The Group ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS 
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Group
 —The Company ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with 
UK GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial 
position and proﬁt of the Company
 — The Annual report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and 
Company, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face
Disclosure of information to auditors
So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information (as deﬁned in Section 418(3) of the Companies Act 
2006) of which the auditor is unaware, and the Directors have taken 
all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board
Clare Underwood
Company Secretary
23 May 2012
Statement  
of Directors’
responsibilities 
58 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Governance Cable & Wireless Communications 59
Financial statements
Our Group financial statements 
provide further information required 
by accounting standards and statute. 
We have cut repetition and immaterial 
information and have improved 
navigation by linking relevant 
accounting policies to individual notes.
Contents
60 Independent auditor’s report
61  Consolidated income statement
62  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
63  Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position
64  Consolidated statement of changes in equity
65  Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
67 1 General information
67 2 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies
74 3  Critical accounting estimates and judgements
76 4  Revenue
76 5  Segment information
79 6  Operating costs and other operating 
income and expenses
81 7   Finance income/expense and  
other non-operating expenses
82 8  Income tax expense
83 9 Earnings per share
84 10 Dividends declared and paid
84 11 Impairment review
86 12 Intangible assets
87 13 Property, plant and equipment
88 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates
89 15 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
89 16 Trade and other receivables
90 17 Inventories
91 18 Cash and cash equivalents
91 19  Financial assets at fair value 
through proﬁt or loss
92 20 Trade and other payables
92 21 Borrowings
93 22 Financial liabilities at fair value
94 23 Financial instruments at fair value
95 24 Deferred tax
96 25 Provisions
97 26 Retirement beneﬁts obligations
102 27 Equity
103 28 Share-based payments
105 29  Commitments, guarantees 
and contingent liabilities
106 30  Business combinations and acquisitions of 
non-controlling interests
108 31 Related party transactions
108 32  Licences and operating agreements
109 33  Legal proceedings
109 34  Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
110 35  Financial risk management
111 36  Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures
111 37 Events after the reporting period
11 2 Company ﬁnancial statements 60 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 set out on 
pages 61 to 117. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the EU. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements 
is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we 
might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 58, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, 
the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of ﬁnancial statements is provided 
on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
 — The ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 March 
2012 and of the Group’s proﬁt for the year then ended;
 — The Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
 — The Parent Company ﬁnancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice;
 — The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 — The part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 — The information given in the Directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year 
for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
 — the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 — certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are 
not made; or
 — we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 — the Directors’ statement, set out on page 40, in relation to going 
concern;
 — the part of the corporate governance statement in the Directors’ 
report relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code speciﬁed for our 
review; and
 — certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration.
P Meehan (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc 
Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL
23 May 2012
Independent auditor’ s report  
to the members of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc Cable & Wireless Communications 61
2011/12 2010/11
 
 
 Note
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
1
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
1
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 4 2,875 – 2,875 2,440 – 2,440 
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 6 (1,974) (66) (2,040) (1,592) 6 (1,586)
Depreciation 13 (300) (232) (532) (271) – (271)
Amortisation 12 (58) (12) (70) (50) – (50)
Other operating income 6 3– 3 5 – 5 
Other operating expense 6 (15) – (15) (33) – (33)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 531 (310) 221 499 6 505 
Share of proﬁts of joint ventures and associates 14 26 – 26 31 – 31 
Total operating proﬁt/(loss) 557 (310) 247 530 6 536 
Gains on sale of businesses 7 13 – 13 36 – 36 
Losses on termination of operations 7 ––– (2) – (2)
Finance income 7 11 – 11 32 – 32 
Finance expense 7 (167) – (167) (140) – (140)
Proﬁt/(loss) before income tax 414 (310) 104 456 6 462 
Income tax (expense)/credit 8 (88) 10 (78) (119) 1 (118)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year 326 (300) 26 337 7 344
Proﬁt/(loss) attributable to:  
Owners of the Parent Company 158 (235) (77) 189 8 197 
Non-controlling interests 168 (65) 103 148 (1) 147 
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year 326 (300) 26 337 7 344 
(Loss)/earnings per share attributable to the 
owners of the Parent Company during the year 
(cents per share) 9
– basic (3.1) 7.6
– diluted (3.1) 7.5
1 Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 6b and in the relevant note for each item.
The notes on pages 67 to 1 1 1 are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2012 62 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Note
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
Proﬁt for the year 26 344
Other comprehensive income for the year:
Actuarial losses in the value of deﬁned beneﬁt retirement plans 26 (72) (36)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (68) (9)
Fair value gain on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 15 5 2
Other comprehensive income for the year (135) (43)
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 24 2 (3)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (133) (46)
Total comprehensive income for the year (107) 298
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company (186) 149
Non-controlling interests 79 149
The notes on pages 67 to 11 1 are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 March 2012 Cable & Wireless Communications 63
 
 
 Note
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Assets   
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 12 528 433
Property, plant and equipment 13 1,786 1,757
Investments in joint ventures and associates 14 253 243
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 15 55 31
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 19 – 6
Other receivables 16 55 48
Deferred tax assets 24 5 4
Retirement beneﬁt assets 26 40 43
2,722 2,565
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 16 602 592
Inventories 17 103 84
Cash and cash equivalents 18 312 379
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 19 18 27
1,035 1,082
Total assets 3,757 3,647
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 832 753
Borrowings 21 460 116
Financial liabilities at fair value 22 251 96
Provisions 25 61 62
Current tax liabilities 203 209
1,807 1,236
Net current liabilities (772) (154)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 31 20
Borrowings 21 1,247 1,257
Financial liabilities at fair value 22 – 120
Deferred tax liabilities 24 30 38
Provisions 25 37 32
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 26 189 133
1,534 1,600
Net assets 416 811
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 
Share capital 27 133 133
Share premium 97 97
Reserves 27 (307) 136
(77) 366
Non-controlling interests 493 445
Total equity 416 811
The notes on pages 67 to 1 1 1 are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. These ﬁnancial statements on pages 61 to 111 were approved 
by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2012 and signed on its behalf by: 
Tony Rice Chief Executive Tim Pennington Chief Financial Officer
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Registered number – 07130199
Consolidated statement of financial position
as at 31 March 2012 64 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
 
 
 
Share 
capital 
US$m 
Share 
premium 
US$m 
Foreign 
currency 
translation
and 
hedging 
reserve 
US$m 
Capital 
and 
other 
reserves 
US$m 
Retained 
earnings 
US$m 
Total 
US$m 
Non- 
 controlling
interests 
US$m 
Total 
equity 
US$m 
Balance at 1 April 2010 131 62 119 4,255 (4,153) 414 447 861 
 
Proﬁt for the year –––– 197 197 147 344
Net actuarial losses recognised (net of tax) –––– (39) (39) – (39)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – (11) – – (11) 2 (9)
Fair value movements in available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets ––– 2– 2– 2
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (11) 2 158 149 149 298
Equity element of the convertible bond – – – (2) – (2) – (2)
Cash received in respect of employee share schemes – – – – 1 1 – 1
Own shares purchased –––– (34) (34) – (34)
Share-based payments – – – – 3 3 – 3
Issue of share capital 2 35––– 37 – 37
Dividends –––– (205) (205) – (205)
Transfers to retained earnings – – – (742) 742–––
Total dividends and other transactions with 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shareholders 2 35 – (744) 507 (200) – (200)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests –––––– (144) (144)
Purchase of non-controlling interest – – – 3 – 3 (7) (4)
Total dividends and other transactions with 
non-controlling interests – – – 3 – 3 (151) (148)
Balance at 31 March 2011 133 97 108 3,516 (3,488) 366 445 811
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year –––– (77) (77) 103 26
Net actuarial losses recognised (net of tax) –––– (67) (67) (3) (70)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – (47) – – (47) (21) (68)
Fair value movements in available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets ––– 5– 5– 5
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (47) 5 (144) (186) 79 (107)
Own shares purchased –––– (66) (66) – (66)
Share-based payments –––– 11 11 – 11
Dividends –––– (202) (202) – (202)
Transfers to retained earnings – – – (200) 200–––
Total dividends and other transactions with 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shareholders – – – (200) (57) (257) – (257)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests –––––– (166) (166)
Recognition of non-controlling interest –––––– 135 135
Total dividends and other transactions with 
non-controlling interests –––––– (31) (31)
Balance at 31 March 2012 133 97 61 3,321 (3,689) (77) 493 416
The notes on pages 67 to 11 1 are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2012 Cable & Wireless Communications 65
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2012
Note
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Cash generated (page 66) 815 651
Income taxes paid (90) (88)
Net cash from operating activities 725 563
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Finance income 8 7
Other income/(expense) 1 (4)
Dividends received 4 9
Decrease in available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets – 2
Decrease in held-for-sale assets – 3
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 3
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (330) (290)
Purchase of intangible assets (53) (42)
Proceeds on disposal of businesses (net of cash disposed) 27 62
Acquisition of subsidiaries and non-controlling interests (net of cash received) (170) (17)
Net cash used in investing activities (509) (267)
Net cash ﬂow before ﬁnancing activities 216 296
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Dividends paid to the owners of the Parent Company (204) (168)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (166) (152)
Repayments of borrowings (596) (111)
Finance costs (125) (115)
Transfer to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group for the 2009/10 ﬁnal dividend – (117)
Proceeds from borrowings 895 200
Proceeds on issue of shares on settlement of share options – 1
Purchase of own shares (70) (30)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (266) (492)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (50) (196)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April 18 379 573
Exchange (losses)/gains on cash and cash equivalents (17) 2
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 18 312 379
The notes on pages 67 to 1 1 1 are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 66 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
The reconciliation of proﬁt for the year to net cash generated was as follows:
Note
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
Proﬁt for the year 26 344
Adjustments for:
Tax expense 8 78 118
Depreciation 13 300 271
Amortisation 12 58 50
Impairment and accelerated depreciation 12, 13 244 –
Gain on sale of businesses 7 (13) (36)
Loss on termination of operations 7 – 2
Loss/(gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 (3)
Finance income 7 (11) (32)
Finance expense 7 167 140
Other income and expenses 6 26
Decrease in provisions (3) (40)
Employee beneﬁts 1 32
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme funding (2) (149)
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme other contributions (12) (17)
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 14 (26) (31)
Operating cash ﬂows before working capital changes 814 675
Changes in working capital (excluding effects of acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries)
Increase in inventories (11) (35)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 30 (105)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (18) 116
Cash generated 815 651
The notes on pages 67 to 11 1 are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2012 Cable & Wireless Communications 67
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
1 General information 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (the Company or the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (together Cable & Wireless Communications 
Group or the Group) is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. It operates through 
four business units being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
2 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union (EU) as they apply to the ﬁnancial statements of the Group for the year 
ended 31 March 2012.
These consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in US dollars (US$) and rounded to the nearest million. They have been prepared on the 
historical cost basis except for certain ﬁnancial instruments held at fair value. Non-current assets and disposal groups are stated at the lower of 
their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis (see page 40 of the Directors’ report for further detail).
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. These estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other 
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in 
which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is signiﬁcant are 
discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Group’s 
share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates. The accounts of the Group’s main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates have been prepared to align with the Group’s reporting date. 
Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and 
operating policies of an entity in order to obtain beneﬁts from its activities. In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting 
rights that are currently exercisable are considered. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control 
until the date that control ceases. Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 
Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures and associates are entities over which the Group exercises joint control. Investments in joint ventures and associates are 
accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. 
The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ and associates’ post-acquisition proﬁts or losses is recognised through proﬁt or loss. Its share of post-
acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying 
amount of the investment.
When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture and/or associate exceeds its investment (including any other unsecured long-term 
receivables), the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Group reorganisation and demerger in the year ended 31 March 2010
During 2009/10, the Cable & Wireless Group effected a Group reorganisation whereby Cable & Wireless Communications Plc was inserted as 
the new holding company, replacing Cable and Wireless plc (now Cable & Wireless Ltd). The Group was renamed the Cable & Wireless 
Communications Group. Subsequently the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications 
Group (demerger).  68 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
2.2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
The Group considered the implications of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2012:
 —Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
 — Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement
 — Improvements to IFRS 2010 
 — IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 
The above were ﬁrst effective for the Group in the year beginning 1 April 2011 and have been adopted by the Group for 2011/12. They did not 
have a material impact on the Group.
New and amended standards and interpretations not yet endorsed by the EU, not yet effective and not adopted by the Group:
Title Effective date (not EU endorsed) Description and impact on the Group
Amendment to IAS 19  
Employee beneﬁts 
 
 
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2013 
 
 
There will be an impact on the Group results due to the 
change in calculating ﬁnance costs. Interest cost and 
expected return on plan assets will be replaced with a net 
interest amount calculated by applying the discount rate  
to the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability. 
IFRS 9 Financial  
instruments 
 
 
 
Annual periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2015 
 
 
 
IFRS 9 replaces parts of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement that relate to the 
classiﬁcation and measurement of ﬁnancial instruments.  
There will be an impact on the Group results due to revised 
classiﬁcation categories. The Group is currently considering 
the effect of the revised standard.
In addition, a number of new standards have been released but are not yet endorsed by the EU. The Group is currently considering the effect of 
these revised standards but they are not expected to have a material impact.
2.3 Foreign currencies 
a) Functional currency
Amounts included in the ﬁnancial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). 
b) Foreign currency translation 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised through proﬁt or loss. 
c) Foreign operations 
The results and ﬁnancial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Group’s presentation currency of US 
dollars are translated as follows:
i) Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date
ii) Income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions 
iii) Resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate. On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in proﬁt or loss in the same 
period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders’ equity. Where investments 
are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded 
as movements in the Group’s translation reserves and any excess taken to proﬁt or loss.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinﬂationary economy.  Cable & Wireless Communications 69
The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of these accounts are as follows:
2011/12 2010/11
£ : US$
Average 0.6260 0.6473
Year end 0.6263 0.6246
€ : US$
Average 0.7225 0.7601
Year end 0.7506 0.7089
Maldivian ruﬁyaa : US$
Average 15.29 12.80
Year end 15.36 12.80
2.4 Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, plant and 
equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets, typically cell sites and network equipment, and restoring land on which they are 
located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment. The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with 
IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the 
future economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably. All other subsequent costs (primarily repairs and 
maintenance) are charged to proﬁt or loss as incurred.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction. Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant 
and equipment, on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Lives
Cables up to 20 years
Network equipment 3 to 25 years
Ducting 40 years
Freehold buildings 40 years
Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less
Asset useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down to its recoverable 
amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
2.5 Intangible assets 
a) Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the future economic beneﬁts that arise from acquired assets that are not capable of being individually identiﬁed and 
separately recognised.
The goodwill recorded in the Group’s statement of ﬁnancial position is calculated using two different methods, depending on the acquisition 
date, as a result of changes in accounting standards. 
All business combinations that occurred since 31 March 2010 are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations Revised. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identiﬁable net 
assets acquired. All transaction costs are expensed as incurred. 
All other business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2004). 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identiﬁable net assets acquired. Costs 
attributable to these combinations are included in the cost of acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to 
cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.  70 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
2.5 Intangible assets continued
b) Other intangible assets
Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identiﬁable and unique software products by the Group are 
recognised as intangible assets. Expenditures that enhance and extend the beneﬁts of computer software programs beyond their original 
speciﬁcations and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Intangible assets relating to customer contracts, customer relationships and licences obtained as part of the Group’s business combinations are 
recorded initially at their fair values.
Other intangible assets that do not have indeﬁnite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis over their respective lives which are usually 
based on contractual terms. Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation. 
Lives
Software 3 to 5 years 
Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter 
Customer contracts and relationships 4 to 10 years 
2.6 Financial instruments 
Financial assets 
The Group classiﬁes its ﬁnancial assets into the following categories: cash and cash equivalents; trade and other receivables; ﬁnancial assets at 
fair value through proﬁt or loss; available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets; and held-to-maturity investments. The classiﬁcation depends on the purpose 
for which the assets are held. The Group does not currently classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments. 
Management determines the classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date 
for ﬁnancial assets other than those held at fair value through proﬁt or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and Government securities. They are 
highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in 
value. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of ﬁnancial position is considered to approximate fair value. Bank 
overdrafts are included within borrowings and classiﬁed in current liabilities on the statement of ﬁnancial position.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable. Trade and 
other receivables are presented in current assets in the statement of ﬁnancial position, except for those with maturities greater than one year 
after the reporting date. 
Receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered recoverable 
(amortised cost). 
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss are ﬁnancial assets that are either held for trading or those designated upon initial recognition. 
A ﬁnancial asset is classiﬁed in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management. 
Included in this category are shares held by the Group in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc which were retained on demerger together with 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments. These ﬁnancial assets are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised 
through proﬁt or loss. 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is 
designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not 
designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately through proﬁt or loss.
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets that are either designated in this category upon initial recognition or not 
classiﬁed in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 
one year of the reporting date and such assets recognised in this category by the Group include UK and Bahamian Government gilts and cash 
held as collateral. Purchases and disposals of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are recognised at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value, 
other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences, are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value 
reserve (within Capital and other reserves) in equity. When an asset is derecognised the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassiﬁed through 
proﬁt or loss. Cable & Wireless Communications 71
Financial liabilities
The Group classiﬁes its ﬁnancial liabilities into the following categories: trade and other payables; borrowings; and ﬁnancial liabilities at fair value. 
Management determines the classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial liabilities at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date 
for ﬁnancial liabilities other than those held at fair value. 
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred and are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds received (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised through proﬁt 
or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. The ﬁnancial liabilities recognised in this category include secured 
and unsecured bonds and facilities and other loans held by the Group and are presented in borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of 
ﬁnancial position unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the reporting date.
Financial liabilities at fair value 
This category includes puttable instruments on non-controlling interests relating to the acquisition of Monaco Telecom, derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments and the Group’s obligation to transfer Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares. These ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised initially at fair 
value. Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised through proﬁt or loss except for changes in the fair value of the Monaco Telecom put 
option. 
The fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option is based on the present value of the redemption amount, calculated using discounted cash ﬂow 
techniques, as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the reporting date. Movements in the fair value of the liability, together with 
dividends paid to non-controlling interests, are recognised as adjustments to goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2004), 
with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised through proﬁt or loss in ﬁnance expenses.
2.7 Impairment of assets 
Financial assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a ﬁnancial asset not carried at fair value through proﬁt or 
loss or a group of those ﬁnancial assets is impaired. 
An impairment allowance is established for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Non-ﬁnancial assets
Assets that have indeﬁnite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. All other non-current assets are 
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. For the 
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiﬁable cash ﬂows (cash-
generating units).
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Group’s assets (or the cash-generating unit to which it 
belongs) to their recoverable amounts, which is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Fair value represents 
market value in an active market. Value in use is determined by discounting future cash ﬂows arising from the asset. Future cash ﬂows are 
determined with reference to the Group’s own projections using pre-tax discount rates. 
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
2.8 Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies. It also 
includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs. Cost is based on the 
ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out (FIFO) principle. For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business less costs to sell. Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories as required.
2.9 Share capital 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, stand-alone options or the repurchase of shares are recognised in equity. 
2.10  Leases 
All Group leases are operating leases. Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged through 
proﬁt or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 72 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
2.11 Employee beneﬁts 
Deﬁned contribution pensions 
A deﬁned contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays ﬁxed contributions to a third party. The Group has no further payment 
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as operating costs as they are incurred through proﬁt or 
loss.
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 
A deﬁned beneﬁt plan is a pension plan that deﬁnes an amount of pension beneﬁt that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent 
on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance 
companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. 
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of ﬁnancial position in respect of each deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan represents the fair value of 
plan assets less the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations at the reporting date. Assets are only recognised to the extent that the 
present value of the economic beneﬁts available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed the 
fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations. Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations for each scheme are calculated 
annually by independent actuaries. 
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in 
which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income. Past service costs are recognised immediately through proﬁt or loss unless the 
changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a speciﬁed period of time (the vesting period). In these 
cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected return on plan 
assets, are included within operating costs through proﬁt or loss.
Share-based compensation 
The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for 
the grant of options over shares in the Company is recognised as an operating cost through proﬁt or loss over the vesting period. The total 
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of 
any non-market vesting conditions (for example service, proﬁtability and cash ﬂow targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in 
estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of 
options that are expected to vest.
Termination beneﬁts 
Termination beneﬁts are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts 
voluntary redundancy in exchange for these beneﬁts. The Group recognises termination beneﬁts within other provisions when it is 
demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employee’s termination. 
Bonus plans 
The Group recognises a liability in the statement of ﬁnancial position in relation to bonuses payable to employees where contractually obliged or 
where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
The plan rewarded Executive Directors and certain senior employees of the Group. The plan is accounted for as an ‘other long-term employee 
beneﬁt’ in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts. The amount recognised as a liability represents the estimated present value of the 
obligation at the reporting date. The last year of the scheme was 2010/11.
The LTIP created a reward pool over a ﬁve year period from 1 April 2006 depending on the extent to which the business has grown in value from 
its base valuation at the start of the period. Cable & Wireless Communications 73
2.12 Tax 
Tax on the proﬁt or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised through proﬁt or loss except to the extent that it 
relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, except where the difference arises from:
 — The initial recognition of goodwill or
 — The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures and ass ociates, except 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.13 Provisions 
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably 
estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of ﬁnancial position at the present value of the estimated future outﬂows expected to be 
required to settle the obligation. Provision charges and reversals are recognised through proﬁt or loss. Discount unwinding is recognised 
as a ﬁnance expense. 
2.14 Revenue recognition 
Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services and 
goods provided to customers. It includes sales to joint ventures and associates but does not include sales by joint ventures and associates or 
sales between Group companies. Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided. In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until 
provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided. Charges are negotiated separately 
and are subject to continual review. Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable 
to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Revenue from mobile, broadband, TV and ﬁxed line products comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, 
airtime and usage, messaging and other telecommunications services. This includes data services and information provision and revenue from 
the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Monthly access charges from mobile, broadband, TV and ﬁxed line products are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle. Airtime, 
either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid cards, is recorded in the 
period in which the customer uses the service. Unbilled revenue resulting from services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle 
date to the end of each period is accrued. Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred. 74 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
2.14 Revenue recognition continued
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third party providers. Third pa rty dealers and 
partners are also used to facilitate the sale and provision of some services and equipment sold by the Group. We assess whether revenue should 
be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following factors:
 — Whether the Group holds itself out as an agent
 — Whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, either directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services
 — Provision of customer remedies
 — Whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulﬁlling the order and
 — Assumption of credit risk
Revenue from sales of telecommunications equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities (generally the sale of telecoms equipment and ongoing 
service) is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently, based on the estimated fair value of the components. 
The fair value of each component is determined by amounts charged when sold separately and by reference to sales of equivalent products and 
services by third parties.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised over the periods in which the service is 
provided.
Customer acquisition costs including dealer commissions and similar payments are expensed as incurred.
2.15 Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are material items within proﬁt or loss that derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group 
that are identiﬁed as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
2.16 Transactions with holders of non-controlling interests
Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Group’s subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as 
equity transactions. In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reﬂect the changes in 
the Group’s relative interest in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the 
fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
A number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the ﬁnancial condition of the 
Group. Results may differ signiﬁcantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. The Directors consider th at the 
following discussion addresses the Group’s most critical accounting estimates. These particular policies require subjective and complex 
assessments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
3.1 Valuation of assets for purchase accounting 
Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identiﬁable net assets and contingent liabilities 
acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition. The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill. Any 
value assigned to the identiﬁable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent appraisal or estimate by management 
based on cash ﬂow projections. The latter situation includes estimates regarding expectations of the economic useful lives of the products and 
technology acquired. 
3.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the 
intended use for those assets. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition 
of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives differing from initial estimates. Where the Group determines that the useful life of 
property, plant and equipment should be shortened, it depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining 
useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense. Any change in an asset’s life is reﬂected in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements when the change 
in estimate is determined. Cable & Wireless Communications 75
3.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
The Directors assess property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value is less than its recoverable amount. Factors that are considered important and that could trigger 
an impairment review include the following:
 — Obsolescence or physical damage
 — Signiﬁcant changes in technology and regulatory environments
 — Signiﬁcant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results
 — Signiﬁcant changes in the use of the assets or the strategy of the overall business
 — Signiﬁcant negative industry or economic trends
 — Signiﬁcant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period
In addition, the Directors test goodwill and other intangible assets with an indeﬁnite life at least annually for impairment.
The identiﬁcation of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash ﬂows and the determination of the recoverable amount for assets or 
cash-generating units requires signiﬁcant consideration. Note 11 sets out the assumptions and estimates used during these assessments.
3.4 Receivables allowance
The impairment allowance for trade receivables reﬂects the Group’s estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Group’s 
customers to make required payments. The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer creditworthiness and the Group’s 
historical write-off experience. Changes to the allowance may be required if the ﬁnancial condition of the Group’s customers improves or 
deteriorates. An improvement in ﬁnancial condition may result in lower actual write-offs. Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not 
been material to the Group’s ﬁnancial position and results.
3.5 Tax 
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge involves a degree of estimation in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be 
ﬁnally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process. The ﬁnal 
resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and/or cash ﬂow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrat ive and legal 
processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve. Payments in respect 
of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the ﬁnal resolution of open items. As a result, there can be 
substantial differences between the tax charge through proﬁt or loss and tax payments made.
3.6 Provisions 
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash outﬂows by a rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the liability. These provisions are estimates for which the amount and timing of actual cash ﬂows are 
dependent on future events.
3.7 Pensions 
The Group provides several deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes for its employees. The asset or liability recognised in the statement of ﬁnancial 
position in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt 
obligations at the reporting date. The expected cost of providing these deﬁned beneﬁt pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors 
as:
 — The life expectancy of the members
 — The length of service
 — The rate of salary progression
 — The rate of return earned on assets in the future
 — The rate used to discount future pension liabilities
 — Future inﬂation rates
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 26 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may 
not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 250 companies. Changes to 
these assumptions could materially affect the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes’ liabilities and assets. 76 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
3.8 Fair value estimation 
The fair value of non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments traded in active markets (such as available-for-sale securities) is based on quoted market 
prices at the reporting date. The quoted market price used for traded ﬁnancial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. The appropriate 
quoted market price for traded ﬁnancial liabilities is the current offer price. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined 
using forward exchange market rates at the reporting date.
The fair value of non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The 
Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially 
the same, discounted cash ﬂow analysis and option pricing models which reﬂect the speciﬁc instrument. 
The nominal value of receivables (less estimated impairments) and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values. The fair value of 
ﬁnancial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ﬂows at the current market interest rate 
that is available to the Group for similar ﬁnancial instruments. Discounted cash ﬂows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of 
remaining ﬁnancial instruments.
The fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market 
rates at the reporting date.
3.9 Revenue recognition 
Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the speciﬁc guidance in respect of Group revenue. This 
includes the allocation of revenue between multiple deliverables, such as the sale value of telecommunications equipment and on-going service, 
where such items are sold as part of a bundled package. See note 2.14.
4 Revenue 
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.14. ▶
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
Sales of telecommunications services and related operations 2,577 2,289
Sales of telecoms equipment and accessories 298 151
Total revenue 2,875 2,440
5 Segment information 
Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider. It operates integrated telecommunications 
companies offering mobile, broadband, TV, ﬁxed line and enterprise services to residential and business customers. It has four principal 
operations which have been identiﬁed as the Group’s reportable segments, being the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
The Group also has a London corporate centre (London) that does not meet the deﬁnition of an operating segment as it does not earn revenue 
from its activities. This function primarily acts as a portfolio manager and operational support provider for the reportable segments. 
The operating segment results for the two years ended 31 March 2012 are presented below. The non-operating London corporate centre is 
also disclosed within ‘other and eliminations’ in order to reconcile the reportable segment results to the Group results. 
The Board (the chief operating decision maker of the Group) considers the performance of each of these operations in assessing the 
performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources. Accordingly, these are the operating segments disclosed. 
There are no other operating segments identiﬁed by the Board. The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the Board. Cable & Wireless Communications 77
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company, following its acquisition in April 2011 (note 30), is included within the Caribbean reportable 
segment. 
Year ended 31 March 2012
Caribbean
 US$m
Panama
 US$m
Macau 
US$m
Monaco 
& Islands 
US$m
Other and
eliminations
1
 US$m
Total 
US$m
Revenue 1,172 601 524 586 (8) 2,875
Cost of sales (277) (199) (301) (185) 4 (958)
Gross margin 895 402 223 401 (4) 1,917
Pre-exceptional operating costs (611) (146) (58) (215) 14 (1,016)
EBITDA
2
284 256 165 186 10 901
Depreciation and amortisation (170) (71) (33) (76) (8) (358)
Net other operating expense (11) – – (1) – (12)
Exceptional operating costs (283) (9) – (18) – (310)
Group operating (loss)/proﬁt (180) 176 132 91 2 221
Share of proﬁt after tax of joint ventures and associates – – – 81826
Total operating (loss)/proﬁt (180) 176 132 99 20 247
Net other non-operating income 13
Net ﬁnance expense (156)
Proﬁt before income tax 104
Income tax (78)
Proﬁt for the year 26
1  ‘Other and eliminations’ includes London expenses, eliminations for inter-segment transactions and the results of our joint ventures and associates (with the exception of our joint 
venture in Afghanistan, which is managed and reported within Monaco & Islands).
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered by management to be a key ﬁnancial metric. It is deﬁned as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, 
net other operating and non-operating income/expense and exceptional items (note 36).
Year ended 31 March 2011
Caribbean 
US$m
Panama 
US$m
Macau 
US$m
Monaco & 
Islands 
US$m
Other and 
eliminations
1
 
US$m
Total 
US$m
Revenue 850 623 377 605 (15) 2,440 
Cost of sales (236) (202) (171) (180) 7 (782)
Gross margin 614 421 206 425 (8) 1,658 
Pre-exceptional operating costs (385) (145) (53) (218) 15 (786)
EBITDA
2
229 276 153 207 7 872 
LTIP charge – – – – (24) (24)
Depreciation and amortisation (125) (78) (33) (78) (7) (321)
Net other operating (expense)/income (3) – – 1 (26) (28)
Exceptional operating (costs)/income (5) – – (2) 13 6 
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 96 198 120 128 (37) 505 
Share of proﬁt after tax of joint ventures and associates – – – 3 28 31 
Total operating proﬁt/(loss) 96 198 120 131 (9) 536 
Net other non-operating income 34 
Net ﬁnance expense (108)
Proﬁt before income tax 462
Income tax (118) 
Proﬁt for the year 344 
1  ‘Other and eliminations’ includes London expenses, eliminations for inter-segment transactions and the results of our joint ventures (with the exception of our joint venture in 
Afghanistan, which is managed and reported within Monaco & Islands).
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered to be a key ﬁnancial metric. It is deﬁned as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net 
other operating and non-operating income/expense and exceptional items (note 36). 78 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
5 Segment information continued
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments’ results and the Group’s results. 
There is no signiﬁcant trading between the segments. Transactions between the segments are on commercial terms similar to those offered to 
external customers.
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segments’ assets and liabilities and the Group’s assets and liabilities. Furthermore, 
there are no asymmetrical allocations to reportable segments.
Entity-wide disclosures 
The revenue from external customers are analysed by product below. 
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
Mobile 1,402 1,027
Broadband and TV 286 262
Fixed voice 609 600
Enterprise, data and other 578 551
Total 2,875 2,440
Revenue from external customers can be classiﬁed by country as follows:
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
United Kingdom (country of domicile) – –
Bahamas 352 –
Jamaica 236 239
Panama 601 623
Macau 524 377
Monaco 268 236
All other countries and eliminations 894 965
Total 2,875 2,440
Revenue has been allocated to a country based on the location in which the telecommunications services were provided.
The Group does not have any customers from which revenue exceeds 10% of Group revenue.
Non-current assets (other than ﬁnancial instruments, deferred tax assets and deﬁned beneﬁt pension assets) are classiﬁed by country as 
follows:
At 31 March 
2012 
US$m
At 31 March 
2011 
US$m
United Kingdom (country of domicile) 16 15
Bahamas 361 –
Jamaica 111 306
Panama 539 483
Macau 109 103
Monaco 382 374
All other countries and eliminations
1
1,104 1,200
Total 2,622 2,481
1  Other countries and eliminations includes non-operating assets and liabilities. Cable & Wireless Communications 79
6 Operating costs and other operating income and expenses 
6a Operating costs
An analysis of the operating costs incurred by the Group is presented below, classiﬁed by the nature of the cost:
2011/12 2010/11
Pre-
exceptional 
US$m
Exceptional 
items 
US$m
Total
 US$m
Pre-
exceptional 
US$m
Exceptional 
items 
US$m
Total
US$m
Outpayments and direct costs 958 – 958 782 – 782
Employee and other staff expenses 437 66 503 365 5 370
Operating lease rentals:
– Networks 25 – 25 31 – 31
– Property 33 – 33 14 – 14
Other administrative expenses 267 – 267 202 (11) 191
Network costs 159 – 159 116 – 116
Property and utility costs 95 – 95 82 – 82
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 1,974 66 2,040 1,592 (6) 1,586
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 300 232 532 271 – 271
Amortisation of intangible assets 58 12 70 50 – 50
Operating costs 2,332 310 2,642 1,913 (6) 1,907
Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals.
6b Exceptional items 
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.15. ▶
Exceptional losses totalled US$310 million comprising restructuring costs, asset impairment and accelerated depreciation charges in the 
Caribbean and asset impairment charges relating to the Aﬁnis business within Monaco & Islands. 
Exceptional items within operating costs before depreciation and amortisation are disclosed below while further information in respect of 
exceptional impairment charges can be found in note 1 1. 
The exceptional accelerated depreciation charge of US$30 million was recorded in respect of a change in equipment vendor and the 
re-evaluation of the useful lives of legacy 2G mobile assets as part of the ongoing roll out of 4G/HSPA+ networks in a number of 
Caribbean islands.
Note
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
Exceptional items within operating costs before depreciation and amortisation:
Staff costs (i) 66 5
Other income (ii) – (11)
Total exceptional operating costs/(income) before depreciation and amortisation 66 (6)
i)  In 2011/12, exceptional staff costs include US$9 million in relation to a restructuring programme in Panama and US$57 million in the 
Caribbean which predominantly relates to the post acquisition restructuring plan in The Bahamas Telecommunications Company (BTC). 
In 2010/11, exceptional staff costs of US$5 million arose from restructuring of the Group’s Caribbean operations.
ii)  In 2010/11, exceptional other costs included US$4 million professional fees as a result of the demerger, and US$2 million relating to the 
restructuring of our Aﬁnis business within Monaco & Islands. In addition, US$17 million of exceptional income arose after successfully 
defending claims brought by a Caribbean competitor. 80 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
6c Employee and other staff expenses 
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.11. ▶
The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses are set out below:
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
Wages and salaries 424 333
Social security costs 12 7
Share-based payments 4 3
Long-Term Incentive Plan – 24
Pension costs:
– deﬁned beneﬁt plans – 8
– deﬁned contribution plans 12 7
Temporary labour and recruitment 33 18
485 400
Less: Staff costs capitalised (48) (35)
Staff costs 437 365
Exceptional employee and other staff expenses (note 6b) 66 5
Total staff costs 503 370
The average number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group during the year was:
2011/12 2010/11
London 146 153
Caribbean 3,948 2,855
Panama 1,598 1,737
Macau 882 844
Monaco & Islands 1,641 1,624
Total 8,215 7,213
Directors’ and key management remuneration 
Key management are represented by Directors only as those that have authority and responsibility for managerial decisions affecting the future 
development and business prospects of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
Included within employee costs is key management remuneration as follows:
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
Salaries and other short-term employment beneﬁts 6.5 4.8
Post-employment beneﬁts 0.5 0.5
Long-Term Incentive Plan – 5.8
Total Directors’ remuneration
1
 7.0 11.1
Share-based payments 1.0 1.7
Total key management remuneration 8.0 12.8
1 Please refer to the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 44 to 57 for further information on aggregate Directors’ emoluments of US$7.0 million (£4.4 million)  
(2010/11 – US$11.1 million (£7.1 million)). The Directors’ remuneration report is presented in sterling as salaries, beneﬁts and bonuses are paid in sterling.  Cable & Wireless Communications 81
6d Other operating income and expense
In 201 1/12 and 2010/1 1, other operating income primarily included gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
In 201 1/12, other operating expenses of US$15 million include US$7 million of stamp duty on The Bahamas acquisition, US$5 million of costs 
incurred following Hurricane Irene and US$3 million of losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
In 2010/11, other operating expenses of US$33 million related to US$17 million of foreign exchange translation movements on our UK deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension schemes, US$5 million of costs incurred following Hurricane Tomas in the Caribbean and US$11 million of transaction costs 
incurred relating to acquisition and other corporate ﬁnance activity. 
6e Auditor’s remuneration
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
Audit services:
Statutory audit services – in respect of the Group’s accounts 2.4 2.2
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts 2.4 2.2
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates:
Statutory audit services – in respect of other statutory accounts 1.5 1.2
Audit related regulatory reporting 0.6 0.4
 4.5 3.8
Tax services – compliance 0.1 0.2
Tax services – advisory – 0.1
Services related to corporate ﬁnance activities 0.2 0.7
Other services (including other assurance services) 0.2 0.7
5.0 5.5
Fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc for audit and other services to the Company are included in the table above and are not disclosed in its individual 
accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
7 Finance income/expense and other non-operating expenses
7a Gains on sale of businesses
During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Telecom Vanuatu Limited, which was classiﬁed within the 
‘other’ reportable segment. The disposal took place on 12 October 2011 for total consideration of US$5 million (excluding transaction costs) 
resulting in a gain on disposal of US$3 million. The Group also disposed of its 49% interest in Fĳi International Telecoms Limited, which was 
classiﬁed within the ‘other’ reportable segment. The disposal took place on 15 March 2012 for total consideration of US$10 million (excluding 
transaction costs) resulting in a gain on disposal of US$3 million.
During the year ended 31 March 201 1, the Group disposed of Cable & Wireless (Bermuda) Holdings and its subsidiaries, which were classiﬁed 
within the Monaco & Islands reportable segment. The disposal took place on 10 March 2011 for total consideration of US$70 million (excluding 
transaction costs) resulting in a gain on disposal of US$36 million. A further gain of US$7m was recognised in the year ended 31 March 2012 in 
relation to adjustments to the working capital consideration and additional contingent consideration relating to the sale.
None of the disposed businesses constitute a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations due to their size.
7b Losses on termination of operations 
In the year ended 31 March 201 1, the loss of US$2 million was the result of the run off activities of the Group’s former insurance operation, 
Pender Insurance Limited. 82 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
7 Finance income/expense and other non-operating expenses continued
7c Finance income and expense
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6. ▶
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
Finance income
Interest on cash and deposits 7 6
Investment income 1 1
Foreign exchange gains – 3
Gains on derivative contracts 3 22
Total ﬁnance income 11 32
Finance expense
Interest on bank loans 46 42
Interest on bonds 93 86
Unwinding of discounts on provisions 1 2
Unwinding of discount on Monaco put option liability 19 13
Unwinding of discount on Monaco 6% put option liability – 1
Foreign exchange losses 7 –
Capitalised ﬁnance transaction costs written off 6 –
172 144
Less: Interest capitalised (5) (4)
Total ﬁnance expense 167 140
Tax relief of US$2 million is available on interest capitalised in the year ended 31 March 2012 (2010/11 – US$1 million). Interest has been 
capitalised within property, plant and equipment at a rate of 4% (2010/11 – 6%) on qualifying capital expenditure.
8 Income tax expense
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.12. ▶
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
Current tax charge
UK tax at 26% (2010/11 – 28%) 6 6
Double tax relief (6) (6)
– –
Overseas tax 110 117
Adjustments relating to prior years (24) (8)
Total current tax charge 86 109
Deferred tax (credit)/charge 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (6) 30
Adjustments relating to prior years (2) (21)
Total deferred tax (credit)/charge (8) 9
Total income tax charge 78 118 Cable & Wireless Communications 83
The Group’s effective tax rate differs from the UK statutory tax rate as follows:
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
Proﬁt before income tax 104 462
Income tax charge at UK statutory tax rate: 26% (2010/11 – 28%) 27 129
Effect of overseas tax rates (34) (42)
Effect of accounting for joint ventures and associates – (6)
Effect of withholding tax and intra-Group dividends 27 27
Net effect of income not taxable (42) (30)
Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 126 69
Adjustments relating to prior years (26) (29)
Total income tax charge 78 118
Income tax credit on exceptional items (10) (1)
Pre-exceptional income tax charge 88 119
Pre-exceptional effective tax rate on proﬁt 21.3% 26.1%
Effective tax rate on proﬁt 75.0% 25.5%
For the analysis of the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities at the reporting date, including factors affecting the future tax rates see note 24.
9 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the (loss)/proﬁt for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding.
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
(Loss)/proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company (77) 197 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (millions) 2,506 2,607
Dilutive effect of share options (millions) – 22
Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue used to calculate diluted  
earnings per share (millions) 2,506 2,629
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (cents per share) (3.1) 7.6
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (cents per share) (3.1) 7.5 84 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
10 Dividends declared and paid
2011/12 
US$m
2010/11 
US$m
Final dividend in respect of the prior year 136 135
Interim dividend in respect of the current year 66 70
Total dividend paid 202 205
During the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group declared and paid a ﬁnal dividend of US5.33 cents per share in respect of the year ended  
31 March 2011 (2010/11 – 3.34 pence per share (US4.97 cents per share) in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010). Beginning with the 
interim dividend in respect of 2010/1 1, the Group declares dividends in cents per share. The Group declared and paid an interim dividend of 
US2.67 cents per share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012 (2010/11 – US2.67 cents per share in respect of the year ended 
31 March 2011).
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2012, the Directors have proposed a ﬁnal dividend of US5.33 cents per share (US$133 million) (2010/11 
– US5.33 cents per share), for approval by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 20 July 2012. These ﬁnancial statements do not reﬂect the 
proposed dividend, which will be accounted for in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 
2013.
The Group previously offered a scrip dividend as an alternative to the cash dividend.
Under the scrip scheme in 2010/1 1, 13,443 shareholders owning 701 million shares elected to take the 2009/10 ﬁnal dividend wholly or partly 
in shares. Consequently, 41,039,703 total shares were issued with a value of US$37 million. The scrip scheme is no longer offered and has been 
replaced with a dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP). 
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (the Trust) waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the Trust, with the 
exception of those shares held for Directors under the deferred annual bonus plan.
11 Impairment review 
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.7. ▶
Goodwill
A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed as at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011. In performing this review, the 
recoverable amount has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the related 
businesses. The key assumptions used by the Group in the calculation of value in use for its goodwill balances are the discount rate, revenue 
growth, operating cost margin and the level of capital expenditure required to maintain the network at its current level. The Group’s signiﬁcant 
goodwill balances are discussed below.
Monaco Telecom (Monaco & Islands reporting segment)
Goodwill of US$205 million was allocated in aggregate to the Monaco Telecom group of cash-generating units (CGUs) at 31 March 2012  
(31 March 2011 – US$172 million). Three relevant CGUs were identiﬁed for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of Monaco Telecom 
(domestic including the cable television business, international business and other services).
The value in use was determined for each CGU by discounting future cash ﬂows (based on the approved ﬁve year business plan extrapolated at 
long-term growth rates of between 0% and 2.5% (2010/1 1 – 0% and 2%)) at pre-tax discount rates of between 9% and 24% (2010/1 1 – 9% 
and 22%) dependent on the risk-adjusted cost of capital of the different parts of the business. The value in use was higher than the fair value 
less costs to sell and no impairment was required in either period. 
Monaco Telecom operates under an exclusive operating agreement in Monaco and management’s forecasts were based on historical experience 
for the business. 
The value in use of the three CGUs in aggregate would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if cash ﬂows decreased by more than 
US$20 million per year or the discount rate increased by more than 7% above the pre-tax discount rates. Cable & Wireless Communications 85
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company – BTC (Caribbean reporting segment)
Goodwill of US$63 million was allocated to BTC at 31 March 2012. One relevant CGU has been identiﬁed for the purpose of assessing the 
carrying value of the BTC business. The value in use was determined by discounting future cash ﬂows (based on the approved ﬁve year business 
plan extrapolated at a long-term growth rate of nil) at a pre-tax discount rate of 9.4%. The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs 
to sell and no impairment was required.
The CGU value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if cash ﬂows decreased by more than US$48 million per year or the 
discount rate increased by more than 14% above the pre-tax discount rate.
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC – Dhiraagu (Monaco & Islands reporting segment)
Goodwill of US$21 million was allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2012 (31 March 2011 – US$25 million). One relevant CGU has been identiﬁed 
for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the Dhiraagu business. The value in use was determined by discounting future cash ﬂows 
(based on the approved ﬁve year business plan extrapolated at a long-term growth rate of 2.5% (2010/11 – 2.5%)) at a pre-tax discount rate 
of 11.0% (2010/11 – 14.3%). The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs to sell and no impairment was required.
Aﬁnis (Monaco & Islands reporting segment)
Aﬁnis has one relevant CGU that has been identiﬁed for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the business. The recoverable amount 
was assessed based upon the value in use which was determined by discounting future cash ﬂows (based on the approved ﬁve year business 
plan) at a pre-tax discount rate of 17.1% (2010/11 – 20%).
At 31 March 2012, the goodwill was fully impaired resulting in a charge of US$9 million. This was due to a decrease in the value in use, triggered 
by a change in the strategic direction of the business.
Property, plant and equipment and other intangibles
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd (Caribbean reporting segment)
As indicated in the previous year’s Annual report, there were a number of risks identiﬁed for our Jamaica business, including the need for change 
in the regulatory environment and the importance of business improvement strategies such as our Jamaica ‘win back’ activity. Progress in these 
areas has not been as anticipated. In light of this, a review of the carrying value of the ﬁxed assets was conducted at year end.
One relevant CGU has been identiﬁed for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the business. The recoverable amount was assessed based 
upon value in use which was determined by discounting future cash ﬂows (based on the approved ﬁve year business plan at a pre-tax discount rate 
of 1 1.0% (2010/1 1 – 1 1. 1%)). The calculation is sensitive to changes in the discount rate, terminal growth rate and underlying trading. 
Impairment charges of US$32 million, US$151 million and US$1 million have been applied to land and buildings, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets respectively.
Other Caribbean (Caribbean reporting segment)
An impairment charge of US$12 million was recorded against the carrying value of plant and equipment in one other Caribbean business in light 
of the trading performance during the year.
The recoverable amount was assessed based upon the value in use determined by discounting future cash ﬂows (based on the approved ﬁve 
year business plan at a pre-tax discount rate of 11.4%). The calculation is sensitive to changes in the discount rate, terminal growth rate and 
underlying trading. 
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC – Dhiraagu (Monaco & Islands reporting segment)
Trade mark assets of US$18 million, with an indeﬁnite useful life, were allocated to Dhiraagu at 31 March 2012 (31 March 2011 – US$18 
million). One relevant CGU has been identiﬁed for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of the Dhiraagu business and the key assumptions 
used are disclosed above. No impairment was required.
Aﬁnis (Monaco & Islands reporting segment)
At 31 March 2012, in addition to the goodwill impairment disclosed above, other intangible assets of US$2 million and plant and equipment of 
US$7 million were impaired.
Other 
There were no other events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment 
and other intangible assets had been impaired. 86 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
12 Intangible assets
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.5. ▶
Goodwill 
US$m
Software 
US$m
Licences and 
operating 
agreements 
US$m
Customer 
contracts and
relationships 
US$m
Other
US$m
Total 
US$m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 196 151 145 51 91 634 
Business combinations 11 –––– 11
Additions – 36 – – 6 42 
Transfer between categories – (1) 29 – (28) –
Disposals – (3) (1) – – (4)
Exchange differences 1148 –3 26 
At 31 March 201 1 218 187 181 51 72 709 
Business combinations 107 – – 31 1 139
Additions – 49 1 – 3 53
Transfer between categories – 1 (1) – – –
Disposals – (1) – (3) (3) (7)
Exchange differences (17) 4 (8) (8) (6) (35)
At 31 March 2012 308 240 173 71 67 859
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2010 10 114 48 5 43 220 
Charge for the year – 23 11 7 9 50
Disposals – (3) – – – (3)
Transfer between categories – – 6 – (6) –
Exchange differences 233 (2) 39
At 31 March 2011 12 137 68 10 49 276
Charge for the year – 32 11 6 9 58
Impairment 9 1 1 – 1 12
Disposals – (1) – (3) (3) (7)
Transfer between categories – 2 (2) – – –
Exchange differences (2) – (3) (2) (1) (8)
At 31 March 2012 19 171 75 11 55 331
Net book value
At 31 March 2012 289 69 98 60 12 528
At 31 March 2011 206 50 113 41 23 433  Cable & Wireless Communications 87
Goodwill balances are allocated to the following cash-generating units:
BTC
1
 
US$m
Monaco 
Telecom
2
 
US$m
Aﬁnis
2
 
US$m
Dhivehi 
Raajjeyge 
Gulhun PLC 
(Dhiraagu)
2
 
US$m
Total 
US$m
At 1 April 2010 – 153 8 25 186 
Business combinations (note 30) – 11 – – 11 
Exchange differences – 8 1 – 9 
At 31 March 2011 – 172 9 25 206 
Business combinations (note 30) 63 44 – – 107
Exchange differences – (11) – (4) (15)
Impairment – – (9) – (9)
At 31 March 2012 63 205 – 21 289
1 Reporting segment: Caribbean
2 Reporting segment: Monaco & Islands
13 Property, plant and equipment
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.4. ▶
  2011/12  2010/11
Land and 
buildings 
US$m
Plant and 
equipment 
US$m
Assets under 
construction 
US$m
Total 
US$m
Land and 
buildings 
US$m
Plant and 
equipment 
US$m
Assets under 
construction 
US$m
Total 
US$m
Cost
At 1 April 416 4,162 254 4,832 406 4,022 238 4,666 
Business combinations 40 142 70 252 ––––
Additions – 1 355 356 – 33 281 314
Movements in asset retirement 
obligations (2) 1 – (1) (2) 2 – –
Disposals – (65) – (65) (27) (165) – (192)
Transfers between categories 52 298 (350) – 32 235 (267) –
Exchange differences (5) (68) (9) (82) 7 35 2 44 
At 31 March 501 4,471 320 5,292 416 4,162 254 4,832 
Depreciation
At 1 April 180 2,895 – 3,075 177 2,764 – 2,941
Charge for the year
1
16 314 – 330 15 256 – 271
Impairment 32 170 – 202 ––––
Disposals – (60) – (60) (18) (146) – (164)
Transfers between categories 8 (8) – – 4 (4) – –
Exchange differences (2) (39) – (41) 225 – 27
At 31 March 234 3,272 – 3,506 180 2,895 – 3,075 
Net book value at 31 March 267 1,199 320 1,786 236 1,267 254 1,757 
1 Includes accelerated depreciation of US$30 million (2010/11 – US$nil). Refer to note 6b for further information.
The Group held no assets under ﬁnance leases at 31 March 2012 or 31 March 2011.
Additions during the year include interest and own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of US$5 million (2010/11 – US$4 
million) and US$48 million (2010/11 – US$35 million) respectively.  88 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
14 Investments in joint ventures and associates
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.1. ▶
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
Gross carrying amount
At 1 April
– Cost 78 78 
– Share of post-acquisition reserves 224 212
302 290
Share of proﬁt after tax 26 31
Dividends paid to Group companies (4) (9)
Additions 5 –
Disposals (22) –
Loan from Group companies (4) 1
Other movements (2) (11)
At 31 March 301 302
Impairment allowance
At 1 April (59) (59)
Disposals 11 –
At 31 March (48) (59)
Net carrying amount at 31 March 253 243 
The Group’s total interest in its joint ventures and associates is presented below:
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Non-current assets 309 343
Current assets 120 125
Current liabilities (79) (120)
Non-current liabilities (97) (105)
Share of net assets 253 243
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
Revenue 370 381
Operating costs (338) (351)
Operating proﬁt 32 30
Net ﬁnancing costs (3) –
Share of proﬁt before tax 29 30
Income tax (expense)/credit (3) 1
Dividends paid to Group companies (4) (9)
Share of retained proﬁt 22 22 Cable & Wireless Communications 89
On 12 October 2011, the Group sold its 50% interest in Telecom Vanuatu Limited and on 15 March 2012, the Group sold its 49% interest in Fĳi 
International Telecoms Limited. See note 7a for more information. 
There are no signiﬁcant restrictions on joint ventures’ and associates’ ability to transfer funds to the Group. The joint ventures and associates 
have no signiﬁcant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any signiﬁcant contingent liabilities in relation to its 
interests in joint ventures and associates. The Group’s joint ventures and associates have not discontinued any operations during the year ended 
31 March 2012 (2010/1 1 – none).
15 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6. ▶
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
At 1 April 31 29
Business combinations 20 – 
Fair value gain recorded in other comprehensive income 5 2
Released to cash and cash equivalents – (2) 
Exchange differences (1) 2
At 31 March 55 31 
At 31 March 2012 available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets consist of UK and Bahamian Government bonds (31 March 2011 – UK Government bonds). 
These assets were measured at fair value based on observable market data. The maximum exposure to credit risk for available-for-sale ﬁnancial 
assets is equal to their carrying value.
16 Trade and other receivables
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6. ▶
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Gross trade receivables 387 312
Impairment allowance (91) (67)
Net trade receivables 296 245
Other receivables 66 81
Prepayments and accrued income 236 263
Taxation and social security receivables 2 2
Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 2 1
Trade and other receivables – current 602 592
Other receivables 34 41
Prepayments and accrued income 21 7
Other receivables – non-current 55 48
Total trade and other receivables 657 640
The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value. There is no material difference between the carrying value 
and fair value of trade and other receivables presented. 90 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
16 Trade and other receivables continued
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group’s customer base is large and unrelated. Receivables 
predominantly relate to retail customers, governments and corporate entities as well as other telecommunications operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer. These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment 
history analysis and credit approval limits. Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are 
neither past due nor impaired as low risk. There have been no signiﬁcant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the 
Group that indicate this would change in the future. During the periods presented there was a continued economic weakness in many of the 
markets in which the Group operated. This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. 
However, management assessed this risk and, after providing valuation allowance where necessary, continued to support the assessment of 
credit quality as low risk.
An ageing analysis of the current ‘trade receivables’ and current ‘other receivables’ that are not impaired is as follows (excludes prepayments and 
accrued income, taxation and social security and amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates):
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Not yet due 145 165
Overdue 30 days or less 100 79
Overdue 31 to 60 days 40 30
Overdue 61 to 90 days 32 26
Overdue 91 days to 180 days 27 17
Overdue 181 days or more 18 9
Current ‘trade receivables’ and current ‘other receivables’ 362 326
Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade and other receivables not past 
due or past due by up to 30 days. Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other carriers 
often have lengthy settlement periods. Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in both receivables and payables 
balances with the same counterparty. Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for 
a deﬁned period are agreed between counterparties and settled on a net basis. 
An analysis of movements in the trade receivables impairment allowance during the year is as follows:
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
At 1 April 67 62
Bad debts written off (32) (20)
Increase in allowance 39 24
Business combinations 20 – 
Exchange differences (3) 1
At 31 March 91 67
In a small number of the Group’s operations it is customary and practice to collect security deposits from customers as collateral. These are 
recorded as liabilities within other payables.
17 Inventories 
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.8. ▶
Inventories represent equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held-for-sale.
Inventories of US$103 million (31 March 201 1 – US$84 million) are presented net of an allowance of US$14 million (31 March 2011 – US$5 
million) made against slow moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, cable capacity, consumables and accessories held-for-sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2011/12 was 
US$359 million (2010/11 – US$214 million). 
Inventories of the Group are not pledged as security or collateral against any of the Group’s borrowings. Cable & Wireless Communications 91
18 Cash and cash equivalents
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6. ▶
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 188 230
Short-term bank deposits 124 149
Cash and cash equivalents 312 379
Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice. The effective 
interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2012 was 1.39% (31 March 2011 – 0.91%). At 31 March 2012, these deposits had an 
average maturity of nine days (31 March 201 1 – 27 days).
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value of those ﬁnancial instruments.
19 Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6. ▶
2011/12 2010/11
CWW
 shares
US$m
Derivative 
ﬁnancial 
instruments
US$m
Total
US$m
CWW
 shares
US$m
Derivative 
ﬁnancial 
instruments
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 20 13 33 64 1 65
Delivery of shares to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc ––– (30) – (30)
Delivery of shares to employees (1) – (1) (2) – (2)
Shares sold (2) – (2) –––
Fair value movement (7) – (7) (15) – (15)
Exchange differences ––– 3– 3
Movement in derivative ﬁnancial assets – (5) (5) –1212
At 31 March 10 8 18 20 13 33
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss – current 10 8 18 20 7 27
Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss – non-current – – – –66
On demerger, shares in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (the Trust) were converted from 43 million Cable and 
Wireless plc shares to 43 million Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares and 43 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares. The Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc shares held by the Trust were reclassiﬁed at demerger as ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss as they 
represent shares in an unrelated listed company. During the year ended 31 March 2011, 22 million Cable & Wireless Worldwide shares with a 
market value of US$30 million were delivered to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc as part of the demerger agreement.
The remaining shares are held for use in satisfying employee share-based awards (note 28). The majority of shares no longer required due to the 
expiry of awards were sold in the year.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
At 31 March 2012, the Group had foreign exchange swap contracts to sell US$324 million (31 March 2011 – US$260 million) in hedging future 
sterling obligations regarding the coupon and redemption of the 2012 bond. The Group did not apply hedge accounting to these contracts and 
as such they were revalued to fair value through proﬁt or loss. At 31 March 2012, the fair value of these contracts was an asset of US$8 million 
(31 March 2011 – asset of US$13 million).  92 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
20 Trade and other payables
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Trade payables 190 205
Other tax and social security costs 21 21
Accruals 428 384
Deferred income 88 67
Other payables 105 76
Trade and other payables – current 832 753
Accruals 4 4
Deferred income 26 16
Other payables 1 –
Trade and other payables – non-current 31 20
Total trade and other payables 863 773
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented. For liquidity risk exposure 
analysis purposes, the carrying amount of trade and other payables is the same as the contractual cash ﬂows, with the contractual maturities of 
these ﬁnancial liabilities all due in less than one year.
21 Borrowings
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6. ▶
31 March 2012 31 March 2011
Type Security
Interest
rate
%
Carrying 
value
US$m
Fair value
US$m
Interest
rate
%
Carrying 
value
US$m
Fair value
US$m
2020 US$400 million secured bond
1
Fixed Share pledges 
over Group assets
8.750 390 425
2
–––
2019 £200 million bond Fixed Unsecured 8.625 234 234
2
8.625 235 245
2
2017 US$500 million secured bond Fixed Share pledges 
over Group assets
7.750 492 523
2
7.750 490 527
2
2012 £200 million bond Fixed Unsecured 8.750 317 325
2
8.750 317 337
2
US dollar and currencies linked to 
the US dollar loans and facilities 
(various dates to 2038)
Fixed and 
ﬂoating
Unsecured 3.898 269 269
3
5.420 283 285
3
Overdrafts Floating Unsecured –5 5
3
–2 2
3
2012 £29 million loan Floating 2019 bonds ––– 5.890 46 46
3
Total borrowings 1,707 1,373
Borrowings – current 460 116
Borrowings – non-current 1,247 1,257
1 As part of reﬁnancing activities during the year, the Group issued a new US$400 million secured bond in January 2012, to replace the £200 million bond that is due to mature in 
August 2012.
2 This value was determined by reference to market values obtained from third parties.
3 The carrying amount approximates to fair value. 
On 19 October 2011, the Group entered into new ﬁve-year borrowing arrangements for US$600 million of revolving credit facilities with 
a maturity date of October 2016. The facilities replace the Group’s US$500 million revolving credit facility and the US$100 million term 
loan which were due to expire in March 2013. 
These facilities were undrawn as at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011. Cable & Wireless Communications 93
The agreements for the facilities entered into during the year contain ﬁnancial and other covenants which are standard to these types 
of arrangements.
For liquidity risk exposure analysis purposes, the following are the contractual maturities of loans (including the expected interest payable 
at rates prevailing at the reporting date):
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Borrowings
Due in less than one year 593 220
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 140 497
Due in more than two years but not more than ﬁve years 872 304
Due in more than ﬁve years 787 874
2,392 1,895
Less: future ﬁnance charges on loans (685) (522)
Total borrowings 1,707 1,373
It is not expected that the cash ﬂows included in the maturity analysis above could occur signiﬁcantly earlier or at signiﬁcantly different amounts. 
Interest was payable on borrowings falling due after more than ﬁve years at rates of between 0.0% and 8.8% (2010/11 – 0.0% and 8.6% 
respectively).
Reconciliation of net funds 
Funds are deﬁned as cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits. Debt is deﬁned as bonds, loans and overdrafts.
Analysis of changes in net funds:
At 
1 April 
2011 
US$m
Business
combination 
US$m
Cash ﬂow 
US$m
Bond
amortisation
US$m
Transfers
US$m
Exchange 
differences
US$m
At 
31 March 
2012 
US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 230 56 (89) – – (9) 188
Short-term deposits 149 – (17) – – (8) 124
Total funds 379 56 (106) – – (17) 312
Debt due within one year (116) (9) 81 (2) (415) 1 (460)
Debt due after more than one year (1,257) (25) (378) (2) 415 – (1,247)
Total debt (1,373) (34) (297) (4) – 1 (1,707)
Total net (debt)/funds (994) 22 (403) (4) – (16) (1,395)
22 Financial liabilities at fair value 
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.6. ▶
At 31 March 2012 At 31 March 2011
Current
US$m
 Non-current
US$m
Total
US$m
Current
US$m
Non-current
US$m
Total
US$m
Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 250 – 250 96 120 216
Interest rate swap 1– 1 –––
Total ﬁnancial liabilities at fair value 251 – 251 96 120 216
Interest rate swap
At acquisition on 6 April 201 1, The Bahamas Telecommunications Company held an interest rate swap to economically hedge the interest rate 
risks associated with a loan from a consortium of banks led by Citibank N.A. The effect of the swap is to convert the ﬂoating rate loan at US 
three months LIBOR plus 1.35% into a ﬁxed rate loan at 4.59% per annum.  94 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
22 Financial liabilities at fair value continued
As at 31 March 2012, the interest rate swap had a negative fair value of US$1 million. The hedge did not qualify for hedge accounting, therefore 
the decrease in negative fair value of US$1 million since acquisition is recognised in the consolidated income statement. The interest rate swap 
matures on 15 February 2013. 
Monaco Telecom put option
A put option is held by the non-controlling shareholder of Monaco Telecom, the Principality of Monaco (the Principality). This put option is 
measured at fair value and is calculated using discounted cash ﬂow techniques, using inputs that are not based on publicly observable market 
data. The liability for the put option represents 45% of the market value of Monaco Telecom. 
Although the Group considers there to be only a remote likelihood of this put option being exercised, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 
requires the present value of the amount payable to be recognised as a liability regardless of the probability of exercise, as this is not within the 
Group’s control. As this put option was issued as part of a business combination, accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations 
(2004), any change in remeasuring the derivative to fair value is recorded as an adjustment to goodwill (note 30).
Until 21 March 2012, the put option held by the Principality was exercisable in two tranches. The ﬁrst tranche enabled the Principality to put 
20% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group from six months post 18 June 2014 and 2017. The second tranche enabled the Principality 
to put 25% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to the Group three years after the ﬁrst has been exercised.
On 21 March 2012, the put option agreement was revised. The revised agreement enables the Principality to put up to 45% of the shares of 
Monaco Telecom to the Group in one or several instalments until 30 April 2019. Accordingly the put option is recognised as a current liability at 
31 March 2012.
A reconciliation of the movements in the value of the Monaco Telecom put option is as follows:
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
At 1 April 216 189
Changes in fair value recognised as an adjustment to goodwill 27 4 
Increase in fair value of put option due to discount unwinding recognised as a ﬁnance expense 19 13 
Foreign exchange movements recognised in the foreign currency reserve in equity (12) 10 
At 31 March 250 216 
23 Financial instruments at fair value
The table below analyses ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method. The different levels are deﬁned as follows:
Level 1 – Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either 
directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Level 3 – Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
At 31 March 2012
Note
Level 1
US$m
Level 2
US$m
Level 3
US$m
Total
US$m
Financial assets measured at fair value:
UK and Bahamian Government bonds 15 55–– 55
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through proﬁt or loss 19 10–– 10
Derivative instruments 19 –8 –8
Total ﬁnancial assets at fair value 65 8 – 73
Financial liabilities measured at fair value:
Interest rate swap 22 –1 –1
Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 22 – – 250 250
Total ﬁnancial liabilities at fair value – 1 250 251 Cable & Wireless Communications 95
At 31 March 2011
Note
Level 1
US$m
Level 2
US$m
Level 3
US$m
Total
US$m
Financial assets measured at fair value:
UK Government bonds 15 31 – – 31
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at fair value through proﬁt or loss 19 20 – – 20
Derivative instruments 19 – 13 – 13
Total ﬁnancial assets at fair value 51 13 – 64
Financial liabilities measured at fair value:
Put option relating to Monaco Telecom 22 – – 216 216
Total ﬁnancial liabilities at fair value – – 216 216
24 Deferred tax 
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.12. ▶
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows:
Capital
allowances on
non-current
assets
US$m
Tax losses
US$m
Pensions
US$m
Other
US$m
Financial
position
offset
US$m
Total
US$m
Deferred tax assets 13 62 6 7 (69) 19 
Deferred tax liabilities (84) – (11) (16) 69 (42)
At 1 April 2010 (71) 62 (5) (9) – (23)
Credit/(charge) to proﬁt or loss 14 (22) (1) – – (9)
Tax charged to other comprehensive income – – (3) – – (3)
Exchange differences (2) 3 (1) 1 – 1
At 31 March 2011 (59) 43 (10) (8) – (34)
Deferred tax assets 19 43 3 15 (76) 4
Deferred tax liabilities (78) – (13) (23) 76 (38)
At 1 April 2011 (59) 43 (10) (8) – (34)
Credit/(charge) to proﬁt or loss 65 (41) (2) (14) – 8
Tax credit to other comprehensive income – – 2 – – 2
Exchange differences 1 (2) 1 (1) – (1)
At 31 March 2012 7 – (9) (23) – (25)
Deferred tax assets 33 – 4 2 (34) 5
Deferred tax liabilities (26) – (13) (25) 34 (30)
At 31 March 2012 7 – (9) (23) – (25) 96 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
24 Deferred tax continued
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences:
Capital
allowances
available on
non-current
assets
US$m
Tax losses
US$m
Pensions
US$m
Other
US$m
Total
US$m
At 31 March 2012 207 6,169 171 83 6,630
At 31 March 2011 295 5,653 118 158 6,224
Tax losses (recognised and unrecognised) expire as follows:
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Within 1 year – –
Within 3 years – –
Within 5 years – –
Within 10 years 38 35
After more than 10 years – 245
Other tax losses are not subject to expiry.
Tax losses of US$6,169 million (31 March 201 1 – US$5,653 million) include UK capital losses of US$5,248 million (31 March 2011 – 
US$5,264 million).
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates where the Group controls the timing of 
remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount of temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures and associates for which deferred tax liabilities have not 
been recognised is US$296 million (31 March 2011 – US$316 million). These temporary differences relate to unremitted earnings.
The Budget on 21 March 2012 announced a change to the UK corporation tax rate to 24%. This was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012 
and is effective from 1 April 2012. This reduction replaces the decrease to 25% previously enacted in the Finance Act 2011.
Further reductions to the UK corporation tax rate were announced in the March 2012 Budget. The changes, which are expected to be enacted 
separately each year, will reduce the rate by 1% per annum, to 22% by 1 April 2014. These changes had not been substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date and therefore are not recognised in these ﬁnancial statements.
25 Provisions
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.13. ▶
Property
US$m
Redundancy
costs
US$m
Network
and asset
retirement
obligations
US$m
Legal and
other
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2011 7 6 28 53 94
Business combinations – – 10 – 10
Additional provisions – 56 1 14 71
Amounts used (2) (55) (3) (12) (72)
Unused amounts released – – (1) (3) (4)
Effect of discounting – – 2 – 2
Exchange differences – – (2) (1) (3)
At 31 March 2012 5 7 35 51 98
Provisions – current 5 7 5 44 61
Provisions – non-current – – 30 7 37 Cable & Wireless Communications 97
Property
US$m
Redundancy
costs
US$m
Network
and asset
retirement
obligations
US$m
Demerger
US$m
Legal and
other
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2010 610253456 131
Additional provisions –5147 17
Amounts used – (9) – (38) (1) (48)
Unused amounts released –––– (8) (8)
Effect of discounting – – 2 – – 2
Exchange differences 1––– (1) –
At 31 March 2011 76 28 – 53 94
Provisions – current 7 6 4 –4562
Provisions – non-current – – 24 – 8 32
Property
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties. 
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant 
properties being sublet. The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Redundancy
Provision has been made for the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date. Amounts provided for and 
spent during the periods presented primarily relate to regional transformation activities. The provision is expected to be used within one year.
Network and asset retirement obligations 
Provision has been made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased network capacity. The provision is 
expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Provision has also been made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sit es, mobile cell 
sites, domestic and subsea cabling. This provision is expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arises. 
Legal and other
Legal and other provisions include amounts relating to speciﬁc legal claims against the Group together with amounts in respect of certain 
employee beneﬁts and sales taxes.
Demerger
The provision comprised costs related to the demerger such as professional fees, redundancy costs and closure costs.
26 Retirement beneﬁts obligations 
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.11. ▶
The Group operates pension schemes for its current and former UK and overseas employees. These schemes include both deﬁned beneﬁt 
schemes, where retirement beneﬁts are based on employees’ remuneration and length of service, and deﬁned contribution schemes, where 
retirement beneﬁts reﬂect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, and in respect of, employees. Contributions to the deﬁned 
beneﬁt schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
Cable & Wireless Communications operates the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF). This plan provides deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned 
contribution arrangements for current and former employees of the Group. The CWSF has been closed to new deﬁned beneﬁt members since 1998.
Additionally, the Group operates unfunded deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements in the UK. These primarily relate to pension provisions for former 
Directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap. The Group operates other 
deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes in Macau, Jamaica, Barbados and Guernsey. 98 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
26 Retirement beneﬁts obligations continued
Funding valuation – Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund
The latest triennial actuarial valuation of the CWSF was carried out by independent actuaries Towers Watson Limited as at 31 March 2010. 
The March 2010 actuarial valuation showed that based on long-term ﬁnancial assumptions the contribution rate required to meet the future 
beneﬁt accrual was 38.4% of pensionable earnings (33.4% employer’s and 5.0% employee’s). This contribution rate will be reviewed when the 
next triennial valuation is carried out, at 31 March 2013. The terms of the CWSF Trust Deed also allow the Trustee or the Company to call for a 
valuation at any time. 
Cable & Wireless Communications paid a total contribution of US$2 million in 2011/12 (2010/11 – US$157 million), comprising deﬁcit funding 
of US$nil and normal contributions of US$2 million (2010/1 1 – US$149 million and US$8 million respectively), to the CWSF. A deﬁcit recovery 
funding plan was also agreed with the Trustees during March 2011 as part of the March 2010 actuarial valuation with the aim that the deﬁcit 
would be eliminated by April 2016. The payments under this agreement will fall within the following ranges: July 2014 - £20.5 million to £30.4 
million; July 2015 - £21.1 million to £31.3 million; and April 2016 - £21.9 million to £32.5 million. These contributions are based on best 
estimated investment returns and are subject to the outcome of the next full valuation due in March 2013.
During 2008, the CWSF Trustee agreed an insurance buy-in of the UK pensioner liabilities with Prudential Insurance. The buy-in involved the 
purchase of a bulk annuity policy by the CWSF under which Prudential Insurance assumed responsibility for the beneﬁts payable to the CWSF’s 
UK pensioners. These pensioner liabilities and the matching annuity policy remain within the CWSF. On 19 December 2011, a further 233 
pensioners, those having commenced with pensions in payment since the original annuity, were brought within the bulk annuity policy for a net 
cost of £57 million, which was funded from gilts held by the CWSF.
Contingent funding agreement
The Group is party to a contingent funding agreement with the CWSF Trustee, under which the Trustee can call for a letter of credit or cash 
escrow in certain circumstances, such as the breach by the Group of certain ﬁnancial covenants, the incurrence by the Group of secured debt 
above an agreed level or the failure to maintain available commitments under the revolving credit facilities of at least US$150 million. 
Following the Group’s issue of the 2020 bonds in January 2012 (note 27), and the consequential increase in the Group’s available secured 
borrowings, letters of credit totalling £100 million (2010/1 1 – nil) as of 31 March 2012 have been issued in favour of the CWSF Trustee under 
the Contingent Funding Agreement. The letters of credit will remain in place pursuant to the terms of the Contingent Funding Agreement 
(which may be until the deﬁcit of the CWSF is fully funded).
IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts valuation – Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund and other schemes
The IAS 19 valuations of the major deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2012 by qualiﬁed 
independent actuaries. Lane, Clark & Peacock LLP prepared the valuation for the CWSF and the UK unfunded arrangements. Towers Watson 
Limited reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all remaining schemes.
The main ﬁnancial assumptions applied in the valuations and an analysis of schemes’ assets are as follows:
31 March 2012 31 March 2011
CWSF Other schemes CWSF Other schemes
Assets
US$m
Assumption
%
Assets
US$m
Assumption
%
Assets
US$m
Assumption
%
Assets
US$m
Assumption
%
RPI inﬂation assumption 3.2 4.3 3.4 4.3
CPI inﬂation assumption 2.2 – ––
Salary increases 3.7 4.9 3.9 4.9
Pension increases 2.0-3.1 3.2 2.2-3.3 3.1
Discount rate 4.9 7.2 5.6 7.4
Long-term expected rate of return 
on plan assets: 
– Annuity policies 1,225 4.9 – – 1,093 5.6 74 8.0
– Equities 323 7.8 98 7.9 251 8.1 96 8.2
– Bonds and gilts 101 3.2 166 5.0 85 4.2 87 6.1
– Property – – 40 7.6 6 6.7 43 8.9
– Cash and swaps 14 3.3 36 5.3 163 4.3 28 5.7
 1,663 340 1,598 328 Cable & Wireless Communications 99
Assumptions used are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice. The 
assumptions shown above for other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes.
The assumptions regarding current mortality rates in retirement were set having regard to the actual experience of the CWSF’s pensioners and 
dependants over the three years ended 31 March 2010. In addition, allowance was made for future mortality improvements in line with medium 
cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum annual rate of 
improvement of 1.5%. These are the mortality rates used for calculating the statement of ﬁnancial position for the year ended 31 March 2012. 
The mortality rates used for the ﬁgure in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2012 are the same as those which were used for 
calculating the statement of ﬁnancial position for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancies of pensioners aged 60 are as follows:
 On 
31 March
2012
(years)
 On 
31 March
2022
(years)
 On 
31 March
2032
(years)
Male pensioners and dependants 27.8 29.4 31.0
Female pensioners 26.6 28.1 29.6
Female dependants 32.5 34.1 35.7
A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the CWSF liabilities by approximately US$44 million as at 31 March 
2012. The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$31 million. A 
0.25% pa decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around US$67 million. The 
corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy would be US$39 million. A 0.25% pa 
change in the assumed rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by a negligible amount.
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each 
pension scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class. The expected asset return for each asset class has been 
set as a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to 
investment yields on the measurement date.
Using the projected unit method for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost is expected to increase when expressed as a percentage 
of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes and post-retirement medical plans operated by the Group were as follows:
31 March 2012 31 March 2011
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Total fair value of plan assets 1,663 340 2,003 1,598 328 1,926
Present value of funded obligations (1,766) (306) (2,072) (1,619) (281) (1,900)
Excess of (liabilities)/assets of funded obligations (103) 34 (69) (21) 47 26
Present value of unfunded obligations – (45) (45) – (41) (41)
Impact of the minimum funding requirement (26) – (26) (57) – (57)
Effect of asset ceiling – (9) (9) – (14) (14)
Exchange differences ––– (3) (1) (4)
Net deﬁcit (129) (20) (149) (81) (9) (90)
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans in deﬁcit (129) (60) (189) (81) (52) (133)
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans in surplus –4040 –4343
Net deﬁcit (129) (20) (149) (81) (9) (90)
Included within these liabilities is an amount of US$29 million (2010/11 – US$26 million) to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension 
entitlements. 100 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
26 Retirement beneﬁts obligations continued
The deﬁcit recovery funding plan agreed with the Trustees of the CWSF during 2010/11 constitutes a minimum funding requirement. An 
adjustment to the deﬁcit in the CWSF to account for the minimum funding requirement has been calculated in accordance with IFRIC 14 The 
limits on a Deﬁned Beneﬁt Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction. The adjustment to the deﬁcit, which is recorded in other 
comprehensive income, was US$26 million as at 31 March 2012 (2010/11 – US$57 million).
When deﬁned beneﬁt funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic beneﬁts available in 
the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions. Any adjustment to the surplus is recorded in other comprehensive income. The 
effect of these adjustments, described as asset ceiling adjustments, were US$9 million as at 31 March 2012 (31 March 2011 – US$1 4 million).
The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows:
2011/12 2010/11
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Current service cost (2) (8) (10) (2) (6) (8)
Past service credit 4– 4 –––
Interest cost (88) (20) (108) (82) (20) (102)
Expected return on plan assets 92 22 114 78 22 100
Gains on curtailment or settlement ––– –22
Total net credit/(charge) 6 (6) – (6) (2) (8)
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of US$162 million (2010/11 – gain of US$120 million).
The total amount recognised in other comprehensive income cumulatively to 31 March 2012 is a loss of US$667 million (2010/11 – loss of 
US$595 million).
In 2011/12, net actuarial losses amounting to US$113 million (2010/11 – gains of US$16 million) have been recognised in other comprehensive 
income. No further gains were recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of contributions from Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc (2010/11 – US$2 million). Gains of US$7 million were recognised due to changes in asset ceilings (2010/11 – loss of US$3 
million). A gain of US$34 million was recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of minimum funding requirements (2010/1 1 – loss of 
US$57 million). 
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations are as follows: 
2011/12 2010/11
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April (1,619) (322) (1,941) (1,477) (317) (1,794)
Current service cost (2) (8) (10) (2) (6) (8)
Past service credit 4– 4 –––
Interest cost (88) (20) (108) (82) (20) (102)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in other comprehensive income (148) (13) (161) (23) 18 (5)
Employee contributions – (5) (5) – (5) (5)
Gains on curtailment or settlement ––– –22
Beneﬁts paid 84 13 97 78 17 95
Exchange differences 347 (113) (11) (124)
At 31 March (1,766) (351) (2,117) (1,619) (322) (1,941) Cable & Wireless Communications 101
Changes in the fair value of deﬁned beneﬁt assets are as follows:
2011/12 2010/11
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 1,598 328 1,926 1,312 307 1,619
Expected return 92 22 114 78 22 100
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 58 (10) 48 28 (7) 21
Contributions by employer 21214 157 7 164
Employee contributions –55 –55
Assets acquired ––– 2– 2
Beneﬁts paid (84) (13) (97) (78) (17) (95)
Exchange differences (3) (4) (7) 99 11 110
At 31 March 1,663 340 2,003 1,598 328 1,926
Experience gains on plan assets and liabilities at the end of the periods presented were as follows:
31 March 2012 31 March 2011 31 March 2010
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Plan assets 1,663 340 1,598 328 1,312 307
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (1,766) (351) (1,619) (322) (1,477) (317)
Effect of minimum funding requirement (26) – (57) – – –
Exchange differences –– (3) – – –
(Deﬁcit)/surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling (129) (11) (81) 6 (165) (10)
Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets 58 10 27 (7) 521 24 
Experience (losses)/gains on plan liabilities (22) (4) (23) 5 (27) (4)
31 March 2009 31 March 2008
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
CWSF
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Plan assets 2,407 403 4,229 454
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (2,453) (428) (3,479) (422)
(Deﬁcit)/surplus excluding the effects of the asset ceiling (46) (25) 750 32 
Experience (losses)/gains on plan assets (946) (81) (126) 2 
Experience gains/(losses) on plan liabilities 35 2 28 (16) 
The best estimate of contributions to the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes for 2012/13 is:
CWSF*
US$m
Other
schemes
US$m
Total
US$m
Employer contributions* 29 11
Employee contributions –5 5
* Based on an employer contribution rate of 33.4% of pensionable earnings plus contributions due under the agreed recovery plan and the estimated PPF levy payable in the year 
ended 31 March 2012. 102 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
Number of
shares
(‘000) US$m
Issued, called-up and fully paid shares of US5 cents each  
At 1 April 2010 2,624,572 131 
Allotted under scrip dividends 41,040 2 
At 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2012 2,665,612 133 
The aggregate nominal value of the shares allotted in the year was US$nil (2010/11 – US$2 million).
Included within the number of shares disclosed in the table above are treasury shares and shares held by The Cable & Wireless Communications 
Share Ownership Trust (the Trust). 
No treasury shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc were cancelled during the periods presented. 
Share buy-back
On 21 July 2010, the Group’s shareholders approved a resolution at the AGM for the Group to purchase up to 262 million ordinary shares. This 
authority to buy-back these shares expired at the conclusion of the Company’s AGM on 22 July 2011. Under the resolution, during the year 
ended 31 March 2012, the Company purchased 94,726,873 ordinary shares (2010/11 – 42,762,000 ordinary shares) at an average price of 
43 pence per share (US70 cents per share) (2010/1 1 – 49 pence per share (US80 cents per share)), with a nominal value of US$5 million 
(2010/11 – US$2 million), for consideration of US$66 million (2010/11 – US$34 million). Consideration included stamp duty and commission of 
US$0.4 million (2010/11 – US$0.2 million). 
On 22 July 2011, the Group’s shareholders approved a resolution at the AGM for the Group to purchase up to 257 million ordinary shares. This 
authority to buy-back these shares expires at the conclusion of the Company’s AGM in 2012 or 30 September 2012, whichever is the earlier. 
Under the resolution, no shares have been purchased since the AGM on 22 July 2011.
At 31 March 2012, a total of 137 ,488,873 shares were classiﬁed as treasury shares (31 March 2011 – 42,762,000). This represented 5% of 
called-up share capital at the beginning of the year (2010/1 1 – 2%).
The nominal value and market value of treasury shares held at 31 March 2012 was US$7 million (2010/11 – US$2 million) and US$71 million 
(2010/11 – US$31 million) respectively. Disclosures in respect of the shares held by the Trust are included in note 28.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, each share (other than those held in treasury) entitles the holder to one vote at 
General Meetings of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc. The Company’s shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution 
but the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors. There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital other than 
those imposed by law. For further information refer to pages 39 to 40 of the Directors’ report.
There were no allotments of ordinary shares of US5 cents made during the year. In 2010/11, 41 million shares with a cash equivalent value of 
US$37 million were issued as payment for dividends by scrip. This was a non-cash transaction.
Capital management 
The Group deﬁnes capital as equity, borrowings (note 21) and cash and cash equivalents (note 18). The Group does not have any externally 
imposed requirements for managing capital, other than those imposed by Company Law.
The Board’s objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Group’s strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the 
portfolio through mergers and acquisitions. In doing so the Board seeks to:
 — Manage funding and liquidity risk
 — Optimise shareholder return
 — Maintain credit ratings
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Group has taken initial steps to reshape the portfolio by disposing of its interests in Telecom Vanuatu Limited and Fĳi International Telecoms 
Limited during the year and Cable & Wireless (Bermuda) Holdings and its subsidiaries during the prior year (note 7a) and by acquiring The 
Bahamas Telecommunications Company completed on 6 April 2011 (note 30).
27 Equity.5
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.9. ▶ 
Share capital Cable & Wireless Communications 103
Funding and liquidity risk are reviewed regularly by the Board and managed in accordance with the policies described in note 35.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit aggregate borrowing up to the higher of three times the adjusted capital and reserves of the 
Group or US$3 billion.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to sharehold ers and it 
intends to target a sustainable and progressive dividend that reﬂects the underlying cash generation and growth outlook of the business. This 
process is managed through the Group’s budget and longer-term forecasting process. 
During the year the Group replaced the US$500 million revolving credit facility and US$100 million term loan facility (originally due to be repaid 
in 2013) with US$600 million revolving credit facilities due 2016. The Group also issued US$400 million of Senior Secured Notes with a coupon 
of 8.75% due in 2020 to replace the £200 million bonds maturing in August 2012. The notes were credit rated by Moody’s at Ba2 and by 
Standard and Poor’s at BB and during the year the Group has maintained the same credit rating on the US$500 million secured bonds due 
in 2017. 
The sterling unsecured bonds repayable in 2012 and 2019 maintained a rating with Standard and Poor’s of B+.
Foreign currency translation and hedging reserve
The foreign currency translation and hedging reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency 
different to the presentation currency of the Group. It also includes cumulative exchange differences arising on the translation of hedging 
instruments.
Capital and other reserves
In 201 1/12, other reserves included a capital redemption reserve of US$152 million (2010/1 1 – US$152 million), a revaluation reserve of 
US$30 million (2010/1 1 – US$30 million), a fair value reserve of US$16 million (2010/11 – US$11 million), a special reserve of US$2,137 million 
(2010/11 – US$2,137 million) and a capital reserve of US$987 million (2010/11 – US$1,187 million), less a reserve relating to transactions with 
non-controlling interests of US$1 million (2010/1 1 – US$1 million). 
The special reserve relates to the cancellation of the share premium account of Cable & Wireless Limited (formerly Cable and Wireless plc) in 
February 2004. It will reduce from time to time by the amount of any increase in the paid-up share capital and share premium account of Cable 
& Wireless Limited after 20 February 2004 resulting from the issue of new shares for cash or other new consideration or upon a capitalisation of 
distributable reserves.
On 26 March 2010, a court-approved capital reduction became effective which had the effect of creating a capital reserve of US$1, 931 million 
which may be released, in whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion (and upon the resolution) of the Board 
of Directors or a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors. 
During 2011/12, the Board approved the release of US$200 million from the capital reserve to distributable reserves (2010/11 – 
US$742 million).
28 Share-based payments
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.11. ▶
Share option schemes 
The Group does not currently have any outstanding share option awards over its own shares (2010/11 – nil). There are 7 ,710,684 outstanding 
share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior employees (2010/11 – 13,705,773 outstanding options). 
These options were originally granted over Cable and Wireless plc shares at exercise prices between 101 to 154 pence. All options have vested 
in full. Subsequent to the demerger, these options have been redesignated as an option over a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc (an unrelated company). The share prices of the two companies at 
31 March 2012 were such that the obligation for these stapled unit options was US$nil (at 31 March 2011 – US$nil).
During the year, no options were exercised (2010/1 1 – 575,000 options at an average share price of 104 pence. 425,000 of these were 
exercised by senior employees of the Group. The remainder were exercised by senior employees of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc). 5,995,089 
options lapsed during the year (2010/1 1 – nil). 104 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
28 Share-based payments continued
Other equity instrument awards
Performance shares
Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of outstanding performance shares is subject to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc absolute TSR performance conditions (see 
performance conditions for share-based award on page 51). A dividend award supplement operates on these awards. Dividends that would 
have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be regarded as having been reinvested in additional shares at the notional date of 
distribution.
Prior to the demerger, performance share awards made by Cable and Wireless plc were subject either to relative or to absolute TSR performance 
of Cable and Wireless plc or the Cable & Wireless Communications business.
Subsequent to the demerger, some individuals’ awards were adjusted into an award over shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and 
some individuals retained their right to an award over one Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc share 
for every Cable and Wireless plc share they previously held.
Restricted Share Plan
Restricted shares are awarded to senior management and selected other employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool. Generally, 
restricted shares vest over periods of one to three years from grant date.
Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan
The Company also offered its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, the 
opportunity to participate in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan which is a HMRC-approved share incentive plan. Under 
the Share Purchase Plan, employees can contribute up to £1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year (whichever is the lower), to buy partnership 
shares in the Company, and the Company offered a matching award of one share for each partnership share purchased. From 13 April 2012, the 
Share Purchase Plan is no longer offered. The existing shares will remain in the plan until such time as they would ordinarily vest in accordance 
with plan rules. 
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust (the Trust) is a discretionary trust, which was funded by loans from Cable and 
Wireless plc (now Cable & Wireless Limited) to acquire shares in Cable and Wireless plc. Subsequent to the demerger, the shares held by the 
Trust were converted into one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for every share in 
Cable and Wireless plc held.
At 31 March 2012, the Trust held 37 ,524,230 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (of which 1,325,300 are shares awarded to the 
Executive Directors under the Deferred Bonus Plan and which carry dividend rights) and 15,398,747 shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 
(2010/11 – 40,054,310 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and 19,798,744 shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc) with a 
market value of US$28 million (2010/1 1 – US$46 million). 
Share awards
The equity instruments granted during the year can be summarised as follows:
Awards granted during 201 1/12 and 2010/11
Awards of 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc
shares granted during 2011/12
Awards of 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
shares granted during 2010/11
Award Shares
Weighted
average
fair value 
 (pence/share)
Features 
incorporated
in schemes Shares
Weighted
average
fair value
(pence/share)
Features 
incorporated
in schemes
Restricted shares ––– 577,621 45 –
Restricted shares (LTIP)
1
9,108,032 44 – –––
Share purchase plan scheme (matching shares) 129,822 41 – 147,264 57 –
Performance shares 9,237,768 17
TSR 
conditions 7,645,106 30
TSR 
 conditions
1  Restricted shares (LTIP) represents the cash LTIP amount recognised through proﬁt or loss in prior periods, which have been converted into restricted shares during the year in 
respect of senior employees. Cable & Wireless Communications 105
Only the performance share grants made during 201 1/12 and 2010/1 1 have performance criteria attached. A fair value exercise was completed 
at 31 March 2012 for grants made during 201 1/12 using the Monte Carlo method. The remaining awards had no performance conditions 
attached.
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the performance share grants in 2011/12 and 2010/11 were:
2011/12 2010/11
Weighted average share price (pence per share) 43.29 62.85
Dividend yield 5.0% 6.0%
Expected volatility 34.0% 36.0%
Risk-free interest rates 1.26% 1.35%
Expected life in years 3.0 3.0 
The total expense during the year relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was US$4 million (2010/1 1 – 
US$3 million).
A summary of the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011 are as follows:
31 March 2012 31 March 2011
Award 
Number of
shares
outstanding
Weighted
average
remaining life 
(rounded to
nearest year)
Number of
shares
outstanding
Weighted
average
remaining life
(rounded to
nearest year)
Restricted shares 739,176 1 1,964,956 1
Restricted shares (LTIP) 8,165,822 1 ––
Restricted shares (subject to TSR condition) –– 5,500,000 –
Share purchase plan scheme (matching shares) 3,385,093 – 3,432,034 1
Performance shares 24,901,564 1 18,032,481 2
29 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities 
Commitments
The Group had capital commitments at the end of the ﬁnancial year relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of US$93 million (2010/1 1 
– US$64 million). No provision has been made for these commitments. US$9 million (31 March 2011 – US$12 million) of these commitments 
relate to the Group’s share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates. 
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Group’s business. The most signiﬁcant of 
these relate to network operating and maintenance costs. In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional 
contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and 
renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2012 is disclosed in note 6a. The aggregate future minimum lease 
payments under operating leases are:
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
No later than one year 39 41
Later than one year but not later than ﬁve years 92 88
Later than ﬁve years 39 37
Total minimum operating lease payments 170 166 106 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
29 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities continued
Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Guarantees at the end of the year for which no provision has been made in the ﬁnancial statements are as follows:
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Trading guarantees 47 38
Other guarantees 39 286
Total guarantees 86 324
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the 
Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The nature of contracts includes 
projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials. The guarantees 
contain a clause that they will be terminated on ﬁnal acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees include guarantees for ﬁnancial obligations principally in respect of property, other leases and letters of credit, and include 
guarantees in respect of the demerged business of Cable & Wireless Worldwide.
The Group has provided guarantees of US$2 million (2010/1 1 – US$17 million) to third parties in respect of trading contracts between third 
parties and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group. The Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group has agreed a fee schedule for the beneﬁt of these 
guarantees. To date, the Group has not been required to make any payments in respect of its obligations under these trading guarantees.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide agree to provide each other with certain 
customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Group may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the 
other.
Whilst Pender, the Group’s former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in 
favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially signiﬁcant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party 
policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers. Signiﬁcant progress has been made in resolving these 
claims. Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such 
claims (note 33).
In addition, the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of 
disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although 
some uncapped indemnities have been given. The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility 
sharing agreements. Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
Whilst the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund (MNOPF), it may be liable for contributions to fund 
a portion of any funding deﬁcits which may occur in the future. The Group has made arrangements with MNOPF to pay invoices totalling 
£1.7 million, plus interest, relating to the actuarial valuations made by the MNOPF trustee as at 31 March 2003, 2006 and 2009, by instalments 
over the next nine years. It is possible that the MNOPF trustee may invoice us in the future for additional amounts to the extent that there is an 
actuarially determined funding deﬁcit. It is not possible to quantify the amount of any potential additional funding liability at this time.
30 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests 
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.5a. ▶
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company
On 6 April 2011, the Group acquired 51% of the share capital of The Bahamas Telecommunications Company (BTC) from the Government of 
the Commonwealth of The Bahamas. BTC is the exclusive mobile operator in The Bahamas as well as a leading provider of ﬁxed line and 
broadband services. It is complementary to the Group’s Caribbean business, LIME, which is the leading full service telecommunications provider 
in the region. 
The cash consideration paid by the Group was US$204 million. Goodwill of US$63 million was recognised on acquisition. The net cash outﬂow 
on acquisition was US$148 million.  Cable & Wireless Communications 107
The Directors have made an assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date: 
Book value
US$m
 Fair value
adjustments 
US$m
Provisional 
fair value at 
 30 September 
2011
 US$m
Adjustments 
US$m
Final fair 
value at 
31 March 
2012
 US$m
Property, plant and equipment 384 (129) 255 (3) 252
Customer contracts and relationships – 31 31 – 31
Trademarks – 11– 1
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 20 – 20 – 20
Trade and other receivables 56 (9) 47 10 57
Inventories 13 (5) 8 – 8
Cash and cash equivalents 59 – 59 (3) 56
Trade and other payables (93) (10) (103) – (103)
Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss (2) – (2) – (2)
Provisions – (5) (5) (5) (10)
Borrowings (34) – (34) – (34)
Total 403 (126) 277 (1) 276
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of BTC included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing business and 
other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately 
identiﬁed. Acquisition costs related to BTC of US$7 million were recorded in other operating expenses in 2011/12 (2010/11 – US$7 million). 
A non-controlling interest of US$135 million has been recognised in the 2011/12 accounts as at acquisition date measured at cost.
In 2011/12, from the date of its acquisition on 6 April 201 1, BTC contributed US$352 million to Group revenue, US$91 million to Group EBITDA 
and US$13 million to Group proﬁt after tax. There is no material difference in the results of BTC included in these accounts sinc e acquisition on 
6 April 2011 and the results of BTC for the full year from 1 April 2011.
Monaco Telecom
Goodwill in connection with the Group’s investment in Monaco Telecom SAM increased by US$33 million during the year (2010/11 – US$19 
million increase). The goodwill balance increased as a result of the payment of dividends to the Principality of Monaco, exchange differences and 
changes in the fair value of the put option.
As part of the acquisition of Monaco Telecom a put option was issued (note 22). Changes in the fair value of this put option are treated as 
contingent consideration and adjusted against goodwill. Cash dividends paid to the Principality of Monaco reﬂected an increase in the Group’s 
investment in Monaco Telecom and therefore an increase to goodwill.
Goodwill
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
At 1 April 172 153
Increase as a result of changes in the fair value of Monaco put option 27 4
Dividends paid to the Principality 17 7
(Decrease)/increase due to exchange differences (11) 8
At 31 March 205 172 108 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
31 Related party transactions 
Transactions with joint ventures and associates
All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of the Group’s 
products and services, network and access charges. Group subsidiaries had transactions with Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and 
Tobago Ltd during the year. The transactions were in relation to the sale and purchase of mobile services. In respect of these transactions, 
US$3 million has been reported within revenue and US$1 million in cost of sales. 
During the year, the Group invested US$5 million in Seychelles Cable System Limited which is classiﬁed as an associate. 
The Group received dividends of US$4 million from joint ventures and associates (2010/11 – US$9 million). At 31 March 2012, joint ventures 
and associates owed US$2 million (31 March 201 1 – US$1 million) in respect of trading balances. 
There were no other material trade transactions with joint ventures and associates during the year.
Transactions with key management personnel
At 31 March 2011, two Directors held bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited and Cable and Wireless International Finance B.V. with a nominal 
value of US$4,211,156 (£2,630,000) (purchased in prior periods). Both Directors sold their entire holding during the year ended 31 March 
2012. The interest earned on these bonds prior to disposal during the year ended 31 March 2012 was US$55,426 of which US$nil remains 
unpaid at 31 March 2012 (2010/1 1 – US$354,033 of which US$154,103 remained unpaid at 31 March 2011). A proﬁt of US$790,719 was 
realised upon the sale of the bonds.
Two Directors’ spouses hold bonds issued by Cable & Wireless Limited and Cable and Wireless International Finance BV. These bonds had a 
nominal value at 31 March 2012 of US$782,383 (£490,000) (31 March 2011 – US$784,588 (£490,000)). The interest earned on those 
bonds during the year was US$67 ,530 of which US$1,804 remained unpaid at 31 March 2012 (2010/11 – US$65,378 of which US$2,000 
remained unpaid at 31 March 2011). 
During the year, two children of a Director purchased bonds issued by Cable and Wireless International Finance BV. These bonds had a nominal 
value at 31 March 2012 of US$798,350 (£500,000). The interest earned on those bonds during the year was US$25,410 of which US$940 
remained unpaid at 31 March 2012.
Director and key management remuneration is disclosed in note 6c.
Transactions with other related parties
There are no controlling shareholders of the Group. There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Group.
Pensions contributions to Group schemes are disclosed in note 26.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
32  Licences and operating agreements
In all countries in which it operates, the Group holds licences to operate or operating agreements. These licences and operating agreements take 
a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary signiﬁcantly. The Group assumes that it will renew these licences and operating 
agreements as they expire. Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
The Group is currently in the process of renewing its licences and operating agreements in St Helena, Ascension Islands, Antigua & Barbuda and 
Montserrat.
Whilst the operating agreements between Monaco Telecom and the Principality of Monaco were not due to expire until 2023, during the last 
year they were consolidated into a single operating agreement, whose terms took effect from 1 April 2011. The consolidation does not 
materially affect the terms under which Monaco Telecom operates its business.
Additionally, effective from 1 September 201 1, Guernsey’s 2G and 3G mobile licences were consolidated into a single mobile licence. The 
consolidation does not materially affect the terms under which the Group operates its Guernsey business.
The Group does not have any concession agreements with Governments that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service Concession 
Arrangements.
On demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by, and 
for the continuing use of, the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Groups. As part of this transfer, Cable & 
Wireless Communications received a royalty-free licence, granting rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand in all of the Group’s jurisdictions with 
the exception of Macau and North and West Africa, which are branded differently. Further, the Group retains a licence to use the Cable & 
Wireless logo globally.
There were no other signiﬁcant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Group’s subsidiaries or operating agreements with 
Governments during the periods presented.  Cable & Wireless Communications 109
33  Legal proceedings 
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews. The facts and 
circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outﬂow of 
funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a speciﬁc case is necessary or sufficient. Accordingly, signiﬁcant m anagement 
judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The Group does not 
expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a signiﬁcant adverse impact on the ﬁnancial position of the Group.
34  Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
Accounting policy detailed in note 2.1. ▶
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those 
companies whose results or ﬁnancial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the ﬁnancial statements.
Issued share
capital
(million)
Ownership
%
Class of
shares
Country of 
incorporation Area of operation
Subsidiaries  
The Bahamas Telecommunications Company Ltd
5
255 51 Ordinary The Bahamas The Bahamas
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd 16,817 82 Ordinary Jamaica Jamaica
Cable & Wireless Panama, SA
1
316 49 Ordinary Panama Panama
Companhia de Telecomunicacoes de Macau, SARL
2
150 51 Ordinary Macau Macau and China 
Cable & Wireless (Barbados) Ltd 72 81 Ordinary Barbados Barbados
Cable and Wireless (West Indies) Ltd 5 100 Ordinary England Caribbean
Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC (Dhiraagu) 190 52 Ordinary Maldives Maldives
Monaco Telecom SAM
4
2 49 Ordinary Monaco Monaco
Cable & Wireless Ltd 656 100 Ordinary England England
Sable International Finance Ltd – 100 Ordinary Cayman England
Cable and Wireless International Finance BV 1 100 Ordinary Netherlands England
Joint ventures and associates
Cable & Wireless Trademark Management Ltd – 50 Ordinary England N/ A
Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd
3
283 49 Ordinary T rinidad and Tobago T rinidad and Tobago
1 The Cable & Wireless Communications Group regards this company as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders’ agreement.
2 This company has a ﬁnancial year end of 31 December due to the requirements of the shareholders’ agreement.
3  This company is audited by a ﬁrm other than KPMG Audit Plc and its international member ﬁrms.
4  The Cable & Wireless Communications Group holds an economic interest of 55% in Monaco Telecom SAM via a contractual arrangement. See below for further discussion.
5  From 6 April 2011.
On 18 June 2004, the Group acquired 55% of Monaco Telecom, a Monaco-based telecommunications service provider, from Vivendi Universal. 
Simultaneously with the acquisition, Cable & Wireless Communications transferred legal ownership of 6% of the shares of Monaco Telecom to 
an unrelated third party. The Group contractually retained voting and economic rights in the shares as part of the arrangement. In addition, the 
6% interest is subject to certain put and call options that, together with the retained voting and economic rights, provide full management 
control of Monaco Telecom to the Group.
The Group has also entered into a shareholders’ agreement with the Principality of Monaco (Principality) that contains, among other provisions, 
mutual pre-emption rights on transfer of shares and certain other limited rights in favour of the Principality. The Principality has a put option 
entitling it to put its 45% shareholding in Monaco Telecom to the Group in one or several instalments until 30 April 2019. The exercise price 
under the put option is fair market value, taking into account the nature of the minority stake in Monaco Telecom (note 22).
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s next Annual 
Return, to be ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales. 110 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
35 Financial risk management 
Treasury policy 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks: market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity 
risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s ﬁnancial performance. Day to 
day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Group’s treasury function (Treasury), within speciﬁed ﬁnancial limits for each type of 
transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities. Material 
subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury. Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board. All subsidiaries are required to report 
details of their cash and debt positions to Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk. 
The majority of the Group’s cash resources (including facilities) and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Group may use derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options, where 
appropriate, in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures. The use of these instruments is in accordance with 
strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury and subject to policies approved by the Board. Derivatives are not used for trading or 
speculative purposes and derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported by Treasury on a regular basis and are subject to 
policies adopted by the Board.
Exchange rate risk
The Group trades in many countries and a proportion of its revenue is generated in currencies other than US dollars, notably in euros, Maldivian 
ruﬁyaa, sterling and Jamaican dollars. The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to non-US dollar currency payments 
(including external dividends, the London corporate centre costs, pension and share buy-back costs), dividend income from foreign currency 
denominated subsidiaries, reported proﬁts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of non-US dollar 
investments. Exchange risk is managed centrally by the London corporate centre on a matching cash ﬂow basis including forecast foreign 
currency cash repatriation inﬂows from subsidiaries and forecast foreign currency payments. See note 2.3 for key exchange rates used.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange 
contracts and other derivative and ﬁnancial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short 
term. The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create signiﬁcant foreign exchange exposures 
for the Group where appropriate. Where cost-effective and possible, foreign subsidiaries are ﬁnanced in their domestic currency to minimise the 
impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas 
investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The reported proﬁts of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Overseas earnings are predominately in 
US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar. However, the Group also has overseas earnings in other currencies.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in relation to ﬁnancial instruments which are not in the functional currency of the entity that holds 
them. In broad terms, based on ﬁnancial assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2012 the impact of a unilateral 10% weakening of the US dollar 
would have been to decrease proﬁt by approximately US$30 million (at 31 March 2011 – US$23 million).
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans although there is a degree of offset 
between the two. Treasury may seek to reduce volatility by ﬁxing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing 
market conditions as appropriate. 
At 31 March 201 2, 86% (31 March 201 1 – 81%) of the Group’s loans were at a ﬁxed rate. A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable 
impact upon the fair value of the Group’s ﬁxed rate loans. However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place 
until maturity. As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on ﬁxed rate borrowings and, as such, its effect has not been modelled.
A one percentage point increase in interest rates will have a US$3 million (2010/11 – US$3 million) impact on the income received from the 
surplus cash balances of the Group and a US$2 million (2010/11 – US$3 million) impact on the ﬂoating rate loans of the Group. The impact on 
equity is limited to the impact on proﬁt or loss.
Credit risk
Cash deposits and similar ﬁnancial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty failed 
to perform as contracted. The carrying amount of the ﬁnancial assets of the Group represents the maximum credit exposure of the Group. 
Management seeks to reduce this credit risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are 
the core relationship banks. These banks are awarded a maximum credit limit based on ratings by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, the level of 
the banks’ credit default swap (CDS) and its associated level of tier one capital. The credit limit assigned to counterparties is monitored on a 
continuing basis. These limits reﬂect exposure for the Group as a whole to any one counterparty in a range of US$25 million to US$100 million.  Cable & Wireless Communications 111
The Group Treasury policy approved by the Board contains limits on exposure and prescribes the types of instrument used for investment of funds. 
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 16.
Liquidity risk
The Group ensures that the operating units manage their own operational liquidity supported by the London corporate centre, which manages 
its own liquidity to meet its ﬁnancial obligations of servicing and repaying external debt, external dividends, London costs and strategic 
initiatives. The principal source of liquidity for the London corporate centre is repatriation cash inﬂows from the operating units supported by 
bank ﬁnance, bond issuances and asset disposals.
At 31 March 2012, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of US$312 million. These amounts are highly liquid and are a signiﬁcant component 
of the Group’s overall liquidity and capital resources, which also includes the undrawn revolving credit facilities of US$600 million. During the 
year, the Group entered into a new high yield bond for US$400 million, secured until 2020.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance and 
that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements. The Directors also 
regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
Approximately 40% of the Group’s cash is invested in short-term bank deposits and money market funds (2010/11 – 39%).
Certain foreign subsidiaries operate in jurisdictions which may restrict the ability to repatriate cash to the Group from time to time. Where 
restrictions are severe, local cash balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
36 Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures 
Reconciliation of operating proﬁt to EBITDA
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
Total operating proﬁt 247 536
Depreciation and amortisation 358 321
LTIP charge – 24
Net other operating expense 12 28
Share of proﬁt after tax of joint ventures and associates (26) (31)
Exceptional items 310 (6)
EBITDA 901 872
The Group uses EBITDA as a key performance measure as it reﬂects the underlying operational performance of the businesses. EBITDA is not a 
measure deﬁned under IFRS. It is calculated as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating and 
non-operating income and expense and exceptional items.
Reconciliation of basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) to Adjusted EPS
2011/12
US cents
2010/11
US cents
(Loss)/earnings per share attributable to owners of the Parent Company (3.1) 7.6
LTIP charge – 0.9
Exceptional items
1
9.4 (0.3)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles
1
0.5 0.4
Transaction costs and gain on disposal of businesses (0.3) (1.4)
Adjusted EPS attributable to owners of the Parent Company 6.5 7.2
Weighted average number of shares (million) 2,506 2,607
1 Excluding amounts attributable to non-controlling interests.
Adjusted EPS is before exceptional items, LTIP charge, transaction costs, gain/(loss) on disposal of businesses and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
37 Events after the reporting period
Accounts approval
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2012 and authorised for issue. 11 2 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Note
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Fixed assets investments
Investments in subsidiaries 6 6,093 6,089
Current liabilities 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 4,305 4,035
Net current liabilities (4,305) (4,035)
Net assets 1,788 2,054
Capital and reserves 
Called-up share capital 8 133 133
Share premium 9 97 97
Reserves 9 1,558 1,824
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,788 2,054
The notes on pages 1 14 to 1 17 are an integral part of the ﬁnancial statements of the Company.
The ﬁnancial statements of the Company on pages 1 1 2 to 1 17 were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 201 2 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Tony Rice Chief Executive Tim Pennington Chief Financial Officer
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Registered number – 07130199
Company balance sheet
as at 31 March 2012 Cable & Wireless Communications 11 3
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year (2) 130
Issue of share capital – 37
Share-based payments 4 3
Cash received in respect of employee share schemes – 1
Own shares purchased (66) (34)
Equity element of the convertible bond – (2)
Dividends (202) (205)
Decrease in equity shareholders’ funds (266) (70)
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 2,054 2,124
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 1,788 2,054
The notes on pages 1 14 to 1 17 are an integral part of the ﬁnancial statements of the Company.
Reconciliation of movements in equity 
shareholders’ funds for the Company
for the year ended 31 March 2012 114 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012
1 Statement of accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of preparation 
The Company’s ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally accepted 
accounting principles in the United Kingdom and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. They have been prepared on the historical cost 
basis where appropriate.
These ﬁnancial statements set out the position of the Company and not the Cable & Wireless Communications Group (the Group) which it 
heads. The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
Company’s ﬁnancial statements.
The Company is exempt under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures from the requirement to provide its own ﬁnancial instruments 
disclosures on the grounds that they are included in publicly available consolidated ﬁnancial statements which include disclosures that comply 
with the IFRS equivalent standard.
The ﬁnancial statements are presented in US dollars (US$), as this is the functional currency of the Company at 31 March 2012, and rounded to 
the nearest million. 
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the ﬁnancial statements and the report ed amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18 Accounting Policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the 
change has a material impact on the reported results for the year.
1.2 Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at historical cost less any impairments recognised. Impairment reviews are carried 
out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be fully recoverable. 
Impairments are determined by comparing the carrying value of the investment in the subsidiary to its recoverable amount, being the higher of 
the subsidiary’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Fair value represents market value in an active market. Value in use is determined 
by discounting future cash ﬂows arising from the subsidiary with reference to the Group’s own projections using pre-tax discount rates which 
represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the Company. Impairments are recognised in proﬁt or loss.
1.3 Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities
The Company classiﬁes its ﬁnancial assets into the following categories: ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss, loans and receivables, 
held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. The classiﬁcation depends on the purpose for which the assets are held. The 
Company currently does not hold or classify any ﬁnancial assets under these categories. The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 1.4.
Management determines the classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial assets at initial recognition in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for ﬁnancial assets other than those held at fair value 
through proﬁt or loss.
Recognition and measurement
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash ﬂows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Company 
has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a ﬁnancial asset or a group of ﬁnancial assets is impaired.
1.4 Fair value estimation
The nominal value (less estimated impairments) of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair value of 
ﬁnancial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ﬂows at the current market interest rate that is available to the 
Company for similar ﬁnancial instruments. Discounted cash ﬂows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining ﬁnancial 
instruments.
1.5 Tax 
The charge for tax is based on the result for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of 
certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the 
extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable proﬁts from which 
the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences that have arisen 
but not reversed at the balance sheet date. Cable & Wireless Communications 115
1.6 Dividends
Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Company’s shareholders or their payment.
1.7 Share-based compensation
The Company operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange 
for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense in the subsidiary companies over the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed 
over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market 
vesting conditions (for example, service, proﬁtability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about 
the number of options that are expected to vest. At each reporting date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are 
expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in proﬁt and loss.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are 
exercised. The Company recognises an additional investment in subsidiaries equivalent to the equity instruments granted, being a capital 
contribution to those subsidiaries.
2 Company’s proﬁt and loss account 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its own 
proﬁt and loss account. The loss for the year ended 31 March 2012 amounted to US$2 million (2010/11 – US$130 million proﬁt). 
3 Remuneration of Directors
Information covering Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in note 6c to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Interests in shares, share options 
and pension beneﬁts are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 44 to 57 and have been borne by a subsidiary company.
4 Staff numbers and costs
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year was nil (2010/11 – nil). Their costs for 
the year ended 31 March 2012 were US$nil (2010/1 1 – US$nil).
5 Share-based payments
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.7. ▶
The details of share option schemes and other share-based plans are disclosed in note 28 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
The total additional investment in subsidiaries relating to equity settled share-based payments was US$4 million (2010/11 – US$3 million).
6 Fixed asset investments
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.2. ▶
Subsidiary
undertakings
US$m
Cost 
At 1 April 2010 6,086
Capital contribution (note 5) 3
At 1 April 2011 6,089
Capital contribution (note 5) 4
At 31 March 2012 6,093
Net book value 
At 31 March 2012 6,093
At 31 March 2011 6,089 116 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Financial statements
7 Creditors
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Amounts falling due within one year 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 4,305 4,031
Other creditors – 4
Total creditors 4,305 4,035
There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of creditors at 31 March 2012.
8 Called-up share capital
On 12 August 2010, the Company issued 41,039,703 ordinary shares of US5 cents each with a cash equivalent value of US$37 million as 
payment for dividends by scrip. This was a non-cash transaction.
Number of
 shares 
(‘000) US$m
At 1 April 2010 2,624,572 131 
Allotted under scrip dividends 41,040 2
At 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2012 2,665,612 133
9 Share capital and reserves
Share
capital
US$m
Share
premium
US$m
Other
reserve
US$m
Proﬁt 
and loss
account
US$m
Total
US$m
At 1 April 2011 133 97 1,187 637 2,054
Loss for the year – – – (2) (2)
Transfers to retained earnings – – (200) 200 –
Share-based payments – – – 4 4
Own shares purchased – – – (66) (66)
Dividends – – – (202) (202)
At 31 March 2012 133 97 987 571 1,788
The other reserve relates to the cancellation of the B shares and the capital reduction occurring on the demerger of the Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide business. The other reserve may be treated as realised proﬁt, subject to the resolution of the Directors.
In 2011/12 the Board of Directors approved the release of US$200 million from the capital reserve to distributable reserves (2010/11 – 
US$742 million).
Share buy-back
Share buy-back information is detailed in note 27 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
At 31 March 2012, a total of 137 ,488,873 shares were classiﬁed as treasury shares (31 March 2011 – 42,762,000). This represented 5% of 
called-up share capital at the beginning of the year (2010/1 1 – 2%).
Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2012 Cable & Wireless Communications 11 7
10 Related party transactions 
Under FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions with entities that are part of the 
Cable & Wireless Communications Group, or investees of the Group qualifying as related parties, as all of the Company’s voting rights are 
controlled within the Group.
Related party transactions are detailed in note 31 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
11 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are detailed in note 34 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them. The list therefore only includes those companies 
whose results or ﬁnancial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the ﬁgures shown in the ﬁnancial statements.
The Company does not have any direct investment in the subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates listed in note 34 to the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements, with the exception of Cable & Wireless Limited.
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual Return, 
to be ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
12 Dividends
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.6. ▶
Dividend information is detailed in note 10 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
13 Commitments 
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2012 (31 March 2011 – no capital commitments).
14 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc agree to provide each other with 
certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which Cable & Wireless Communications may incur but which relate 
exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate 
exclusively to one group or the other.
Whilst Pender, the Group’s former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in 
favour of the Group and third parties. Potentially signiﬁcant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third party 
policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers. Signiﬁcant progress has been made in resolving these 
claims. Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
In addition, the Company, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of 
disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although 
some uncapped indemnities have been given. The Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including 
facility sharing agreements. Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps. Shareholder  
information
Registrar 
If you have any queries regarding your shareholding in 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, please contact:
Equiniti
Aspect House, Spencer Road
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone 0871 384 2104
1
 (UK shareholders)
+44 (0)121 415 7052 (overseas shareholders)
Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their 
shareholding at www.shareview.co.uk
ShareGift 
If you have a small number of shares whose value makes them 
uneconomic to sell, you may wish to consider donating them to charity. 
ShareGift is a registered charity (no. 1052686) which collects and sells 
unwanted shares and uses the proceeds to support a wide range of 
UK charities. Further information about ShareGift and the charities it 
supports is available at www.ShareGift.org or by contacting them at:
17 Carlton House Terrace
London SW1Y 5AH
Telephone +44 (0)20 7930 3737
Registered Office and Company Secretary 
The Company’s Registered Office and Head Office is:
3rd Floor, 26 Red Lion Square
London WC1R 4HQ
Telephone +44 (0)20 7315 4000
Clare Underwood is the Company Secretary
Investor Relations 
Enquiries may be directed to:
Head of Investor Relations
3rd Floor, 26 Red Lion Square
London WC1R 4HQ
Telephone +44 (0)20 7315 4000
Email: investor.relations@cwc.com
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date 30 May 2012
Record date 1 June 2012
Last date for election to join 
dividend reinvestment plan for 
August 2012 dividend 13 July 2012
Last date for election to 
receive dividend in US dollars 13 July 2012
Notiﬁcation of sterling 
dividend payment amount 19 July 2012
AGM 20 July 2012
Payment of ﬁnal dividend 10 August 2012
Announcement of interim 
results 2012/13 8 November 2012
Updates to the ﬁnancial calendar will be available on the Company’s 
website www.cwc.com when they become available.
Dividends 
Dividends are declared by the Company in US dollars. The default 
payment currency for dividends is sterling and shareholders may elect 
to receive payment in US dollars. The actual sterling amount of any 
dividend payable by the Company from time to time will be based on 
the sterling/US dollar exchange rate in effect on a date chosen by the 
Directors nearer to the relevant payment date.
A Currency Mandate Form to receive dividends in US dollars may be 
requested from Equiniti or can be found on the Company’s website 
www.cwc.com. Any election to receive dividends in US dollars will 
remain in force until cancelled.
The table below sets out the US dollar amounts of the interim, ﬁnal and 
total gross dividends paid or proposed per ordinary share.
Cents per ordinary share
Year ended Interim Final Total
31 March 2011 2.67 5.33 8.00
31 March 2012 2.67 5.33 8.00
If your dividend is paid directly into your bank or building society, you 
will receive one consolidated tax voucher each year, which is sent to 
you in January at the time that the interim dividend is paid. If you would 
prefer to receive a tax voucher with each dividend, please contact our 
shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2104
1
.
If your dividend is not currently paid direct to your bank or building 
society and you would like to beneﬁt from this service, please 
contact our shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2104
1
. By receiving 
your dividends in this way you can avoid the risk of cheques getting 
lost in the post. It is also now possible for shareholders in over 
30 countries worldwide to beneﬁt from a similar service. Further 
information can be obtained from www.shareview.co.uk or by calling 
+44 (0)121 415 7052.
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc offer a dividend reinvestment 
plan. Shareholders wishing to join the dividend reinvestment plan 
should return a completed mandate form to the Registrar, Equiniti. 
Copies of the dividend reinvestment plan brochure can be obtained 
either from Equiniti or from our website, www.cwc.com. 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc trading market 
The Company’s shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
The Company had a market capitalisation of approximately 
£816 million on 31 March 2012.
1 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other 
telephone providers’ costs may vary.
118 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Shareholder information The table below details the position in the FTSE All Share and the 
high and low middle market quotations for the ordinary shares on 
the London Stock Exchange as reported on its Daily Official List.
238
48.92
31.25
Position in the 
FTSE All share 
at the year end
Pence per ordinary share
High Low
31 March 2012
LSE ticker: CWC.
ISIN: GB00B5KKT968
Electronic communication
Together with Equiniti, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc is able 
to offer shareholders the option to manage their shareholding online. 
To make use of this facility, please register at www.shareview.co.uk 
following the onscreen instructions.
The Company also offers shareholders the option to receive 
communications from the Company electronically as an alternative 
to receiving documents through the post.
Unsolicited mail
Company law allows people unconnected with the Company to obtain 
a copy of our share register. As a consequence, shareholders may 
receive unsolicited mail, including mail from unauthorised investment 
ﬁrms. For more information on unauthorised investment ﬁrms 
targeting UK investors, you should visit the website of the Financial 
Services Authority (www.fsa.gov.uk/consumerinformation/
scamsandswindles/safe).
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, 
please contact:
The Mailing Preference Service
DMA House
70 Margaret Street
London W1W 8SS
Telephone 0207 291 3310
Online www.mpsonline.org.uk
Documents on display 
Shareholders can view the service contracts of Executive Directors 
and the letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors at the 
Company’s Registered Office. Shareholders may also obtain copies 
of the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association at the 
Company’s Registered Office or on the website (www.cwc.com). 
Distribution and classiﬁcation of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc shareholdings
Shares at 31 March 2012
Number
of accounts % of total
Number of
shares % of total
Up to 1,000 57,661 66.95 24,668,769 0.93
1,001–10,000 25,900 30.07 67,920,781 2.55
10,001–100,000 2,098 2.44 49,279,493 1.85
100,001–1,000,000 295 0.34 106,864,681 4.01
1,000,001 and over 176 0.20 2,416,878,033 90.66
Total 86,130 100 2,665,611,757 100
At 23 May 2012, the Company had 85,665 shareholders on record.
Cable & Wireless Communications 119 Designed by Further™ 
furthercreative.co.uk
The paper used in this Annual Report and Accounts 
is produced from pulps sourced from fully sustainable 
forests and has been made without the use of elemental 
chlorine (ECF). 
Both manufacturing mill and printer are FSC
®
 certiﬁed and 
both have been accredited with ISO14001 environmental 
management system.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using the   and 
 environmental printing technology. 
120 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12  Addressees of the Annual report
This Annual report is addressed solely to the members of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc as a body, to assist them in 
assessing the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed. Neither the Company 
nor its Directors accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual report or any responsibility to update any 
statements in this Annual report, save as required by applicable laws or regulation.
Cautionary statement regarding forward looking statements
This Annual report contains forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as 
assumptions about future events. These forward looking statements can be identiﬁed by the fact that they do not 
relate only to historical or current facts. Forward looking statements often use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, 
‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘will’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘would’, ‘could’ or other words of similar 
meaning. Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are 
subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual 
results, and Cable & Wireless Communications’ plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or 
implied in the forward looking statements. Furthermore, nothing in this Annual report should be construed as a 
proﬁt forecast. There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed 
or implied in forward looking statements. Among the factors are changes in the global, political, economic, 
business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and 
future business combinations or disposals. Summaries of the potential risks faced by Cable & Wireless 
Communications are set out on pages 28 to 31.
Cable & Wireless Communications cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance 
or achievements. Cable & Wireless Communications undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward 
looking statement contained within this Annual report, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a 
result of new information, future events or otherwise, save as required by applicable laws or regulation.
The important role that 
telecommunications played  
in the past and its ongoing 
contribution to societies 
around the world today is 
captured in the exhibitions 
and archives of the Porthcurno 
Telegraph Museum in Cornwall. 
World class collection
Porthcurno Bay, in the far west of Cornwall, occupies an 
important position in history as one of the most strategically 
important communications sites in mainland Britain. 
As the landing point of Britain’s ﬁrst undersea cable, laid in 1870 
by the Eastern Telegraph Company (later to be renamed Cable & 
Wireless), Porthcurno grew to house the world’s largest submarine 
telegraph station. Telegraph technology, the use of electrical pulses 
to send morse code messages, was a breakthrough in communications 
enabling people to communicate internationally for the ﬁrst time. 
This communications hub became so strategically important to 
Britain that during World War II the telegraph station was moved 
into underground tunnels to hide it from enemy attack. Porthcurno 
later became home to the Cable & Wireless international training 
college, a leading training institution for telegraph technology.
Following the closure of the telegraph station in 1970 and the 
training school in 1993, the Porthcurno (PK) Trust was formed 
to run the Porthcurno Telegraph Museum, to preserve and promote 
the unique history of the site and collection.
History of the Company
Cable & Wireless Communications is proud to sponsor the Porthcurno 
Telegraph Museum and the PK Trust. The Trust maintains the 
historical archive of the old Cable & Wireless Group, from staff 
records to artefacts from the Company and the places touched by the 
Cable & Wireless telegraph service. The museum is an educational 
charity, focused on the history of science and innovation. 
It is housed in heritage listed buildings, including the secret 
underground tunnels built in 1941. The Porthcurno Telegraph 
Museum provides a great day out for young and old alike.
Tel: +44 (0) 1736 810 966 
www.porthcurno.org.uk For further information go to www.cwc.com We have built strong foundations 
and, as demand for our data 
services grows, we are well 
placed for the future.
Annual review 2011/12 An introduction from the Chairman
The communications services 
we provide have always been 
vital to our customers, but with 
the increasing versatility and 
availability of mobile services, 
the demand for what we provide 
will strengthen.”
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
Chairman
 “ 
We have made steady progress during the 2011/12 year.
There have been some excellent results from our businesses, 
particularly in Macau and The Bahamas, as well as some 
resilient performances from our other businesses.
Each market we operate in has its own economic background, 
political agenda and industry regulator. Our job is to manage 
the business within those frameworks. For example, in 
Macau and the Maldives we beneﬁted from strong growth 
in visitor numbers and consequent favourable economic 
activity. However, we had to deal with the impact of currency 
devaluation in the Maldives, an unbalanced regulatory 
regime in Jamaica and the unexpected acceleration in the 
introduction of mobile number portability in Panama. 
In most of our territories we operate the ﬁxed line telecoms 
infrastructure which underpins all mobile services and 
is fundamental to the communications systems of each 
country. Our ﬁxed line proﬁtability has continued to decline, 
partly as a result of the growing popularity of mobile 
services, but also because regulatory regimes frequently 
prevent us pricing our services sufficiently to make an 
adequate return. 
However, we are seeing robust growth in emerging products 
like mobile data. Group mobile data revenue rose strongly 
in 2011/12 and we expect this growth to continue.
The Board has recommended a full year dividend of 
US8 cents for the 2011/12 year, maintaining the 
commitment we made when we demerged the business 
in 2010. US2.67 cents per share was paid in January, with 
a further US5.33 cents payable in August 2012, subject 
to the approval of shareholders. With the payment of this 
dividend we will have returned more than US$500 million 
to shareholders since our demerger in 2010.
In the past two years we have faced global economic 
uncertainty which has impacted our business especially 
in the Caribbean. Having reassessed the Group’s ﬁnancial 
outlook, as well as the opportunities to invest and achieve 
attractive returns, the Board has decided to reset the 
dividend in 2012/13 to a level we believe is both sustainable 
and capable of progressive future growth.
The majority of our businesses are jointly owned with local 
partners, often with the host government. Our economic 
ownership varies with averages of around 50% for Panama, 
Macau and The Bahamas, 65% for Monaco & Islands, and 
around 90% for the Caribbean, excluding The Bahamas. 
Equally, corporation tax rates vary from zero to 35%. 
Consequently, headline changes in EBITDA do not ﬂow 
evenly into Group earnings. This is why the performance 
of the Caribbean has become so arithmetically important 
in determining dividend policy.
There have been changes to the Board with Kate Nealon and 
Mary Francis retiring as Non-executive Directors and Mark 
Hamlin and Alison Platt being appointed.
Both Kate and Mary helped steer CWC through demerger 
and its early stage as an independent business. I thank them 
for their distinguished contributions.
We have strong replacements. Mark has consulted to global 
businesses for more than 25 years, while Alison is the 
Managing Director for Bupa in North America and Europe.
With the increasing versatility and availability of mobile 
services, the demand for the communication services we 
provide will strengthen.
We are conﬁdent in the outlook for our business, and will 
remain focused on delivering income and returns to our 
shareholders.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE Chief Executive’ s review
Mobile data was our fastest growing 
service segment, rising 82% across 
the Group to account for 21% of 
mobile service revenues.” 
Tony Rice
Chief Executive
 “ 
The 2011/12 year was about managing the continuing 
migration of our business model from voice to data, 
establishing strong foundations for our future success 
and maintaining good performance during transition. 
Despite being faced with some challenging markets, and 
operating in a sector which has shown little or no growth 
for the past two to three years, the Group increased 
revenue and EBITDA.
Mobile data was our fastest growing service segment, rising 
82% across the Group to account for 21% of mobile service 
revenues.
Two of our businesses exceeded their targets (Macau, 
The Bahamas), two businesses met targets (Caribbean, 
Monaco & Islands) and one ﬁnished below (Panama). 
Overall, it was a resilient performance.
Macau recorded its ninth straight year of record proﬁts, 
buoyed by the strong economy and our market leadership, 
while Monaco & Islands delivered good underlying results. 
The Bahamas made stronger progress than expected in our 
ﬁrst year of ownership. 
The rest of our Caribbean region performed in line with the 
outlook we set out at the start of the year, although trading 
conditions remained difficult. 
Panama maintained mobile market share despite heavy 
competition. Mobile revenue grew by 3%, but margins were 
affected by price competition and our enterprise business 
had a slower year.
Looking forward to the next ﬁve years, we are putting in 
place the foundations to evolve our business with our main 
focus being investment in data services.
As a full service operator we can provide consumers with 
bundles of telecoms services and deliver internet-based 
services, social telecoms services to governments and 
managed services to enterprises. This investment in new 
data services will be subject to the same demanding 
return on capital tests as all of our capital expenditure. 
We believe return on invested capital (ROIC) is one of the 
most important metrics to help manage our business, and we 
will be reporting on it to shareholders each year. 
We will seek to develop geographically, particularly focusing 
on the pan-American region, if, and when, suitable 
opportunities arise.
Next year we expect further acceleration in data services, 
balancing continuing decline in voice services. 
A priority is to focus on improving our ROIC – currently 
17% – as we continue to increase penetration of mobile 
data devices. 
We are also looking for progress in Jamaica. In May, we were 
very pleased to see new telecoms legislation, which should 
improve the regulation of the industry and our ability to 
compete. Elsewhere in the Caribbean we will continue to 
focus on improving our cost base. The Panama market will 
remain competitive, particularly in mobile, but we will work 
hard to maintain our market-leading position. Our Macau 
business will have to adapt to the introduction of ﬁxed line 
competition, but we expect continued growth. Our Monaco 
& Islands business should also continue to make steady 
progress.
With a clear strategy and strong foundations in place, I feel 
conﬁdent that we are well placed to make progress over the 
foreseeable future, as always with the caveat that economic 
conditions around the world do not deteriorate further.
Tony Rice Our industry and our strategic approach
The shift in the way people communicate, 
with data services becoming more 
important, is driving a fundamental 
change in our business and industry .
Key industry trends 
impacting our business
The proliferation of smart devices (smartphones, tablets, 
ebooks, games consoles) and new services being developed 
via the internet is rapidly changing our industry. With faster 
and more pervasive networks, customers are able to do 
‘anything everywhere’ on their devices. Network operators 
have the dual challenge of managing the explosion in usage 
and ‘monetising’ it to earn a return.
Why we are well placed  
for the future
We are a full service provider (mobile, ﬁxed, broadband and 
TV) in most of our markets, enabling us to provide ‘anything 
everywhere’ to our customers. As market leader in most 
territories we can also be the pacesetter in the migration 
to new products and services. In the past year we have 
invested heavily in high speed mobile data networks, leaving 
us well placed to provide new services.
The core elements 
of the strategy
3  World class customer 
experience
  Investing in customer 
service and relationship 
management
  Designing customer 
service solutions to 
suit new data services
  Implementing new 
network technologies to 
deliver fastest speeds and 
best coverage. Introducing 
new pricing structures – 
to ‘monetise’ our traffic 
growth and ensure 
customers pay for 
what they receive
1  Migrating to new products & services
 Mobile and ﬁxed data – for consumers
 Managed services – for enterprises
 Social telecoms – for governments
 Carrier services – for other operators
2  Enhancing our 
geographic focus
  Managing our portfolio 
actively, with a focus on 
building regional scale 
and strength
  Becoming the ‘go-to’ 
player in the pan-
American region, where 
we have strong market 
positions, and a leading 
network presence
4  Increasing shareholder returns
  Ensuring all new investment 
meets high hurdle rates of 
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)
  Rigorous cost management 
  Growing cash generation 
  Sustainable dividend with future 
progressive growth in line with 
performance of the business
Our strategic approach
Our strategy aims to ensure we deliver a world class service to customers; improve our ability 
to compete in our markets; and generate increasing ﬁnancial returns, through EBITDA, 
cash ﬂow and return on invested capital. Business review
There were great performances in Macau and The Bahamas 
in 2011/12 and resilient efforts in other businesses. 
Maintaining market leadership 
Panama
Highlights
—  Maintained mobile market share above 
50% despite intense competition
—  Introduced high speed mobile data services 
and the iPhone
—  Awarded ‘Panama without Paper’ 
social telecoms contract 
—  Installed 911 emergency call service 
and established a presence in El Salvador
Mobile data growth 
Macau
Highlights
—  Ninth straight year of record profits
—  Exceptional growth of smartphone 
sales and mobile data
—  Increased broadband download speed 
to world-leading 250 megabits per second
—  Continued economic growth:  
Macau GDP +21 % in 2011
Good start in The Bahamas 
Caribbean
Highlights
—  Strong first year in The Bahamas
—  High speed mobile data networks 
introduced in key markets
—  New telecoms legislation in Jamaica 
should improve regulatory environment
—  Rolled out Caribbean e-learning network
Data drives mobile growth 
Monaco & Islands
Highlights
—  Completed telemedicine contract in Maldives
—  Renewal of operating licence in Monaco 
—  Strong penetration of smartphones and take  
up of mobile data plans in Guernsey
—  Growth in mobile data revenue 
across the portfolio Financial review
Group financial performance summary
Independent auditor’ s statement to the members  
of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc
We have examined the summary ﬁnancial 
statement for the year ended 31 March 
2012, which comprises the Summary 
consolidated income statement, Summary 
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial 
position, Summary consolidated statement 
of cash ﬂow, Summary Directors’ report 
and Summary Directors’ remuneration 
report set out in this document.
This statement is made solely to the 
Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with section 428 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we 
are required to state to them in such a 
statement and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body, for 
our work, for this statement, or for the 
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors 
and auditor
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Review in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our 
opinion on the consistency of the summary 
ﬁnancial statements within the Annual 
Review with the full annual ﬁnancial 
statements, the Directors’ Report and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, and its 
compliance with the relevant requirements 
of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 
and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information 
contained in the Annual Review and 
consider the implications for our report 
if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies 
with the summary ﬁnancial statements.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with 
Bulletin 2008/3 The auditor’s statement 
on the summary ﬁnancial statement in the 
United Kingdom issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. Our report on the Group’s 
full annual ﬁnancial statements describes 
the basis of our audit opinion on those 
ﬁnancial statements, the Directors’ Report 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Opinion on summary ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the summary ﬁnancial 
statements are consistent with the full 
annual ﬁnancial statements, the Directors’ 
report and the Directors’ remuneration 
report of Cable & Wireless Communications 
Plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 and 
complies with the applicable requirements 
of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 
and the regulations made thereunder.
P Meehan (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, 
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants, 15 Canada Square, 
London, E14 5GL
23 May 2012
Full year ended 31 March 2012 Full year ended 31 March 2011
1
 
 
 
Pre-
exceptional
US$m
Exceptional
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
US$m
Exceptional
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 2,875  –  2,875  2,440  –  2,440 
Gross margin 1,917  –  1,917  1,658  –  1,658 
Operating costs (1,016) (66) (1,082) (786) 6 (780)
EBITDA
2
 901 (66) 835  872  6  878 
Depreciation and amortisation (358) (244) (602) (321) – (321)
Net other operating expense (12) – (12) (28) – (28)
Joint ventures and associates 26  –  26  31  –  31 
LTIP charge –  –  – (24) – (24)
Total operating proﬁt 557 (310) 247  530  6  536 
Net ﬁnance expense (156) – (156) (108) – (108)
Net other non-operating income 13  –  13  34  –  34 
Proﬁt before tax 414 (310) 104  456  6  462 
Income tax (88) 10 (78) (119) 1 (118)
Proﬁt for the year 326 (300) 26  337  7  344 
Balance sheet capital expenditure (409) (354)
Operating cash ﬂow
3
 492  518 
Earnings per share (EPS) in cents (3.1) 7.6 
Adjusted EPS
4
 in cents 6.5  7.2 
1 Year ended 31 March 2011 includes the consolidated results for Bermuda (disposed March 2011) and excludes The Bahamas (acquired April 2011)
2 EBITDA is used in management reporting as it is considered to be a key ﬁnancial metric. It is deﬁned as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, 
LTIP charge, net other operating and non–operating income/(expense) and exceptional items
3 Operating cash ﬂow is deﬁned as EBITDA less balance sheet capital expenditure
4 Adjusted EPS is before exceptional items, LTIP charge, transaction costs, gain/(loss) on disposals and amortisation of acquired intangibles Summary consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2012
2011/12 2010/11
 
 
 
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Pre-
exceptional
items
US$m
Exceptional
items
US$m
Total
US$m
Revenue 2,875  –  2,875  2,440   –   2,440  
Operating costs before depreciation 
and amortisation (1,974) (66) (2,040) (1,592) 6  (1,586)
Depreciation (300) (232) (532) (271) –  (271)
Amortisation (58) (12) (70) (50) –  (50)
Other operating income 3  –  3  5   –   5  
Other operating expenses (15) – (15) (33) –  (33)
Group operating proﬁt/(loss) 531 (310) 221  499   6   505  
Share of proﬁt of joint ventures and associates 26  –  26  31   –   31  
Total operating proﬁt/(loss) 557 (310) 247  530   6   536  
Gains on sale of businesses 13  –  13  36   –   36  
Loss on termination of operations – –  – (2) –  (2)
Finance income 11  –  11  32   –   32  
Finance expense (167) – (167) (140) –  (140)
Proﬁt/(loss) before income tax 414 (310) 104  456   6   462  
Income tax (expense)/credit (88) 10 (78) (119) 1  (118)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year 326 (300) 26  337   7   344  
 
Proﬁt/(loss) attributable to: 
Owners of the Parent Company 158 (235) (77) 189   8   197  
Non-controlling interests 168 (65) 103  148  (1) 147  
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year 326 (300) 26  337   7   344  
(Loss)/earnings per share attributable to 
the owners of the Parent Company during 
the year (cents per share)  
– basic (3.1) 7.6
– diluted (3.1) 7.5 Summary consolidated 
statement of financial position
as at 31 March 2012
Summary consolidated 
statement of cash flows
for the year ended 
31 March 2012
31 March
2012
US$m
31 March
2011
US$m
Assets
Non-current assets 2,722 2,565
Current assets 1,035 1,082
Total assets 3,757 3,647
Liabilities
Current liabilities 1,807 1,236
Non-current liabilities 1,534 1,600
Total liabilities 3,341 2,836
Net current liabilities (772) (154)
Net assets 416 811
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable 
to the owners of the Parent 
Company
Share capital 133 133
Share premium 97 97
Reserves (307) 136
(77) 366
Non-controlling interests 493 445
Total equity 416 811
The Summary consolidated income statement, the Summary 
consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position and the Summary 
consolidated statement of cash ﬂows were approved by the Board 
of Directors on 23 May 2012 and signed on its behalf by: 
Tony Rice 
Chief Executive
Tim Pennington 
Chief Financial Officer
2011/12
US$m
2010/11
US$m
Cash generated 815  651 
Income taxes paid (90) (88)
Net cash from operating activities 725  563 
Net cash used in investing activities (509) (267)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (266) (492)
Net decrease in cash and cash 
equivalents (50) (196)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April  379  573 
Exchange (losses)/gains on cash and 
cash equivalents (17) 2 
Cash and cash equivalents 
at 31 March  312  379 
EBITDA is deﬁned as earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) charge and net other operating and 
non-operating income and expense. Unless otherwise 
stated, EBITDA excludes exceptional items. Exceptional 
items are material items which derive from individual 
events that fall within the ordinary activities of the 
Group that are identiﬁed as exceptional items by 
virtue of their size, nature or incidence. Summary Directors’ remuneration report
Overview of our 
Remuneration Policy
The current structure of remuneration 
for Executive Directors was adopted 
on demerger in March 2010. The 
Remuneration Committee recognised 
that the circumstances for managing 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
were materially different from those 
affecting the former Cable and Wireless 
plc and signiﬁcantly amended its policy 
to a more standard arrangement. 
Our policy
Overview
The overall aim is to ensure that 
remuneration encourages, reinforces 
and rewards the delivery of 
outstanding business performance. 
This is underpinned by the following 
guiding principles
 — The risk and reward structure must 
maintain an overall alignment with 
the interests of shareholders
 — Executive Directors are encouraged 
to maintain a signiﬁcant investment 
in the shares of the Company
 — There is a strong focus on 
performance-related pay
 — Targets must be stretching and 
provide for median levels of reward 
for median performance against the 
targets, and median to top quartile 
levels of reward for exceptional 
performance
How do we do this?
 — By setting ﬁxed pay levels 
by reference to mid-market 
comparators and recruitment/
retention considerations, while 
retaining some ﬂexibility to reﬂect 
executives’ experience and 
expertise
 — By carefully balancing the variable 
pay opportunities provided through 
our performance-related short and 
long term incentive plans, to ensure 
executives are incentivised to 
maximise performance over both 
the short and longer term
 — By providing for a signiﬁcant 
proportion of the package to be 
delivered and retained in shares and 
therefore subject to claw back
 — By requiring Executive Directors to 
build up and maintain a substantial 
holding of ordinary shares 
 — By ensuring that all aspects of 
remuneration for the Executive 
Directors and selected senior 
employees are approved by the 
Committee and by reviewing the 
levels, structure and philosophy of 
remuneration on an annual basis
 — By taking account of the pay and 
employment conditions of other 
employees in the Group when 
determining the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration
 — By considering the impact of 
remuneration on the risk proﬁle 
of the Company
Performance graphs
The graph below shows the total 
shareholder return by 31 March 2012 
for a £100 holding in the Company’s 
shares for the period from 22 March 
2010 (the date shares in the Company 
were admitted to the Official List), 
compared with £100 invested in the 
FTSE Europe Telecoms Sector.
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 Mar 2010 31 Mar 2012
 Cable & Wireless Communications
 FTSE Europe Telecoms Sector
31 Mar 2011 Directors’ emoluments
The table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc during 
the period 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012.
 
 
 
 Salaries
and fees
£
 Total cash
 bonuses
3
£
Beneﬁts in
 kind
1
£
Pension cash
 allowance
2
£
Total 
2011/12
 statutory 
period
 1 April 2011
 to 31 March
2012
£
Total
 2010/11 
statutory
 period 
1 April 2010
 to 31 March 
2011
£
Chairman      
Sir Richard Lapthorne 386,000 – 95,527 – 481,527 461,276
Executive Directors      
Nick Cooper 350,000 202,440 2,330 37,520 592,290 650,590
Tim Pennington 500,000 276,700 2,261 104,167 883,128 823,509
Tony Rice 700,000 396,690 34,961 175,000 1,306,651 1,177,097
Non-executive Directors      
Simon Ball 85,000 – 443 – 85,443 86,345
Mary Francis 85,000 – 785 – 85,785 86,458
Ian Tyler 65,000 – 621 – 65,621 16,250
Kate Nealon (from 1 April 2011 
to 22 July 2011) 20,250 – 333 – 20,583 66,345
Mark Hamlin (from 1 January 2012  
to 31 March 2012) 16,250 – 267 – 16,517 –
Past directors’ emoluments  
(for comparative purposes) – – – – – 220,139
Total 2,207,500 875,830 137,528 316,687 3,537,545 3,588,009
1 ‘Beneﬁts in kind’ include Company provided life assurance, professional advice, car and chauffeur provision and reimbursement of costs associated with travel, 
accommodation and relocation (as applicable).
2 Company pension contributions in 2011/12 have been paid to the Directors as either annual cash allowance or employer’s pension contributions. An amount of £18 million 
(2010/11 – £17 million) is included in the net pensions deﬁcit ﬁgure to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
3 The Executive Directors will receive an equivalent amount of their cash bonus in the form of shares deferred for one year and subject to claw back at the discretion of the 
Committee. These shares will count towards each Director’s shareholding requirement. 
4 A payment of £124,356 was made to the estate of George Battersby. This payment relates to the value of the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide dividends that would have accrued in January 2011 and August 2011, being the dividends paid for his performance shares held in the Trust, in the period between 
vesting and release of shares.
5 The emoluments table is presented in sterling as salaries, beneﬁts and bonuses are paid in sterling.
Summary Directors’ remuneration report Summary Directors’ report
Principal activities
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
is a global full-service communications 
business. We operate leading 
communications businesses through 
four regional units – the Caribbean, 
Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands. 
Our services include mobile, 
broadband, domestic and international 
ﬁxed line services in most of our 
markets as well as pay TV, data centre 
and hosting, carrier and managed 
service/social telecoms (telecoms- 
enabled public services) solutions.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a ﬁnal 
dividend of US5.33 cents per ordinary 
share payable on 10 August 2012 to 
ordinary shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 1 June 
2012. This ﬁnal dividend, together 
with the interim dividend of US2.67 
cents per share paid by the Company 
on 12 January 2012, makes a total 
dividend payment to shareholders 
of the Company of US8 cents per 
ordinary share for the year ended 
31 March 2012.
Directors
The names of the Directors as at 
31 March 2012 are set out within 
this Annual Review. Alison Platt will join 
the Board as a Non-executive Director 
with effect from 1 June 2012 and 
Mary Francis will retire from the 
Board at the end of her current term 
on 30 June 2012.
Ethics
The Company is committed to sound 
business conduct in its relationships 
with key stakeholders (shareholders, 
employees, customers, business 
partners and suppliers), governments 
and regulators, communities and the 
environment. The Group’s ethics policy 
applies to all Group companies and 
employees. Where the Group operates 
in conjunction with business partners, 
third parties or in joint venture 
arrangements without management 
control, it aims to promote the 
application of this policy. The Group 
seeks to conduct its operations with 
honesty, integrity and openness, and 
with respect for the human rights and 
interests of our employees. The Group 
respects the legitimate interests of all 
those with whom it has relationships. 
During the year, a review of the 
Group’s anti-bribery policy has been 
undertaken to ensure that our policies 
and procedures meet the standards 
required by the Bribery Act 2010. 
Internal control, risk management 
and ﬁnancial reporting
The Board is responsible for the 
Group’s system of internal control and 
for reviewing its effectiveness on a 
continual basis. The Group’s system of 
internal control is designed to manage, 
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The concept of 
reasonable assurance recognises that 
the cost of control procedures should 
not exceed the expected beneﬁts.
The Group operates a risk 
management process under which 
the regional businesses identify the 
key risks to their plans, their likelihood 
and impact and the actions being 
taken to manage those risks and 
the effectiveness of steps taken to 
mitigate them. The risk register is 
presented to the Audit Committee on 
a rolling 12 month basis. 
The Executive Directors report to 
the Board, on behalf of management, 
signiﬁcant changes in the Group’s 
business and the external environment 
in which it operates. In addition, they 
provide the Board with monthly 
ﬁnancial information, which includes 
key risk and performance indicators. 
The Group’s key internal control and 
monitoring procedures include the 
following:
 — Financial reporting
 — Investment appraisal
 — Monitoring systems
 — Financial and non-ﬁnancial controls
 — Whistle blowing
Going concern
After reviewing budgets and other 
longer-term plans and making 
enquiries, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group 
has adequate resources to continue in 
operation for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing 
the ﬁnancial statements.
Full Annual Report
This Annual Review and Summary 
Financial Statements are only a 
summary of information derived 
from the Company’s Annual Report 
and Financial Statements. It does not 
contain the full text of the Directors’ 
Report or the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report but information derived from 
those reports and does not contain 
sufficient information to allow as full 
an understanding of the Company’s 
results, state of affairs and its policies 
and arrangements on Directors’ 
remuneration as would be provided 
by the full Annual Report and Financial 
Statements. Copies of the Annual 
Report can be obtained free of charge 
from our website www.cwc.com or by 
contacting the Company Secretary at 
the address given in the Shareholder 
Information section. Shareholders 
and other entitled persons who have 
elected to receive this Annual Review 
can elect to receive the full Annual 
Report for all future ﬁnancial years 
using the details provided in the 
Shareholder Information section. 
The auditor’s report on the annual 
accounts and the auditable section 
of the Director’s Remuneration 
Report was unqualiﬁed; contained 
no statement under s498 of the 
Companies Act 2006; and it contained 
no qualiﬁcation in respect of the 
consistency of the Directors’ Report 
and the ﬁnancial statements.  Shareholder information and Board of Directors
Registrar
If you have any queries regarding your 
shareholding in Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc, please contact:
Equiniti
Aspect House, Spencer Road
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone 0871 384 2104
1
 
(UK shareholders)
+44 (0)121 415 7052 
(overseas shareholders)
Registered Office and 
Company Secretary 
The Company’s Registered Office 
and Head Office is:
3rd Floor, 26 Red Lion Square
London WC1R 4HQ
Telephone +44 (0)20 7315 4000
Clare Underwood is the 
Company Secretary
Dividends
Dividends are declared by the 
Company in US dollars. The default 
payment currency for dividends is 
sterling and shareholders may elect 
to receive payment in US dollars. The 
actual sterling amount of any dividend 
payable by the Company from time to 
time will be based on the sterling/US 
dollar exchange rate in effect on a date 
chosen by the Directors nearer to the 
relevant payment date.
If your dividend is paid directly into 
your bank or building society, you 
will receive one consolidated tax 
voucher each year, which is sent to 
you in January at the time that the 
interim dividend is paid. If you would 
prefer to receive a tax voucher 
with each dividend, please contact 
our shareholder helpline on 
0871 384 2104
1
.
If your dividend is not currently paid 
direct to your bank or building society 
and you would like to beneﬁt from this 
service, please contact our shareholder 
helpline on 0871 384 2104
1
.
Electronic communication
Together with Equiniti, Cable & 
Wireless Communications Plc is able 
to offer shareholders the option to 
manage their shareholding online. To 
make use of this facility, please register 
at www.shareview.co.uk by following 
the onscreen instructions.
The Company also offers shareholders 
the option to receive communications 
from the Company electronically as an 
alternative to receiving documents 
through the post.
Unsolicited mail
Company law allows people 
unconnected with the Company to 
obtain a copy of our share register. 
As a consequence, shareholders may 
receive unsolicited mail, including mail 
from unauthorised investment ﬁrms. 
For more information on unauthorised 
investment ﬁrms targeting UK 
investors, you should visit the website 
of the Financial Services Authority 
(www.fsa.gov.uk/consumerinformation/
scamsandswindles/safe).
If you wish to limit the amount of 
unsolicited mail you receive, please 
contact:
The Mailing Preference Service
DMA House
70 Margaret Street
London W1W 8SS
Telephone 020 7291 3310
Online www.mpsonline.org.uk
Board of Directors 
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
NR
Chairman, 
Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee
Tony Rice
Chief Executive
Tim Pennington
Chief Financial Officer
Nick Cooper
Corporate Services Director
Simon Ball
ANR
 
Deputy Chairman, 
Senior Independent Director, 
Chairman of the 
Audit Committee
Mary Francis, CBE
ANR
Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee
Mark Hamlin
ANR
Non-executive Director
Ian Tyler
ANR
Non-executive Director
A Denotes membership of  
Audit Committee.
N Denotes membership of  
Nomination Committee.
R Denotes membership of  
Remuneration Committee.
Committee membership shown  
as at 31 March 2012
Financial calendar
Ex-dividend date 30 May 2012
Record date 1 June 2012
Last date for election to join dividend reinvestment plan 
for August 2012 dividend 13 July 2012
Last date for election to receive dividend in US dollars 13 July 2012
Notiﬁcation of sterling dividend payment amount 19 July 2012
AGM 20 July 2012
Payment of ﬁnal dividend 10 August 2012
Announcement of interim results 2012/13 8 November 2012
1 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute 
from a BT landline. Other telephone providers’ costs 
may vary.
