  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 1
MISSION 
CRITICAL 
COMMUNICATIONS
2009/10 Annual Report INTRODUCTION 
02 About us
04 Highlights
05 Mission critical communications
BUSINESS REVIEW 
12 Chairman’s statement
14 Chief Executive’s statement
16 Q&A with the Chief Executive
18 Performance
22 Corporate responsibility
24 Chief Financial Officer’s review
26 Financial review
30 Risk overview
GOVERNANCE 
32 Board of Directors
34 Directors’ report
40 Corporate governance report
42 Report of the Audit Committee
44 Directors’ remuneration report
56  Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  57  Independent auditor’s report – 
Group
  58  Consolidated financial statements
  63  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
105  Independent auditor’s report –  
Company
106  Company financial statements
108  Notes to the Company financial 
statements
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
116 Useful information
Definitions
This Annual Report of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc has 
been prepared in accordance with English legal and Listing 
Rules requirements. The Annual Review for the year ended 
31 March 2010 is published as a separate document. 
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group demerged from  
the Cable & Wireless Communications Group (formerly  
the Cable & Wireless Group) with effect from 26 March  
2010 (the Demerger). Unless otherwise stated in this  
Annual Report, the terms ‘Cable&Wireless Worldwide’,  
the ‘Group’, ‘Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group’, ‘it’,  
‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Cable & Wireless Worldwide  
plc and its subsidiaries collectively. ‘THUS’ means the 
business of THUS Limited, which is focussed on the 
mid-market and THUS Group means THUS Group plc  
and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings. The term 
‘Company’ refers to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.  
The terms ‘Cable & Wireless’ and ‘Cable & Wireless  
Group’ refer to the former Cable and Wireless plc and  
its subsidiaries collectively. The terms ‘Cable & Wireless 
Communications’ and ‘Cable & Wireless Communications 
Group’ refer to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and 
its subsidiaries collectively. 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide prepares its financial information 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) applicable for use in the European  
Union (EU). The Company prepares its financial information 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (UK GAAP). Unless otherwise 
indicated, any reference in this report to financial statements 
is to the consolidated financial statements of Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide on pages 58 to 104 of this report.
References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise 
indicated, references to the Group’s financial year  
ending 31 March of that year. In this report, financial and 
non-financial information is, unless otherwise indicated, 
stated on the basis of the Group’s financial year. The 
Company’s financial year is the period from incorporation  
on 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010.
Information has been updated to the most practical date 
prior to the approval date of the document, being  
24 May 2010.
Cautionary statement regarding forward  
looking statements 
This Annual Report contains forward looking statements  
that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well  
as assumptions about future events. These forward looking 
statements can be identified by the fact that they do not 
relate only to historical or current facts. Forward looking 
statements often use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, 
‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘will’, 
‘may’, ‘should’, ‘would’, ‘could’ or other words of similar 
meaning. Undue reliance should not be placed on any such 
statements because, by their very nature, they are subject  
to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be  WELCOME
 …BECAUSE IT MATTERS
Welcome to the first annual report of Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc as an independent business, following our 
demerger from Cable and Wireless plc on 26 March 2010.
Our goal is to create sustainable, long term shareholder value by 
becoming the first choice for mission critical communications. 
To do this we have a vision of the next generation 
communications provider.
Our proposition is a compelling mix of global reach in the form 
of an intercontinental network, coupled with the ability to host 
and deliver applications that our customers want. This is backed 
by an obsession for customer service that is shared by every 
colleague throughout our business.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PLEASE VISIT WWW.CW.COM/REPORTS
affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide’s plans and objectives, to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied in the forward 
looking statements. Furthermore, nothing in this Annual 
Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
There are several factors which could cause actual results to 
differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward 
looking statements. Among the factors are changes in the 
global, political, economic, business, competitive, market 
and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, 
changes in tax rates and future business combinations 
or disposals. Summaries of the potential risks faced by 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide are set out on pages 30 to 31.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide cannot guarantee future results, 
levels of activity, performance or achievements.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide undertakes no obligation to 
revise or update any forward looking statement contained 
within this Annual Report, regardless of whether those 
statements are affected as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise, save as required by applicable 
laws or regulation.
Companies Act 2006
Pages 6 to 31 constitute the Chairman’s statement and  
business review of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and, 
pages 40 to 41 constitute the corporate governance 
statement of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and, for  
the purposes of section 463 of the Companies Act 2006,  
are incorporated by reference into the Directors’ report set 
out on pages 34 to 39 and shall be deemed to form part of 
that report. 
Addressees of the Annual Report 
This Annual Report is addressed solely to the members of 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc as a body, to assist them 
in assessing the strategies adopted by the Company and 
the potential for those strategies to succeed. Neither the 
Company nor its Directors accept or assume responsibility 
to any person for this Annual Report (beyond the 
responsibilities arising from the production of this Annual 
Report under the requirements of English company law) or 
any responsibility to update any statements in this Annual 
Report, save as required by applicable laws or regulation.
English law 
Pages 6 to 56 inclusive consist of a Directors’ report that 
has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in 
reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the 
Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to 
the limitations and restrictions provided by such law. DRIVEN BY AN OBSESSION FOR THE CUSTOMER
At Cable&Wireless Worldwide we 
have put customers at the heart of 
our strategy, creating intimate working 
relationships through a detailed 
understanding of their business. 
Many of the products and services we 
provide are typically tightly integrated 
into our customers’ operational activity. 
A deep understanding of the ways in 
which our services are used, how they 
contribute to the success of their 
business (and therefore to ours),  
and how they might be developed  
to generate additional value is  
one of the ways in which we  
differentiate ourselves. 
THE CAPABILITY TO DELIVER
We continue to expand our network  
and technologies to improve capability 
to meet customer demand, both  
in the United Kingdom and in our  
global footprint. 
We operate the UK’s biggest fibre 
network dedicated to business users  
of telecommunications and can provide 
connectivity to 153 countries. Our 
network reaches far beyond the UK, 
spanning approximately 500,000 km 
including interests in more than 69 
major global cable systems. With full 
resiliency on key routes, this is an 
unmatched asset for our business  
THE RIgHT PRODUCTS
Today we are one of the world’s 
leading communications companies 
specialising in providing mission critical 
communication services. 
We work with large enterprises, as well 
as the public sector and carriers both in 
the UK and globally to provide a range 
of high quality managed voice, data  
and IP based services and applications.  
We also serve the UK mid-market,  
directly through THUS and indirectly 
through our reseller partners, with a 
range of voice, hosting and connectivity 
services tailored to their needs.
02 
INTRODUCTION
ABOUT US
Our strategic product set of data, 
IP , hosting and application services 
continues to become an ever increasing 
part of our business. 
and our customers. Our extensive  
UK and global network, together with 
our product suite and service focus, 
positions us to successfully exploit 
growing markets and to build on our 
track record of increasing market share 
in the UK and overseas. 153
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 03
Connectivity to 153 countries
IP and data
Hosting and applications 
Traditional voice and legacy
Percentage of gross margin
56
16
28
IP and data
Hosting and applications 
Traditional voice and legacy
Percentage of gross margin 04 
INTRODUCTION
HIg HLIg HTS
£2,265M
£2,265 MILLION REVENUE
Increasing proportion from our strategic  
products: IP , data, hosting and applications
+14%
14% gROSS MARgIN INCREASE 
Growth in strategic products and the full year 
impact of the acquisition of THUS Group
£431M
£431 MILLION EBITDA 
Up 32% on last year with EBITDA margin  
now 19% of revenue*
£71M
£71 MILLION TRADINg CASH FLOW 
Showing significant growth in the year, up from 
£13 million in 2008/09* 
8.3P
8.3 PENCE ADJUSTED EPS 
Before exceptional items
*For definitions of EBITDA and trading cash flow see pages 18 and 29.  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 05
Our world is more connected than ever before.
Communications technology is driving new behaviours fuelled by  
a desire for constant connectivity and integration. Businesses are 
increasingly dependent on networks and technology just to operate. 
They need a partner who can deliver a fast, flexible, total solution 
underpinned by exceptional service if they want to stay ahead of  
the competition.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide aims to become the first choice for mission 
critical communications by making integrated communications a 
reality. Our customers rely on the telecommunications infrastructure and 
services that we provide in order to operate their businesses every day.
INTRODUCTION
MISSION CRITICAL COMMUNICATIONS Five-year, € 15 million contract
c onnecting 180 airports  
in 26 countries
s upporting 60 million 
passengers on more  
than 850 routes
Cable&Wireless Worldwide delivers mission 
critical communications to Ryanair, one of 
Europe’s leading airlines. It manages Ryanair’s 
entire European telecommunication network 
including all airports, bases, data centres and 
corporate offices. Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
provides an ‘always-on communications’ 
network that supports passengers from  
online booking to airport check in.
‘ c able&Wireless WorldW ide  
has been consistently reliable  
and they al Ways deliver W hat 
they say they W ill.’
   e ric n eville, it d irector, ryanair 06 
business revieW
case study: ryanair  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 07 08 
business revieW
case study: aviva 70+ separate services, 
29 are data netW ork  
services supporting more  
than 75,000 service end  
points W ith in excess oF  
5,000 net Work devices
Cable&Wireless Worldwide has worked in 
partnership with Aviva for more than a decade to 
deliver advanced voice and data managed services. 
Key data services include IPVPN, LAN and wireless 
LAN. Additionally, Aviva trusts Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide to manage its external email, internet 
access, remote access and security as well as its 
business critical data centres, e-commerce and 
mainframe infrastructures.
‘ We trust c able&Wireless WorldW ide  
to deliver the best solution F or us that 
meets our needs and W e trust them  
to be there W hen W e need them.’
niall Quinn, director oF uk procurement  
and commercial services, aviva  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 09 10 
business revieW
case study: national grid
15 year, £207 million contract
n ational g rid is an 
international electricity  
and gas company and one  
oF the largest investor- 
oW ned energy companies  
in the W orld.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide is responsible  
for designing, delivering and managing a 
dedicated Next-Generation Operational 
Telecommunications Network (OpTel NGN) to 
support National Grid’s Network Infrastructure 
and Operational Systems. Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide provides them with a complete, 
managed next-generation network service.  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 11
‘ t he saF e transmission oF electricity 
over n ational g rid’s netW ork is 
depende nt on c able&Wireless 
WorldW ide’s operational 
telecommunications solutions.’
national grid Friday 26 March 2010 is now a date to add to the 
long and impressive history of Cable & Wireless. 
Our demerger from Cable and Wireless plc on 
that date marked the beginning of the latest 
chapter in our 140 year history. 
When I joined this business more than four years 
ago, such a milestone seemed a very long way  
away. For many years previously, Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide had struggled to define a role for itself in 
the rapidly changing communications industry – it 
had stuttered, if not stumbled.
The process of regeneration started with Sir Richard 
Lapthorne’s arrival in 2003. By the time of demerger 
the Cable & Wireless group had been transformed. 
Contingent liabilities were avoided, the envelope  
of our activities sharpened, the share price trebled 
and the Cable & Wireless group returned firmly to 
profit. This was a successful period in the Cable & 
Wireless group’s history and I would like to extend 
my thanks and best wishes for the future to Sir 
Richard and the continuing board of Cable & 
Wireless Communications.
Our turnaround was about getting things done –  
execution.  Little had I realised that such an approach 
played handsomely to our greatest strength, our 
people. Passionate and talented yes, but more 
impressive by far was their unified commitment to 
restoring the fortunes and reputation of the business. 
This turnaround has been defined by the rapidly 
improving outcome for three constituencies: 
customers, shareholders and colleagues. 
If customers don’t see an improvement then  
it isn’t happening, if shareholders don’t see an 
improvement they don’t let you play (it’s their 
money after all) and if there’s nothing in it for 
colleagues, then our key asset literally walks  
out the door. 
Our statistics tell our story
The faith our customers place in us continues  
to increase. We have not lost a major enterprise 
customer since the start of 2006. The average 
contract length for these customers has increased 
by 22% and half of our gross margin now comes 
from customers who trust us to provide  
a managed service.
Over the last four years we have led the delivery  
of significant value for shareholders, as part of the 
broader group. The total shareholder return for 
Cable and Wireless plc was almost 65%, against 
39% for the FTSE Global Telecoms Index and just 
12% for the broader FTSE 100.
Colleagues in the business have become 
increasingly engaged in the turnaround over the 
years, evidenced by the fact that the attrition rate 
has halved over four years as our colleagues have 
led our customer service renaissance.
That’s not at all bad when you consider that for  
the last 20 months of this journey we’ve been 
tip-toeing our way through the sharpest recession  
in a generation, a crunch whose full consequences  
are still playing out. 
‘ the market opportunity is 
there and We Will simply 
continue to Focus on 
relentless execution.’
12 
business revieW
c hairman’s statement But, if our turnaround is now largely complete,  
the logical question is, “where next?”.
As we look forward, we do so knowing that our 
operating environment – regulation, competition, 
technology trends, demand levels – is 
encouraging. Certainly the rapid movements 
towards ever more bandwidth and network-centric 
applications, such as cloud computing, offer  
very real drivers for future growth. The market 
opportunity is there and we will simply continue  
to focus on relentless execution.
Somebody once said that you cannot please all  
of the people all of the time. This is particularly  
true of the investment universe. It can be difficult 
to reconcile the myriad of opinions and requests, 
and the flavour of the day changes before your 
very eyes. We have consistently delivered against 
one simple mantra: if it doesn’t create sustainable,  
long term, shareholder value then we will not do it. 
Our record to date, the best predictor of our future 
behaviour and performance, stands up to the 
closest scrutiny.
My role as a FTSE Chairman is new to me and  
I am intent on serving the Board, this business and 
its shareholders to the best of my abilities. We take 
up our new challenges well equipped for the task 
and with momentum on our side, as our results 
from the past 12 months demonstrate. 
Our Non-executive Directors, John Barton, Clive 
Butler and Penny Hughes, offer insight and robust 
challenge, borne out of experience. The Executive 
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 13
management team is a mix of those fire-tested  
by the turnaround of this business plus the fresh 
eyes and insight of Tim Weller who joined as  
Chief Financial Officer in May. We also start our  
new existence with a strong balance sheet and 
good liquidity. 
Many of our achievements to date have been 
delivered with a business which has been 
constrained by its own past mediocrity – we have 
been swimming against the tide. This is no longer 
the case. The industry trends and the business 
transformation over the last few years open up a 
wealth of opportunities both in the UK and beyond. 
So, it is with great excitement and no lack of 
ambition that we look to the future. We are seeking 
to secure our market positions, to exploit the 
opportunities we have built for ourselves and  
to create a better outcome for customers, 
shareholders and colleagues alike.
John Pluthero
Chairman I am pleased that we generated strong results 
yet again and made real strategic progress.  
Not only did we deliver our cash and EBITDA 
guidance once again, but we also completed 
our demerger from Cable and Wireless plc.  
This is a very proud moment that has been 
years in the making. I see this as our coming of 
age, having spent four years on the turnaround of 
our business, and we now have the opportunity to 
show the world our true capability and potential.
Our primary market remains UK enterprise and public 
sector, where we continued to improve our market 
share. These customers are increasingly dependent 
on communications to ensure the smooth running of 
their business. Increasingly, they are seeing the value, 
reliability and scalability that our fully managed 
service proposition offers. It’s this realisation that a 
communications partner can add value that is driving 
our sales momentum and, in certain sectors, we now 
have clear market leadership. 
It’s not just the UK where we work with large 
enterprise customers. Our global network has 
already given us market advantage in certain 
geographies. We believe our network is still under-
exploited, particularly given the rapid increase in data 
and explosive demand for bandwidth that is taking 
place at present.
This is why we continued to make targeted 
investment in our network, through both the coming 
year’s completion of the Europe/India Gateway and 
our involvement in the West Africa Cable System. 
These investments strengthen our position in a 
number of emerging markets. Continuing the 
disciplined investment strategy of our turnaround, 
we’ve already underpinned the economics with the 
forward sale of a proportion of the capacity.
Our direct mid-market business, THUS, is already 
the professional brand in mid-market data. We are 
committed to this market and to establishing 
ourselves as the clear winner in the mid-market 
data space. In doing this we will also continue to 
work with our indirect reseller customers to build  
a significant wholesale business. 
We have our carrier business – the wholesale 
operation that’s important to any telecoms 
company in order to achieve the best network 
economics. Within this we have a fast growing  
line of business which is wholesale consumer 
broadband, supporting significant industry players 
such as Tesco Broadband and Virgin Media. 
From a product perspective, the growing demand  
for global bandwidth plays well to our extensive 
next-generation network reach and global Multi 
Service Platform (MSP). The significant interest  
in cloud computing offers us the opportunity to 
combine our high quality network and data centres 
with our managed services ethos. As cloud 
computing moves from a fringe activity to an 
accepted norm, our scale and expertise in hosting 
positions us strongly for the future.
‘ We diFFerentiate ourselves 
through our customer service.  
t his has been the bedrock oF  
our transF ormation and W ill  
remain so.’
14 
business revieW
chieF executive’s statement We are well positioned for future growth and in terms 
of our priorities for the year ahead, they break down 
into three areas: 
Uniqueness
We differentiate ourselves through our customer 
service. This has been the bedrock of our 
transformation and will remain so. Customers  
will always be at the heart of everything we do.
Growth
The delivery of profitable revenue growth remains  
a priority, with improvements in the economic 
conditions, a strong sales performance last year  
and growing demand across all our core markets. 
Cash
Sustainable cash flow that’s delivered through 
continued margin growth, continued opex reduction 
and increasingly better capex utilisation. The growth 
in cash generation will outstrip earnings growth, as 
we concentrate on improving our processes and 
pursue additional operating cost savings and as  
the exceptional cash charges reduce rapidly; we 
currently expect these to reduce by around 75%  
over the next two years. 
We’ve improved all aspects of our business and have 
achieved a scale that allows us to progress rapidly 
and I believe that the telecommunications environment 
is beginning to favour fixed line operators, with the 
demand for bandwidth outstripping anything that can 
be provided by the mobile spectrum. In addition, the 
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 15
growing convergence of fixed and mobile is allowing 
enterprise customers to consolidate their requirements 
into a single, robust, fixed line solution.
Outlook
Market conditions are improving and we are 
experiencing good momentum in our core business 
segments and key areas of future growth, both in the 
UK and globally. We already generate 72% of our 
margin from data and 86% of our sales pipeline is in 
our higher margin strategic product set. We also see 
further scope for operating efficiencies and a steep 
downward trajectory for cash exceptional charges. 
Taking all of these factors together, we remain 
confident in meeting expectations for cash and 
EBITDA generation for 2010/11.
In summary, it is a very exciting time for 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide. Y et again, we’ve delivered 
on our commitment to our shareholders and our 
customers, and we will continue to do so. With the 
turnaround complete and the demerger now history, 
this really is our moment to build on our success, grow 
our business and deliver our full potential.
Jim Marsh
Chief Executive Officer 16 
business revieW
Q&a With the chieF executive
Q. hoW does cable&Wireless WorldWide 
diFFerentiate itselF?
Jim: Our passion for the customer is our 
differentiator. We have clearly established our 
capabilities, we have a leading product set and  
an exciting roadmap along with a great depth  
of network, but it is our approach to serving the 
customer which truly differentiates us.
We build a solution that really meet the needs of 
our customers – customers who consider their 
telecommunications infrastructure to be critical  
to their business success – and we provide the 
dedicated support required to give customers 
confidence in the solution.
Q. What pleases you most about the last  
12 months in cable&Wireless WorldWide?
Jim: Clearly the demerger at the end of March was 
a historic milestone in the history of this business, 
but what pleased me most is that Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide proved itself strong through the most 
difficult macro-economic conditions in my lifetime. 
We once again delivered on our promises with record 
profitability and cash generation. The progress that 
we’ve made over the last twelve months is testament 
to the four years of very hard work by all of the 
colleagues who have transformed this business. 
Q. have the recessionary headWinds eased?
Jim: It’s early days but the signs are very 
encouraging. Voice minutes have stabilised  
and there are signs that corporate spending  
is beginning to recover from the levels during  
the last 12 months. It is important to note  
that at Cable&Wireless Worldwide we don’t 
need a huge recovery to meet our expectations.  
There is a massive amount of market share to  
go after in the UK, both through new customer  
wins and through increasing the ‘share of wallet’  
in our current customer base where we already 
provide services to 76 of the companies in the 
FTSE 100. 
Q. are you satisFied With your delivery  
oF proFit and cash?
Jim: Yes. We delivered what we promised – that  
is satisfying. But there is no level of profit with 
which we will ever be entirely satisfied. We were 
frustrated that just as the business was positioning 
itself for growth we were hit by the recession. 
However, this business is now very well placed  
to take advantage of the changes in the industry 
and to increase profit and cash rapidly.  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 17
Q. What are the main industry themes  
Which are aFFecting the business?
Jim: The industry themes and trends are very positive 
for Cable&Wireless Worldwide. Enterprise customers 
are becoming increasingly dependent on their 
communications infrastructure and are increasingly 
choosing their supplier on criteria beyond price. We 
believe this favours Cable&Wireless Worldwide due 
to our concentration on delighting our customers 
through our differentiated solutions and service 
ethos. Our Fixed Mobile Convergence product is 
capitalising on the shift from mobile to fixed line 
telecommunications, driven by the explosive demand 
for bandwidth. There is an increasing demand for 
fully outsourced managed hosted services – what is 
commonly referred to as ‘cloud computing’. Although 
it is still in its early stages we believe the winners here 
will have strong capability in fixed line network and in 
hosting – this places Cable&Wireless Worldwide in 
the vanguard.
Q. What are your plans in the mid-market?
Jim: I am very encouraged by the quality of the 
mid-market business we acquired through the 
acquisition of THUS Group, and having carried out 
a thorough assessment, we are fully committed to 
growing our presence in the mid-market in the UK.  
This is a £5 billion market with high margins and low 
capital requirements. We have both the network  
and the product suite to be a winner here.
Q. What is the outlook From here For  
top line revenue?
Jim: Growing top line revenue is one of my three 
priorities and it is a proof point we still need to and 
will achieve. Short term however, the voice market 
remains uncertain and, although it is lower margin, 
revenue is sensitive to this so I wouldn’t want to 
make any predictions. In our key data strategic 
product set we expect to grow revenue in 2010/11 
and beyond.
Q. What next For the business?
Jim: More of the same. The industry trends are 
beginning to favour Cable&Wireless Worldwide. 
The opportunity set is expanding. We will continue to 
focus on growing our share of the enterprise market 
by delivering a better quality of proposition and 
service to customers. I have clearly set out my 
priorities: uniqueness, growth and cash. We have  
a differentiated proposition and we will continue to 
put further, clear blue water between us and the 
competition. I believe we can deliver truly profitable 
top line growth. Cash generation is the ultimate 
measure of success; we will seek to deliver increasing 
sustainable cash flows from this business. 18 
business revieW
perF ormance
Group revenue for the period was broadly flat  
at £2,265 million (2008/09: £2,268 million) as 
recessionary and regulatory impacts were  
offset by the full year effect of the acquisition  
of the THUS Group. EBITDA
1
 was up by 32% at 
£431 million (2008/09: £326 million) and adjusted 
operating cash flow
2
 was an inflow of £81 million, 
up by £91 million on the prior year (2008/09:  
£10 million outflow).
We engage with customers through several  
market channels that are managed on a unified  
basis reflecting the integrated nature of our global 
network. We present details of our performance 
divided into market channels to help explain  
our overall performance and the development  
of our business.
UK enterprise
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 837 827 1%
Cost of sales
3
 (391) (422) (7)%
Gross margin 446 405 10%
Gross margin %	 53%	 49%	 Source: Management information
Our UK enterprise channel serves large users  
of mission critical communications where the 
principal relationship is based in the UK. 
We continued to grow our share of this market, 
which we estimate now to be approximately  
19%. Revenue increased to £837 million (2008/09: 
£827 million), with gross margin increasing by  
£41 million to £446 million. We further improved our 
sales success with increasing sales of our strategic 
product set (consisting of IP , data, hosting and 
applications) compared with the prior year. 
Our continued focus on delivering great service 
has encouraged customers to look to us to provide 
a broader range of services, deeper into their 
organisations. This includes innovative products 
such as Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC). FMC 
allows organisations to integrate their fixed line, 
data and mobile communications. We are now 
actively rolling this out across four important UK 
enterprise customers. We are seeing a greater 
number of our customers opting for a full  
managed service.
understanding our 
business perF ormance
1  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, long term 
incentive plan (LTIP) charge and net other operating income or expense, 
profit or loss on disposal of non-current assets and exceptional items.
2 For a reconciliation of adjusted operating cash flow, see page 29.
3 Cost of sales does not include unallocatable network costs.
21%
increase in QualiF ied  
pipeline For uk enterprise
 12%
reduction in sales cycle 
For big enterprise deals  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 19
There have been some notable contract wins this 
year. We announced a £207 million contract with 
National Grid to deliver a telecommunications 
network to support the transmission of electricity 
in the UK over the next 15 years. We extended  
our contract with Tesco to include provision of  
the network to support their ambitions in 
consumer broadband in the UK. In March we 
announced an extension to the current United 
Utilities contract, now a £30 million, five year  
deal, to provide converged voice and data network 
services to its 300 UK sites, including data centres 
and contact centres.
We also strengthened our market share in the 
banking and insurance sector with recent wins. 
This included a 4,000 site retail branch network 
and large contact centre transformations.
We continued to make inroads into multi-site retail 
with the completion of a 500 site retail store network 
and the commencement of a rollout of the new Wide 
Area Network (WAN) and business grade broadband 
connecting 600 UK retail stores, key distribution 
sites and a warehouse operation for HMV. 
We anticipate that in the coming year an increasing 
number of businesses will begin making decisions 
that were previously on-hold as a result of the 
recession. We have already announced the three 
year contract with PZ Cussons to provide a global 
WAN connecting its offices in Europe, Asia and 
Africa. This contract once again demonstrates the 
importance of our global network even where the 
customer is based in the UK.
32%
increase  
in ebitda 60%
oF thus revenue  
From data services
UK public sector
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 285 268 6%
Cost of sales (117) (121) (3)%
 
Gross margin 168 147 14%
Gross margin %	 59%	 55%	 Source: Management information
The UK public sector channel includes central and 
local government organisations like the Ministry of 
Justice as well as other significant service 
providers such as the NHS and the police service.
UK public sector revenues increased by £17 million 
in 2009/10, despite increasing challenges to 
government expenditure, while gross margin  
rose by £21 million.
We sold a larger proportion of our strategic 
product set which significantly improved the 
average gross margin percentage. During the 
second half of the year, there was also higher 
demand for project and professional services  
work across the public sector. Our public sector 
customers are increasingly utilising the full range  
of our integrated services, enabling them to 
achieve greater operational efficiency.
Our ability to provide highly secure communication 
networks resulted in significant new deals in the 
criminal justice sector, including Managed Video 
Conferencing (MVC) for the Office for Criminal 
Justice Reform, and managed telephony with Her 
Majesty’s Courts Service. We helped the police 
service deliver a number of projects, including 
mobile data initiatives, which improve officers’ 
abilities to share information while out on patrol.
In the health service, we successfully implemented 
and continue to manage NHSmail, the secure 
email service for NHS staff. 20 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
 Business review Performance
UK carrier
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 349 369 (5)%
Cost of sales (238) (254) (6)%
 
Gross margin 111 115 (3)%
Gross margin %	 32%	 31%	 Source: Management information
UK carrier comprises major UK based fixed line 
carriers and mobile operators.
The UK carrier market was hit hard by the 
economic downturn, which drove down wholesale 
call volumes by around 5%, with a corresponding 
impact on revenues and margins. Regulatory 
changes in the UK reduced termination rates for 
mobile calls and non-geographic number ranges, 
creating downward pressure on revenues. Margins 
were not significantly affected by these changes as 
these costs are passed through to customers. We 
delivered a number of major network outsource 
deals during the period and as a result of our 
ability to take on significant migrations, together 
with our extensive network coverage, delivered 
savings for the end customer. This offset most of 
the regulatory and other factors impacting revenue.
Through this difficult climate we still carried 
approximately 70% of all calls made from mobiles 
that terminate on UK geographic numbers and 
have been successful in diversifying away from 
voice products by providing hosted services 
(infrastructure and hosting space) to mobile 
operators for their key mobile applications. We  
also provide the network services that underpin the 
mobile operators UK and overseas contact centres.
During the year, Tesco announced its intention  
to move into consumer broadband and chose 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide to provide the network 
infrastructure to support this initiative. This is 
expected to go live in the first quarter of 2010/11.
Mid-market
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 242 212 14%
Cost of sales (124) (129) (4)%
 
Gross margin 118 83 42%
Gross margin %	 49%	 39%	 Source: Management information
Mid-market is comprised of customers who resell 
our products to small or medium size businesses. 
This includes our direct THUS business. 
In the year we increased revenue by 14% to  
£242 million and grew gross margin by 42% to 
£118 million. We have also increased our pipeline 
by about a third over the last 12 months.
Declining voice revenues were offset by strong 
performance across data products, which 
delivered steady growth across our core 
connectivity products. In 2009/10 we also 
completed a £3.2 million per annum network 
outsource deal with one of our existing large 
resellers, which completed mid year. This contract 
will last four years and we expect to see further 
incremental project work as part of the deal. 
The voice market continued to consolidate, which 
created some pricing pressures. However, our 
strategy of improving our product mix towards 
higher margin data products helped us raise our 
gross margin in the year. 
We spent some time during the year assessing  
the mid-market business that came with our 
acquisition of THUS Group and have been pleased 
with the strength of the business. This business is 
60% data – and the average customer size places 
it towards the higher end of the SME market. 
In THUS we upgraded around half of our Demon 
internet customers onto ADSL2+ services, 
doubling the bandwidth to the customers at  
no extra charge. We also on-shored Demon 
customer service support, further enhancing  
the customer experience. 
72%
o F margin From 
strategic products
50%
o F margin From customers 
taking managed services  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 21
Global
Global enterprise
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 184 181 2%
Cost of sales (85) (96) (11)%
 
Gross margin 99 85 16%
Gross margin %	 54%	 47%	 Global carrier
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 368 411 (10)%
Cost of sales (235) (301) (22)%
 
Gross margin 133 110 21%
Gross margin %	 36%	 27%	 Global total
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 552 592 (7)%
Cost of sales (320) (397) (19)%
 
Gross margin 232 195 19%
Gross margin %	 42%	 33%	 Source: Management information
Global comprises enterprise customers where our 
main relationship is outside the UK, in EMEA, Asia, 
India and the US and international fixed line 
carriers and mobile operators.
Our total global revenue declined to £552 million 
from £592 million in 2008/09. This decline reflects 
the general fall in international voice traffic and our 
managed reduction of low margin international voice 
contracts, partially offset by growth in data products 
in both the global carrier and enterprise markets. 
24%
oF revenue F rom  
our glob al business
16%
margin groW th in  
global enterprise
The reduction in call volumes and an increase in 
sales within our strategic product set led to an 
increase in global enterprise revenue and margin. 
This included solutions such as our Managed 
Video Conferencing applications that are proving 
popular with customers such as large multinational 
banks. This product capitalises on the trend of 
businesses wishing to reduce their carbon 
footprint and lower their international travel costs. 
We expect this growth to continue.
We had several noteworthy contract wins during 
the year. These included a €15 million, five year 
contract with Ryanair to manage the airline’s entire 
business critical European telecommunication 
network, covering all airports, data centres and 
corporate offices.
In Apollo Submarine Cable Systems Limited,  
a company we own in partnership with Alcatel, 
through which we provide transatlantic cable 
capacity linking the US to Europe, revenue grew  
by 38% to £11 million and gross margin by  
£4 million to £10 million. 
We also made progress in strengthening our core 
capability and reducing the cost of delivering 
global solutions. In May 2009 we announced our 
role in a consortium which is laying the West Africa 
Cable System (WACS) that will provide the first 
ever submarine connections to Namibia, the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and Togo.
The new cable system will ensure that the 
necessary submarine resilience for existing 
international services is in place and also  
enable us to exploit de-regulating markets. We 
successfully pre-sold a significant proportion of 
our allocated capacity to a number of internet 
content providers to underpin our investment. 
WACS is due to become operational in Q4 2011. 
We also saw further progress with our investment 
in the Europe/India Gateway (EIG), which is due to 
complete towards the end of 2010/11, again with 
significant sales of capacity prior to commissioning. 22 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
business revieW
a bout us We are committed to becoming a sustainable 
business. We have set out our progress against 
our sustainable business principles.
Seek continual improvement in our 
environmental performance
Reducing emissions and costs through carbon and 
energy management is a priority. Our carbon 
footprint in the UK and Northern Ireland, externally 
verified for the fourth consecutive year by the 
Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management using the 
Greenhouse Gas methodology, is 239,679 tonnes of 
CO2e compared with 205,885 tonnes CO 2e for the 
last financial year. The increase is due to the inclusion 
of electricity consumption at the THUS sites and 
improvements to the monitoring and reporting of 
consumption. With more than 90% of our carbon 
footprint attributable to network electricity usage, we 
have set a target to reduce carbon emissions per unit 
of network traffic and data storage by 20% by April 
2015 (from a 2009/10 baseline).
We recognise the importance of best practice in 
environmental management systems and we have 
set a target to achieve ISO 14001 in the UK by 
April 2011 and across our global operations by 
April 2013.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide is in scope for the  
new UK Carbon Reduction Commitment (Energy 
Efficiency) scheme, which will require us to  
report our carbon footprint and to purchase the 
equivalent number of carbon allowances annually. 
We have focused on improving our carbon 
management strategies this year to ensure  
that we are fully prepared for the scheme.
‘ r educing emissions and 
costs through carbon 
and energy management 
is a priority .’
22 
business revieW
c orporate r esponsibility 
Energy consumption in the UK
  2009/10 2008/09
1
Electricity
2
 (kWh)  403,681,907 330,889,809
Natural gas
3
 (kWh)  17,294,554 18,290,586
1  The 2008/09 figures exclude THUS and landlord sites.
2  Used to power our network, to provide support services such as network 
cooling, and in our offices; inclusive of landlord and unmetered sites.
3 Used to heat our offices.
The closure of our largest earth satellite station at 
Thameside and the associated move to a new site  
has provided four times the capacity in a quarter  
of the original floor space. The addition of a living  
roof will help to insulate the building as well as  
attract wildlife. 
The introduction of a Workforce Management 
System for our field engineers during the year is 
delivering benefits both in terms of reducing CO2 
emission per fault and improving the well-being of 
engineers by enabling them to spend less time on 
the road for each fault attended. 
The amount of waste recycled has increased from 
15% of office waste last year to 28% of waste, 
including office waste and installation packaging 
from network sites, recycled this financial year.
Facilitate and encourage responsible and 
innovative product and service design
IP , data, hosting and applications are intensive 
users of energy. Energy efficiency measures and 
maintenance improvements have contributed to  
the higher operational efficiency of equipment. 
Developments in reporting and alarm systems  
have also contributed to reductions in energy 
surges often associated with fault repair.  We are one of the first telecommunications 
companies to achieve the BS 25999 standard for 
business continuity which reflects our commitment 
to provide service continuity and reduce risks for 
customers. A commitment to security is also 
reflected by achieving ISO 27001 accreditation, the 
international best practice standard for Information 
Security Management Systems. 
Our Managed Video Conferencing solution has 
expanded globally with our partner Regus opening 
sites in 14 of the world’s business capitals 
including Mumbai, Shanghai and Singapore which 
offer businesses a real alternative to travel. 
Contribute to the positive social and economic 
development of the communities in which  
we operate
Colleagues’ determined and committed approach 
to their day jobs is replicated in their enthusiasm  
to support charitable events and their local 
communities. The Radio 2 Children in Need appeal 
in November was a great example of colleagues 
volunteering their technical expertise and time to 
provide the phone lines and take calls from donors.
Télécoms Sans Frontières remains a key partner 
for us globally as does Christel House, supported 
by Cable&Wireless Worldwide in India. At Christel 
House, Class 4B continues to receive funding for a 
holistic education to provide skills for everyday life 
as well as academic teaching. 
The Advanced Apprenticeship Scheme and 
Graduate programmes have expanded by 50%  
and 20% respectively this year. These programmes 
underpin our support for the UK government’s 
‘Backing Young Britain’ campaign which, at its core, 
is about providing opportunities for young people. 
28%
oF our W aste has 
been recycled 
this year
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 23
Our sponsorship of Get Safe Online underpins the 
importance of delivering online security to our 
customers and, more widely, promoting it in 
society. THUS Limited, as the consumer facing 
part of the business, is also a member of the 
Internet Watch Foundation. 
Uphold fundamental human rights and respect 
cultures, customs and values in dealing with 
colleagues and others who are affected by  
our activities
We recognise the growing importance of good 
business ethics to the wider economy and society. 
We are finalising a new mandatory online business 
ethics training module which will help to ensure that 
colleagues understand what is expected of them and 
in turn the support available. Online learning is an 
important development tool for colleagues across  
the global business. The number of training hours 
including e-learning was 14 hours per colleague  
in 2009/10. 
We were the first telecommunications company  
to assist our partners, the Royal Society for the 
Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) and the National 
Examination Board for Occupational Safety & Health 
(NEBOSH) with the International Working Safely 
award which aims to provide colleagues with an 
overall awareness of the health and safety standards 
and legislation in their respective countries. 
In addition, Cable&Wireless Worldwide was 
awarded the RoSPA Gold Award for Occupational 
Health and Safety reflecting our continuing 
commitment to protecting the health and well-
being of our colleagues and others. 
In 2009, with more than 6,000 colleagues in the 
business, eight incidents were reported under the 
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous 
Occurrences Regulations (RIDDOR) and there  
were no fatalities. Having recently joined Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide, I am pleased to be commenting  
on an impressive set of results. Despite  
the global economic downturn, gross margin 
has grown and EBITDA increased. Overall, 
EBITDA has increased by £105 million to  
£431 million. 
Revenue from the strategic product set of IP , data, 
hosting and applications increased during the year 
and now represents 54% of our total revenue, up 
from 46% in the previous year. Traditional voice 
(including legacy) revenue declined as a result of 
lower call volumes. These products were also 
adversely impacted by regulatory decisions and 
competitive pricing pressure.
The total revenue figure is largely unchanged  
from the previous year; however, gross margin 
increased as a larger proportion of our sales came 
from our strategic product set.
Operating costs have increased year-on-year, due 
to including a full year of THUS Group costs. This 
was partially offset by savings made as part of 
ongoing operating cost reduction initiatives and 
integration synergies.
Trading cash inflow increased by £58 million to 
£71 million and we ended the financial year with 
net debt of only £20 million. 
During the year, £54 million of exceptional  
charges were incurred including £31 million  
to achieve synergies following the THUS Group 
acquisition and £23 million of restructuring costs 
from transformational programmes. In addition, an 
exceptional pension expense of £143 million was 
charged representing our share of the pension 
24
business revieW
chieF Financial o FFicer’s revieW ‘ i am looking F or Ward to the 
journey ahead. t he drive and 
ambition oF colleagues has been 
evident F rom my F irst contact  
With c able&Wireless WorldW ide.’
deficit on the defined benefit scheme that 
transferred from Cable and Wireless plc on 
demerger. Other exceptional costs of the 
demerger were £13 million. 
Capital expenditure for the year was  
£279 million. This comprised £144 million 
directly related to the delivery of specific 
customer contracts and £87 million to develop 
new capability. The remaining £48 million related  
to cost reduction efforts and maintenance.
The demerger from Cable and Wireless plc was  
completed on 26 March 2010. We begin life after  
demerger with good liquidity and a strong balance  
sheet. This includes more than £500 million of 
cash and available facilities.
The Board recommends a final dividend of  
3.0 pence per share which, subject to 
shareholder approval, will be paid on  
12 August 2010.
On a personal note, I am looking forward to  
the journey ahead. The drive and ambition of 
colleagues has been evident from my first 
contact with Cable&Wireless Worldwide. I have 
confidence that they will continue to show the 
same level of dedication and commitment in the 
next part of the organisation’s development.
Tim Weller
Chief Financial Officer
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 25 26 
Group results
The Group results presented below should be read in conjunction with the Group’s consolidated income statement, statement of 
financial position and statement of cash flows and related notes on pages 58 to 104. To help explain the movements in revenue 
and margin during the year, we have provided an analysis by product. We do not manage our business or allocate resources by 
product line.
      2009/10     2008/09
   Pre- Exceptional  Pre-   Exceptional  
   exceptionals items
1
 Total exceptionals items
1
 Total
   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m   £m
IP and data   978   –   978   812   –   812  
Hosting and applications   240   – 240   224   – 224  
Traditional voice and legacy   1,047   –   1,047       1,232 –    1,232
Revenue   2,265   –   2,265   2,268    –   2,268  
Cost of sales   (1,190)  –   (1,190)   (1,323)  –   (1,323) 
Gross margin   1,075   –   1,075   945   –   945  
Operating costs (excluding LTIP charge)   (644)  (54)  (698)   (619)  (76)  (695) 
EBITDA    431   (54)  377   326   (76)  250  
LTIP charge   (14)  –   (14)   (17)  –   (17)  
Demerger costs   –   (10)  (10)   – – –
Pension obligations on demerger   –  (143)   (143)     – – –
Depreciation and amortisation   (268)  –   (268)   (212)  –   (212)  
Net other operating expense   (1)   –   (1)   –   –   – 
 
Total operating profit/(loss)   148   (207)  (59)   97   (76)  21  
Net finance expense   (31)  (3)   (34)   (85)  –  (85)  
Loss on sale of non-current assets   (1)   –   (1)   (1)   –  (1)
  
Profit/(loss) before income tax   116  (210)  (94)   11   (76)  (65)  
Income tax credit   95  –   95   33   –   33  
Profit/(loss) for the year   211   (210)  1   44   (76)  (32) 
Capital expenditure
2
     (279)   (265)
Earnings/(loss) per share attributable to equity holders (pence)
3
  8.3 (8.3) 0.0 1.8 (3.1) (1.3)
Adjusted earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations attributable  
 to equity holders excluding LTIP charge (pence)
3
   8.8 (8.3) 0.5 2.5 (3.1) (0.6)
       
1  Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within 
the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of 
their size, nature or incidence.
2   Balance sheet capital expenditure excluding asset retirement obligations and fair value 
adjustments to intangible assets.
3  Using weighted average number of shares of 2,544 million (2008/09: 2,486 million).
Cable&Wireless Worldwide key performance indicators
       2009/10 2008/09
IP , data, hosting and applications as a percentage of revenue       54% 46%
Gross margin percentage        47% 42%
Operating costs as a percentage of revenue (before exceptional items)      28% 27%
Operating costs as a percentage of revenue (after exceptional items)      31% 31%
EBITDA margin percentage (before exceptional items)       19% 14%
EBITDA margin percentage (after exceptional items)       17% 11%
EBITDA annualised synergies achieved following the acquisition of THUS      £69m £23m
Exceptional costs incurred to achieve synergies        £31m £30m
Cable&Wireless Worldwide does not currently monitor business performance through the use of non-financial KPIs. The development of relevant non-financial KPIs is being considered.
business revieW
Financial revieW  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 27
Analysis of results
Total revenue
Revenue in 2009/10 was £2,265 million, broadly flat on the prior 
year (2008/09: £2,268 million). Continued organic growth in our 
IP , data, hosting and applications products together with the full 
year contribution of THUS increased revenue by £314 million. 
This growth was offset by downward pressures on our voice  
and legacy products.
Total gross margin
Gross margin for 2009/10 was £1,075 million, an increase of 14% 
on the prior year (2008/09: £945 million). Organic growth in our 
strategic products together with a full year of THUS revenues 
across all products contributed £142 million to the increase. In 
addition, synergy benefits, the regulatory Partial Private Circuit 
(PPC) rebate and continued initiatives to reduce cost of sale led 
to a £53 million improvement in gross margin. This growth was 
partially offset by the reduction in traditional voice volumes.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased from 42% to 
47% reflecting the continued change in our product mix towards 
higher margin IP , data, hosting and applications products, 
together with the recognition of synergies from the THUS 
acquisition, cost of sale initiatives and the partial recognition  
of the PPC rebate this financial year (£12 million).
  Hosting Traditional  
 IP and and voice  
£m data applications (incl. legacy)   Total 
FY 2009/10 
 Revenue 978   240   1,047   2,265 
 Gross margin 605  174   296   1,075 
 Gross margin % 62% 73% 28% 47%
     
FY 2008/09 
 Revenue 812   224   1,232   2,268  
 Gross margin 468  148  329  945  
 Gross margin % 58% 66% 27% 42%
IP and data – revenue and gross margin
IP and data includes wide area networks with speeds of around 
2Mbps to greater than 10Gbps, local area networks providing 
connectivity within a customer’s physical location and local 
loop unbundling. Also included within IP and data are IP voice 
solutions and our Fixed Mobile Convergence solution.
IP and data revenue increased by 20% to £978 million in 2009/10 
(2008/09: £812 million). The £166 million increase in revenue 
came about as a result of increasing demand for our strategic 
product set in addition to a full year of THUS. 
IP and data gross margin was £605 million, 62% of revenue and 
£137 million higher than the prior year (2008/09: £468 million). 
Organic growth together with a full year of THUS revenues 
contributed £94 million to the increase in gross margin. Cost 
saving initiatives and synergies following the acquisition of 
THUS of £31 million together with the partial recognition of the 
PPC rebate in the first half of the financial year (£12 million) also 
contributed to the increase in margin.
Hosting and applications – revenue and gross margin
Hosting includes fully managed hosting solutions as well as 
co-location, server and website hosting, storage and security. 
Applications include Managed Video Conferencing, Application 
Performance Management and hosted contact centre applications.
Hosting and applications revenue increased by 7% to £240 million 
in 2009/10 (2008/09: £224 million). The increase in customers 
with storage and hosting requirements together with a full year of 
THUS revenues drove growth of £45 million. This was offset by a 
reduction in lower margin hosting equipment sales of £29 million.
Hosting and applications gross margin increased by 18% to  
£174 million (2008/09: £148 million). The ongoing movement towards 
managed hosting, continued growth in our hosting customer base 
and the inclusion of a full year of THUS drove £22 million of margin 
improvement. Initiatives to reduce costs of sale contributed  
£10 million to the increase in gross margin, partially offset by  
the £6 million reduction as a result of lower equipment sales.
Hosting and applications gross margin percentage increased  
to 73%, compared with 66% in 2008/09.
Traditional voice (including legacy products) – revenue and 
gross margin
Traditional voice products include line rental and calls, 
telebusiness (inbound call management) providing non-
geographic numbers or premium rate lines and voice transit 
and interconnect, providing voice capacity to carry minutes 
originating from other carriers. Legacy products include ATM 
Frame solutions and dial-up ISP services.
Traditional voice revenue decreased by 15% to  
£1,047 million in 2009/10 (2008/09: £1,232 million). 
The market for traditional voice products experienced a number 
of downward revenue pressures during 2009/10. The recession 
resulted in a lower volume of wholesale voice traffic which, together 
with continued pricing pressures, accounted for a £94 million 
decrease in revenue. Reductions in regulated rates on mobile 
termination and non-geographic number ranges had a negative 
impact of £55 million. In addition, we removed unprofitable 
international voice (£60 million) and UK reseller (£34 million) traffic 
from our network with little impact on gross margin. Revenue from 
legacy products decreased by £46 million. These movements were 
partly offset by including a full year of THUS revenues.
Traditional voice gross margin decreased by £33 million to  
£296 million compared with 2008/09. The reduction in voice 
minutes contributed £29 million to the decrease in margin, 
together with a £29 million decline from legacy products. The 
inclusion of a full year of THUS gross margin partially offset this 
decrease in margin.
Traditional voice gross margin percentage increased to 28%, 
compared with 27% in 2008/09, driven primarily by the reduction 
in low margin traffic.
Operating costs before exceptional items
Total operating costs were £644 million in 2009/10, an increase 
of £25 million on 2008/09, reflecting the inclusion of a full year 
of THUS operating costs, partially offset by operating cost 
synergies from the THUS integration programme and continued 
cost reduction programmes within the existing Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide business.
EBITDA
Cable&Wireless Worldwide EBITDA was £431 million in 2009/10, 
an increase of £105 million on 2008/09.
EBITDA as a percentage of revenue has improved from 14% 
to 19%. This increase reflects the growth in revenue of higher 
margin IP , data, hosting and applications products and the  28 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
 Business review Financial Review
success of our cost reduction activities, including the THUS 
integration programme.
Long term incentive plan (LTIP) charge
The LTIP charge for 2009/10 was £14 million (£17 million in 
2008/09). At 31 March 2010, Cable&Wireless Worldwide had  
a LTIP pool of £60 million whilst total payments made over the  
life of the scheme to 31 March 2010 were £48 million. On 1 April 
2010, a payment was made under the scheme to participants 
totalling £9 million, which compares to a payment of £35 million 
made in May 2009. All payments are inclusive of National 
Insurance charges.
Capital expenditure and depreciation and amortisation 
Capital expenditure of £279 million is £14 million higher than 
2008/09, driven by an increase in capital expenditure on specific 
customer contracts. Expenditure on customer contracts accounted 
for 52% of this spend, with another 31% being spent on new 
capability and the development of new products. The remaining 
capital expenditure was associated with maintaining our properties 
and network (10%) and capital expenditure relating to cost 
reduction programmes, including the integration of THUS (7%). 
Depreciation and amortisation is £268 million for 2009/10 
compared with £212 million in 2008/09, reflecting £18 million 
of depreciation and amortisation associated with the THUS 
acquired asset base and £38 million of depreciation on additions 
during the year.
Operating profit
The operating profit before exceptional items was £148 million 
(2008/09: £97 million). The operating result after exceptional items 
was a loss of £59 million (2008/09: £21 million operating profit).
Net finance expense before exceptional items
Net finance expense was £31 million. Finance income was  
£2 million in 2009/10 and £3 million in 2008/09.
Finance expense of £33 million is £55 million lower than in 
2008/09. This reduction is attributable to a reduction in the interest 
charged on the loan balance with Cable and Wireless plc of  
£60 million as a result of transactions leading up to the demerger, 
offset by higher third party interest expense of £3 million and 
additional finance charges recognised on the unwind of the 
discount on provisions of £2 million. The increase in third party 
interest during 2009/10 reflects a full year of interest expense on 
the £200 million revolving credit facility, which was obtained in the 
final quarter of the 2008/09 financial year.
Income tax credit
The tax credit of £95 million (2008/09: £33 million) comprises  
a £96 million credit in respect of previously unrecognised  
UK deferred tax assets (2008/09: £37 million) and a charge  
of £1 million (2008/09: £4 million) for overseas taxes.
In addition to the recognised deferred tax asset in respect 
of capital allowances of £150 million (2008/09: £54 million), 
an additional £1 billion deferred tax asset is not recognised 
(2008/09: £1 billion). A further £201 million deferred tax asset 
(2008/09: £213 million) is not recognised in respect of overseas 
tax losses which should be available for offset against future 
overseas trading profits if they were to become available.
Pensions
As at 31 March 2010, the defined benefit section of the Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan (CWWRP) had an IAS 19 deficit 
of £136 million (2008/09: £nil). This plan was created as part of the 
demerger and has the same benefits and powers as those of the 
Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF). The transfer of 
assets and obligations to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group 
from the CWSF was completed on 26 March 2010. 
To ensure that the expected security of any member’s benefits 
was not adversely affected by the demerger, Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide paid £5 million cash on 31 March 2010 into the 
CWWRP in order to fund the members obligations being 
transferred. 
Exceptional items
Exceptional charges of £210 million consist of £143 million as a 
result of the recognition of the net deficit of the defined benefit 
element of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan and 
the UK unfunded plan onto the balance sheet, £54 million of 
exceptional operating costs and £13 million of demerger related 
costs. Exceptional operating costs are split as follows:
Costs of £31 million have been incurred in achieving synergies 
following the acquisition of THUS Group. The integration process 
is now substantially complete.
Restructuring costs of £23 million – we have continued to 
rationalise the cost base of the business as we aim to reach the 
most efficient operating model. These costs include staff costs  
of £13 million relating to redundancies; property exit costs of  
£4 million incurred as a result of making best use of our property 
estate; and third party costs of £6 million relating to one-off costs 
as a result of in-sourcing contracts as we continue to improve 
service to customers.
The £13 million of demerger related costs include £3 million  
of previously capitalised finance costs in respect of raising  
the £200 million revolving credit facility that was repaid prior  
to demerger.
Cash exceptionals were £70 million in 2009/10 (2008/09:  
£71 million). We expect cash exceptionals to reduce over the next 
three years as lease payments on unutilised properties and network 
come to an end and we reach the end of our transformational 
programmes. We expect the profile to be as follows:
Income statement exceptionals (based on management 
information)
   Actual   Forecast 
£m 2007/08
1
 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13  
Energis 40 46 23 14 – –
THUS – 30 31 8 – –
 40 76 54 22 – –
Demerger – pension – – 143 – – –
Demerger – other – – 13 1 – –
Total 40 76 210 23 – –
  
Cash exceptionals (based on management information)
   Actual   Forecast 
£m 2007/08
1
 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13  
Energis 56 57 32 22 13 12
THUS – 14 38 11 2 2
Demerger – – – 5 – –
  
Total 56 71 70 38 15 14
  
1   Excludes £53 million profit on sale and leaseback of properties   Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 29
THUS integration
The integration of THUS Group is now substantially complete, 
with the synergies realised and the cost to achieve these savings 
in line with expectations.
Total annualised synergies have reached £87 million, comprising 
£69 million recurring EBITDA synergies and total avoided 
capital expenditure of £18 million. In this financial year we have 
recognised incremental EBITDA synergies of £59 million and  
£18 million of capex savings. The EBITDA synergies recognised 
this financial year were split between cost of sales (£12 million) 
and operating costs (£47 million).
Total recognised costs to achieve the THUS Group integration 
have reached £85 million, split £61 million exceptional items,  
and £24 million capital expenditure. In this financial year we  
have recognised £31 million and £15 million respectively. 
Dividend
The Board of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc recommends a 
dividend of 3.0 pence per share. Subject to shareholder approval 
at the Annual General Meeting in July, the final dividend will be 
paid on 12 August.
This dividend has been funded by a cash transfer from Cable & 
Wireless Communications Plc on 1 April 2010.
For the year 2010/11 the Board intends to recommend a dividend 
of 4.5 pence per share, to be split approximately one third as 
the interim and two thirds as the final. This is, as normal, subject 
to shareholder approval, satisfactory financial performance 
and the availability of sufficient distributable reserves. Beyond 
2010/11 the Board intends that dividends should grow, at a rate 
which allows for the anticipated investment requirements of the 
business and allows earnings and cash flow covers to increase.
Reconciliation of EBITDA to net cash flow before financing 
activities (based on management accounts)
    For year  
    ended  
    31 March  
    2010  
    £m
 
EBITDA    431 
Exceptional items
1
    (64)
EBITDA less exceptional items    367 
Movement in exceptional provisions   (6)
Capital expenditure    (279)
Income taxes paid    (1)
Adjusted operating cash flow    81 
Movement in working capital and other   (10)
Trading cash inflow    71 
LTIP payments    (35) 
Demerger costs    (3) 
Pension schemes cash funding    (14) 
Net cash inflow before financing activities   19 
 
1  Operating exceptional items excluding pension obligations on demerger
We generated £81 million of adjusted operating cash flow in 
2009/10, up £91 million from 2008/09. This includes the  
£70 million outflow on exceptional items and provisions related 
to the restructuring of the existing Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
business and the integration of THUS Group.
We recognised £279 million in capital expenditure on the  
balance sheet and we paid £257 million in cash capital 
expenditure in the period.
In addition, we had a net £10 million outflow from movements  
in working capital and other leading to a trading cash inflow of  
£71 million for the year, compared with £13 million in 2008/09. 
Group cash and debt
   As at  As at
   31 March  31 March
   2010  2009
   £m £m 
 
Cash and cash equivalents   226  144
  
Debt due in less than 1 year   (25) (18)
Debt due in more than 1 but less than 2 years   (10) (10)
Debt due in more than 2 but less than 5 years  (209) (98)
Debt due in more than 5 years   (2) (2)
  
Total debt   (246) (128)
  
Total net (debt)/cash   (20) 16
  
Net cash/(debt) reconciliation  
(based on management accounts)
    Total net
    cash 
    /(debt) 
    £m
 
As at 31 March 2009    16 
Trading cash flow
1
    71
LTIP payments    (35)
Third party interest, debt and other   (75) 
Exchange movements    3 
As at 31 March 2010    (20) 
 
1 Before £35 million of LTIP payments.
During the year to 31 March 2010, the business moved from a 
net cash position of £16 million to a closing net debt position of 
£20 million. This reflected a trading cash inflow of £71 million, 
the LTIP payment of £35 million, £75 million of payments in 
third party interest, debt and other, and a £3 million benefit from 
exchange rate movements. 
At 31 March 2010, we had £226 million of cash and short term 
deposits and £246 million of debt. The £246 million debt includes 
the debt element of the £230 million convertible bond. 
Liquidity
(based on management accounts)
    As at 
    31 March 
    2010 
    £m 
 
Cash and short-term deposits    226
Medium term committed undrawn bank facilities
2
  305
Short-term debt    (25)
  
Total    506
  
2   Includes £300 million UK revolving multi-currency facilities and £5 million India facility  30 
business revieW
risk overvieW
Whilst confident in our ability to continue to deliver the 
performance of recent years there are, like any business, 
a number of potential risks to achieving our strategic 
goals. Many of these risks are shared by all businesses, 
such as competition and the economic climate as well  
as social, ethical and environmental risks, and some  
are more specific to our business.
We have identified the following key risks that could 
affect our future success. In addition to the other 
information contained in this Annual Report, investors  
in Cable&Wireless Worldwide should consider these  
risks carefully.
Our business is dependent upon substantial contracts  
with large customers. These contracts may have stringent 
performance criteria and high or unlimited liability limits 
should we fail to deliver on the performance criteria, as well 
as customer credit risk. We have appropriate measurement 
and monitoring systems in place to review delivery of the 
agreed performance criteria, and these are reviewed by 
operational management to identify issues promptly to 
ensure remediation plans can be effected. Potential  
exposure to customer credit risk is regularly reviewed  
to identify possible issues early to allow action to be  
taken to protect our position.
Our strategy is to serve the largest users of 
telecommunication services in the UK and internationally.  
To achieve this, we’re transforming our service quality (with 
increased automation), our go to market capability (with new 
products and services) and our economics. The integration  
of the THUS Group (acquired October 2008) into our existing 
business continues to create value and generate significant 
cost synergies. Implementing business transformation and 
integrating an acquired business is complex, time-consuming 
and expensive. Such activities are vulnerable to issues such 
as poor data integrity and associated processes that can 
jeopardise our customer solutions and reduce the speed of 
the overall process. If we fail to execute our plans properly, 
our operations and results may be adversely affected.  
That’s why we have established detailed transformation 
programmes with key milestones, designed to ensure  
we achieve our aims.
Our main defined benefit pension scheme, based in the UK, 
is well managed and measures have been taken to reduce 
financial risk exposures. However, the value of the scheme’s 
assets and liabilities is affected by market movements and 
we may also have to make additional contributions to the 
scheme if the scheme assumptions change. We engage in 
regular dialogue with the scheme trustees who manage the 
scheme’s assets with appropriate external advice.
We are dependent on our colleagues for our future success. 
From 2006 we have rewarded and retained our key senior 
managers through long term incentive plans linked to our 
business performance. In order to retain these individuals and 
their valuable skills and experience, we have developed long 
term incentive proposals. We believe that these schemes are 
well positioned to deliver increased value to our shareholders. 
However, if these incentive schemes are not effective, we 
may not achieve our strategic goals which could have an 
adverse effect on our results and reputation. We manage this 
risk with clear governance structures, which review strategy 
and performance formally, to help us create value.
Our global network is a critical asset, enabling us to provide 
customers with efficient and extensive telecommunication 
services. We operate, manage, bill and support these 
services, and manage our financial information, with our  
IT systems. Like other telecoms operators, our network and 
IT systems are vulnerable to interruption and damage from 
natural disasters, fire, security breaches, terrorist action, 
human error and other factors outside of our control. If we 
were to experience full or partial network or IT failure we 
might lose customers or receive claims from customers 
based on loss of service, affecting our reputation and results. 
We have business continuity and disaster recovery plans, 
crisis management and emergency response teams and 
insurance cover in place. In addition, we strive constantly  
to improve our network and add resilience where issues  
are identified.  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 31
Our financing agreements mean that we are subject to certain 
financial and other covenants. If we’re unable to meet these 
covenants, we may have to repay facilities early, adversely 
affecting our cash position. We monitor covenant positions 
against our forecasts and budgets to ensure that we continue 
to operate within our covenant limits.
Some of our back office processes have been outsourced to 
areas of the world that could suffer from political instability or 
poor infrastructure. We monitor the service delivery in each 
instance and will take appropriate action should there be a 
drop in operational performance.
The risk of litigation from customers and competitors is 
always present, as it is for most large organisations. 
Unfavourable outcomes could significantly affect our financial 
performance or reputation. Where and when litigation is 
brought against us, we defend our position robustly using 
appropriate legal advice and services.
It is important to ensure that we maintain the security of  
our customers’ data, especially where services are delivered 
outside the UK. If the large amounts of sensitive data passing 
through our network were to fall into the wrong hands,  
we would be exposed to significant legal and regulatory 
consequences. We take data security seriously and have 
various security mitigation initiatives in place to further  
reduce the risk.
Despite our best endeavours it could be possible for third 
parties to use our networks for illegal activities which are 
beyond our control. These fraudulent or illegal activities  
could negatively impact on our reputation or results.
We make a number of estimates and assumptions relating  
to the reporting of our operating results and our financial 
condition when preparing the consolidated financial 
statements. Our results may differ significantly from these 
estimates under different assumptions and conditions. In 
particular, some of our accounting policies require subjective 
and complex judgements about the effect of matters that  
are often uncertain. We have outlined the Group’s critical 
accounting policies in note 3 to the consolidated financial 
statements in order to help users of our accounts understand 
the basis for forming these judgements.
Like all major telecoms operators in the UK, we are reliant on 
the network of BT Group plc (BT) to deliver some services to 
our customers. BT is also our largest competitor with more 
than 50% share of our core market of enterprise customers. 
Because BT is both the main competitor and main supplier to 
telecommunications operators in the UK, the regulator, 
Ofcom, must regulate BT’s practices adequately to ensure 
that a fair competitive environment is maintained. If it does 
not, we may be unable to compete effectively, which could 
have a material effect on our results. We engage with Ofcom 
to encourage balanced regulation and appeal against 
decisions that are perceived to favour the interests of BT.
BT has announced its intention to invest in next-generation 
access. The timing of the introduction of BT’s next-generation 
access products and what impact these will have is unclear at 
this stage. We are actively engaging with Ofcom as regulation 
will be a key factor in shaping these new arrangements.
Like most businesses, we are exposed to the current poor 
economic environment. Should these conditions continue or 
worsen, it could affect our growth and profitability as well as 
our ability to finance our business and pay dividends. We 
monitor key recession indicators closely and have plans in 
place to address any sustained impact of the downturn. In 
addition, we have raised sufficient debt to meet our medium 
term liquidity needs and continue to maintain good 
relationships with our core banks.
Running our network and data centres makes us a large 
consumer of power, specifically electricity. Therefore the 
recent volatility in worldwide energy prices impacts on our 
cost base and should these costs increase significantly, it 
may have an adverse effect on our results.
We provide mobile services as part of our Fixed Mobile 
Convergence product and use other wireless devices as part 
of our network. There have been some concerns expressed 
that mobile phones and transmitters may pose long term 
health risks. If these claims are proven, we might lose a 
strategic revenue stream or be exposed to litigation.  
We continue to keep abreast of research in this field. 32	
GOVERNANCE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
John Pluthero n Chairman and Chair of the 
Nomination Committee
John	Pluthero	was	appointed	as	a	
Director	on	25	January	2010	and	
became	Chairman	on	Demerger.		
John	served	as	an	executive	director	of	
Cable	and	Wireless	plc	from	November	
2005	until	the	Demerger	and	served		
as	Executive	Chairman	of	the	
Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Group		
from	April	2006,	having	previously	been	
its	Executive	Director	since	November	
2005.	During	the	period	from	
12	November	2007	to	11	November	
2008,	John	was	also	executive	
chairman	of	the	Cable	&	Wireless	
Communications	Group	prior	to	the	
appointment	of	a	Cable	&	Wireless	
Communications	Group	chief	executive.	
From	September	2002	until	its	
acquisition	by	Cable	and	Wireless	plc		
in	November	2005,	John	was	chief	
executive	of	Energis.	He	was	founder	
and	chief	executive	officer	of	Freeserve	
Limited	(now	part	of	Orange),	leading		
it	to	its	flotation	and	prior,	to	this,		
John	held	various	strategy	and	
operations	positions	within	the		
Dixons	Group	Limited.	
Jim Marsh
Chief Executive Officer  
and Executive Director 
Jim	Marsh	was	appointed	as	a	Director	
on	25	January	2010	and	became	
Executive	Director	and	Chief	Executive	
Officer	on	Demerger.	Jim	was	on	the	
Cable	and	Wireless	plc	board	from	
1	January	2010	until	the	Demerger.		
Jim	has	also	served	as	Chief	Executive	
Officer	and	a	member	of	the	operating	
board	of	the	Cable&Wir eless	Worldwide	
Group	since	April	2006.	Prior	to	its	
acquisition	by	Cable	and	Wireless	plc		
in	November	2005,	Jim	was	business	
development	director	of	Energis.	In	this	
role,	he	oversaw	the	development	and	
service	of	all	of	Energis’	channels	to	
market.	Before	joining	Energis	in	2004,	
Jim	was	chief	operating	officer	at	Atos	
KPMG	Consulting,	overseeing	the	
consulting	business	across	all	its	
industry	sectors.	Prior	to	becoming		
a	partner	at	KPMG	in	1997,	he	was	
head	of	strategic	planning	at	Boots		
the	Chemists	Limited.	
John Barton anr Deputy Chairman and  
Senior Independent Director 
John	Barton	was	appointed	as	a	
Director	on	25	January	2010	and	
became	Deputy	Chairman,	Non-
executive	Director	and	Senior	
Independent	Director	on	Demerger.	
John	served	as	a	non-executive	director	
of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	from	his	
appointment	on	9	March	2009	until	the	
Demerger.	John	has	been	chairman	of	
Next	plc	since	2006,	having	joined	their	
board	of	directors	in	2002,	and	was	
deputy	chairman	from	2004.	He	is	also	
the	chairman	of	Brit	Insurance	Holdings	
plc	and	a	non-executive	director	of		
WH	Smith	PLC.	John	was	formerly		
the	chief	executive	of	JIB	Group	PLC	
and	chairman	of	Jardine	Lloyd	
Thompson	Group	plc	and	Wellington	
Underwriting	plc.	 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 33
Clive Butler anr 
Non-executive Director and Chair  
of the Remuneration Committee
Clive	Butler	was	appointed	as	a	Director	
on	25	January	2010	and	became	a	
Non-executive	Director	and	Chair	of	the	
Remuneration	Committee	on	Demerger.	
Clive	served	as	a	non-executive	director	
of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	from	his	
appointment	in	May	2005	until	the	
Demerger.	He	was	appointed	as	senior	
independent	director	of	Cable	and	
Wireless	plc	in	July	2006	and	chairman	
of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc’s	nominations	
committee	in	July	2007.	Clive	was	
corporate	development	director	at	
Unilever	plc,	serving	on	its	main	board	
of	directors	from	1992	until	his	
retirement	in	2005.	He	also	undertook	
the	roles	of	personnel	director	and	
category	director	for	the	home	and	
personal	care	division,	having	worked		
in	a	variety	of	marketing	and	general	
management	roles	since	joining		
Unilever	in	1970.	
Penny Hughes anr Non-executive Director and  
Chair of the Audit Committee
Penny	Hughes	was	appointed	as		
a	Director	on	25	January	2010	and	
became	a	Non-executive	Director		
and	Chair	of	the	Audit	Committee		
on	Demerger.	Penny	served	as	a	
non-executive	director	of	Cable	and	
Wireless	plc	from	her	appointment	on		
1	July	2009	until	the	Demerger.	Penny	is	
a	non-executive	director	of	Home	Retail	
Group	plc	(where	she	is	also	the	chair		
of	the	r emuneration	committee),	Royal	
Bank	of	Scotland	Group	plc,	and	Wm	
Morrison	Supermarkets	PLC.	Penny	
spent	ten	years	with	Coca-Cola,	initially	
as	marketing	director,	ending	as	
president	of	Coca-Cola	GB	&	Ireland,	
having	started	her	career	with	Procter		
&	Gamble	Limited	and	then	the	Milk	
Marketing	Board.	Penny	has	held	a	
number	of	non-executive	roles	on	the	
boards	of	international	businesses,	
including	Reuters	Limited,	Vodafone	
Limited,	Trinity	Mirror	plc,	Body	Shop	
International	plc	and	Gap,	Inc.	She	is	
president	of	the	Advertising	Association	
and	a	trustee	of	the	British	Museum.	
Post year end appointment
Tim Weller
Chief Financial Officer  
and Executive Director 
On	24	May	2010,	Tim	Weller	was	
appointed	as	an	Executive	Director		
and	Chief	Financial	Officer.	Tim	was	
previously	chief	financial	officer	of	
United	Utilities	Group	PLC	and	served	
on	its	main	board	of	directors	since	
2006.	Prior	to	joining	United	Utilities	
Group	PLC	in	2006,	Tim	was	group	
finance	director	at	RWE 	Thames	Water	
and	also	group	finance	director	at	RWE 	
npower	Holdings	PLC	(formerly	Innogy	
Holdings	PLC,	the	FTSE	100	company).	
Tim	started	his	career	at	KPMG,	
becoming	a	partner	before	joining	the	
Granada	Group	PLC	in	1997	where	he	
worked	on	the	merger	with	Compass	
Group	PLC	and	the	subsequent	
demerger	of	Granada	Media	plc,	after	
which	he	joined	Innogy	Holdings	PLC.	
A	 Denotes	membership	of	Audit	Committee	
N	 Denotes	membership	of	Nomination	Committee	
R	 Denotes	membership	of	Remuneration	Committee	 34	
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REp ORT
The Directors present their Annual Report together  
with the audited financial statements for the year  
ended 31 March 2010. 
Principal activities, business review and results 
The	Group’s	principal	activities	are 	set	out	on	pages	2	to	5.	
Through	this	Annual	Report,	including	the	Chairman’s	
statement	and	the	business	review	section	(pages	6	to	31)		
that	precede	this	report	and	the	corporate	governance	
statement	which	follows	this	report,	the	Board	seeks	to	
present	a	balanced	and	clear	assessment	of	the	Group’s	
activities,	position	and	prospects.	Each	of	these	sections		
is	incorporated	by	reference	into	this	Directors’	report.		
The	Group’s	results	for	the	financial	year	are 	shown	in		
the	consolidated	income	statement	on	page	58.
Change of name
The	Company	was	incorporated	with	the	name	Project		
Swan	No.1	Limited	with	registered	number	7029206	on	
24	 September	 2009	 and	 changed	 its	 name	 to	 Cable	&	 Wireless	
Worldwide	Limited	on	13	January	2010.	The	Company		
re-registered	as	a	public	limited	company	and	changed	its	
name	to	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	on	27	January	2010.
Demerger
At	a	general	meeting	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	on	
25	February	2010,	shareholders	approved	the	demerger	of	
the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Group.	The	board	of	Cable	
and	Wireless	plc	set	up	a	sub-committee	to	ensure	the	
demerger	was	carefully	managed	and	completed	in	
accordance	with	the	agreed	timetable.	The	key	steps	required	
to	implement	this	pr oposal	included	the	insertion	of	a	new	
holding	company,	Cable	&	Wireless	Communications	Plc,	
between	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	and	its	shareholders	via	a	
scheme	of	arrangement;	a	reduction	of	share	capital	of	Cable	
&	Wireless	Communications	Plc	in	order	to	facilitate	the	
demerger	and	provide	potentially	distributable	reserves	for	
the	Cable	&	Wireless	Communications	Group;	the	demerger	
of	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	in	return	for	the	issue	of	Cable	
&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	ordinary	shares;	and	a	reduction		
of	capital	of	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	to	provide	
potentially	distributable	reserves	for	the	Cable&Wireless	
Worldwide	Group.
The	Demerger	became	effective	and	the	Company	was	
admitted	to	the	Official	List	of	the	UK	Listing	Authority	and	to	
trading	on	the	London	Stock	Exchange	on	26	March	2010.
As	part	of	the	Demerger,	the	Cable	&	Wireless	
Communications	Group	transferred	to	the	Company	the	
proceeds	and	obligations	under	£230	million	5.75%	
Convertible	Bonds	due	in	2014.	The	bonds	were	admitted		
to	the	Official	List	of	the	UK	Listing	Authority	and	to	trading	
on	the	London	Stock	Exchange	on	31	March	2010.	The	
Company	also	increased	the	facility	limit	under	its	revolving	
credit	facility	to	£300	million.	Further	details	are 	shown	in	
Note	24	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements.
This	r eport	has	been	prepared	following	the	Demerger	
and	includes	information	in	respect	of	the	period	up	to		
and	including	26	March	2010	when	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	
(now	Cable	&	Wireless	Limited)	and,	from	19	March	2010,	
Cable	&	Wireless	Communications	Plc,	were	respectively	the	
holding	company	of	the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Group.
Directors 
At	31	March	2010	our	Board	comprised	the	Chairman,	one	
Executive	Director	and	three	Non-executive	Directors,	all	of	
whom	were	former	directors	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc.	
Biographies	of	those	Directors	including	details	of	their	
committee	memberships	are 	shown	on	pages	32	and	33.		
On	24	May	2010,	the	Board	increased	to	six	members	when	
Tim	Weller	joined	as	an	Executive	Director	and	Chief	Financial	
Officer.	His	biographical	details	are 	set	out	on	page	33.
The	following	also	served	as	Directors	of	the	Company		
during	the	financial	period	under	review:
Alnery	Incorporations	No.	1	Limited	was	appointed	as		
a	Director	on	24	September	2009	and	resigned	on		
25	January	2010;	
Alnery	Incorporations	No.	2	Limited	was	appointed	as		
a	Director	on	24	September	2009	and	resigned	on		
25	January	2010;	and
Craig	Morris	was	appointed	as	a	Director	on	24	September	
2009	and	r esigned	on	25	January	2010.
At	the	2010	Annual	General	Meeting	(AGM),	Tim	Weller	will	
offer	himself	for	election	in	accordance	with	Article	86	of	the	
Articles	of	Association	having	been	appointed	to	the	Board	
since	the	Demerger.	John	Pluthero	and	Penny	Hughes	will	
retire	by	rotation	at	the	AGM	in	accordance	with	Article	87	
of	the	Company’s	Articles	of	Association	and	will	offer	
themselves	for	re-election.	
Directors’ interests and indemnities
The	interests	of	the	Directors	and	their	connected	persons		
in	the	shares	of	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc,	along	with	
details	of	their	share	options,	are 	contained	in	the	Directors’	
remuneration	report	set	out	on	pages	44	to	55.
No	Director	had	a	material	interest	in	any	significant	contract	
with	the	Company	or	any	of	its	subsidiaries	during	the	year.	
The	Company	has	granted	indemnities	in	favour	of	its	
Directors	against	personal	financial	exposure	that	they	may	
incur	in	the	course	of	their	professional	duties	as	directors	of	
the	Company	and/or	any	subsidiaries	(as	applicable).	These	
indemnities	are 	qualifying	third	party	indemnity	provisions	for	
the	purposes	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	(the	Companies	
Act).	They	have	been	in	force	since	26	January	2010	and	
remain	in	for ce. 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 35
Dividends 
The	Directors	have	recommended	a	final	dividend	for	the		
year	ended	31	March	2010	of	3.00	pence	per	ordinary	share.	
Subject	to	approval	at	the	AGM,	the	final	dividend	will	be	
payable	on	12	August	2010	to	ordinary	shareholders	on	the	
register	at	the	close	of	business	on	11	June	2010.
In	the	Company’s	prospectus	dated	2	February	2010,	the	
Company	announced	its	intention	to	pay	such	a	final	dividend	
and	explained	that	when	aggregated	with	the	interim	dividend	
of	3.16	pence	per	share	paid	by	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	on		
22	January	2010	and	the	final	dividend	of	3.34	pence	per	
share	expected	to	be	declared	by	Cable	&	Wireless	
Communications	Plc,	the	resultant	notional	full	year		
dividend	for	a	former	holder	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc		
shares	(assuming	they	have	retained	the	shares	in	the	
Company	and	Cable	&	Wireless	Communications	pursuant		
to	the	Demerger)	is	9.50	pence	per	ordinary	share.		
Share capital and treasury shares 
As	at	31	March	2010	the	called-up	share	capital	of	the	
Company	was	2,624,572,024	ordinary	shares	of	5	pence	
each	and	the	Company	did	not	hold	any	ordinary	shares	in	
treasury.	Details	of	changes	to	the	ordinary	shares	issued		
and	awards	and	options	granted	during	the	year	are 	shown		
at	note	30	and	31	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements.	
No	person	holds	securities	in	the	Company	carrying	special	
voting	rights	with	r egard	to	control	of	the	Company.	The	
Company	is	not	aware	of	any	agreements	between	holders		
of	securities	that	may	result	in	restrictions	on	the	transfer	of	
securities	or	on	voting	rights.
Company’s shareholders 
As	of	24	May	2010	the	Company	had	been	notified	of	the	
following	substantial	holdings	of	voting	rights	in	the	issued	
share	capital	of	the	Company:	Newton	Investment	
Management	Limited	(11.9%);	Franklin	Mutual	Advisers	LLC	
(9.24%);	Orbis	Holdings	Limited	and	its	controlled	
undertakings	(6.84%);	Prudential	plc	group	of	companies	
(5.52%);	and	Legal	&	General	Group	Plc	(3.75%).
Ethics 
Cable&Wireless	Worldwide’s	success	flows	from	its	
commitment	to	sound	business	conduct	and	the	relationships	
it	has	with	key	stakeholders	(shareholders,	employees,	
customers,	business	partners	and	suppliers),	governments	
and	regulators,	communities	and	society,	and	the	
environment.	The	Group	seeks	to	conduct	its	operations		
with	honesty,	integrity	and	openness,	and	with	respect	for		
the	human	rights	and	interests	of	our	employees.	The	Group	
respects	the	legitimate	interests	of	all	those	with	whom	it	has	
relationships.	The	Group’s	ethics	policy	applies	to	all	
Cable&Wireless	W orldwide	companies	and	employees.		
Where	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	operates	in	conjunction	
with	business	partners	and	third	parties,	it	aims	to	promote	
the	application	of	this	policy.
Charitable and political donations 
During	the	year	ended	31	March	2010,	the	Group	gave	
£198,768	to	charitable	organisations	including	£136,019	to	
organisations	in	the	United	Kingdom.	More	information	about	
the	Group’s	support	of	the	communities	in	which	it	operates	
is	set	out	on	page	23.
The	Company	does	not	make	political	donations	and	has	no	
intention	of	making	donations	to	what	are 	generally	regarded	
as	political	parties	or	political	organisations	within	the	
European	Union.	As	a	precautionary	measure	and	in	the		
light	of	the	wide	definitions	of	European	Union	political	
organisations	for	the	purposes	of	the	Companies	Act,	a	
resolution	to	permit	the	Company	to	make	political	donations	
and	incur	political	expenditure	not	exceeding	£100,000	is	
included	as	a	resolution	for	the	AGM.	The	purpose	of	the	
resolution	is	to	ensure	that	the	Company	does	not	
unintentionally	breach	the	Companies	Act.	Subject	to	
shareholder	approval,	this	resolution	will	remain	in	force		
until	20	July	2014	or	the	2014	AGM,	whichever	is	the	earlier.
Supplier payment policy and creditors 
The	policy	of	the	Company	and	its	principal	operating	
companies	is	to	agree	terms	of	 payment	prior	to	commencing	
trade	with	a	supplier	and	to	abide	by	those	terms	on	the	
timely	submission	of	satisfactory	invoices.	Statements	on		
the	operating	companies’	payment	of	suppliers	are 	contained	
in	their	financial	statements.	The	ratio,	expressed	in	days,	
between	the	amounts	invoiced	to	the	Company	by	its	
suppliers	in	the	period	from	incorporation	on	24	September	
2009	to	31	March	2010	and	the	amounts	owed	to	its	
creditors	as	at	31	March	2010	was	nil	days	as	calculated		
in	accordance	with	the	requirements	of	the	Companies	Act.
Employee diversity 
The	Group’s	employment	policies	comply	with	local	
requirements	and	meet	relevant	standards	on	employment	of	
people	with	disabilities.	Full	and	fair	consideration	is	given	to	
applicants	with	disabilities	for	employment	and	training,	and	
career	development	is	encouraged	on	the	basis	of	aptitude	
and	ability.	It	is	Group	policy	to	make	all	reasonable	
adjustments	for	employees	and	applicants	with	disabilities		
to	enable	them	to	maximise	their	potential.	
Employee involvement 
The	Group	communicates	with	employees	in	many	ways,	
including	regular	briefings	by	management,	newsletters,	
intranet	sites,	mobile	phone	broadcasts,	video	conferences	
and	consultation	forums.	These	communications	help	to	
achieve	a	common	awareness	amongst	colleagues	of	the	
financial	and	operational	performance	of	the	Group.	
The	Gr oup	is	committed	to	ensuring	that	employees	share		
in	its	success.	Colleagues	are 	encouraged	to	participate	in	
share	purchase	schemes	and	hold	investments	in	the	
Company’s	shares. 36	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report
 Governance Directors’	report
Exercise of rights of shares by employee share trust 
The	trustee	of	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Share	
Ownership	Trust	is	required	to	abstain	from	voting	any		
shares	in	which	it	holds	the	whole	of	the	beneficial	interest		
at	any	general	meeting,	unless	the	Company	directs	that		
the	trustee	may	vote.	When	the	Company	has	directed	the	
trustee	to	vote	the	shares	in	which	the	trustee	holds	the	
whole	of	the	beneficial	interest,	the	trustee	may	in	its	absolute	
discretion	vote	in	any	manner	which	it	thinks	fit	or	may	
abstain	from	voting.
The	trustees	of	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Share	Ownership	Trust	
exercise	the	voting	rights	on	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	
shares	held	in	the	employee	trust	in	accordance	with	their	
fiduciary	duties	as	trustees,	which	include	the	duty	to	act	in	
the	best	interests	of	the	beneficiaries	of	the	trust.
Annual General Meeting 
The	AGM	will	be	held	at	2pm	on	Wednesday	21	July	2010	at	
The	Queen	Elizabeth	II	Conference	Centre,	Broad	Sanctuary,	
Westminster,	London	SW1P	3EE.	A	letter	from	the	Board	of	
Directors	and	the	Notice	of	Meeting	accompany	this	report,	
together	with	notes	explaining	the	business	to	be	transacted	
at	the	meeting.
Auditor	resolutions	to	reappoint	KPMG	Audit	Plc	as	our	
external	auditor	and	to	authorise	the	Dir ectors	to	determine	
the	auditor’s	remuneration	will	be	proposed	at	the	AGM.
Internal control, risk management and financial reporting
The	Board	is	responsible	for	the	system	of	internal	control	
and	for	reviewing	its	effectiveness	on	a	continual	basis.	The	
system	of	internal	control	is	designed	to	manage,	rather	than	
eliminate,	the	risk	of	failure	to	achieve	business	objectives	
and	can	only	provide	reasonable,	but	not	absolute,	assurance	
against	material	misstatement	or	loss.	The	concept	of	
reasonable	assurance	recognises	that	the	cost	of	control	
procedures	should	not	exceed	the	expected	benefits.
We	operate	a	risk	management	process,	which	identifies	the	
key	risks	to	our	plans,	their	likelihood	and	impact	and	the	
actions	being	taken	to	manage	those	risks.	A	Group-wide		
risk	register	is	reviewed	by	the	Directors	and	presented	to	the	
Audit	Committee	on	a	rolling	12	month	basis.	The	principal	
risks	identified	are 	set	out	on	pages	30	to	31.
The	Executive	Directors	report	to	the	Board,	on	behalf	of	
management,	significant	changes	in	the	Group’s	business	
and	the	external	environment	in	which	it	operates.	In	addition,	
they	provide	the	Board	with	monthly	financial	information,	
which	includes	key	risks	and	performance	indicators.	
The	Group’s	key	internal	control	and	monitoring	procedures	
include	the	following:
n	 Financial	reporting:	each	year,	an	annual	budget	is	agreed	
and	approved	by	the	Board.	At	each	Board	meeting,	actual	
results	are 	reviewed	and	reported	against	budget	and,	
when	appropriate,	revised	forecasts.
n	 Investment	appraisal:	the	Group	has	clearly	defined	
policies	for	capital	expenditure.	These	include	annual	
budgets	and	detailed	appraisal	processes	for	such	
expenditure.
n	 Monitoring	systems:	internal	controls	are 	monitored	
through	a	programme	of	internal	audits.	The	internal	audit	
function	reports	to	the	Audit	Committee	on	its	examination	
and	evaluation	of	the	effectiveness	and	adequacy	of	
systems	of	internal	control.
n	 Financial	controls:	we	operate	a	number	of	self-
assessment	exercises,	which	include	monthly	certification	
of	compliance	with	key	financial	controls	and	an	annual	
controls	self-assessment	to	assist	with	embedding	
controls	across	the	business.	The	latter	exercise	requires	
management	to	assess	the	effectiveness	of	its	fundamental	
operating	controls	over	all	aspects	of	its	operations,	in	
addition	to	the	other	financial	controls	covered	by	our	
Financial	Controls	Toolkit.	The	results	of	this	exercise	are 	
utilised	by	internal	audit	in	planning	its	work	for	the	
forthcoming	year.
Effectiveness of internal control 
The	Board	has	reviewed	the	effectiveness	of	the	internal	
control	systems	in	operation	during	the	Group’s	financial		
year	in	accordance	with	the	revised	Turnbull	guidance.	The	
processes	as	set	out	above	have	been	in	place	for	the	period	
under	r eview	and	up	to	the	date	of	this	Annual	Report.	Where	
appropriate,	necessary	action	has	been	or	is	being	taken	to	
remedy	any	failings	and	weaknesses	identified	as	significant	
during	this	review.
The	responsibility	for	internal	control	procedures	within	our	
joint	ventures	rests	with	the	senior	management	of	those	
operations.	We 	monitor	our	investments	and	exert	our	
influence	through	Board	representation.
Change of control 
The	Group	has	a	number	of	contracts	that	are 	subject	to	
change	of	control	clauses.	These	primarily	relate	to	financing	
facilities,	major	customer	contracts	and	licence	agreements.	
In	particular,	under	the	Group’s	£300	million	revolving	credit	
facility	agreement,	unless	all	the	lenders	agree	otherwise,	on	
a	change	of	control	the	facility	shall	be	cancelled	in	full	and	
all	outstanding	amounts	together	with	related	charges	
become	immediately	due	and	payable.	 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 37
Under	the	Company’s	£230	million	5.75%	Convertible	Bonds	
due	in	2014,	for	a	period	of	60	days	following	a	change	of	
control	of	the	Company	(or,	if	later,	notice	thereof)	the	
conversion	price	will	be	adjusted	downwards	in	accordance	
with	a	formula	resulting	in	straight	line	amortisation	of	the	
conversion	premium	of	the	convertible	bonds.	In	addition,		
on	a	change	of	control	of	the	Company,	each	holder	of	
convertible	bonds	may	exercise	their	conversion	rights	or, 	
instead,	require	the	Company	to	redeem	any	convertible	
bond	held	by	such	holder	at	its	principal	amount,	together	
with	accrued	and	unpaid	interest.	
Under	a	contingent	funding	agreement	with	Cable	&	Wireless	
Worldwide	Pension	Fund	Trustee	Limited,	the	pensions	
trustees	of	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Retirement	Plan	
have	the	right	on	a	change	of	control	to	procure	and	call	on		
a	letter	of	credit	up	to	£100	million	or, 	if	less,	the	value	of	any	
deficit	in	the	plan	at	the	date	of	the	change	of	control.
In	the	event	of	a	change	of	control,	these	clauses	may	require	
consideration	to	determine	their	impact	on	the	Group.	At	
present,	risks	arising	from	a	change	of	control	are 	not	
considered	to	be	significant.	The	Group	will	take	appropriate	
action	to	mitigate	any	risks	arising	fr om	these	events	should	
they	occur.	For	change	of	control	provisions	in	relation	to	the	
LTIP	and	Directors’	service	contracts,	refer	to	the	Directors’	
remuneration	report	on	pages	44	to	55.
Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares 
The	following	section	summarises	the	rights	and	obligations	
in	the	Company’s	Articles	of	Association	(the	Articles)	relating	
to	the	ordinary	shares	of	the	Company.	The	full	Articles	can	
be	found	on	the	Company’s	website	(www.cw.com).
The	Articles	may	be	amended	by	a	special	resolution	of	the	
shareholders	passed	at	a	general	meeting	of	the	Company.	
Voting:	Each	share	(other	than	treasury	and	redeemable	
preference	shares)	allows	the	holder	to	have	one	vote	at	
general	meetings	of	the	Company	on	votes	taken	on	a	poll.
Dividends:	The	Company’s	shareholders	can	declare	
dividends	by	passing	an	ordinary	resolution,	but	the	payment	
cannot	exceed	the	amount	recommended	by	the	Directors.	
The	Directors	may	also	pay	interim	dividends	without	
shareholder	approval	if	they	consider	that	the	financial	
position	of	the	Company	justifies	it.	Subject	to	shareholder	
approval,	the	Directors	may	operate	scrip	or	dividend	
reinvestment	plans	or	pay	dividends	by	distributing	assets.	
No	dividend	carries	a	right	to	interest	from	the	Company.	If	
dividends	r emain	unclaimed	for	12	years	they	are 	forfeited	by	
the	shareholder	and	revert	to	the	Company.	
Distribution of assets: If	the	Company	is	wound	up,	the	
liquidator	may	divide	the	whole	or	any	part	of	the	assets	of	
the	Company	among	the	shareholders	(subject	to	the	passing	
of	a	resolution	by	a	75%	majority	vote	of	the	shareholders).	
No	shareholder	can	be	compelled	to	accept	any	shares	or	
other	property	which	carries	a	liability.	
Partly paid shares: The	Company	has	a	lien	on	all	partly	
paid	shares	(and	dividends),	which	has	priority	over	claims		
of	others	to	such	shares	covering	any	money	owed	to	the		
Company	for	the	shares.	The	Directors	may	sell	all	or	any	of	
such	shares	where:	(i)	the	money	owed	by	the	shareholder	is	
payable	immediately;	(ii)	the	Directors	have	served	notice	
demanding	payment,	stating	the	amount	due	and	that	the	
shares	will	be	sold	on	non-payment;	and	(iii)	the	money		
has	not	been	paid	within	14	clear	days	of	the	service	of		
the	notice.
The	Directors	may	make	calls	on	shareholders	to	pay	any	
money	which	has	not	yet	been	paid	to	the	Company	for	their	
shares.	If	a	call	is	unpaid,	the	shareholder	will	be	liable	to	pay	
interest	and	all	expenses	incurr ed	by	the	Company	as	a	result	
of	non-payment	if	the	call	remains	unpaid	for	14	clear	days	
after	the	date	of	a	notice.	In	addition,	failure	to	comply	with	
any	such	notice	may	result	in	forfeiture	of	any	share	which		
is	the	subject	of	the	notice,	including	any	unpaid	dividends.	
The	Directors	may	decline	to	register	the	transfer	of	any	
shares	that	are 	not	fully	paid,	provided	that	such	refusal	does	
not	prevent	dealings	from	taking	place	on	an	open	and	
proper	basis.
Sanctions: Unless	the	Directors	decide	otherwise,	a	
shareholder	shall	not	be	entitled	to	vote	at	any	general	
meeting	of	the	Company	or	at	any	separate	general	meeting	
of	the	holders	of	any	class	of	shares	in	the	Company	or	
exercise	any	other	right	conferred	by	membership	in	relation	
to	general	meetings	if	the	shareholder	has	not	paid	all	
amounts	relating	to	those	shares	which	are 	due	at	the	time	of	
the	meeting,	or	if	the	shareholder	is	given	a	notice	following	a	
failure	by	that	shareholder	or	someone	who	appears	to	be	
interested	in	the	shares	to	comply	with	a	notice	under	section	
793	of	the	Companies	Act	2006.	Further,	if	a	shareholder	
holding	0.25%	or	mor e	of	the	issued	shares	of	a	class	
(excluding	treasury	shares)	or	interested	person	is	in	default	
of	a	section	793	notice,	the	Directors	may	also	state	in	the	
notice	that:	(i)	the	payment	of	any	dividend	shall	be	withheld;	
(ii)	the	shareholder	shall	not	be	entitled	to	elect	to	receive	
shares	in	place	of	dividends	withheld;	and	(iii)	the	transfer		
of	the	shares	held	by	such	shareholder	shall	be	restricted. 38	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report
 Governance Directors’	report
Certificated shares:	The	Company	can	sell	any	certificated	
shares	at	the	best	price	reasonably	obtainable	at	the	time	of	
the	sale	if:	(i)	in	a	period	of	12	years	at	least	three	dividends	
have	become	payable	and	no	dividends	have	been	claimed;	
(ii)	the	Company	has	published	a	notice	after	the	12	year	
period	stating	that	it	intends	to	sell	the	shares;	(iii)	during	the	
12	year	period	and	for	three	months	after	the	notice,	the	
Company	has	not	heard	from	the	shareholder	or	any	person	
entitled	to	sell	the	shares	and	(iv)	the	Company	has	notified	
the	London	Stock	Exchange	that	it	intends	to	sell	the	shares.
The	Directors	may	decline	registration	of	certificated	shares	
if:	(i)	a	share	transfer	form	is	used	to	transfer	more	than	one	
class	of	shares;	(ii)	transfers	are 	in	favour	of	more	than	four	
joint	holders;	or	(iii)	the	share	transfer	form	is	not	delivered	to	
the	office,	or	such	other	place	decided	on	by	the	Directors,	
accompanied	by	the	share	certificate	relating	to	the	shares	
being	transferred	(unless	the	transfer	is	by	a	person	to	whom	
the	Company	was	not	required	to,	and	did	not,	send	a	
certificate)	and	any	other	evidence	reasonably	asked	for		
by	the	Dir ectors	to	show	entitlement	to	transfer	the	shares.	
Uncertificated shares: The	Directors	may	decline	
registration	of	uncertificated	shares	if	the	transfer	is	in	favour	
of	more	than	four	joint	holders	or	otherwise	in	accordance	
with	the	Uncertificated	Securities	Regulations	2001.	
Interests in shares:	Except	where	express	rights	are 	given,	
the	Company	will	only	recognise	a	current	and	absolute	right	
to	whole	shares.	The	fact	that	any	share,	or	any	part	of	a	
share,	may	not	be	owned	outright	by	the	registered	owner	is	
not	of	any	concern	to	the	Company.
US holders: The	Directors	may	require	a	shareholder	or	other	
person	appearing	to	be	interested	in	shares,	to	disclose	
information	relating	to	the	ownership	of	such	shares	or	to	
show	that	such	shares	are 	not	held	by	a	US	Holder	(defined	
in	the	Articles	as	being:	(i)	persons	resident	in	the	US	who	
hold	shares	in	the	Company	and	(ii)	persons	who	appear	to	
the	Directors	to	fall	within	sub-paragraph	(i)	of	the	definition	
of	a	US	Holder).	The	Directors	may	require	a	US	Holder	to		
sell	their	shares	to	someone	who	is	not	a	US	Holder,	failing	
which,	the	Company	may	effect	a	sale	of	such	shares	on	the	
US	Holder’ s	behalf.	
Appointment and replacement of Directors 
The	rules	about	the	appointment	and	replacement	of	
Directors	are 	contained	in	the	Articles,	including	the	rules	for	
who	is	eligible	to	be	elected	as	a	Director	and	the	procedure	
to	be	followed	to	nominate	such	persons.	
The	Articles	provide	that	Directors	may	be	appointed	by		
an	ordinary	resolution	of	the	members	or	by	a	resolution		
of	the	Directors,	provided	that,	in	the	latter	instance,	a	
Director	appointed	in	this	way	retires	at	the	first	AGM	
following	his	appointment.
The	Articles	provide	that	at	each	of	the	first	two	AGMs	
following	the	adoption	of	the	Articles,	one	third	of	the	
Directors	who	are 	then	in	office	or, 	if	their	number	is	not	three	
or	a	multiple	of	three,	the	number	nearest	to	one	third	shall	
retire	from	office	but	shall	be	eligible	for	reappointment.
The	Articles	also	provide	that	at	every	AGM	thereafter,	
Directors	who	have	been	in	office	at	the	time	of	the	two	
previous	AGMs	retire	by	rotation,	and	detail	the	
circumstances	in	which	and	how	they	may	be	re-elected.		
The	Company’s	members	may	remove	a	Director	by	passing	
an	ordinary	resolution	for	which	special	notice	has	been	
given.	A	Director	will	automatically	cease	to	be	a	Director		
if:	(i)	they	r esign;	(ii)	they	offer	to	resign	and	the	other	
Directors	accept	that	offer;	(iii)	all	the	other	Directors	(being		
at	least	three)	require	it;	(iv)	they	are 	suffering	from	mental	ill	
health	and	the	Directors	pass	a	resolution	removing	them;		
(v)	they	have	missed	Directors’	meetings	for	a	continuous	
period	of	six	months	without	permission	and	the	other	
Directors	resolve	that	they	shall	cease	to	be	a	Director;		
(vi)	a	bankruptcy	order	is	made	against	them,	or	they		
make	an	arrangement	or	composition	with	their	creditors;		
(vii)	they	are 	prohibited	from	being	a	Director	by	law;	or		
(viii)	they	cease	to	be	a	Director	under	the	legislation	or		
are	removed	from	office	under	the	Articles. 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 39
Powers of Directors 
The	powers	of	the	Directors	are 	determined	by	UK	legislation	
and	the	Company’s	Articles.	As	provided	in	the	Articles,	the	
Directors	may	exercise	all	the	Company’s	powers	provided	
that	the	Articles	or	applicable	legislation	do	not	stipulate	that	
any	such	powers	must	be	exercised	by	the	members.	The	
Directors	have	been	authorised	to	issue	and	allot	ordinary	
shares,	pursuant	to	Articles	7,	11	and	12.	The	powers	under	
Article	12	are 	referred	to	shareholders	at	the	AGM	for	
renewal.	Shareholders	are 	also	requested	to	give	the	
Directors	power	to	make	market	purchases	of	shares	at		
each	AGM.	Any	shares	purchased	may	be	cancelled	or		
held	as	treasury	shares.
Conflicts of interest 
From	1	October	2008,	there	has	been	a	requirement	that	
Directors	must	avoid	a	situation	where	they	have,	or	can	
have,	a	direct	or	indirect	interest	that	conflicts,	or	possibly	
may	conflict,	with	the	Company’s	interests.	Directors	of	
public	companies	may	authorise	conflicts	and	potential	
conflicts,	where	appropriate,	if	a	company’s	Articles		
of	Association	permit.	The	Company’s	Articles	contain		
this	authority.	
Procedures	have	been	put	in	place	for	the	disclosure	by	
Directors	of	any	such	conflicts	and	also	for	the	consideration	
and	authorisation	of	these	conflicts	by	the	Board.	These	
procedures	allow	for	the	imposition	of	limits	or	conditions	by	
the	Board	when	authorising	any	conflict,	if	they	think	this	is	
appropriate.	These	procedures	are 	duly	followed	to	approve	
appropriate	conflicts	and	are 	now	included	as	a	regular	
standing	item	for	consideration	by	the	Board	at	its	meetings.	
Going concern 
The	Group’s	business	activities,	together	with	the	factors	
likely	to	affect	its	future	development,	performance	and	
position	are 	set	out	in	the	business	review	on	pages	6	to	31.	
The	financial	position	of	the	Group,	its	cash	flows,	liquidity	
position	and	borrowing	facilities	are 	described	in	the	financial	
review	on	pages	26	to	29.	Further,	note	39	to	the	
consolidated	financial	statements	includes	the	Group’s	
objectives,	policies	and	processes	for	managing	its	capital;	
its	financial	risk	management	objectives;	details	of	its	
financial	instruments	and	hedging	activities;	and	its	
exposures	to	credit	and	liquidity	risk.	
The	Directors	believe	that	the	Group’s	wide	geographic	
spread,	varying	contract	lengths	and	robust	monitoring	and	
forecasting	processes	place	it	well	to	manage	its	business	
risks	in	the	current	uncertain	economic	conditions.	In	
addition,	the	Group’s	forecasts	and	projections,	taking	into	
account	reasonably	possible	changes	in	trading	performance,	
indicate	that	the	Group	is	able	to	operate	within	the	level	of	
its	curr ent	available	facilities.	A	formal	process	for	monitoring	
compliance	with	debt	covenants	is	also	in	place.	Further	
information	on	debt	can	be	found	in	note	24	to	the	
consolidated	financial	statements.
After	reviewing	budgets	and	other	longer	term	plans		
and	making	enquiries,	the	Directors	have	a	reasonable	
expectation	that	the	Company	and	the	Group	has	adequate	
resources	to	continue	in	operational	existence	for	the	
foreseeable	future.	Accordingly,	they	continue	to	adopt		
the	going	concern	basis	of	accounting	in	preparing	the	
financial	statements.	
By	order	of	the	Board	
Philip Davis 
General	Counsel	and	Company	Secretary		
26	May	2010 40	
GOVERNANCE
CORp ORATE GOVERNANCE REp ORT
Our Board is committed to maintaining high standards of 
corporate governance, responsibility and risk management. 
Our	 key	 policies	 and	 practices	 are	 set	 out	 in	 this	 governance	 report	
as	 well	 as	 in	 the	 reports	 of	 the	 Audit	 Committee	 on	 pages	42 	
and	 43	 and	 Remuneration	 Committee	 on	 pages	 44	 to	 55.	 T ogether	
these	 reports	 provide	 shareholders	 with	 an	 insight	 into	 how	 our	
Board	 and	 senior	management	run	the	business.	
The	disclosures	that	fulfil	the	requirements	of	a	corporate	
governance	 report	 under	 the	 Disclosure	 and	 Transparency	 Rules	
are	contained	in	the	Directors’	report	in	the	sections	headed	
Share capital and treasury shares, Company’s shareholders, 
Appointment and replacement of Directors and Powers of 
Directors	on	pages	35	to	39	and	are 	incorporated	into	this	
corporate	governance	statement	by	reference.
Board composition and attendance 
At	31	March	2010	our	Board	comprised	the	Chairman,	one	
Executive	 Director	 and	 three	 Non-executive	 Directors,	 including	
the	Senior	Independent	Director,	all	of	whom	were	former	
directors	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc.	Biographies	of	the	
Directors,	including	 details	 of	 their	 committee	 memberships,	 are	
shown	 on	 pages	 32	 to	 33.	 In	 May	 2010	 the	 Board	 increased	 to	
six	 members	when	Tim	Weller	joined	as	an	Executive	Director	
and	Chief	Financial	Officer.	
Half	 of	 the	 Board	 are	 Non-executive	 Directors,	 all	 of	 whom	 the	
Board	 consider	 to	 be	 independent	 in	 character	 and	 judgement.	
Collectively,	 our	 Non-executive	 Directors	 bring	a	 wide	 range	 of	
skills	and	business	experience	to	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	
and	their	contribution	to	Board	decision-making	is	a	
considerable	factor	in	achieving	our	strategic	aims.	
The	Non-executive	Directors	are 	initially	appointed	for	a		
three	year	term.	The	 terms	 and	 conditions	 of	 appointment	 of	
the	 Non-executive	Directors,	 together	 with	 service	 contracts	
for	 Executive	 Directors,	are 	available	for	inspection	by	
shareholders	at	our	registered	office	during	normal		
business	hours	and	at	our	AGM.	
The	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	board	held	nine	scheduled	
meetings	during	2009/10.	In	addition,	other	meetings	were	
held	at	short	notice	to	consider	matters	which	could	not	be	
held	over	until	the	next	scheduled	board	meeting.	Details	of	
Directors’	attendance	at	scheduled	board	and	committee	
meetings	are 	shown	in	the	table	below.
Cable and Wireless plc board and committee meeting attendance
	 	 Audit	 Remuneration 	 	 Nomination	
Board		 Committee	 	 Committee	 	 Committee	 Committee
Chairman	
John	 Pluthero	 9/9	 –	 –	 –
				
Executive Director		 	 	 	
Jim	 Marsh
1
	 2/2	 –	 –	 –
				
Non-executive Directors      
John	 Barton	 7/9	 3/5	 5/7	 –
Clive	 Butler	 9/9	 5/5	 7/7	 4/4
Penny	 Hughes
2
	 7/7	 3/3	 5/5	 –
–	 	 Director	is	not	a	Committee	member.
1	 	 Jim	Marsh	was	appointed	to	the	board	on	1	January	2010.	
2	 	 Penny	Hughes	was	appointed	to	the	board	on	1	July	2009	and	to	the	Audit	and	
Remuneration	Committees	on	17	July	2009.
For	the	purposes	of	the	Demerger,	the	Board	met	on	
three	occasions	during	the	period	under	review.	Details	of	
Directors’	attendance	at	scheduled	board	and	committee	
meetings	are 	shown	in	the	table	below:
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Board and  
committee meeting attendance
	 	 Audit	 Remuneration 	 	 Nomination	
	 Board	 	 Committee	 	 Committee	 	 Committee
Chairman     
John	 Pluthero	 3/3	 –	 –	 None
				
Executive Director     
Jim	 Marsh	 3/3	 –	 –	 –
				
Non-executive Directors     
John	 Barton	 3/3	 1/1	 1/1	 None
Clive	 Butler	 3/3	 1/1	 1/1	 None
Penny	 Hughes	 3/3	 1/1	 1/1	 None
				
–	 	 Director	is	not	a	Committee	member.
Role of the Board 
The	Board	of	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	sets	the	strategic	
aims	of	the	Group	and	is	collectively	responsible	for	matters	
of	strategy,	performance,	resources,	standards	of	conduct	
and	accountability.
Matters	reserved	for	the	Board	include:	Group	strategy;	
corporate	governance;	financial	reporting	and	controls;	
budgets	and	operating	plans;	acquisitions	and	disposals;	
appointments	to	the	Board,	Committees	and	some	
senior	executive	positions;	Director	and	senior	executive	
remuneration;	delegation	of	authority;	customer	contracts;	
and	expenditure	over	a	certain	financial	limit.	Other	specific	
responsibilities	 are	delegated	to	the	Committees,	each	with	
clearly	defined	terms	of	reference.
Full	details	on	matters	reserved	for	the	Board	and	the	terms	
of	reference	of	its	Committees	can	be	found	on	our	website	
at	www.cw.com.
The	Chairman,	in	consultation	with	the	Company	Secretary	
and	Executive	Directors,	sets	the	agenda	for	Board	meetings	
and	full	and	timely	information	is	provided	to	all	Board	and	
Committee	members	prior	to	meetings.	Formal	minutes	
recording	decisions	of	all	Board	and	Committee	meetings	are 	
prepared	and	circulated	to	each	Director	as	appropriate.	 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 41
If	a	Director	objects	to	a	particular	proposal,	this	is	recorded	
in	the	minutes	of	the	relevant	meeting.	During	the	year	ended	
31	March	2010	there	were	no	such	objections.
Jim	Marsh,	as	Chief	Executive	Officer	of	Cable&Wireless	
Worldwide,	has	overall	responsibility	for	the	day-to-day	
management	of	the	business.	
The Senior Independent Director 
John	Barton	was	appointed	Senior	Independent	Director	on	
26	March	2010.	The	Senior	Independent	Director	is	available	
to	meet	shareholders	on	request	and	is	the	designated	point	
of	contact	for	shareholders	to	raise	any	concerns	where	
contact	through	the	normal	channels	of	the	Chairman	or	
Executive	Directors	has	failed	to	resolve	or	where	contact		
is	inappropriate.	
In	fulfilment	of	the	obligations	under	the	Combined	Code,	the	
Chairman	(or	as	appropriate	the	Senior	Independent	Director	
and	other	Directors)	will	maintain	sufficient	contact	with	major	
shareholders	to	understand	their	issues	and	concerns	and	
give	feedback	to	the	Board	on	any	matters	raised.
Committees of the Board 
Membership	of	the	Audit	and	Remuneration	Committees	is	
entirely	composed	of	Non-executive	Directors.	The	reports		
of	the	Audit	Committee	and	Remuneration	Committee	are 		
set	out	on	pages	42	and	43	and	44	to	55	respectively.	
A	 Nomination	 Committee	 has	 been	 established	 by	
Cable&Wireless	 Worldwide.	 It	 is	 chaired	 by	 John	 Pluthero	 and	
the	 other	 members	 are	 John	 Barton,	 Penny	 Hughes	 and	 Clive	
Butler.	 John	 Pluthero	 will	 not	 chair	 any	 meeting	 at	 which	 his	
own	 successor	 as	 Chairman	 is	 under	 review;	 such	 meetings	
will	 be	 chaired	 by	 the	 Deputy	 Chairman.	 The	 majority	 of	 the	
members	 are	 independent	 Non-executive	 Directors.	 The	
Nomination	 Committee	 has	 not	 met	 during	 the	 period	 under	
review	 but	 intends	 to	 meet	 during	 the	 coming	 year	 to	 review	 the	
composition	 of	 the	 Board,	 including	 the	 range	 and	 experience	
of	 its	 members,	 its	 structure	 and	 its	 size.	 Formal	 procedures	 are	
in	 place	 for	 the	 nomination,	 selection,	 training	 and	 evaluation	 of	
Directors	 as	 well	 as	 succession	 planning.	
The	induction	of	new	Board	members	is	undertaken	by	the	
Company	Secretary	at	the	request	of	the	Chairman,	who	
retains	responsibility	for	the	induction	process.	It	includes	
meetings	with	senior	management.	Meetings	with	major	
shareholders	may	be	arranged	on	request.
All	Directors	have	access	to	the	advice	of	the	Company	
Secretary	as	well	as	appropriate	training	and	briefings.	
Additionally,	any	Director	may	take	independent	professional	
advice	on	any	matter	at	the	Company’s	expense	in	the	
furtherance	of	their	duties.	
Performance evaluation
The	 Chairman	 plans	 to	 lead	 an	 internal	 performance	 evaluation	
of	 the	 Board	 and	 its	 Committees	 in	 the	 form	 of	a	 detailed	
questionnaire.	 The	 findings	 will	 be	 collated	 by	 the	 Company	
Secretary	 and	 presented	 to	 the	 Board	 for	 consideration.
During	the	year,	the	Non-executive	Directors	will	meet	
privately,	both	with	and	without	the	Chairman	being	present,	
to	consider	management	performance	and	succession	
issues.	The	Non-executive	Directors	will	also	appraise	the	
Chairman’s	performance	and	carefully	review	the	relationship	
between	the	Chairman	and	the	Executive	Directors	to	
ensure	that	the	Board	structure	and	relationships	continue	
to	promote	the	creation	of	shareholder	value.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (the Code)
The	Board	is	committed	to	ensuring	the	highest	standards	of	
corporate	governance	are 	maintained	and	that	the	Company	
complies	with	the	Code.	A	full	version	of	the	Code	can	
be	found	at	www.frc.org.uk.	The	Board	confirms	that	the	
Company	has,	throughout	the	period	under	review,	complied	
with	all	provisions	set	out	in	Section	One	of	the	Code	except	
as	set	out	below:
A.2.2	of	the	Code	provides	that	the	chairman	should	on	
appointment	meet	certain	independence	criteria.	John	
Pluthero,	the	Chairman	of	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide,	is	not	
treated	as	independent	as	he	was,	when	originally	appointed	
to	the	board	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc,	an	executive	
director.	The	Board	has	considered	this	carefully	but,	given	
his	r ole	prior	to	the	Demerger	as	Executive	Chairman	of	
Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	and	the	nature	and	importance	
of	his	contribution	to	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide,	the	Board	
believes	that	his	appointment	as	Chairman	is	in	the	best	
interests	of	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	and	its	shareholders	
as	a	whole	notwithstanding	his	previous	executive	role.	
Whilst	the	Board	is	satisfied	that	he	will	bring	independence	
of	judgement	to	the	Board,	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	is	
also	confident	that	John	Barton	as	Senior	Independent	
Director	and	Deputy	Chairman	will,	with	the	other	Non-
executive	Directors,	provide	a	strong	and	clearly	independent	
perspective	for	the	Board	which	will	complement	the	
experience	of	John	Pluthero	as	well	as	Jim	Marsh,		
Tim	Weller	and	the	executive	team.
A.7.1	of	the	Code	provides	that	all	directors	should	be	
subject	to	election	by	shareholders	at	the	first	annual	general	
meeting	after	their	appointment.	The	Articles	provide	that,	at	
the	first	two	Annual	General	Meetings	following	the	Demerger,	
one	third	of	the	directors	shall	retire	from	office	but	shall	be	
eligible	for	re-appointment.	This	provision	was	included	in	the	
Articles	as	a	result	of	the	Demerger	to	provide	an	even	spread	
of	director	re-appointments	and	hence	not	all	directors	are 	
standing	for	re-appointment	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting.
Rule	7.1.1	of	the	Disclosur e	and	Transparency	Rules	requires	
at	least	one	member	of	the	Audit	Committee	to	have	
competence	in	accounting	and/or	auditing	and	the	Board	
is	satisfied	that	the	composition	of	the	Audit	Committee	
complies	with	that	requirement.	However,	it	is	a	separate	
provision	of	C.3.1	of	the	Combined	Code	that	at	least	one	
member	of	the	Audit	Committee	should	have	recent	and	
relevant	financial	experience.	The	Board	considers	that	there	
is	sufficient	breadth	of	financial	expertise	across	the	Audit	
Committee	and	that,	collectively,	its	members	have	the	
requisite	skills	and	attributes	to	discharge	its	responsibilities	
properly.	As	a	result	the	Board	has	decided	not	to	identify		
any	one	member	as	having	such	experience.
By	order	of	the	Board	
Philip Davis 
General	Counsel	and	Company	Secretary		
26	May	2010 42	
GOVERNANCE
REp ORT OF ThE AuDIT CO mmITTEE
This report sets out the membership, purposes and 
activities of the Audit Committee during the year.
Membership and terms of reference 
The	Audit	Committee	(the	Committee)	is	comprised	solely	
of	the	Non-executive	Directors:	Penny	Hughes	(Committee	
Chair),	John	Barton	and	Clive	Butler.	Following	the	re-
registration	of	the	Company	as	a	public	limited	company	on	
25	January	2010,	the	Committee	has	held	one	meeting	but,	
going	forward,	it	plans	to	meet	at	least	four	times	a	year.
The	Chief	Financial	Officer,	the	Risk	Director	and	the	General	
Counsel	will	also	be	invited	to	attend	all	Committee	meetings.	
In	May	and	November	when	the	full	year	and	half	year	results	
are	considered,	the	Chairman	and	Executive	Directors	are 	
invited	to	attend.
The	Audit	Committee’s	responsibilities	include:
n	 assisting	the	Board	in	meeting	its	responsibilities	to	create	
an	effective	system	of	internal	control	and	compliance;	
n	 ensuring	accurate	external	financial	reporting	including	the	
Board’s	obligations	prescribed	by	law,	under	the	Combined	
Code	and	under	the	UK	Listing	Authority	Listing	Rules;	
n	 reviewing	and	challenging,	where	necessary,	the	actions	
and	judgements	of	management	in	relation	to	the	full	year	
and	half	year	financial	statements	before	submission	to	the	
Board;
n	 reviewing	and	approving	the	internal	audit	programme;
n	 overseeing,	reviewing	and	monitoring	management’s	
conduct;	
n	 recommending	for	shareholder	approval	the	appointment,	
re-appointment	and	r emoval	of	the	external	auditors;
n	 monitoring	and	reviewing	the	external	auditor’s	
independence	and	the	effectiveness	of	the	audit	process;	
and
n	 reviewing,	monitoring	and	reporting	on	the	Group’s	policies	
and	processes	for	effective	risk	management.	
The	Committee’s	full	terms	of	reference	are 	published	on	our	
website	(www.cw.com).
Disclosure Committee 
To	assist	the	Committee	with	the	above,	responsibility	for	
identifying	and	considering	disclosure	matters	in	connection	
with	the	preparation	of	all	market	releases	containing	material	
financial	information	has	been	delegated	to	a	Disclosure	
Committee.	This	Committee	comprises	senior	management	
from	Group	finance,	legal	and	external	affairs.
During	the	preparation	of	the	Annual	Report,	the	Disclosure	
Committee	obtains	certifications	from	contributors	prior	to	
the	document’s	review	by	the	Committee	and	approval	by	
the	Board.
Meetings 
The	agenda	for	meetings	is	prepared	by	the	Committee	
Chair	in	conjunction	with	other	members	of	the	Committee	
as	appropriate.	At	each	scheduled	meeting	the	Committee	
receives	reports	from	the	Chief	Financial	Officer,	the	external	
auditor	and	the	Risk	Director	together	with	twice	yearly	
litigation	reports	from	the	General	Counsel.	As	mentioned	
above,	the	Committee	held	one	meeting	for	the	period	under	
review.	The	principal	activities	of	the	Committee	at	this	
meeting	were:
n	 Evaluating	systems,	procedures	and	controls	of	the	
Cable&Wireless	W orldwide	Group	in	preparation	for	the	
Company	being	demerged	and	becoming	a	listed	entity		
in	its	own	right;
n	 reviewing	and	agreeing	upon	an	annual	Committee	work	
programme;
n	 considering	reports	from	the	Chief	Financial	Officer	and	
KPMG	Audit	Plc	(KPMG)	on	the	2009/10	audit	process		
and	annual	financial	report;
n	 considering	a	review	of	the	Company’s	existing	corporate	
governance	and	financial	reporting	procedures	and	their	
effectiveness;
n	 reviewing	a	report	on	the	work	of	internal	audit	for	2009/10	
and	considering	an	internal	audit	plan	for	2010.
The	Company’s	whistle-blowing	policy	and	procedures	
enable	staff,	in	confidence	via	an	externally	managed	Ethics	
hotline	and	an	internal	audit	“drop	box”	to	raise	concerns	
about	possible	improprieties	in	financial	reporting	or	other	
matters.	The	Committee	receives	reports	on	whistle-blowing	
and	is	satisfied	that	appropriate	procedures	are 	in	place	
to	ensure	that	the	investigations	are 	proportionate	and	
independent	and	that	appropriate	follow-up	action	is	taken.
Internal audit 
The	internal	audit	function,	led	by	the	Risk	Director,	is	
supported	by	a	team	of	auditors	based	in	the	UK.	The	
function	has	a	formal	charter	approved	by	the	Board	that	
describes	its	purpose,	authority	and	responsibility.	Its	audit	
plan	is	approved	by	the	Audit	Committee	annually. 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 43
External audit 
KPMG	has	acted	as	auditor	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	
since	1991	and	the	Company	has	opted	to	retain	KPMG	
as	its	auditor.	The	Committee	intends	to	evaluate	KPMG’s	
tenure	annually	and	is	not	restricted	by	any	contractual	
obligations	in	its	choice	of	auditors.	The	Board	has	accepted	
the	Committee’s	recommendation	that	KPMG	should	be	
reappointed	for	2010/11.	This	recommendation	was	based	on	
a	detailed	review	of	the	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	2008/09	audit	
which	demonstrated	overall	satisfaction	with	the	performance	
of	KPMG	as	external	auditor.	The	review	included	a	survey	
of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	Audit	Committee	members	and	
key	personnel	involved	in	the	audit,	discussions	with	KPMG,	
senior	management	and	internal	audit,	as	well	as	an	analysis	
of	KPMG’s	capabilities	and	independence.	
The	audit	engagement	partner	assigned	on	Demerger	had	
previously	been	involved	in	the	audit	of	Cable	and	Wireless	
plc.	He	will	be	responsible	for	the	engagement	in	the	future	
within	the	applicable	guidelines.
The	Committee	will	establish	a	policy	to	maintain	the	
independence	of	the	external	auditor	and	its	personnel,	
governing	the	provision	of	audit	and	non-audit	services	
provided	by	the	auditor	and	its	associates.	The	policy	will	
clearly	identify	permitted	and	prohibited	services	and	set	out	
the	pr ocedure	to	be	followed	for	the	approval	of	all	audit	and	
non-audit	services.	All	engagements	with	an	expected	fee	in	
excess	of	£250,000	require	the	prior	approval	of	the	Chair	of	
the	Audit	Committee.	
For	the	year	ended	31	March	2010	fees	for	audit	services	
were	£1.5	million	together	with	fees	for	audit-related	
regulatory	reporting	of	£0.2	million	and	non-audit	work	of	
£3.3	million	(of	which	£2.9	million	represents	service	related	
to	corporate	finance	transaction	the	majority	of	which	was	
related	to	the	Demerger).	The	nature	of	the	services	provided	
is	set	out	in	note	6	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements.	
There	is	no	limitation	of	liability	in	the	terms	of	appointment		
of	KPMG	as	auditor	to	the	Company.	
The	Audit	Committee	report	was	approved	by	the	Board	on	
26	May	2010	and	signed	on	its	behalf	by:
Penny Hughes 
Chair,	Audit	Committee		 44	
GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ REmuNERATION REp ORT
This report sets out the policy and disclosures in relation 
to Directors’ remuneration. This report will be subject to 
an advisory vote at the AGM on 21 July 2010.
The	Companies	Act	2006	requires	information	to	be	provided	
on	Directors’	remuneration	for	the	period	since	incorporation	
of	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	on	24	September	2009	
to	31	March	2010.	We 	have	also	presented	Directors’	
remuneration	information	for	the	year	ended	31	March	
2010	(with	comparatives	where	appropriate)	based	on	the	
Directors’	remuneration	of	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	
Directors	in	respect	of	their	service	to	Cable	and	Wireless	
plc	(now	Cable	&	Wireless	Limited),	from	1	April	2009	to	
25	March	2010,	and	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc,	from	
26	March	2010	to	31	March	2010).	The	Remuneration	
Committee	believes	this	provides	more	useful	information	
than	that	required	by	the	Companies	Act	alone.
Our	overall	aim	is	to	ensure	that	our	remuneration	
encourages,	reinforces	and	rewards	the	delivery	of	
outstanding	shareholder	value.	This	approach	was	a		
key	ingredient	in	the	success	of	the	Cable	&	Wireless		
Group	and	will	continue	to	drive	our	performance	as	
Cable&Wireless	Worldwide.	
This	report	also	includes	details	of	our	Directors’	
remuneration	for	2010/11	and	information	on	the	
Remuneration	Committee’s	membership	and	terms		
of	reference,	and	remuneration	philosophy	and	policies		
going	forward.
Remuneration Committee membership and  
terms of reference 
The	Committee	comprises	three	Non-executive	Directors	
being	Clive	Butler	(Committee	Chairman),	John	Barton	and	
Penny	Hughes.	The	Boar d	considers	that	all	of	the	members	
of	the	Committee	are 	independent	in	both	character	and	
judgement.	The	composition	of	the	Committee	has	not	
altered	since	its	inception	on	26	January	2010.	
The	Committee	makes	recommendations	to	the	Board,	within	
agreed	terms	of	reference,	on	the	framework	of	remuneration	
for	the	Chairman,	Executive	Directors	and	other	members	of	
the	senior	team.	The	terms	of	reference	for	the	Committee	
may	be	found	on	our	website	at	www.cw.com.
The	Board	is	responsible	for	approving	recommendations	
from	the	Committee.	In	forming	their	recommendations,	the	
Committee	receives	input	and	information	from	the	Chairman,	
the	People	Director,	Director	of	Reward	&	Policy	and	other	
executives.	The	Committee	has	appointed	independent	
consultants,	Deloitte	LLP ,	to	provide	advice	on	remuneration	
and	share	plans	both	for	Executive	Directors	and	the	wider	
senior	team.	Other	Deliotte	departments	also	provided	
unrelated	advisory	services	during	the	period.	
The	Chairman,	Executive	Directors	and	any	executives	
attending	a	meeting	are 	absent	from	any	discussion	relating	
to	their	own	remuneration	or	contractual	arrangements.
Remuneration philosophy 
The	Committee	recognises	that	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	
is	a	people	leveraged	business,	therefore	the	remuneration	
structure	should	attract,	retain	and	motivate	the	best	talent	
in	or der	to	deliver	outstanding	long-term	shareholder	value.		
This	is	underpinned	by	the	following	guiding	principles:
n	 There	should	be	a	genuine	alignment	of	the	interest	of	
the	senior	team	and	shareholders.	Executive	Directors	
will	be	encouraged	to	maintain	a	significant	investment	
in	the	shares	of	the	Company	to	align	their	interests	with	
shareholder	value;
n	 The	majority	of	total	remuneration	for	the	senior	team	
should	only	be	receivable	after	achieving	challenging	
performance	targets;
n	 Total	reward	levels	will	reflect	the	markets	in	which	we	
operate.	The	competitive	position	of	the	remuneration	
packages	we	provide	will	be	regularly	monitored	by	
independent	analysis	against	comparator	groups	of	
companies	selected	on	the	basis	of	relevant	size,	business	
and	geographic	focus;
n	 Base	salaries	and	benefits	will	be	set	at	the	mid-market	
level	of	our	comparator	companies.	However,	some	
variances	may	occur	to	reflect	executives’	experience		
and	expertise;
n	 An	appropriate	mix	of	short	and	long	term	incentives	will	
be	set	so	that	the	senior	team	are 	incentivised	to	deliver	
performance	over	both	the	short	and	long	term	with	
greater	emphasis	on	creating	value	over	the	longer	term;
n	 The	remuneration	structure	for	Executive	Directors	should	
be	consistent	with	that	of	other	senior	executives	whilst	
also	r ecognising	their	greater	Group	responsibilities;
n	 All	aspects	of	remuneration	for	the	Executive	Directors	
and	other	members	of	the	senior	team	will	be	approved	
by	the	Committee.
Summary of Executive Directors’ remuneration 
As	part	of	the	Demerger,	shareholders	approved	the	
continuation	of	the	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	incentive	
framework	through	the	implementation	of	replacement	
Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	incentive	plans.	 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 45
The	remuneration	structure	is	as	follows:
n	 Base	salaries	have	been	set	based	on	the	market	and	
to	reflect	the	new	responsibilities	of	Executive	Directors;
n	 The	Executive	Directors’	2010/11	annual	bonus	potential	
remains	at	up	to	100%	of	base	salary	for	the	achievement	
of	stretch	targets;
n	 Executive	Directors	and	other	members	of	the	senior	
team	will	receive	annual	awards	of	performance	shares.	
These	shares	will	vest	from	2013	onwards	subject	to	the	
achievement	of	stretching	total	shareholder	return	(TSR)	
and	earnings	per	share	(EPS)	targets	as	outlined	below;
n	 The	Long	Term	Incentive	Plan	(LTIP)	originally	established	
by	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	for	Executive	Directors	and	
other	members	of	the	senior	team	will	end	in	2011;	and
n	 In	order	to	incentivise	Executive	Directors	to	double	the	
Company’s	share	price	between	2011	and	2014,	the	
Committee	intends	to	grant	Exceptional	Performance	
Awards	(EPAs).
	
At	the	time	of	reporting,	the	Committee	is	consulting	
with	key	shareholders	about	the	rationale	behind	the	
remuneration	arrangements,	in	particular,	details	around	
the	performance	shares	and	EPAs.	As	part	of	an	ongoing	
commitment	to	maintain	open	dialogue	with	key	shareholders	
on	remuneration,	the	Committee	intends	to	consult	on	any	
substantial	changes	to	remuneration	in	the	future.	
The	chart	below	illustrates	the	typical	balance	between	the	
different	elements	of	the	remuneration	package	for	Executive	
Directors.	
Figures	reflect	payment	potential	for	a	‘target’	level	of	
performance	achieved	for	the	annual	bonus	plan	and	for	
the	‘expected	value’	of	performance	shares	to	be	granted	
in	2010/11.	
Split of potential total remuneration 
2010/11
Salary 29%
Pension 7%
Performance-related 
annual bonus 18%
Performance-related 
long term incentives 46%
Base salary 
The	Executive	Directors’	annual	base	salaries	for	2010/11	are 	
as	set	out	below:
	 	 	 	 Salary
Jim	 Marsh	 	 	 	 £650,000 	
Tim	 Weller		 	 	 	 £500,000
1
1	 	 Tim	Weller	took	up	appointment	as	Chief	Financial	Officer	on	24	May	2010,	therefore	his	
2010/11	salary	will	be	pro-rated	accordingly.	
Base	salaries	have	been	set	to	competitive	levels	by	
reference	to	the	equivalent	roles	in	companies	selected	
on	the	basis	of	comparable	size,	geographic	spread	and	
business	focus.	Individual	salary	decisions	take	into	account	
personal	contribution	and	business	performance	as	well	as	
general	pay	conditions	of	employees	elsewhere	in	the	Group.
Pension and other benefits 
Executive	Directors,	along	with	other	employees	are 	eligible	
to	participate	in	the	defined	contribution	section	of	the	Cable	
&	Wireless	Worldwide	Retirement	Plan.	However,	they	may	
instead	choose	to	receive	a	cash	allowance	of	25%	of	their	
base	salary,	in	lieu	of	participation	in	the	pension	scheme.
Executive	Directors	are 	eligible	to	participate	in	employee	
benefit	programmes	including	life,	disability	and	health	
insurance	plans.	The	value	of	these	benefits	is	included		
in	the	Directors’	remuneration	table	on	page	50.
Annual bonus 
Individual	awards	under	the	annual	bonus	scheme	for	
2010/11	will	be	based	on	the	financial	performance	of	the	
Group,	using	business	specific	targets	together	with	personal	
performance	tar gets.	The	financial	performance	measures		
for	2010/11	are 	EBITDA	and	trading	cash	flow.	Targets		
will	be	stretching	with	a	threshold	that	exceeds	the		
2009/10	performance.
The	maximum	bonus	opportunity	for	Executive	Directors		
will	be	100%	of	salary	and	‘target’	financial	performance		
will	generate	a	bonus	payment	of	60%	of	the	maximum.	
The	financial	measures	and	targets	within	the	bonus	plans	
will	be	reviewed	annually	by	the	Committee. 46	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report
 Governance Directors’	remuneration	report
Long term incentive awards 
The	Company’s	long-term	incentive	awards	are 	designed	
to	reward	the	senior	team	for	exceptional	shareholder	value	
creation	and	strong	financial	performance.	Further	details		
are	provided	below.
(i)	Performance	Share	Plan	(PSP)		
Awards	of	performance	shares	made	in	2010/11	will	vest	
three	years	after	grant	subject	to	the	stretching	absolute	
TSR	and	EPS	performance	targets	described	below.	These	
performance	measures	are 	considered	to	best	align	the	
interests	of	Directors	and	shareholders	as	they	require	
creation	of	absolute	shareholder	value	and	strong	financial	
performance.
It	is	intended	that	awards	will	be	granted	annually	and	will	
be	capped	at	400%	of	base	salary.	Annual	PSP	awards	
scheduled	to	be	granted	in	2011/12	will	be	scaled	back	
by	100%	of	salary	for	recipients	who	receive	the	proposed	
Exceptional	Performance	Awards	(see	below).
The	Committee	has	determined	that	the	value	of	awards		
to	Executive	Directors	in	2010/11	will	be	as	follows:	
	 	 	 Value	 of	 shares	 at	 grant
	 	 	 	 ‘Expected 		
	 	 	 Face	 value	 value’
1
	 	 	 £m	 £m
Jim	 Marsh	 	 	 2.6	 	 1.0 	
Tim	 Weller		 	 	 2.0	 	 0.8
	
1	 	 Assumes	‘expected	value’	of	circa	40%	of	face	value.	
Awards	to	be	granted	in	2010/11	will	vest	based	on	the	
achievement	 of	 absolute	 TSR	 performance	 (50%	 of	 the		
award)	and	EPS	growth	(50%	of	the	award).	
For	the	50%	of	an	awar d	linked	to	TSR	growth	no	shares	will	
vest	where	compound	per	annum	TSR	growth	over	the	three	
year	performance	period	is	at	or	below	8%.	Where	
compound	TSR	growth	per	annum	is	between	8%	and	20%,	
shares	will	vest	proportionately	on	a	sliding	scale	between	
0%	and	100%.	Shares	will	vest	in	full	where	compound	TSR	
growth	per	annum	over	the	performance	period	is	20%	or	
more.	This	constitutes	a	change	from	the	vesting	schedule	
used	for	awards	granted	prior	to	the	Demerger.	For	those	
awards,	25%	of	the	shares	vested	at	8%	compound	TSR	
growth	per	annum.	
Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	TSR	is	share	price	growth	
adjusted	for	dividends	and	capital	actions.	For	the	purpose	
of	these	awards,	TSR	will	be	calculated	using	a	one	month	
average	share	price	at	the	beginning	and	end	of	the	
performance	period	in	order	to	moderate	the	effect	of	
short-term	share	price	volatility.	
The	Committee	will	determine	the	performance	conditions	
applicable	to	the	other	50%	of	an	award	linked	to	EPS	
growth	before	such	awards	are 	granted.	It	is	intended	that	
25%	vesting	will	arise	at	the	threshold	level	and	100%	
vesting	will	only	apply	for	sustained	outstanding	
performance.	The	Committee	is	curr ently	consulting	with	
shareholders	in	respect	of	EPS	targets.
The	Committee	will	also	consider	whether	underlying	financial	
performance	over	the	full	three-year	period	warrants	release	
of	the	shares	and	will	scale	back	the	number	of	shares	that	
vest	if	appropriate.		
(ii)	Long	Term	Incentive	Plan	(LTIP)		
The	LTIP	creates	a	reward	pool	for	Executive	Directors	and	
senior	management	of	the	Group	depending	on	the	extent	
to	which	the	business	has	grown	in	value	from	its	adjusted	
base	value	at	1	April	2006.	This	plan	directly	aligns	the	senior	
team’s	incentives	with	shareholder	interests.	It	only	rewards	
participants	if	shareholder	value	has	increased	substantially.
The	graph	below	shows	the	change	in	the	value	of	the	total	
LTIP	pool	since	1	April	2006.	At	31	March	2010,	the	total	LTIP	
pool	was	£60	million.	
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide business value
 The ‘hurdle’ (minimum requirements for LTIP)
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
Mar
2006
Sept
2006
Mar
2007
Sept
2007
Mar
2008
Sept
2008
Mar
2009
Sept
2009
Mar
2010
120.1
62.2
69.4
59.9
70.8
97.2
73.9
37.6
LTIP value compared to business value 
Value in £m on 31 March and 30 September
Business
value £m
The	base	valuation	at	1	April	2006	is	adjusted	over	the	
performance	period	to	create	the	LTIP	hurdle	as	follows:	(i)	to	
reflect	additional	capital	notionally	treated	as	borrowed	by	the	
business;	(ii)	to	reflect	capital	notionally	treated	as	returned	
by	the	business;	and	(iii)	increased	by	a	hurdle	rate	being	the	
notional	weighted	average	cost	of	capital	of	the	business	
(which	will	be	at	least	8%	per	annum	compounded).	The	cost	
of	capital	is	carried	continuously.
If	the	business’	value	is	lower	than	its	adjusted	base	valuation	
at	the	end	of	the	performance	period,	there	will	be	no	reward	
pool.	To 	the	extent	that	the	business’	value	exceeds	its	
adjusted	base	valuation	at	the	end	of	the	performance	period,	
10%	of	the	growth	in	value	over	the	adjusted	base	valuation	
goes	into	the	reward	pool.	 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 47
John	 Pluthero	 and	 Jim	 Marsh	 hold	 20%	 and	 17%	 of	 the	
units	in	the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	LTIP	respectively.	
Tim	Weller	will	be	awarded	200	units	on	appointment,	
representing	2%	of	the	LTIP	units.
In	the	event	of	a	potential	payment	to	an	individual	in	excess	
of	£20	million,	the	Committee	will	(other	than	in	exceptional	
circumstances)	defer	any	excess	payment	until	31	March	
2012	or	up	to	one	year	following	a	vesting	event	if	earlier	and	
make	the	payment	in	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	shares	
rather	than	cash.
Measurement	of	the	size	of	the	reward	pool	is	generally	
carried	out	biannually	to	coincide	with	the	Company’s	
accounting	period	ends.	
The	LTIP	is	structured	as	a	five	year	performance	period	
until	2011	(or	until	an	earlier	vesting	event)	with	payout	
opportunities	at	the	end	of	years	three,	four	and	five	ending	in	
2011.	Shareholder	approval	is	being	sought	at	the	AGM	for	a	
change	to	the	valuation	period	in	2011	to	ensure	that	the	final	
valuation	date	post-dates	the	publication	of	the	Company’s	
annual	results.		Further	details	are 	provided	in	the	explanatory	
circular	accompanying	the	AGM	notice.
As	set	out	in	the	shareholder	documentation	at	the	time	of	
Demerger,	it	is	intended	to	utilise	a	proportion	of	unallocated	
LTIP	units	to	form	the	basis	of	the	Exceptional	Performance	
Awards	described	below.	
(iii)	Exceptional	Performance	Awards	(EPAs)	
The	Committee	intends	to	grant	Exceptional	Performance	
Awards	to	the	Chief	Executive	Officer	and	Chief	Financial	
Officer.	These	awards	are 	intended	to	incentivise	exceptional	
long-term	growth	in	shareholder	value,	ensure	senior	
executive	continuity	beyond	the	Demerger	and	develop	a	
package	capable	of	securing	long-term	senior	executive	
retention.	To 	reflect	the	potential	value	to	participants	of	
the	EPAs,	the	2011/12	grant	of	performance	shares	to	the	
relevant	individuals	will	be	scaled	back	by	100%	of	salary.
It	is	intended	that	awards	of	currently	unallocated	units	under	
the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	LTIP	would	be	made	as	EPAs	
on	the	following	basis:	
n	 Jim	Marsh,	Chief	Executive	Officer	–	175	units	
n	 Tim	Weller,	Chief	Financial	Officer	–	150	units	
The	LTIP	units	granted	to	Tim	Weller	would	be	structured	so	
that	he	would	only	receive	the	growth	in	the	value	of	units	
from	the	date	of	his	appointment.	
The	LTIP	units	would	be	valued	in	March	2011	but	no	cash	
payment	would	be	made.	Instead	the	value	of	the	units	
would	be	satisfied	by	a	grant	of	restricted	shares	awarded	
under	the	Cable&Wir eless	Worldwide	IP	2010	which	would	
vest	in	November	2014	subject	to	continued	employment.	
Participants	would	receive	a	matching	performance	award	
which	would	vest	in	November	2014	if	the	price	of	Cable	&	
Wireless	Worldwide	plc	ordinary	shares	for	a	sustained	period	
in	2014	is	at	least	twice	the	average	share	price	when	the	
awards	are 	granted	in	2011.	
In	order	for	EPAs	to	vest,	participants	will	have	to	increase	
their	personal	investment	in	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	
ordinary	shares	over	the	next	three	years	to	two	times	their	
base	salary.
The	Committee	is	currently	consulting	with	shareholders	
in	respect	of	the	proposed	EPAs	and	further	details	on	the	
terms	of	the	award	will	be	provided	in	the	2011/12	Directors’	
remuneration	report.	
Payments	to	the	participants	will	be	scaled	back	if	
the	Committee	is	not	satisfied	that	there	has	been	an	
improvement	in	the	underlying	financial	performance	of	
the	business.
iv)	Other	Share	Plans		
The	Group	operates	a	number	of	other	share	plans.	Details	of	
historic	awards	to	Executive	Directors	made	under	Cable	and	
Wireless	plc	plans,	which	have	been	replaced	by	identical	
awards	under	equivalent	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	schemes	
as	a	result	of	the	Demerger,	are 	summarised	in	the	tables	on	
pages	53	to	55.	
In	addition,	Executive	Dir ectors	are 	eligible	to	participate	in	
the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	UK	Share	Purchase	Plan	on	
the	same	terms	as	other	employees.
Performance graphs 
The	following	graph	shows	the	value,	by	31	March	2010,	of	
£100	invested	in	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	at	close	
of	trading	on	26	March	2010	(the	date	shares	in	Cable	&	
Wireless	Worldwide	plc	were	admitted	to	the	Official	List)	
compared	with	the	value	of	£100	invested	in	the	FTSE	100	
and	£100	invested	in	the	FTSE	Global	Telecoms	Sector		
Index	(GTSI).
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide
 FTSE GTSI
 FTSE 100
99.0
99.2
99.4
99.6
99.8
100.0
26 Mar
2010
31 Mar
2010
Total shareholder return 
Value in £ from 26 March 2010 to 31 March 2010
Graph	is	required	for	statutory	purposes,	note	that	it	only	
shows	a	five	day	period. 48	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report
 Governance Directors’	remuneration	report
The	Committee	considers	the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	
business	value	derived	for	the	purpose	of	the	LTIP	(as	
adjusted	for	cash	flows	to	and	from	the	corporate	centre),	to	
be	the	most	representative	equivalent	to	listed	market	value.	
The	following	graph	shows	the	change	in	value	of	a	notional	
£100	holding	in	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	over	the	four	
years	since	the	start	of	the	LTIP	compared	with	the	value	of	
£100	invested	in	the	FTSE	100	and	£100	invested	in	the	FTSE	
Global	Telecoms	Sector	Index	(GTSI).
.
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Business Value
 FTSE GTSI
 FTSE 100
0
100
200
300
31 Mar
2006
31 Mar
2007
31 Mar
2008
31 Mar
2009
31 Mar
2010
Performance chart – Worldwide business value 
compared to FTSE 100 and FTSE GTSI
Value in £ from 31 March 2006 to 31 March 2010
Dilution 
The	Committee	ensures	that	at	all	times	the	number	of	new	
shares	which	may	be	issued	under	any	share	option	or	share-
based	plans,	including	all-employee	plans,	does	not	exceed	
the	dilution	limit	of	10%	of	the	Company’s	issued	share	
capital	over	any	ten	year	rolling	period.	As	at	31	March	2010,	
7.53%	of	the	issued	shared	capital	was	available	for	issue	
under	our	share-based	plans.
The	Committee	includes	in	its	calculation	of	the	10%	dilution	
limit	the	number	of	shares	issued	to	employees	who	worked	
within	the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	business	prior	to	the	
Demerger.
Awards	under	the	various	share	plans	are 	funded	by	a	mix	
of	purchased	and	newly	issued	shares,	as	determined	by	
the	Committee.	Newly	issued	shares	are 	subject	to	the	
dilution	limit	outlined	above.	Purchased	shares	are 	held	by	
the	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Employee	Share	Ownership	
Trust	which	is	subject	to	a	holding	limit	of	5%	of	the	issued	
ordinary	share	capital	of	the	Company.
Executive Directors’ service contracts 
The	Committee’s	policy	is	that	Executive	Directors’	service	
contracts	should	include	a	maximum	notice	period	of	one	
year.	However,	a	longer	notice	period	may	apply	initially	
where	this	is	required	to	secure	the	services	of	executives	
in	exceptional	circumstances,	though	in	all	cases	the	notice	
period	will	reduce	to	one	year	or	less	after	two	years.	
Executive	Directors’	service	contracts	continue	until	their	
normal	retirement	date.
	 Date	 of	 contract	 Notice	 period
Jim	 Marsh	 26	 January	 2010	 One	 year
Tim	 Weller	 	1 	 December	 2009		 	 Two	 years	 reducing	 to		
one	 year	 from	1	 June	 2011
The	Executive	Directors’	contracts	provide	that,	in	the	event	
of	a	change	of	control	of	the	Company	and	an	Executive	
Director’s	employment	is	adversely	changed,	then	he	will	
receive	a	payment	equal	to	the	base	salary	for	the	notice	
period	and	a	time	pro-rated	annual	bonus.
The	Executive	Directors’	service	contracts	contain	no	other	
provisions	for	compensation	payable	on	early	termination.	In	
the	event	of	early	termination,	the	Committee	will,	within	legal	
constraints,	determine	the	approach	to	be	taken	according	
to	the	circumstances	of	each	individual	case,	taking	full	
account	of	the	departing	Executive	Director’s	obligation	to	
mitigate	loss.	Except	in	cases	of	early	termination	for	cause,	
the	Committee	will	take	into	account	the	relevant	Executive	
Director’s	current	salary,	notice	period	and	contractual	
benefits	when	calculating	any	liability	of	Cable&Wireless	
Worldwide.	The	principal	contractual	benefits	provided	in	
addition	to	salary	are 	pension	and	life	insurance.	Annual	
bonuses	and	long	term	incentives	are 	granted	at	the	
discretion	of	the	Committee	and	therefore	would	be	dealt	
with	in	accordance	with	the	rules	of	the	relevant	scheme.	
A	significant	proportion	of	each	Executive	Director’s	total	
remuneration	is	subject	to	performance	conditions	and	
therefore	would	not	be	payable	to	the	extent	that	the		
relevant	targets	have	not	been	met.
Directors’ shareholdings 
Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	operates	a	policy	of	encouraging	
Executive	Directors	to	align	their	interests	closely	with	those	
of	shareholders	by	requiring	them	to	build	up	and	maintain	
a	holding	of	ordinary	shares.	Where	the	relevant	holding	
has	not	already	been	attained,	it	is	required	to	be	achieved	
through	the	retention	of	any	net	awards	received	from	share	
plans	which	vest. 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 49
The	existing	requirement	is	to	build	and	maintain	a	holding		
of	shares	worth	at	least	two	times	the	Director’s	base	salary.	
At	31	March	2010,	John	Pluthero	and	Jim	Marsh	had	
shareholdings	of	circa	four	and	one	times	their	base	salaries	
respectively.	
Chairman
The	Chairman’s	contract	took	effect	on	26	March	2010	and	
contains	a	one	year	notice	period.	The	contract	provides	that	
at	the	Company’s	absolute	discretion	it	may	terminate	the	
contract	on	no	or	less	than	full	notice	by	paying	a	sum	equal	
to	base	salary	in	lieu	of	the	unexpired	part	of	the	notice.	The	
contract	contains	no	other	contractual	entitlements	on	early	
termination	or	following	a	change	of	control.	As	set	out	in	
the	Prospectus	at	the	time	of	Demerger,	during	the	two	year	
period	to	26	March	2012	the	Company	will	pay	the	Chairman	
an	annual	pension	cash	allowance	equivalent	to	25%	of	his	
annual	base	salary	of	£600,000.
Non-executive Directors 
The	Non-executive	Directors	do	not	have	service	contracts	
with	the	Company,	but	instead	have	letters	of	appointment.	
Their	fees	are 	determined	by	the	Board,	within	the	limits	
set	out	in	the	Company’s	Articles	of	Association,	with	
Non-executive	Directors	abstaining	from	any	discussion	
or	decision	on	their	fees.	Fee	levels	were	last	reviewed	at	
the	date	of	demer ger	to	take	into	account	the	market	in	
general	and	the	roles	of	the	Non-executive	Directors	at	
Cable&Wireless	Worldwide.	No	changes	were	made	to	
base	fee	levels	as	a	result	of	that	review,	but	additional	fees	
were	allocated	dependent	on	the	Non-executive	Directors’	
new	roles.	The	Non-executive	Directors	do	not	receive	any	
incentive	payments	or	pension	provision.
Annual	fees	payable	to	each	Non-executive	Director	for	
2010/11	are 	as	follows:
	 	 	 Base	 fee	 Additional	 fees
John	 Barton	 	 	 £65,000	 £20,000
1
Clive	 Butler	 	 	 £65,000	 £20,000
2
Penny	 Hughes	 	 	 £65,000	 	 £20,000
3
1	 Additional	fee	for	role	of	Senior	Independent	Director	and	Deputy	Chairman.
2	 Additional	fee	for	role	of	Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee.
3	 Additional	fee	for	role	of	Chair	of	the	Audit	Committee.
Non-executive	Directors	are 	appointed	for	an	initial	three	year	
term.	After	two	three	year	terms,	the	continued	appointment	
of	any	Non-executive	Director	may	be	extended	on	an	annual	
basis	at	the	invitation	of	the	Chairman.	Termination	of	the	
appointment	may	be	earlier	at	the	discretion	of	either	party	
on	one	month’s	written	notice.	None	of	the	Non-executive	
Directors	is	entitled	to	any	compensation	if	their	appointment	
is	terminated.	All	appointments	will	be	subject	to	re-election	
at	the	AGM	in	accordance	with	the	Articles	of	Association.	
External directorships 
The	Company	allows	Executive	Directors	to	hold	external	
directorships	and	retain	the	fees	received	from	those	roles.	
During	2009/10	neither	the	Chairman	or	the	Chief	Executive	
Officer	held	any	such	external	directorships.
This	report,	including	the	tables	on	pages	50	to	55,	has	been	
approved	on	behalf	of	the	Board	by:
Clive Butler 
Chairman,	Remuneration	Committee		
26	May	2010 50	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report
 Governance Directors’	remuneration	report
Directors’ remuneration
In	accordance	with	the	Companies	Act	2006,	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	is	required	to	present	the	Directors’	
remuneration	from	24	September	2009	(the	date	of	incorporation)	through	to	31	March	2010.	The	Demerger	of	the	
Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	business	from	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Group	took	place	on	26	March	2010.	Prior	to	this	date,		
the	Directors	were	not	remunerated	for	their	role	as	Directors	of	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	as	this	entity	was	unrelated	
to	the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Group	until	this	date.
In	 order	 to	 provide	a	 historical	 track	 record	 and	 greater	 transparency	 of	 Directors’	 remuneration,	 the	 remuneration	 of	 the	
Cable&Wireless	 Worldwide	 Directors	 has	 been	 presented	 on	a	 proforma	 basis	 in	 addition	 to	 the	 statutory	 basis.	 This	 basis	
presents	 Directors’	 remuneration	 as	 if	 the	 Group	 had	 existed	 in	 its	 current	 form	 throughout	 the	 year,	 using	 amounts	 paid	 to		
the	 Directors	 for	 their	 services	 to	 the	 former	 Cable	&	 Wireless	 Group	 as	 the	 basis	 of	 remuneration.
The	 following	sections	 of	 the	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report	 have	 been	 subject	 to	 audit.
For the proforma period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010
	 	 	 Salaries		 	 Benefits	 Cash 		 Total	 	 Total
	 	 	 and	 fees	 	 Bonuses
1
	 	 in	 kind
2
	 	 allowance		 2009/10	 	 2008/09	
	 	 	 £		 £	 £	 £	 £	 £
Chairman 
John	 Pluthero	 	 	 600,000	 –	 	 34,582	 	 150,000
3
	 784,582	 1,301,979
Executive Director
4
      
Jim	 Marsh	 	 	 500,000
5
	– 	 	 28,640	 	 10,800
6
		 539,440	 	 716,198
Non-executive Directors       
John	 Barton		 	 	 65,000	 –	 	 701	 	– 		 65,701	 	 4,189
Clive	 Butler	 	 	 85,000	 	– 	 	 732	 	– 		 85,732	 	 87,883
Penny	 Hughes	 (since	1	 July	 2009)	 	 	 48,750	 	– 	 	 378	 	– 		 49,128	 	–
Total 	 	 	 1,298,750	 –	 	 65,033	 	 160,800		 1,524,583 
7
	 2,110,249
Note
	 1	 	 No	bonus	was	payable	to	Directors	in	respect	of	the	2009/10	financial	year	based	on	
the	EBITDA	of	the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	business.
2	 	 In	compliance	with	the	Companies	Act	2006,	‘Benefits	in	kind’	include	Company	
provided	life	assurance	and	travel.
3	 	 Company	pension	contributions	in	2009/10	have	been	paid	to	John	Pluthero	as	an	
annual	cash	allowance.	Pension	contributions	in	respect	of	Jim	Marsh	were	paid	as	
employer	contributions	into	the	Company’s	defined	contribution	pension	plan.
		 4	 	 Tim	Weller	was	not	employed	until	24	May	2010	and	therefore	received	no	remuneration	
from	the	Company	during	the	2009/10	financial	year.
5	 	 Jim	Marsh’s	salary	is	shown	prior	to	any	salary	sacrifice	under	pension	arrangements.
6	 Jim	Marsh	was	paid	a	cash	allowance	in	2009/10	in	lieu	of	provision	of	a	company	car.
7	 	 The	aggregate	emoluments	of	the	Directors	which	include	employer	pension	
contributions	were	£1,587,731	(2008/09	–	£2,164,569). 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 51
For the statutory period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Total for
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	24 September
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2010 to	
	 	 	 	 Salaries		 	 Benefits	 Cash 		 31 March 
	 	 	 	 and	 fees	 	 Bonuses
1
	 	 in	 kind
2
	 	 allowance		 2010	
	 	 	 	 £		 £	 £	 £	 £
Chairman 
John	 Pluthero	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	 8,695	 –	 568	 	 2,180
3
		 11,443
Executive Director
4
Jim	 Marsh	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	 7,246
6
	 	 –	 471	 	 174
7
		 7,891	
Non-executive Directors
John	 Barton	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	 942	 –	 	 12	 	– 		 954	
Clive	 Butler	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	 1,232	 	– 	 	 12	 	– 		 1,244	
Penny	 Hughes	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	 942	 	– 	 	6 	 	– 		 948	
Directors on incorporation
Alnery	 Incorporations	 No.	1	 Limited	 (24	 September	 2009	 to	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 –	 	– 	 	– 	 	– 		 –	
Alnery	 Incorporations	 No.	2	 Limited	 (24	 September	 2009	 to	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 –	 	– 	 	– 	 	– 		 –	
Craig	 Morris	 (24	 September	 2009	 to	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	– 	 	– 	 	– 	 	– 		 –	
Total       19,057 – 1,069 2,354  22,480
5
1	 	 No	bonuses	were	payable	during	the	period.	
2	 	 In	compliance	with	the	Companies	Act	2006,	‘Benefits	in	kind’	include	Company	
provided	life	assurance	and	travel.
3	 	 Company	pension	contributions	in	2009/10	have	been	paid	to	John	Pluthero	as	an	
annual	cash	allowance.	Pension	contributions	relating	to	Jim	Marsh	were	paid	as	
employer	contributions	into	the	Company’ s	defined	contribution	pension	plan.
4	 	 Tim	Weller	was	not	employed	until	24	May	2010	and	therefore	received	no	remuneration	
from	the	Company	during	the	2009/10	financial	year.	
5	 	 The	aggregate	emoluments	of	the	Directors	which	include	employer	pension	
contributions	were	£23,386.
6	 Jim	Marsh’s	salary	is	shown	prior	to	any	salary	sacrifice	under	pension	arrangements.
7	 Jim	Marsh	was	paid	a	cash	allowance	in	2009/10	in	lieu	of	provision	of	a	company	car.
Directors’ shareholdings 
The	beneficial	interests	of	the	Directors	and	their	connected	persons	as	notified	to	the	Company	in	the	ordinary	shares		
of	the	Company	were	as	follows:
For the proforma period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010
	 	 	 		 	 	 Cable	 &	 	 Cable &
	 	 	 		 	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 Cable	 &	 Wireless
	 	 	 Cable	 and	 	 Cable	 and	 Wireless 	 plc	 Worldwide	 plc	 	 Wireless	 Worldwide plc
	 	 	 Wireless	 plc	 Wireless 	 plc	 shares 	 held	 as	 shares 	 held	 as	 Worldwide	 plc	shares held as
	 	 	 shares 	 held	 as	 	 shares	 at 	 25	 March	 at 	 26	 March	 shares	 at 31 March
	 	 	 at	1	 April	 2009	 	 acquired	 2010	 2010	 acquired	 2010
Chairman       
John	 Pluthero	 	 	 1,600,334	 	 1,177,598	 2,777,932	 2,777,932	 	– 		2,777,932
Executive Director
1
Jim	 Marsh		 	 	 288,446
2
	 116,613	 405,059	 405,059	 246,500		651,559	
Non-executive Directors       
John	 Barton		 	 	 50,000	 	 –	 50,000	 50,000	 	 50,000		 100,000	
Clive	 Butler	 	 	 57,000	 –	 57,000	 57,000	 –	 57,000
Penny	 Hughes	 (since	1	 July	 2009)	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –	 30,000		 30,000	
1			 In	addition,	as	potential	beneficiaries	from	outstanding	awards	which	may	be	satisfied	
by	shares	held	by	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Employee	Share	Ownership	Trust	
(the	T rust),	the	Executive	Directors	are 	deemed	to	have	an	interest	in	all	of	the	ordinary	
shares	held	by	the	Trust,	which	at	31	March	2010	amounted	to	nil	shares	(following	the	
year	end,	21,854,487	shares	were	transferred	to	the	Trust	from	the	Cable	&	Wireless	
Employee	Share	Ownership	Trust	as	a	consequence	of	Demerger).	
2	 	 On	his	appointment	to	the	board	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	on	1	Jan	2010,	Jim	Marsh	
held	405,059	ordinary	shares. 52	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report
 Governance Directors’	remuneration	report
For the statutory period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Cable	&	
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Wireless
	 	 	 	 	 	 Worldwide	 plc	
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 shares	 Cable	 &	 Cable &
	 	 	 	 	 Shares 	 	 allocated	 on	 Wireless	 Wireless
	 	 	 	 	 allocated	 on	 	 Demerger	 Worldwide	 plc	Worldwide plc
	 	 	 	 	 incorporation	 on	 as	 at	 shares	 shares held as
     24	 September 26	 March	 acquired/	 at 31 March
     2009 2010	 (disposed)	 2010
Chairman
John	 Pluthero	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	– 	 	 2,777,932	 	– 		2,777,932 
Executive Director
1
Jim	 Marsh	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)		 	 	 	 	 –	 405,059	 246,500		 651,559	
Non-executive Directors 
John	 Barton	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	– 	 	 50,000	 	 50,000		 100,000	
Clive	 Butler	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	 –	 57,000	 –	 57,000
Penny	 Hughes	 (since	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 30,000		 30,000	
Directors on incorporation
Alnery	 Incorporations	 No.	1	 Limited	 (24	 September	 2009	 to	 25	 January	 2010)
2
		 	 1	 –	 (1)	 –
Alnery	 Incorporations	 No.	2	 Limited	 (24	 September	 2009	 to	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –
Craig	 Morris	 (24	 September	 2009	 to	 25	 January	 2010)	 	 	 	 	 –	 –	 –	 –
1			 In	addition,	as	potential	beneficiaries	from	outstanding	awards	which	may	be	satisfied	
by	shares	held	by	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Employee	Share	Ownership	Trust	
(the	Trust),	the	Executive	Directors	are 	deemed	to	have	an	interest	in	all	of	the	ordinary	
shares	held	by	the	Trust,	which	at	31	March	2010	amounted	to	nil	shares	(following	the	
year	end,	21,854,487	shares	were	transferred	to	the	Trust	from	the	Cable	&	Wireless	
Employee	Shar e	Ownership	Trust	as	a	consequence	of	Demerger).
2	 	 Alnery	Incorporations	No.	1	Limited	was	issued	with	1	share	in	Cable	&	Wireless	
Worldwide,	then	known	as	Project	Swan	No.	1	Limited,	which	was	then	transferred	on	
25	January	2010.
The	information	in	these	tables	remains	accurate	as	at	25	May	2010.
LTIP 
The	table	below	discloses	the	LTIP	amounts	receivable	and	the	qualifying	period	end	date	under	the	existing	terms		
of	the	LTIP ,	as	described	on	pages	46	to	47.	
For the proforma period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010
	 	 	 	 LTIP	 interests	 LTIP LTIP	 LTIP
	 	 LTIP	 interests	 LTIP 	 paid	 awarded/	 interests 	 at	 receivable at	 receivable 	 at	 	
	 	 at	1	 April	 during	 forfeited	 during	 31	 March	 31 March	 31	 March	 Qualifying 	
	 	 2009	 the	 period	 the 	 period	 2010	 2010	 2009	 period 	
	 	 (units)	 £	 (units)	 (units)	 £		 £	 end	 date
	
Jim	 Marsh		 	 1,500	 6,997,500	 188
1
	 1,688	 1,987,500
2
	 	 6,997,500	 31/03/11
John	 Pluthero	 	 2,000	 	 8,293,748	 –	 2,000	 1,889,252
3
	 	 9,330,000
4
	 31/03/11
1	 	 Jim	Marsh	was	awarded	188	additional	units	in	the	LTIP	on	10	June	2009.	This	award	
is	structured	so	that	he	will	only	receive	the	value	in	excess	of	£2,000	per	unit	and	will	
payout	in	full	in	2011.	
2	 	 The	figure	represents	100%	of	the	value	of	Jim	Marsh’s	1,500	units	in	the	LTIP	reward	
pool	at	26	March	2010	minus	the	value	of	the	payment	made	in	May	2009.	There	was	
no	payout	fr om	the	188	units	awarded	in	2009/10.
3	 	 The	figure	represents	85%	of	the	value	of	John	Pluthero’s	units	in	the	LTIP	reward	pool	
at	26	March	2010	minus	the	value	of	the	payment	made	in	May	2009.
4	 	 The	figure	represents	75%	of	the	value	of	John	Pluthero’s	units	in	the	LTIP	reward	pool.	
The	actual	cash	paid	was	£8,293,748,	which	represented	66.67%	of	the	value	of	his	
units. 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 53
For the statutory period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010
		 	 	 	 LTIP	 interests	
	 	 LTIP	 LTIP 	 interests	 allocated	 on	 LTIP	 interests	 LTIP	 LTIP	
	 	 interests	 at	 awarded/	 Demerger 	 as	 at	 awarded/	 interests 	 at	 receivable at
	 	 24	 September	 forfeited 	 during	 26	 March	 forfeited	 during	 31	 March	 31 March	 Qualifying 	
	 	 2009	 the	 period	 2009	 the	 period	 2010	 2010	 period 	
	 	 (units)	 (units)	 (units)	 (units)	 (units)	 £	 	 end	 date
	 		
Jim	 Marsh		 	 –	 –	 1,688	 –	 1,688	 1,987,500
1
	 	 31/03/11
John	 Pluthero	 	 –	 –	 2,000	 –	 2,000	 1,889,252
2
	 31/03/11
1	 	 The	figure	represents	100%	of	the	value	of	Jim	Marsh’s	1,500	units	in	the	LTIP	reward	
pool	minus	the	value	of	the	payment	made	in	May	2009.	There	was	no	payout	from	the	
188	units	awarded	in	2009/10.
2	 	 The	figure	represents	85%	of	the	value	of	John	Pluthero’s	units	in	the	LTIP	reward	pool	
minus	the	value	of	the	payment	made	in	May	2009.
Directors’ share options
Share	options	that	were	not	exercised	before	the	date	of	the	Scheme	Court	Hearing	on	19	March	2010	were	adjusted	by	the	
Cable	and	Wireless	plc	Remuneration	Committee	so	that,	following	the	Demerger,	they	continued	in	respect	of	one	Cable	
&	Wireless	Communications	Plc	ordinary	share	and	one	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	ordinary	share	for	each	Cable	and	
Wireless	plc	ordinary	share	previously	under	option.	All	of	these	options	were	granted	and	vested	over	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	
shares	prior	to	the	Demerger.
For the proforma period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Cable &
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Wireless
	 	 	 	 	 	 Granted	 	 	 Worldwide
	 	 	 	 	 	 between	 	 	 shares under
	 	 Date	 from	 	 	 Shares 	 under	 1	 April	 2009	 	 Lapsed,	 option at
	 	 which	 first	 	 Date	 of	 expiry	 	 Exercise	 price	 option	 at	 and	 31	 March	 	 cancelled		 31 March
	 Grant	 date	 exercisable	 of 	 option	 (pence)	 1 	 April	 2009	 2010	 Exercised	 or	 forfeited	 2010
John Pluthero
1
Approved		 03/03/06	 21/05/09
2
	 02/03/13	 107.40	 	 27,932	 	– 	 	 (27,932)
4
	– 		 –	
Unapproved	 03/03/06		 	 21/05/09
2
	 02/03/13	 	 107.40	 	 1,135,941
3
	– 	 	 –	 –		 1,135,941
3
	 	 		 	 1,163,873	 –	 	 (27,932)	 –		 1,135,941	
1	 	 A	takeover,	reconstruction	or	winding-up	in	relation	to	Cable	&	Wireless	
Communications	Plc	will	not	trigger	the	early	lapse	of	share	options	held	by	employees	
within	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Group.
2	 	 John	Pluthero	agreed	to	delay	the	date	on	which	options	were	to	become	first	
exercisable	from	March	2009	to	21	May	2009.	This	was	to	avoid	options	becoming	
exercisable	during	a	prohibited	period.
3	 	 Following	the	demerger,	these	shares	are 	linked	to	an	equal	number	of	Cable	&	Wireless	
Communications	Plc	shares	and	cannot	be	exercised	separately.
4	 	 The	market	price	on	the	date	of	exercise	of	John	Pluthero’s	share	options	was		
143.9	pence.
For the statutory period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Cable &
	 	 	 	 	 	 Granted	 	 	 Wireless
	 	 	 	 	 	 between	 	 	 Worldwide
	 	 	 	 	 Shares 	 under	 24	 September	 	 	 shares under
	 	 Date	 from	 	 	 option	 at	 2009	 	 Lapsed,	 option at
	 	 which	 first	 	 Date	 of	 expiry	 	 Exercise	 price	 24	 September	 and	 31	 March	 	 cancelled		 31 March
	 Grant	 date	 exercisable	 of 	 option	 (pence)	 2009	 2010	 Exercised	 or 	 forfeited	 2010
John Pluthero
1
         
Approved		 03/03/06	 21/05/09
2
	 02/03/13	 107.40	 	 27,932	 	– 	 	 (27,932)	 –		 –	
Unapproved	 03/03/06		 	 21/05/09
2
	 02/03/13	 	 107.40	 	 1,135,941
3
	– 	 	 –	 –		 1,135,941
3
	 	 		 	 1,163,873	 	– 	 	 (27,932)	 –		 1,135,941	
1	 	 A	takeover,	reconstruction	or	winding-up	in	relation	to	Cable	&	Wireless	
Communications	Plc	will	not	trigger	the	early	lapse	of	share	options	held	by	employees	
within	the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Group.	
2	 	 John	Pluthero	agreed	to	delay	the	date	on	which	options	were	to	become	first	
exercisable	from	March	2009	to	21	May	2009.	This	was	to	avoid	options	becoming	
exercisable	during	a	prohibited	period.	
3	 	 Following	the	Demerger,	these	shares	are 	linked	to	an	equal	number	of	Cable	&	Wireless	
Communications	Plc	shares	and	cannot	be	exercised	separately.
Notes
These	are 	HMRC	approved	and	unapproved	options	originally	issued	over	Cable	and	
Wireless	plc	shares	(see	note	31	of	the	consolidated	financial	statements	for	details).	The	
options	vested	based	on	the	achievement	of	relative	TSR	performance	conditions.
No	amounts	were	paid	by	Directors	for	the	award	of	the	options	listed	in	the	tables	above.	
The	closing	mid	market	price	of	a	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	ordinary	share	on		
31	Mar ch	2010	was	92.00	pence.
The	highest	closing	mid	market	price	of	a	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	ordinary	share	
during	the	period	was	92.25	pence	and	lowest	closing	mid	market	price	was	90.30	pence. 54	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report
 Governance Directors’	remuneration	report
Directors’ share awards
Share	awards	that	did	not	vest	before	the	date	of	the	Demerger	lapsed	and	were	replaced	by	an	award	over	Cable	&	Wireless	
Worldwide	plc	ordinary	shares,	having	an	equivalent	value	(determined	by	reference	to	the	average	closing	price	of	Cable	
&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	ordinary	shares	and	Cable	&	Wireless	Communications	Plc	ordinary	shares	over	the	five	trading	
days	commencing	on	the	date	of	Demerger)	and	vesting	on	the	same	date	as	the	original	award.	These	awards	were	granted	
under	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Incentive	Plan	2010	(IP2010).	The	performance	conditions	applicable	to	the	original	
awards	were	measured	by	reference	to	the	TSR	of	the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	business,	and	therefore	the	performance	
conditions	continue	by	reference	to	the	TSR	of	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Group	following	the	Demerger.	The	replacement	
awards	are 	subject	to	the	rules	of	the	IP2010.
Immediately	prior	to	the	Demerger,	John	Pluthero	and	Jim	Marsh	held	awards	over	2,478,783	and	1,486,204	Cable	and	
Wireless	plc	shares	respectively,	which	lapsed	at	Demerger.	Following	the	Demerger,	on	13	May	2010	John	Pluthero	and	Jim	
Marsh	were	granted	replacement	awards	over	3,995,983	and	2,395,872	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	shares	respectively.
For the proforma period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Change	 in	
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 share	
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 awar ds	 on	 Cable &
	 	 	 	 Cable	 and	 Awarded	 	 conversion	 	 Wireless
	 	 	 Market	 Wireless	 plc	 between	 	 to	 Cable	 &	Worldwide plc
	 	 	 price	 on	 shares 	 under	 1	 April	 2009	 	 Wireless	 shares under
	 	 	 date	 of	 award	 award 	 at	 and	 Shares	 Worldwide	 award at
Name	 and	 scheme	 Award	 date	 Vesting	 date	 (pence)	 1 	 April	 2009	 	 31	 March	 2010	 	 vested	 awards	 31 March 2010
John Pluthero         
Restricted	 Shares
MS
	 03/03/06	 21/05/09
1
	 107.40	 	 1,000,000
2
	 –	 (1,000,000)	 	 –	 –
Performance	 Shares	 03/03/06	 21/05/09
1
	 107.40	 	 232,774
3
	 –	 (232,774)	 	 –	 –
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 11/08/06	 21/05/09
1
	 109.20	 	 6,608
3
	 –	 (6,608)	 	 –	 –
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 19/01/07	 21/05/09
1
	 158.35	 	 2,498
3
	 –	 (2,498)	 	 –	 –
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 10/08/07	 21/05/09
1
	 198.46	 	 4,867
3
	 –	 (4,867)	 	 –	 –
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 25/01/08	 21/05/09
1
	 181.22	 	 3,211
3
	 –	 (3,211)	 	 –	 –
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 08/08/08	 21/05/09
1
	 155.16	 	 7,501
3
	 	 –	 (7,501)	 	 –	 –
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 23/01/09	 21/05/09
1
	 145.18	 4,537
3
	 	 –	 (4,537)	 	 –	 –
Performance	 Shares	 02/06/09	 02/06/12	 134.32	 –	 2,322,811
4
	 –	 1,421,735	
5
	 3,744,546
5
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 07/08/09	 02/06/12	 128.30	 –	 102,652
4
	 –	 62,830	
5
	 165,482
5
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 22/01/10	 02/06/12	 137.66	 –	 53,320
4
	 –	 32,635	
5
	 85,955
5
	 	 	 	 1,261,996	 2,478,783	 (1,261,996)	 1,517,200	
5
	 3,995,983
Jim Marsh        
Performance	 Shares	 25/11/09	 25/11/12	 137.66	 –	 1,452,854
4
	 –	 889,256	
5
	 2,342,110
5
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 22/01/10	 25/11/12	 137.66	 	 –	 33,350
4
	 –	 20,412	
5
	 53,762
5
	 	 	 	– 	 	 1,486,204	 –	 909,668	 2,395,872
DS	 Dividend	Shares		
MS	 Matching	Shares
1			 John	Pluthero	agreed	to	delay	the	vesting	of	awards	which	were	due	to	vest	during	
March	2009.	This	was	to	avoid	shares	vesting	during	a	prohibited	period.
2			 These	shares	were	delivered	to	the	John	Pluthero	at	the	third	anniversary	of	grant,	as	
he	had	remained	an	employee	of	the	Group	and	retained	beneficial	ownership	of	the	
shares	pur chased.	Performance	conditions	applied	and	vesting	occurred	as	the	TSR	
performance	of	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Group	exceeded	the	upper	quartile	measured	
against	the	constituents	of	the	FTSE	GTSI.	
3	 	 Full	vesting	of	the	performance	shares,	and	any	associated	dividend	reinvestment	
shares,	occurred	as	TSR	performance	of	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	exceeded	the	upper	
quartile	when	compared	against	the	FTSE	GTSI	during	the	performance	period.	
4	 	 Full	vesting	of	the	performance	shares	and	any	associated	dividend	reinvestment	
shares,	will	occur	only	if	TSR	performance	is	equal	to	20%	or	more	compound	growth	
per	annum	during	the	performance	period	starting	on	1	April	2009	and	ending	on	31	
March	2012.	Where	TSR	performance	is	equal	to	8%	compound	growth	per	annum,	
25%	of	the	performance	shares	will	vest.	The	performance	shares	will	vest	pro-rate	
where	TSR	performance	is	more	than	8%	but	less	than	20%	compound	growth	per	
annum.	If	the	Group	TSR	is	less	than	8%	compound	growth	per	annum	no	performance	
shares	will	vest.	Vesting	must	also	be	warranted	by	reference	to	the	underlying	financial	
performance	during	the	performance	period	which	will	be	determined	by	the	Committee	
within	12	months	of	the	end	of	the	performance	period.	
5	 	 Following	the	Demer ger,	the	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	performance	shares	that	had	not	
vested	lapsed	and	were	replaced	by	an	award	over	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	
ordinary	shares,	having	an	equivalent	value	(determined	by	reference	to	the	average	
closing	price	of	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	ordinary	shares	and	Cable	&	Wireless	
Communications	Plc	ordinary	shares	over	the	five	trading	days	commencing	on	the	date	
of	Demerger). 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 55
For the statutory period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010
The	Directors’	entitlement	to	share	awards	in	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	arose	on	the	acquisition	of	the	Cable&Wireless	
Worldwide	business	by	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	26	March	2010.	The	Directors’	existing	awards	over	shares	in		
Cable	and	Wireless	plc	under	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Incentive	Plan	2001	were	converted	into	equivalent	awards	over	shares		
in	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc.	These	outstanding	awards	lapsed	and	were	regranted	on	identical	terms	under	the		
Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Incentive	Plan	2010	on	13	May	2010.
	 	 	 	 	 	 Cable	&		 	 	 	
	 	 	 	 Cable	 &	 	 Wireless	 	 	 Cable &	
	 	 	 	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 	 	 Wireless
	 	 	 	 Worldwide	 plc	 shares	 	 	 	 Worldwide
	 	 	 Market	 price	 shares 	 under	 allocated	 on	 	 Shares	 shares under
	 	 	 on	 date	 award	 at	 Demerger	 	 lapsed,	 award at
	 	 	 of	 award	 24	 September	 	 (26	 March	 Shares	 cancelled	 or	 31 March	
Name	 and	 scheme	 Award	 date	 Vesting	 date	 (pence)	 2009	 2010)
	
	 vested	 forfeited	 2010
John Pluthero        
Performance	 Shares	 02/06/09	 02/06/12	 83.32
3
	 –	 3,744,546
2	
	 –	 –	3,744,546
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 07/08/09	 02/06/12	 79.59
3
	 –	 165,482
2	
	 –	 –	 165,482
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 22/01/10	 02/06/12	 85.39
3
	 –	 85,955
2	
	 –	 –	 85,955
	 	 	 	 –	 3,995,983		 –	 –	 3,995,983
Jim Marsh        
Performance	 Shares	 25/11/09	 25/11/12	 85.39
3
	 –	 2,342,110
2	
	 –	 –	2,342,110
Performance	 Shares
DS
	 22/01/10	 25/11/12	 85.39
3
	 –	 53,762
2	
	 –	 –	 53,762
	 	 	 	– 	 	 2,395,872	 –	 –	 2,395,872
DS	 Dividend	Shares
1	 	 On	26	March	2010,	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	was	listed	on	the	London	Stock	
Exchange.
2	 	 Full	vesting	of	the	performance	shares	and	any	associated	dividend	reinvestment	
shares,	will	occur	only	if	TSR	performance	is	equal	to	20%	or	mor e	compound	growth	
per	annum	during	the	performance	period	starting	on	1	April	2009	and	ending	on	31	
March	2012.	Where	TSR	performance	is	equal	to	8%	compound	growth	per	annum,	
25%	of	the	performance	shares	will	vest.	The	performance	shares	will	vest	pro-rate	
where	TSR	performance	is	more	than	8%	but	less	than	20%	compound	growth	per	
annum.	If	the	Group	TSR	is	less	than	8%	compound	growth	per	annum	no	performance	
	 	 shares	will	vest.	Vesting	must	also	be	warranted	by	reference	to	the	underlying	financial	
performance	during	the	performance	period	which	will	be	determined	by	the	Committee	
within	12	months	of	the	end	of	the	performance	period.	
3	 	 The	market	price	on	date	of	award	has	been	adjusted	to	reflect	the	replacement	at	
Demerger	of	awards	over	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	shares	with	awards	over	Cable	&	
Wireless	Worldwide	plc	shares,	having	equivalent	value	(determined	by	reference	to	the	
average	closing	price	of	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	ordinary	shares	and	Cable	&	
Wireless	Communications	Plc	ordinary	shares	over	the	five	trading	days	commencing	
on	the	date	of	Demerger).
Directors’ pension benefits
Executive	Directors	are 	eligible	to	participate	in	the	defined	contribution	section	of	the	Company’s	pension	plan.	
Prior	to	the	Demer ger,	Jim	Marsh	participated	in	the	defined	contribution	section	of	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Superannuation	
Fund.	Following	Demerger,	his	participation	and	pension	benefits	automatically	transferred	to	the	newly-established		
Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Retirement	Plan,	which	provides	defined	contribution	arrangements	on	the	same	basis	as	
applied	under	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Superannuation	Fund.	Participation	in	both	plans	was	on	a	salary	sacrifice	basis.		
In	return	for	a	salary	reduction	equivalent	to	five	per	cent	of	basic	salary,	subject	to	the	salary	cap	(£123,600	for	the	2009/10	
tax	year),	the	Group	contributed	the	equivalent	amount	plus	12.5%	of	his	uncapped	salary.	The	normal	retirement	age	is	65.	
	 	
	 	 	 Company	 pension	 Company	 pension	
	 	 	 contributions	 for	 the	 proforma	 period	 contributions	 for	 the	 statutory	 period	
Name	 	 	 of	1	 April	 2009	 to	 31	 March	 2010	 of	 24	 September	 2009	 to	 31	 March	 2010
Jim Marsh	 	 	 	 	 £63,148
1
		 	 £906
1
1			 These	figures	exclude	the	contributions	relating	to	Jim	Marsh’s	salary	reduction	under	the	salary	sacrifice	arrangement.
John	Pluthero	received	a	taxable	cash	allowance	equivalent	to	25%	of	his	basic	salary	in	lieu	of	participation	in	the	
Company’s	pension	plan.	 56	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report
GOVERNANCE
STATEm ENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESp ONSIBIl ITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the  
Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report  
and the financial statements (Group and Company)  
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
English	company	law	requires	the	Directors	to	prepare	
financial	statements	for	each	financial	year.	Under	that	law,	
the	Directors	have	prepared	the	Group	financial	statements	
in	accordance	with	International	Financial	Reporting	
Standards	(IFRSs)	as	adopted	by	the	European	Union	(EU)	
and	applicable	law.	Further,	they	have	elected	to	prepare	
the	Company	financial	statements	in	accordance	with	UK	
accounting	standards	and	applicable	law	(UK	GAAP).	The	
financial	statements	are 	required	by	law	to	give	a	true	and	
fair	view	of	the	assets,	liabilities	and	financial	position	of	
the	Group	and	the	Company	and	of	the	Group’s	income	
statement	for	that	period.	
In	preparing	the	financial	statements,	the	Directors	are 	
required	to:
n	 Select	suitable	accounting	policies	and	apply	them	
consistently;
n	 Make	judgements	and	estimates	that	are 	reasonable	
and	prudent;
n	 For	the	Group	financial	statements,	state	whether	they	
have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	IFRSs	as	adopted	
by	the	EU;	and	
n	 For	the	Company	financial	statements,	state	whether	
applicable	UK	accounting	standards	have	been	followed,	
subject	to	any	material	departures	disclosed	and	explained	
in	the	financial	statements.
The	Directors	are 	also	required	by	the	Disclosure	and	
Transparency	Rules	to	include	a	management	report	
containing	a	fair	r eview	of	the	business	and	a	description		
of	the	principal	risks	and	uncertainties	facing	the	Group		
and	Company.
The	Directors	are 	responsible	for	keeping	proper	accounting	
records	that	disclose	with	reasonable	accuracy	at	any	time	
the	financial	position	of	the	Company	and	the	Group	and	
enable	them	to	ensure	that	the	financial	statements	and	the	
Directors’	remuneration	report	comply	with	the	Companies	
Act	2006	and,	with	regard	to	the	Group	financial	statements,	
Article	4	of	the	IAS	Regulation.	They	are 	also	responsible	for	
the	system	of	internal	control	for	safeguarding	the	assets	of	
the	Company	and	the	Group	and	hence	for	taking	reasonable	
steps	to	prevent	and	detect	fraud	and	other	irregularities.
A	copy	of	the	financial	statements	of	the	Company	is		
posted	on	the	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	website		
(www.cw.com).	The	Directors	are 	responsible	for	the	
maintenance	and	integrity	of	the	corporate	and	financial	
information	included	on	the	website.	Information	published	
on	the	Company’s	website	is	accessible	in	many	countries	
with	different	legal	requirements.	Legislation	in	the	UK	
governing	the	preparation	and	dissemination	of	financial	
statements	may	differ	from	legislation	in	other	jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
Each	of	the	Directors,	whose	names	and	functions	are 	listed	
on	pages	32	to	33,	confirm	that,	to	the	best	of	each	person’ s	
knowledge	and	belief:
n	 The	financial	statements,	prepared	in	accordance	with	
IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	EU,	give	a	true	and	fair	view		
of	the	assets,	liabilities,	financial	position	and	profit	of		
the	Group;
n	 The	financial	statements,	prepared	in	accordance	with	
UK	GAAP	give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	assets,	liabilities,	
financial	position	and	profit	of	the	Company;	and
n	 The	Directors’	report	contained	in	the	Annual	Report	
includes	a	fair	review	of	the	development	and	performance	
of	the	business	and	the	position	of	the	Company	and	
Group,	together	with	a	description	of	the	principal	risks	
and	uncertainties	that	they	face.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Having	made	the	requisite	enquiries,	so	far	as	the	Directors	
are	aware,	there	is	no	relevant	audit	information	(as	defined	
by	Section	418	of	the	Companies	Act	2006)	of	which	the	
Company’s	auditor	is	unaware,	and	the	Directors	have	taken	
all	the	steps	they	ought	to	have	taken	to	make	themselves	
aware	of	any	relevant	audit	information	and	to	establish	that	
the	Company’s	auditor	is	aware	of	that	information.	
By	order	of	the	Board	
Philip Davis
General	Counsel	and	Company	Secretary	
26	May	2010 	 Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Annual	Report	 57
INDEpENDENT AuDITOR’S REpORT TO ThE  
mEmBERS OF CABlE & WIRElESS WORlDWIDE plC
1
We	have	audited	the	consolidated	financial	statements	of	
Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	for	the	year	ended	31	March	
2010	set	out	on	pages	58	to	104.	The	financial	reporting	
framework	that	has	been	applied	in	their	preparation	
is	applicable	law	and	International	Financial	Reporting	
Standards	(IFRS)	as	adopted	by	the	EU.
This	report	is	made	solely	to	the	Company’s	members,	
as	a	body,	in	accordance	with	Chapter	3	of	Part	16	of	the	
Companies	Act	2006.	Our	audit	work	has	been	undertaken	
so	that	we	might	state	to	the	Company’s	members	those	
matters	we	are 	required	to	state	to	them	in	an	auditor’s	report	
and	for	no	other	purpose.	To 	the	fullest	extent	permitted	by	
law,	we	do	not	accept	or	assume	responsibility	to	anyone	
other	than	the	Company	and	the	Company’s	members	as		
a	body,	for	our	audit	work,	for	this	report,	or	for	the	opinions	
	we	have	formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As	explained	more	fully	in	the	statement	of	Directors’	
responsibilities	set	out	on	page	56,	the	Directors	are 	
responsible	for	the	preparation	of	the	consolidated	financial	
statements	and	for	being	satisfied	that	they	give	a	true	and	
fair	view .	Our	responsibility	is	to	audit	the	consolidated	
financial	statements	in	accordance	with	applicable	law	and	
International	Standards	on	Auditing	(UK	and	Ireland).	Those	
standards	require	us	to	comply	with	the	Auditing	Practices	
Board’s	(APB’s)	Ethical	Standards	for	Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A	description	of	the	scope	of	an	audit	of	financial	statements	
is	provided	on	the	APB’s	web-site	at	www.frc.org.uk/apb/
scope/UKP .
Opinion on financial statements
In	our	opinion	the	consolidated	financial	statements:
n	 give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	the	Group’s	affairs	
as	at	31	March	2010	and	of	its	profit	for	the	year	then	
ended;
n	 have	been	properly	prepared	in	accordance	with	IFRS	as	
adopted	by	the	EU;	and
n	 have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	requirements	
of	the	Companies	Act	2006	and	Article	4	of	the	IAS	
Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In	our	opinion:
n	 the	part	of	the	Directors’	remuneration	report	to	be	audited	
has	been	properly	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	
Companies	Act	2006;	and
n	 the	information	given	in	the	Directors’	report	for	the	
financial	year	for	which	the	consolidated	financial	
statements	are 	prepared	is	consistent	with	the	
consolidated	financial	statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We	have	nothing	to	report	in	respect	of	the	following:
Under	the	Companies	Act	2006	we	are 	required	to	report	
to	you	if,	in	our	opinion:
n	 adequate	accounting	records	have	not	been	kept	by	the	
Company	or	returns	adequate	for	our	audit	have	not	been	
received	from	branches	not	visited	by	us;	or
n	 certain	disclosures	of	Directors’	remuneration	specified	by	
law	are 	not	made;	or
n	 we	have	not	received	all	the	information	and	explanations	
we	require	for	our	audit.
Under	the	Listing	Rules	we	are 	required	to	review:
n	 the	Directors’	statement,	set	out	on	page	39,	in	relation	to	
going	concern;	and
n	 the	part	of	the	corporate	governance	statement	on	pages	
40	to	41	relating	to	the	Company’s	compliance	with	the	
nine	provisions	of	the	June	2008	Combined	Code	specified	
for	our	review.	
Other matter
We	have	reported	separately	on	the	Company	financial	
statements	of	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	for	the	period	
from	incorporation	on	24	September	2009	to	31	March	2010.	
Peter Meehan (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered	Accountants
8	Salisbury	Square
London
EC4Y	8BB
26	May	2010
1	Formerly	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	Limited,	formerly	Project	Swan	No.	1	Limited. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 58
         2009/10     2008/09
     Pre-     Pre-    
     exceptional	 Exceptional   exceptional Exceptional  
    	 items	 items
	1
	 Total items items
 1
 Total
   Note £m	 £m	 £m £m £m £m
Revenue   2,265	 –	 2,265 2,268  –  2,268 
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation  6 (1,848)	 (207)	 (2,055) (1,959) (76) (2,035)
Depreciation  17 (223)	 –	 (223) (174) –  (174)
Amortisation  16 (45)	 –	 (45) (38) –  (38)
Other operating income  7 –	 –	 – 1  –  1 
Other operating expense  8 (1)	 –	 (1) (1) –  (1)
Total	 operating	 profit/(loss)			 	 	 148	 (207)	 (59)	 97  (76) 21 
Losses on sale of non-current assets    10 (1)	 –	 (1) (1) –  (1)
Finance income    11 2	 –	 2 3  –  3 
Finance expense    11 (33)	 (3)	 (36) (88) –  (88)
Profit/(loss)	 before	 income	 tax			 	 	 116	 (210)	 (94)	 11  (76) (65)
Income tax credit    12 95	 –	 95 33  –  33
Profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year	 attributable	 to	 the	 owners	 of	 the	 parent	 	 211	 	 (210)	 1		 44  (76) (32)
         
Earnings	 per	 share	 attributable	 to	 the	 owners	 of	 	 	 	 	 	 	
the	 parent	 during	 the	 year	 (pence	 per	 share)  13            
– basic        0.0p   (1.3)p
– diluted        0.0p   (1.3)p
1  Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 6 and in the relevant note for each item. Exceptional items of £210 million include £143 million relating to the pension liability  
assumed on demerger, £13 million of other demerger related exceptional items and £54 million of transformation and integration exceptional costs.
The notes on pages 63 to 104 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Discontinued	 operations
There have been no discontinued operations during the periods presented.
Consolidated inCome statement for the year ended 31 March 2010 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 59
Consolidated statement of Comprehensive inCome
for the year ended 31 March 2010
       2009/10  2008/09 
       Note £m  £m 
Profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	1 (32)
   
Other	 comprehensive	 income	 for	 the	 year:   
Actuarial losses in the value of defined benefit retirement plans     29 (20)  (7)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations       60 (115)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year       40  (122)
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income     12 –  – 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax      40   (122)
Total	 comprehensive	 income/(expense)	 for	 the	 year	 attributable	 to	 the	 owners	 of	 the	 parent   41	 (154)
The notes on pages 63 to 104 are an integral part of these financial statements. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 60
           31	 March 31 March
           2010 2009
         Note £m £m
ASSETS	 		 		 		 		 		 	
Non-current	 assets         
Intangible assets         16  932 935 
Property, plant and equipment         17  974 948 
Available-for-sale financial assets         19, 26  1  11 
Other receivables         20  24  26 
Deferred tax asset         27  150  54 
          2,081  1,974 
Current	 assets         
Trade and other receivables         20  691	 685 
Inventories         21  17  3 
Cash and cash equivalents         22  226  144 
          934  832 
Total	 assets	 		 		 	 		 	 	 3,015	 2,806 
      
LIABILITIES	 	 	 	 	 	
Current	 liabilities         
Trade and other payables         23  1,013	 1,091 
Loans and obligations under finance leases         24  25  18 
Provisions         28  43  43 
Current tax liabilities          13  13 
          1,094  1,165
Net	 current	 liabilities          (160)  (333) 
 
Non-current	 liabilities         
Trade and other payables         23  1  6 
Loans and obligations under finance leases         24  221  110 
Financial liabilities at fair value         25, 26  1  1 
Provisions         28  160	 156 
Retirement benefit obligations         29  167  14 
Funding loan from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group        4  –  976 
       550 1,263 
Net	 assets	 before	 funding	 loan	 from	 the	 Cable	&	 Wireless	 Communications	 Group	 	 		 	 1,371  1,354 
Net	 assets       1,371 378 
      
EQUITY	 	 	 	 	 	
Capital	 and	 reserves	 attributable	 to	 the	 owners	 of	 the	 parent      
Share capital      30  131 131 
Share premium      30  56  1,605 
Reserves      30  1,184  (1,358) 
Total	 equity	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1,371  378 
The notes on pages 63 to 104 are an integral part of these financial statements. These financial statements on pages 58 to 62 were approved by 
the Board of Directors on 26 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by: 
John	 Pluthero		Chairman Tim	 Weller		Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated statement of finanCial position
as at 31 March 2010 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 61
Consolidated statement of Changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2010
     Foreign  Capital      
     currency  and     
    Share  Share  translation  other  Retained  Total 
    capital  premium  reserve  reserves  earnings  equity  
    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 	
Balance	 at	1	 April	 2008   127  255  (26) –   (1,184) (828) 
         
Loss for the year   –  –  –  –  (32)  (32)  
Net actuarial losses recognised (net of tax)   –  –  –  –  (7) (7)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations   –  –  (115)   –  –  (115)
Total	 comprehensive	 expense	 for	 the	 year   –  –  (115)  – (39)  (154) 
        
Share-based payment expenses   –  –  –  –  6   6 
Issue of share capital   4  1,350  –  –  –  1,354 
Total	 dividends	 and	 other	 transactions	 with		
Cable	&	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 plc	 shareholders   4  1,350  –  –  6 1,360
Balance	 at	 31	 March	 2009   131  1,605  (141)  –   (1,217) 378  
       
Profit for the year   –  –  –  – 1  1
Net actuarial losses recognised (net of tax)   –  –  –  – (20) (20) 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations   –  – 60  –  – 60
Total	 comprehensive	 income/(expense)	 for	 the	 year	 	 	– 	 	 –	 60	 –	 (19)	 41	
       
Share-based payment expenses   –  –  –  – 8  8
Issue of share capital (net of issue costs)   – 922 – – – 922
Recycling of foreign exchange on recapitalisation of funding balance 
with Cable & Wireless Communications Plc   – – 74 – (74) –
Equity element of the convertible bond transferred on  demerger  –  – – 22 – 22
Court approved capital reduction   – (2,471) – 2,471 – –
Total	 dividends	 and	 other	 transactions	 with		
Cable	&	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 plc	 shareholders	 	 	 –	 (1,549)	 74	 	 2,493	 (66)	 952
Balance	 at	 31	 March	 2010	 	 	 131	 56	 (7)	 2,493	 	 (1,302)	 1,371
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group does not have any non-controlling interests.
The notes on pages 63 to 104 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Share premium of £922 million arose on the recapitalisation of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group on demerger, through the capitalisation  
of the funding loan and other balances from Cable & Wireless Communications Group.
On 29 March 2010 a court approved reduction of capital became effective which had the effect of creating a capital reserve of £2,471 million, 
which may be released, in whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion (and upon the resolution) of the Board  
of Directors or a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors.
On 25 May 2010, a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors approved the release of £85 million, being an amount sufficient to allow 
payment of the proposed dividend. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 62
Consolidated statement of Cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2010
          2009/10 2008/09
        Note £m £m
Cash	 flows	 from	 operating	 activities	 	 	 	 	
Profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year	 	 	 	 	 	 	1  (32) 
Adjustments for:     
Income tax credit      12 (95)  (33)
Depreciation      17 223 174 
Amortisation      16 45  38 
Losses on sale of non-current assets      10 1 1 
Net other operating expense       1 –
Finance income      11 (2) (3)
Finance expense      11 36  88 
(Decrease)/increase in provisions       (8) 6 
Employee benefits       102 (7)
Operating	 cash	 flows	 before	 working	 capital	 changes	 	 	 	 	 	 	 304 232
 
     
Changes	 in	 working	 capital	 (excluding	 effects	 of	 acquisition	 and	 disposal	 of	 subsidiaries)   
Increase in inventories       (14) – 
Decrease in trade and other receivables      	 40	 40 
Decrease in trade and other payables       (66) (30)
Cash	 generated	 from	 operations	 	 	 	 	 	 	 264  242
Income taxes paid       (1) –
Net	 cash	 from	 operating	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 263  242
     
Cash	 flows	 from	 investing	 activities     
Interest received       2  4 
Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets       – (1)
Decrease in available-for-sale financial assets       10 –
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment       1  1 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment       (232) (226)
Purchase of intangible assets       (25) (19)
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash received)        –  (327)
Net	 cash	 used	 in	 investing	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (244) (568)
     
Net	 cash	 flow	 before	 financing	 	 	 	 	 	 	 19 (326)
     
Cash	 flows	 from	 financing	 activities     
Finance expense       (9) (5)
Repayments of borrowings       (192) (125)
Proceeds from borrowings       312  100
Demerger transaction costs       (21) – 
Repayments of funding loan with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group     (85) (22)
Funding contributions from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group      55 501
Net	 cash	 from	 financing	 activities	 	 	 	 	 	 	 60 449
 
     
Net	 increase	 in	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 	 	 	 	 	 	 79 123 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April       144  19
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents       3  2
 
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	 at	 31	 March      22 226  144
 
The notes on pages 63 to 104 are an integral part of these financial statements. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 63
notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010
1	 General	 information
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc (the Company) (formerly Cable & Wireless Worldwide Limited, formerly Project Swan No. 1 Limited) 
and its subsidiaries (together the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group or the Group) form an international telecommunications group 
providing critical communications infrastructure and services for large users of telecommunications worldwide.
2	 Summary	 of	 significant	 accounting	 policies
2.1	 Basis	 of	 preparation
The consolidated financial statements of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union (EU) as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for 
the year ended 31 March 2010.
The financial statements have been presented as a continuation of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business which was previously 
wholly owned by the Cable & Wireless Group (now the Cable & Wireless Communications Group). In preparing these IFRS financial 
statements, the Group has measured its assets and liabilities based on the amounts that were included in the Cable and Wireless 
plc consolidated financial statements. Since no consolidated financial statements were previously prepared for the Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide business, no reconciliations to previous GAAP have been presented.
Group reorganisation and demerger
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was demerged from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group (formerly the  
Cable & Wireless Group), with effect from 26 March 2010. As a result of the demerger, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business  
was transferred to a new ultimate parent company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc. 
The demerger was effected by a three part transaction which involved the following:
■ ■ The entire share capital of Cable and Wireless plc was cancelled and shareholders were given one ordinary share and one B share in 
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc for every share of Cable and Wireless plc held. 
■ ■ The entire share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited, the parent entity of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide group of companies, 
was transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, an unrelated company.
■ ■ In return for the share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc issued one ordinary share in itself 
of 5 pence to the holder of each Cable & Wireless Communications Plc B share prior to their cancellation as part of this transaction.
Shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the 
London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed securities on 26 March 2010.
See note 4 for further detail on significant aspects and transactions of the demerger.
As Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc did not have the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide Group companies, the acquisition has been accounted for in accordance with the principles of reverse acquisition as set 
out in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. This had the effect that the legal acquirer, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc being treated for 
accounting purposes to have been acquired by its legal subsidiary, Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited, for the purposes of these 
consolidated financial statements. 
The accounting principles that apply and the impact on these consolidated financial statements as a result of adopting this reverse 
acquisition accounting basis are set out in each applicable note to these consolidated financial statements. In addition, the income 
statement of the Group has been prepared as if the continuing operations of the Group were in existence for the whole of the period 
from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2010.
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling (£) as this is the most representative currency of the Group’s 
operations, and rounded to the nearest million. 
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value. The Directors have prepared 
the accounts on a going concern basis (see page 39 of the Directors’ report for further detail).
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. 
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be 
reasonable under the circumstances. They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not 
readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Critical judgements and areas where the use of 
estimates is significant are discussed in note 3.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.  64 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
2.2	 Application	 of	 recently	 issued	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards
The Group considered the implications, if any, of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2010.
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and effective for the Group at dates from 1 April 2009  
adopted by the Group in 2009/10
Title EU	 effective	 date Description	 Impact	 on	 the	 Group
Amendments	 to	 IAS	1 
Presentation of Financial Statements:
A Revised Presentation
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments affect the presentation of owner 
changes in equity and introduce the concept of 
comprehensive income. They do not change  
the recognition, measurement or disclosure of 
specific transactions and events required by  
other standards.
These are presentation 
amendments only and did 
not have a material impact on 
the results or position of the 
Group.
Amendments	 to	 IAS	 32	 and	 IAS	1 
Puttable Financial Instruments and 
Obligations Arising on Liquidation
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments require some puttable financial 
instruments that impose on the entity an obligation 
to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the 
net assets of the entity only on liquidation to be 
classified as equity.
These amendments did not 
have an effect on the Group.
IFRS	8 
Operating Segments 
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2009.
The IFRS requires disclosures in respect of the 
operating segments of the Group. This standard 
requires segmental disclosures presented on the 
basis upon which management views the Group.
This is a presentation 
standard only and did not 
have a material impact on the 
Group.
Amendments	 to	 IFRS	1	 and	 IAS	 27 
Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, 
Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment removes the concept of pre- and 
post-acquisition reserves from IFRS.
The amendments did not 
have a material impact on the 
Group.
Amendments	 to	 IFRS	7 
Improving Disclosures about Financial 
Instruments
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment contains further disclosure 
requirements to enhance the information available 
to investors about fair value measurement and 
liquidity risk associated with an entity’s financial 
instruments.
This is a disclosure standard 
only and did not have a 
material impact on the Group.
IFRIC	 12
Service Concession Arrangements
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 29 March 2009.
The interpretation gives guidance on the 
accounting by operators for public-to-private 
service concession arrangements. 
The Group does not have 
any public-to-private service 
concession arrangements.
IFRIC	 14
IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit 
Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements 
and their Interaction
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 14 clarifies three issues:
–  how entities should determine the limit placed  
by IAS 19 Employee Benefits on the amount of 
a surplus in a pension plan they can recognise  
as an asset;
–  how a minimum funding requirement affects that 
limit; and
–  when a minimum funding requirement creates an 
onerous obligation that should be recognised as 
a liability in addition to that otherwise recognised 
under IAS 19.
This interpretation did not 
have a material impact on the 
Group.
IFRIC	 16
Hedges of a Net Investment 
in a Foreign Operation
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 October 2008.
This Interpretation provides guidance on the 
nature of the hedged risk and the amount of the 
hedged item for which a hedging relationship 
may be designated, where in the group a hedging 
instrument can be held and which amounts should 
be reclassified from equity to the income statement 
as reclassification adjustments on disposal of the 
foreign operation.
This amendment did not 
have a material impact on the 
Group.
Amendments	 to	 IFRIC	9	 and	 IAS	 39	
Embedded Derivatives
Annual periods ending         
on or after 30 June 2009.
These amendments allow the reassessment 
of embedded derivatives on reclassification of 
financial instruments out of the fair value through 
the income statement category.
The amendments did not 
have a material impact on the 
Group.
Improvements	 to	 IFRS	 2008 Various dates, earliest is 
annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2009.
The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous 
necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
These improvements did not 
have a material impact on the 
Group. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 65
New and amended Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union and not yet adopted by the Group
Title IASB	 or	 EU	 effective	 date	 (if	 later) Description	
Expected	 adoption	 date	 and	
impact	 on	 the	 Group
Revised	 IAS	 27
Consolidated and Separate 
Financial Statements	
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 July 2009.
The revisions to IAS 27 specify that changes in a 
parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do 
not result in the loss of control must be accounted 
for as equity transactions. 
The Group will adopt for 
2010/11. This amendment is 
consistent with current Group 
policy.
Amendments	 to	 IAS	 32	
Classification of Rights Issues
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 February 2010.
The amendment requires that rights, options or 
warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entity’s 
own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any 
currency are equity instruments if the entity offers 
the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its 
existing owners of the same class of its own non-
derivative equity instruments.
The Group will adopt for 
2010/11. These amendments 
are not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group.
Amendments	 to	 IAS	 39	
Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment clarifies how existing hedge 
accounting principles should be applied to the 
designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item 
and to inflation in a hedged item. 
The Group will adopt for 
2010/11. These amendments 
are not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group.
Amendments	 to	 IFRS	2	
Group Cash-settled Share-based 
Payment Transactions
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2010.
These amendments clarify the scope of IFRS 2 
and its interaction with other standards. They 
also address how an entity should account for 
some share-based payments in its own financial 
statements if its parent or another entity in the 
Group will pay for goods or services that it has 
received.
The Group will adopt for 
2010/11. These amendments 
are not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group.
Revised	 IFRS	3	
Business Combinations
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 July 2009.
The main changes in the revised IFRS 3 include the 
separate accounting of acquisition related costs, 
changes to business combinations achieved in 
stages and changes to the accounting for business 
combinations where less than 100% of the equity 
is acquired.
These changes will be 
effective for businesses 
purchased by the Group 
after 31 March 2010. As 
such, no assessment can be 
determined of their impact.
IFRIC	 17		
Distribution of Non-cash Assets 
to Owners
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation applies to non-cash dividends 
excluding those controlled by the same party 
before and after the transaction. It clarifies the 
recognition and measurement of non-cash 
dividends payable. 
The Group will adopt for 
2010/11. This interpretation 
is not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group.
IFRIC	 18		
Transfers of Assets from Customers
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 November 2009.
The IFRIC clarifies how existing IFRS are applied 
to agreements in which an entity receives an asset 
from a customer which it then uses to connect the 
customer to a network to provide ongoing access 
to goods or services. 
The Group will adopt for 
2010/11. This interpretation 
is not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group.
Improvements	 to	 IFRS	 2009 Various dates, earliest is 
annual periods beginning on 
or after 1 July 2009.
The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous 
necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS. 
The Group will adopt for 
2010/11. These improvements 
are not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group. 66 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
2.2	 Application	 of	 recently	 issued	 International	 Financial	 Reporting	 Standards	 continued
New and amended Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted by the European Union and the Group
Title IASB	 effective	 date Description	
Expected	 adoption	 date	
(subject	 to	 European	 Union	
endorsement)	 and	 impact	 on	
the	 Group
IFRS	9		
Financial Instruments
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2013.
This IFRS simplifies the classification, recognition 
and measurement requirements for financial assets, 
financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell 
non-financial items. 
The Group will adopt for 
2013/14. This IFRS replaces 
parts of IAS 39 and is not 
expected to have a material 
impact on the Group. 
Revised	 IAS	 24	
Related Party Disclosures
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2011.
The revisions provide an exemption from 
disclosure requirements for transactions between 
state-controlled entities and removes some 
inconsistencies. 
The Group will adopt for 
2011/12. These revisions 
are not expected to have a 
material impact on the Group.
Amendments	 to	 IFRIC	 14	
Prepayments of a Minimum Funding 
Requirement
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2011.
The amendments permit entities to treat an early 
payment of a contribution to cover minimum 
funding requirements as an asset. 
The Group will adopt for 
2011/12. These amendments 
are consistent with current 
Group policy.
IFRIC	 19	
Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with 
Equity Instruments
Annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 July 2010.
This IFRIC provides guidance on accounting for 
‘debt to equity swaps’ where a debtor extinguishes 
the liability fully or partially by issuing equity 
instruments to the creditor. 
The Group will adopt for 
2011/12. This IFRIC is not 
expected to have material 
impact on the Group.
Improvements	 to	 IFRS	 2010 Various dates, earliest is 
annual periods beginning  
on or after 1 January 2011.
The Improvements to IFRS contains miscellaneous 
necessary but non-urgent amendments to IFRS.
The Group will adopt 
for 2011/12. These 
improvements are not 
expected to have a material 
impact on the Group.
2.3	 Basis	 of	 consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. The financial 
statements of the Group’s main trading subsidiaries and joint ventures have been prepared to align with the Group’s reporting date.
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights 
that are currently exercisable are considered. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the 
date that control ceases. Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency. 
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at the 
date of exchange plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share  
of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the 
net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement. 
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are  
also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
b) Joint ventures
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost. Joint ventures are 
entities over which the Group exercises joint control. The Group’s investment in joint ventures may include goodwill (net of any accumulated 
impairment loss) identified on acquisition. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency  
with the policies adopted by the Group. 
The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement. Its share of post-acquisition 
movements in reserves is recognised in equity. The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the 
investment. 
When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture exceeds its investment (including any other unsecured long-term receivables), the Group  
does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee. 
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s investment.  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 67
2.4	 Segmental	 reporting
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires disclosures in respect of the operating segments of the Group according to the ‘management 
approach’. This approach reflects the type and extent of information presented to the chief operating decision-maker of the Group 
(the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group Board).
The Board considers the results of the business as a whole when assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions 
about the allocation of resources. Accordingly, the Group discloses a single reportable operating segment. The results of this 
operating segment are reported in note 5 in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board. 
2.5	 Foreign	 currency	 translation	
a) Functional currency 
Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency).
b) Foreign currency translation 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
c) Foreign operations 
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
Group’s presentation currency of Sterling are translated as follows:
i) assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date;
ii) income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions; and
iii) resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
entity and translated at the closing rate. On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the 
income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity. Where investments are 
matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also 
recorded as movements in the Group’s translation reserve and any excess taken to the income statement.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
2.6	 Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, 
plant and equipment.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets and restoring sites on which they are located are included in the cost of 
property, plant and equipment. The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, 
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is 
probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably. All other subsequent costs 
(primarily repairs and maintenance) are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Interest costs relating to borrowings for major capital projects (those that take six months or more to complete) are capitalised as part 
of the cost of assets when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the entity and the costs can be measured 
reliably. The interest costs included are only those that are incurred up to the time that those projects are ready for service.  68 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
2.6	 Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 continued
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction. On other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is recognised 
on the difference between the cost of an item and its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets 
as follows:
        Lives
Cables  up to 20 years
Network equipment  3 to 25 years
Ducting  40 years
Freehold buildings  40 years
Leasehold buildings  up to 40 years or term of lease if less
Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down 
to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
Gains and losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are determined by reference to the proceeds and net book values. These gains and 
losses are recognised in the income statement.
Engineering spares held for use by the Group over a period exceeding one year are included in assets under construction. They are stated at  
cost and include an appropriate allocation of labour and overheads. The cost is determined on a weighted average basis. Allowance is made  
for deterioration and obsolescence.
2.7	 Intangible	 assets	
a) Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets and contingent 
liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or joint venture. It is not amortised. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. 
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures is included in the carrying value of those investments. 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units 
for the purpose of impairment testing.
b) Other intangible assets 
Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised 
as intangible assets. Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original specifications and 
lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Expenditure is only capitalised if costs can be measured reliably, the product is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits 
are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development and to use the asset.
Intangible assets relating to licences and customer contracts obtained as part of the Group’s business combinations are recorded initially at their 
fair values.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation on a straight-line basis over the following periods:
        Lives
Software 3 to 5 years
Licences 25 years or less if the licence term is shorter
Customer contracts 4 to 15 years
Other        3 to 5 years
2.8	 Financial	 instruments	
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, receivables, 
held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held. The 
Group does not currently classify any assets as fair value through the income statement or held-to-maturity investments. The basis of determining 
fair values is set out in note 2.9. 
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the 
income statement. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 69
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income 
statement at inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term 
or if so designated by management. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading. Assets classified as financial assets at fair 
value through the income statement are presented as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised 
within one year of the reporting date.
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category at inception or not 
classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the 
investment within 12 months of the reporting date. Purchases and sales of assets are recognised on the trade-date (the date on 
which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset).
Receivables 
Receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable. 
Receivables are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the reporting date (where they 
are classified as non-current assets). Receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the statement of financial position.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined using 
the effective interest method less valuation allowance if necessary. A valuation allowance for receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The 
amount of the allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows 
(discounted at the effective interest rate). 
Financial assets – recognition and measurement
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value. Available-for-sale 
financial assets are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value. Receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and 
the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Gains and losses (both realised and unrealised) arising 
from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in 
the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are 
recognised in equity. When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are 
included in the income statement.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets 
is impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the 
security below its cost is considered in determining whether it is impaired. If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial 
assets the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement. This loss is measured as the difference 
between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the 
income statement. Impairment losses recognised on these instruments are not reversed through the income statement if the fair value 
of the security increases in a later period.
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured 
at their fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is 
designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. Gains and losses on derivative instruments that 
are not designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The Group does not hedge net investments in foreign operations and does not hold any hedging instruments.
Financial liabilities 
Loans
Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Loans are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the loans using the effective interest method. 70 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
2.8	 Financial	 instruments	 continued
Convertible bonds (bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder) issued by the Group are initially 
recognised at fair value. The bonds are separated into liability and equity components on initial recognition. The liability component 
is initially recognised at the fair value of a similar liability without an equity conversion option. The equity component represents the 
fair value of the bond less the liability component. Any directly attributable transaction costs are allocated to the liability and equity 
components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts. Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of the bond 
is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The equity component is not remeasured subsequent to initial 
recognition. 
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 
months after the reporting date (where they are classified as non-current liabilities).
Puttable instruments 
Puttable instruments on non-controlling interests issued as part of a business combination are accounted for by the Group as a 
financial liability at fair value. The liability is based on the present value of the redemption amount as if the puttable instrument had 
been exercised at the reporting date. Movements in the value of the liability together with dividends paid to non-controlling interests 
are recognised as adjustments to goodwill with the unwind of the discount on the fair value calculation being recognised in the 
income statement.
2.9	 Fair	 value	 estimation	 for	 financial	 instruments	
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available-for-sale 
securities) is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date. The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by 
the Group is the current bid price. The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price. 
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The 
Group uses a variety of methods which include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are 
substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.
The nominal value of receivables (less any valuation allowance) and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair 
value of financial liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current 
market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments. Discounted cash flows are used to determine the 
fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
2.10	 Impairment	 of	 assets	 (excluding	 financial	 instruments)	
Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. All other non-current 
assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be 
fully recoverable. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash flows (cash generating units). 
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Group’s assets (or cash generating units to 
which it belongs) to their recoverable amounts which is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Fair 
value represents market value in an active market. Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset. 
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Group’s own projections using pre-tax discount rates which represent the 
estimated weighted average cost of capital for the business. The approach, assumptions and results of the impairment test are set 
out in note 15.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to 
change.
2.11	 Inventories	
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts 
or subsidies. It also includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and 
administration costs. Cost is based on the first-in, first-out (FIFO) principle. For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is 
determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell. For materials and consumables, 
provision is made for obsolete and slow moving inventories as required.
2.12	 Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents	
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, short-term deposits, money market funds and government securities. 
They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value. Bank 
overdrafts are included within loans in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
2.13	 Share	 capital	
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or standalone options are recognised in equity as a deduction from 
the issue proceeds.  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 71
2.14	 Leases	
Leases of property, plant and equipment in which the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified 
as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the 
present value of minimum lease payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability and finance charges so 
as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The corresponding rental 
obligations, net of finance charges, are included in payables. These payments are split between capital and interest elements using 
the annuity method. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life 
of the asset or the lease term.
Leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into the two component parts. The 
component part for buildings is then tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Leases of land and all other leases are classified as operating leases and are not recognised in the statement of financial position. 
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.15	 Non-current	 assets	 and	 disposal	 groups	 held	 for	 sale	
When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they 
are classified as non-current assets held for sale. With the exception of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits 
and financial instruments, these assets are classified as current and are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction. They are  
recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the statement  
of financial position.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges 
and separately disclosed.
2.16	 Employee	 benefits	
Defined contribution pensions 
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a third party. The Group pays 
contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group 
has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit 
expense as they are incurred. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the 
future payments is available.
Defined benefit obligations 
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually 
dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. These schemes are generally funded through 
payments to insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset (or liability) recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the 
fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date. Assets are only recognised 
to the extent that the present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future 
contributions to the plan exceed the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations. Defined 
benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The 
present value of these obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid. The corporate bonds used have terms to 
maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the 
period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income. Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, 
unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employee remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting 
period). In these cases, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities less the expected 
return on plan assets, are included within operating costs.
The IAS 19 surplus or deficit of defined benefit funds is adjusted to reflect the future economic benefits available in the form of a cash 
refund or a reduction in future contributions, allowing for minimum funding contributions in accordance with IFRIC 14. Any adjustment 
to the surplus is recorded directly in equity. 72 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
2.16	 Employee	 benefits	 continued
Share-based compensation 
The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed over 
the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market 
vesting conditions (for example, service, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in 
estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the 
number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in the 
income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the 
options are exercised.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee 
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably 
committed to the action leading to the employee’s termination. Termination benefits falling due more than a year after reporting date 
are discounted to present value.
Bonus plans 
The Group recognises a liability where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive 
obligation.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The plan rewards executive directors of the Group and certain senior employees in the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group. The plan is 
accounted for as an ‘other long term employee benefit’ in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. The amount recognised as a 
liability represents the estimated present value of the obligation at the reporting date. 
The LTIP creates a reward pool over a five year period from 1 April 2006 (or until a vesting event, if earlier) depending on the extent 
to which the business has grown in value from its base valuation at the start of the period (this period was changed from four to five 
years in July 2009).
Base valuations are adjusted over the performance period i) to reflect additional capital notionally treated as borrowed by the 
business, ii) to reflect capital notionally treated as returned by the business; and iii) increased by the notional weighted average 
cost of capital of the business (which will be at least 8% per annum compounded). If the business’ value is lower than its adjusted 
base valuation at the end of the performance period, there will be no reward pool. To the extent that the business’ value exceeds its 
adjusted base valuation at the end of the performance period, 10% of the excess growth in value goes into the reward pool.
Part of the reward pool was paid to participants up to the end of year three (31 March 2009), with a portion payable (less payments 
made at end of year three) to participants at the end of year four (31 March 2010) and the balance in full at the end of year five  
(31 March 2011). Measurement of the size of the reward pool is carried out every six months to correspond with the Group’s reporting 
periods. However, apart from awards held by participants who ceased employment as ‘good leavers’, no awards vested until the end 
of year three. In the event of a potential payment to an individual in excess of £20 million, the deferral period would be extended until 
31 March 2012 or for a period of up to one year following a vesting event, if earlier.
2.17	 Tax	
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from:
■ ■ the initial recognition of goodwill; or 
■ ■ the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 73
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where 
the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
2.18	 Provisions	
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount. They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive 
obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and 
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be 
required to settle the obligation. The discount rate is the pre-tax rate reflecting the assessment of the settlement date. Provision 
charges and reversals are recognised in the income statement. Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are recognised for unavoidable lease payments in onerous contracts as the difference between the rentals due and any 
income expected to be derived from the vacant properties being sublet. Redundancy provisions, relating to both continuing and 
discontinued operations, comprise employee termination payments. Legal provisions comprise legal fees and, where appropriate, 
expected settlement costs.
2.19	 Revenue	 recognition	
Revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services 
provided to customers. It includes sales to joint ventures but does not include sales by joint ventures or sales between Group 
companies. Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided. In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred 
until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided. Charges are negotiated 
separately and are subject to continual review. Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of 
any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third party providers. The Group 
assesses whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements 
including the following factors:
■ ■ whether the Group holds itself out as an agent; 
■ ■ whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services; 
■ ■ provision of customer remedies; 
■ ■ whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulfilling the order; and 
■ ■ assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunication equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities (generally the sale of telecom equipment and 
ongoing service) is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently based on the estimated fair value  
of the components. When the fair value of components can not be assessed the revenue is spread over the term of the service.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised evenly over the periods  
in which the service is provided.
2.20	 Interest	 income	
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
2.21	 Exceptional	 items
Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are 
identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence. Further detail on exceptional items is set out in note 6  
and in the relevant note for each item.
2.22	 Transactions	 with	 holders	 of	 non-controlling	 interests	
Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Group’s subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are 
accounted for as equity transactions. In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are 
adjusted to reflect the changes in the Group’s relative interest in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by which the non-
controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to 
the owners of the parent. 74 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
3	 Critical	 accounting	 estimates	 and	 judgements	
In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, a number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to 
the reporting of results of operations and the financial position of the Group. Results may differ significantly from those estimates 
under different assumptions and conditions. The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Group’s most critical 
accounting estimates and judgements, which are those that are most important to the presentation of its consolidated financial 
position and results. These particular policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to make 
estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain. 
3.1	 Valuation	 of	 assets	 for	 purchase	 accounting	
Where the Group undertakes business combinations, the cost of acquisition is allocated to identifiable net assets and contingent 
liabilities acquired and assumed by reference to their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition. The remaining amount is 
recorded as goodwill. Any value assigned to the identifiable assets is determined by reference to an active market, independent 
appraisal or estimate by management based on cash flow projections. The latter situation includes estimates and judgements 
regarding expectations for the economic useful lives of the products and technology acquired. In this situation, where appropriate, 
third party valuation specialists are involved.
3.2	 Depreciation	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	
The Group assigns useful lives and residual values to property, plant and equipment based on periodic studies of actual asset lives 
and the intended use for those assets. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, prospective economic utilisation 
and physical condition of the assets concerned could result in the actual useful lives or residual values differing from initial estimates. 
Where the Group determines that the useful life of property, plant and equipment should be shortened or residual value reduced, it 
depreciates the net book value in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation 
expense. Any change in an asset’s life or residual value is reflected in the Group’s financial statements when the change in estimate  
is determined.
3.3	 Impairment	 of	 property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 and	 intangible	 assets	
The Directors assess the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (excluding goodwill) whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards. 
Factors that are considered important and which could trigger an impairment review include the following:
■ ■ obsolescence or physical damage; 
■ ■ significant changes in technology and regulatory environments; 
■ ■ significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; 
■ ■ significant changes in the use of its assets or the strategy of the overall business; 
■ ■ significant negative industry or economic trends; and 
■ ■ significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill at least annually for impairment.
The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of the recoverable amount for 
assets or cash generating units requires significant judgement. Note 15 sets out the assumptions and judgements used during these 
assessments.
3.4	 Revenue	 recognition	
Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group 
revenue. This includes the presentation of revenue as principal or as agent in respect of income received from transmission of content 
provided by third parties.
3.5	 Receivables	 allowance
The valuation allowance for trade receivables reflects the Group’s estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Group’s 
customers to make required payments. The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer credit worthiness 
and the Group’s historical write-off experience. Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Group’s 
customers improves or deteriorates. An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs. Historically, changes 
to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Group’s financial position and results.
3.6	 Customer	 and	 supplier	 commitments	
The nature of the telecommunications industry is such that estimates are often required to be made in relation to customer or supplier 
commitments, the final outcome of which may not be known for some time. The Group uses estimates of price or usage to determine 
the revenue and expense recognised in any period. These estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual pricing or usage as 
such information becomes available or is agreed. As issues arise or are resolved, accruals are created or released as appropriate - the 
net impact of this is included in operating profit within the relevant line item. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 75
3.7	 Interconnection	 with	 other	 operators	
As part of the normal course of business, the Group interconnects with other telecommunications operators. In certain instances it 
uses estimates to determine the amount of revenue receivable from or expense payable to these other operators. The prices at which 
these services are charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment. Estimates are used in assessing 
the likely impact of these adjustments.
Adjustments to interconnect estimates are taken to operating profit in the period in which the adjustments are made.
3.8	 Taxation	
The tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges or credits. The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge 
involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until 
a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process. The final resolution of 
some of these items may give rise to material income statement and/or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative 
and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Issues can, and often do, take many years to 
resolve. Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of 
open items. As a result there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
3.9	 Recognition	 of	 deferred	 tax	 assets	
The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be  
available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted. Recognition therefore involves 
judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset  
has been recognised.
3.10	 Provisions	
A provision is recognised when there is a present (legal or constructive) obligation in respect of a past event as explained in the 
accounting policy in note 2.18. Judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
3.11	 Pensions	
The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees. The asset (or liability) recognised in the statement 
of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the 
defined benefit obligations at the reporting date. The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an 
assessment of such factors as:
■ ■ the life expectancy of the members; 
■ ■ the length of service; 
■ ■ the rate of salary progression; 
■ ■ the rate of return earned on assets in the future; 
■ ■ the rate used to discount future pension liabilities; and
■ ■ future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 29 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions 
which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but have been comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by other 
FTSE 100 companies. Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the size of the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities and 
assets disclosed in note 29.
3.12	 Fair	 value	 estimation	
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 2.9. Where market values are not available, fair values are based on valuation 
methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made. Judgement is required in determining the appropriate assumptions 
underlying those inputs and forecasts.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Group 
uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt. Other techniques, such as estimated 
discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. 
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current 
market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments. 76 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
3.13	 Long	 Term	 Incentive	 Plan	 (LTIP)	
The charge calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits requires estimates of the valuation of the Group to determine the 
obligation for the LTIP . The estimates require the use of a number of assumptions which, by their nature, are subjective. Please see 
pages 46 to 47 of the Remuneration report for further information.
4	 Demerger
At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide Group. On 26 March 2010 (the demerger date), the Cable&Wireless Worldwide businesses were transferred to an 
unrelated company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in return for the entire share capital of that company (see note 2.1 for details 
of the demerger transactions). As a result of the demerger, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the ultimate parent company of 
the Cable&Wireless Worldwide subsidiaries. Trading of shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on the London Stock Exchange 
commenced on 26 March 2010.
The significant aspects of the demerger transaction were:
■ ■ long term intercompany debt owed to the Cable & Wireless Group (now the Cable & Wireless Communications Group) of £931 million 
(31 March 2009 – £976 million) was capitalised prior to demerger;
■ ■ the convertible bond issued by Cable and Wireless plc (and subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc) was 
transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, along with proceeds of £230 million;
■ ■ the Cable & Wireless Communications Group agreed to transfer cash of £79 million primarily to settle the Cable&Wireless Worldwide portion of 
the 2009/10 final dividend of the Cable & Wireless Group (now Cable & Wireless Communications Group) on 1 April 2010. This is classified in 
other receivables at 31 March 2010; and
■ ■ plan assets and pension obligations of the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund relating to Worldwide employees with a net IAS 19 value of 
£141 million were transferred to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
Prior to demerger, the Cable & Wireless Group provided funding to entities in the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group. These loans 
were interest bearing, but were not expected to be repaid, and were recorded within the financial statements of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc as part of its investment in Cable&Wireless Worldwide subsidiaries. On demerger, these loans were capitalised 
and not repaid.
Due to the requirements of IFRS, the balance of these loans with the Cable & Wireless Group (now Cable & Wireless Communications 
Group), were required to be shown as a non-current liability until demerger and then credited to equity post-demerger. The interest 
expense on the funding balance was recognised through the income statement. The expense in 2009/10 was £14 million  
(2008/09 – £74 million). The balance was not secured on any of the Group’s assets and was denominated in Sterling. 
5	 Segment	 information
Reportable	 segments	 	
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group is an international telecommunications service provider. It specialises in the provision of 
communication infrastructure and services to large users of telecommunications services across the UK and worldwide.
Across the UK and worldwide the Group operates as a single operating segment. The Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc Board 
considered the results of the business as a whole when assessing the performance of the business and making decisions about  
the allocation of resources. Accordingly, the Group had one reportable operating segment. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 77
The results from continuing operations, in the format as provided to the Board for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 are 
presented below:
       2009/10	 2008/09
       £m	 £m 
Revenue       2,265	  2,268
Cost of sales       (1,190) (1,323)
Gross	 margin       1,075 945
Pre-exceptional operating costs       (644) (619)
EBITDA
1
       431		 326
LTIP charge       (14) (17)
Depreciation and amortisation       (268) (212)
Net other operating expense       (1) –
Group	 operating	 profit       148 97
Exceptional operating costs (see note 6)       (207) (76)
Total	 operating	 (loss)/profit       (59) 21
Loss on sale of non-current assets       (1) (1)
Net finance expense       (31) (85)
Non-operating exceptional items (see note 11)       (3) – 
Loss	 before	 income	 tax       (94) (65)
Income tax credit       95 33
Profit/(loss)	 for	 the	 year       1 (32)
1 EBITDA is based on management reporting and is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP charge, net other operating income/expense, losses on 
sale of non-current assets and exceptional items (see note 40). 
There are no differences in the measurement of the reportable segment’s results and the Group’s results.
The additions to non-current assets during the year (excluding financial assets, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets) were  
£279 million (2008/09 – £484 million).
Additional	 information
Below is a summary of revenue and gross margin by market channels. Gross margin includes revenue and those costs directly attributable 
to specific revenue streams or customers. The gross margin does not include the costs of running and maintaining the network, including 
depreciation, which is the primary asset used across all market channels. Further, the management, legal and operating structure of the Group is 
not organised around these market channels.
These analyses are not used by the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group Board to allocate resources across the Group as a large proportion of the 
expenses of the Group are not customer specific. Accordingly, the Directors believe these market channels are not operating segments for the 
purposes of IFRS 8.
The analysis of gross margin by market channel is presented below as additional, non-GAAP information:
 	 		 																					UK	 	 UK		 	 	
	 	 	 UK	 Enterprise		 Public	 Sector	 Global	 	 Mid-market	 UK 	 Carrier			 Total
Year	 ended	 31	 March	 2010	 	 	 £m	 £m	 £m	 £m		 £m	 £m
Revenue    837 285	 552	 	 242	 	 349			 2,265
Cost of sales	 	 	 	 (391)	 	 (117)	 	 (320)	 	 (124)  (238)			 (1,190)
Gross	 margin	    446	 168	 	 232	 	 118	 111	 	 1,075
     UK                            UK      
    UK Enterprise Public Sector  Global Mid-market  UK Carrier Total
Year ended 31 March 2009   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue    827 268  592  212  369   2,268
Cost of sales    (422)  (121)  (397)  (129)  (254)  (1,323)
Gross margin     405  147  195  83  115  945 78 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
5	 Segment	 information	 continued
Group-wide	 information
The information on products and services, non-current assets and major customers across the Group required by IFRS 8 are presented below.
Non-current assets (other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets) can be classified by country as 
follows:
       31	 March	 31 March
       2010	 2009
       £m	 £m
United Kingdom      	 1,868 1,858
All other countries      	 62 51
Total      	 1,930 1,909
The revenue from external customers can be analysed by product as follows:
       2009/10	 2008/09
       £m	 £m
Data and IP       	 978 812
Hosting and applications       240 224
Traditional voice (including legacy)      	 1,047 1,232
Total      	 2,265 2,268
Revenue by country can be classified as follows:
       2009/10	 2008/09
       £m	 £m
United Kingdom      	 2,069 2,067
All other countries      	 196 201
Total      	 2,265 2,268
Revenue is allocated to a country based on the location of the customer contract. It does not follow necessarily that the international 
telecommunications traffic transiting the Group’s networks originates in that location. The Group does not have access to information on the 
original source or ultimate destination of international telecommunications traffic.
The Group does not have any customers from which revenue exceeds 10% of Group revenue.
6	 Operating	 costs	
An analysis of the operating costs incurred by the Group, classified by the nature of the cost, is presented below:
         2009/10     2008/09
     Pre-     Pre-    
  	 exceptional	 Exceptional	 Total exceptional Exceptional Total
  	 £m	 £m	 £m £m £m £m
Outpayments and direct costs    	 1,190	 	 –	 1,190  1,323  –  1,323 
Employee and other staff expenses    	 300	 	 181	 	 481 305  39  344 
Operating lease rentals 
– networks    	 46	 	 –	 46	 39  –  39 
– property    	 59	 	7 	 	 66	 51  17  68 
Other administrative expenses    	 74	 	 10	 	 84	 57  6  63 
Network costs    	 131	 	9 	 	 140	 126  14  140 
Property and utility costs    	 48	 	 –	 48	 58  –  58 
Operating	 costs	 before	 depreciation	 and	 amortisation    	 1,848	 	 207	 	 2,055	 1,959  76  2,035 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  	 223	 	 –	 223	 174  –  174 
Amortisation of intangible assets    	 45	 	 –	 45	 38  –  38 
Operating	 costs	   	 2,116	 	 207	 	 2,323	 2,171  76  2,247
Operating costs are stated net of credits or charges arising from the release or establishment of accruals. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 79
Exceptional	 items
Exceptional items relate to the demerger (£153 million) and the ongoing programme of restructuring the Group’s operations including the integration 
of the THUS Group (including redundancy, vacant property and onerous network costs) (£31 million) and other integration projects (£23 million). 
Exceptional items within operating costs are disclosed below, while further information on other exceptional items is given in note 11.
           2009/10 2008/09
            Note £m £m
Exceptional	 items	 within	 operating	 costs        
Employee costs (excluding pension costs)           (i)	 38  39 
Pension costs           (ii)	 143	  – 
Property costs           (iii)	7   17 
Network and other costs      (iv)	9 	 20
Costs of demerger      (v) 10 – 
Total	 exceptional	 operating	 costs           	 207   76 
i) Exceptional employee costs principally related to redundancy costs arising from the restructuring of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group’s 
operations (excluding demerger) and THUS Group post acquisition integration.  These costs were net of a £2 million provision release (2008/09 – 
£2 million) and a redundancy related pension curtailment credit of £1 million (2008/09 – credit of £4 million). 
ii) The exceptional pension cost results from the initial recognition of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide retirement plan defined benefit pension 
scheme and unfunded scheme as part of the demerger (refer to note 29 for further information).
iii) Exceptional property costs relate to vacant property provisions recognised and were net of £8 million (2008/09 – £14 million) of provision 
releases. 
iv) Exceptional network costs in 2009/10 relate to the provision for network costs from business transformation initiatives and other network costs 
associated with the integration of the THUS Group. In 2008/09, network and other costs related to £14 million of network costs and £6 million of 
other costs.
v) Exceptional demerger costs in 2009/10 relate to professional fees and other costs associated with demerger and establishing a head office 
function.
Auditor’s	 remuneration	
       2009/10	 2008/09
       £m	 £m 
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: 
Statutory audit services – in respect of the Group’s accounts        1.0	 0.8
Audit services in respect of prior years – in respect of the Group’s accounts      – –
Audit of the Group’s annual accounts         1.0  0.8
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates: 
Statutory audit services – in respect of other statutory accounts        0.5  0.7
Audit services in respect of prior years – in respect of other statutory accounts      –  –
Audit related regulatory reporting         0.2  0.1
Audit and audit related services         1.7  1.6
Tax services       0.2  0.4
Services related to corporate finance transactions         2.9  –
Other services         0.2  0.5
         5.0  2.5
Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required 
to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. Services relating to corporate finance transactions are largely in relation to the demerger and have 
been offset against the share premium account as part of the demerger transaction.
7	 Other	 operating	 income	
There was no other operating income in 2009/10. In 2008/09, other operating income of £1 million related to the sale of a database and gains on 
disposal of property, plant and equipment. 80 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
8	 Other	 operating	 expense	
In 2009/10 and 2008/09 other operating expense of £1 million related to losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
9	 Employee	 and	 other	 staff	 expenses	
Costs	 of	 employees	 and	 contract	 staff	 of	 the	 Group
The pre-exceptional employee and other staff expenses are set out below:
       2009/10	 2008/09
       £m	 £m 
Wages and salaries      	 282	 288 
Social security costs      	 29  27 
Share-based payments      	5  6 
Long Term Incentive Plan      	 14  17 
Pension expense/(credit):        
■■ defined benefit plans      	4 2
■■ management charge/(credit) for the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund pension plan   	4 (10)
■■ other defined contribution plans      	 14	 12
Temporary labour and recruitment      	4 	 7 
      	 356	 349 
Less: Staff costs capitalised      	 (56) (44)
Staff	 costs      	 300  305 
Exceptional employee and other staff expenses of £181 million (2008/09 – £39 million) are set out in note 6.
Average	 number	 of	 employees
The average number of persons, including Executive Directors, employed by the Group in continuing operations during the year was:
       2009/10	 2008/09 
Commercial      	 1,572	 1,699 
Customer services      	 2,742  1,998 
Network operations      	 1,275  1,170 
Support      	 923  502 
Other      	 63  236 
Total      	 6,575	 5,605 
Key	 management’s	 remuneration	
Key management includes Directors and any senior employees that have regular access to inside information and have the power to make 
managerial decisions affecting the future development and business prospects of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group. Included in employee 
costs are key management expenses as follows:
       2009/10	 2008/09
       £m	 £m 
Salaries and other short-term employment benefits      	3  3 
Post-employment benefits      	–  – 
Termination benefits      	–  – 
Share-based payments      	1  1 
Long Term Incentive Plan      	8  8 
Total      	 12  12
Included in salaries and other short term employment benefits in the table above are aggregate Directors emoluments of £2 million (2008/09 – £2 
million).  
10	 Losses	 on	 the	 sale	 of	 non-current	 assets
In 2009/10 and 2008/09 the losses on disposal of non-current assets principally arose on the recycling of foreign currency translation reserve 
balances on liquidation of subsidiaries. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 81
11	 Finance	 income	 and	 expense
         2009/10     2008/09
     Pre-     Pre-    
  	 exceptional	 Exceptional	 Total exceptional Exceptional Total
  	 £m	 £m	 £m £m £m £m
Finance	 income	
Interest on cash and deposits  	– 	 	 –	 –  3  – 3
Interest on receivables   2	 –	 2 – – –
Total	 finance	 income  	2 	 	 –	 2	 3  – 3 
Finance	 expense
Interest on bank loans  	9 	 	 –	 9	 6  – 6 
Interest on funding loan with the Cable & Wireless  
Communications Group  	 14	 –	 14 74  – 74 
Finance charges on leases  	2 	 	 –	 2	 2  – 2 
Capitalised financing costs written off  	 –	 3	 3 – – –
Unwinding of discounts on provisions  	8 	 	 –	 8	 6  – 6 
Total	 finance	 expense  	 33	 	3 	 	 36	 88  – 88 
Exceptional finance expense of £3 million relates to accelerated amortisation of previously capitalised borrowing costs associated with the £200 
million revolving credit facility repaid during the year.
12	 Income	 tax	 credit
       2009/10	 2008/09
       £m	 £m 
Current	 tax	 charge
UK tax at 28%      	– 	 –
Overseas tax       1 –
Adjustments relating to prior years      	– 4 
Total	 current	 tax	 charge      	1  4  
Deferred	 tax	 credit	        
Origination and reversal of temporary differences      	 (96) (37)
Total	 deferred	 tax	 credit       	 (96) (37)
Total	 income	 tax	 credit	      	 (95)  (33)
There were no tax charges relating to exceptional items or items of other comprehensive income.
The differences between the total tax shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the loss 
before tax is as follows:
       2009/10	 2008/09
       £m	 £m 
Continuing	 operations
Tax on loss at UK corporation tax rate of 28%      	 (26)   (18)  
Effect of overseas tax rates      	1 (1)
Effect of disallowed expenditure       12 13 
Effect of changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets      	 (82) (31) 
Adjustments relating to prior years      	– 4
Tax	 credit      	 (95)   (33)  82 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
13	 Earnings	 per	 share
Basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares outstanding.
As a result of the demerger Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the new parent of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide businesses. Therefore, the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding has been calculated using the number of ordinary shares issued by Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc to the shareholders of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at the date of the demerger (26 March 2010) and adjusted for:
■ ■ movements in the number of ordinary shares of Cable and Wireless plc in the period prior to 19 March 2010 and Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc for the period from 19 March 2010 to demerger; and
■ ■ movements in the number of ordinary shares outstanding from the demerger date to 31 March 2010 using the actual number of ordinary 
shares of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc outstanding during that period.
       2009/10	 2008/09 
Profit/(loss) for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders (£m)    	1  (32)
        
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (millions)     	 2,544  2,486 
Dilutive effect of share options (millions)      	 24  26 
Number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share (millions)    	 2,568	 2,512 
        
Basic	 earnings	 per	 share	 (pence	 per	 share)      	 0.0 (1.3)
Diluted	 earnings	 per	 share	 (pence	 per	 share)      	 0.0 (1.3)
14	 Dividends	 declared	 and	 paid
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2010, the Directors have proposed a dividend of 3.00 pence per share, totalling £79 million, for approval by 
shareholders at the AGM to be held on 21 July 2010. These financial statements do not reflect the proposed dividend, which will be accounted for 
in shareholders’ equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The Cable & Wireless Worldwide Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust waived its right to dividends on the shares held in the trust. 
15	 Impairment	 review
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or otherwise as required by accounting standards. Factors that are considered important, 
which could trigger an impairment review, are set out in note 3.3.
Goodwill
Year ended 31 March 2010 and 2009
A review of the carrying value of goodwill has been performed at each year end. In performing these reviews, the recoverable amount of goodwill 
has been determined by reference to the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use of the continuing operations of the related 
businesses. The value in use was the higher of these two measures in both years and no impairments were required in any of the periods 
presented.
At 31 March 2010, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group allocated goodwill to one group of cash generating units as this represented the lowest 
level within the entity at which goodwill was monitored. This is because it generated revenue through an integrated network for which the Group 
is unable to identify relevant cash flows separately. Goodwill of £800 million was allocated this group of cash generating units (CGUs) at 31 March 
2010 (31 March 2009 - £784 million). A discounted cash flow analysis was performed using the Board approved five year business projection 
which was extended using a terminal value growth rate of 1% and a pre-tax discount rate of 9% (31 March 2009 - 10%). The terminal growth rate 
was determined using long term historical growth rates of the group of CGUs, which have been benchmarked to long term average growth rates 
of the industry. The discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risk free rate and equity risk premium of the Group and have been 
benchmarked against published industry data.
The other key assumptions on which the projected cash flows are based relate to EBITDA growth and the level of capital expenditure required to 
maintain the network at its current level. These assumptions were determined using a combination of long-term trends, industry forecasts and in-
house estimates. The value in use would not support the carrying value of the goodwill if earnings decreased or maintenance capital expenditure 
increased by more than £60 million per year; or the discount rate increased by more than 3 percentage points.
Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment	 and	 other	 intangibles
Year ended 31 March 2010 and 2009
There were no events or changes in circumstances during the year to indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other 
intangible assets had been impaired. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 83
16	 Intangible	 assets
        Licences and  Customer   
         operating contracts and   
     Goodwill Software agreements relationships Total 
     £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2008    431  665  21  130  1,247 
Business combinations    350  – 5  15  370 
Additions    – 16  – – 16 
Exchange differences    3  3  – – 6 
At 31 March 2009    784  684  26  145  1,639 
Business combinations    17  – –  –  17 
Additions    – 25  –  – 25 
Disposals    – (4) (19) – (23) 
Exchange differences    (1) – – – (1)
At	 31	 March	 2010	 	 	 	 800	 	 705	 	7 	 	 145	 	 1,657 	
Amortisation	 and	 impairment
At 1 April 2008    – 619  17  31  667 
Charge for the year    – 21  2  15  38 
Exchange differences     – (2) 1  – (1)
At 31 March 2009    – 638  20  46  704 
Charge for the year    – 25  2  18  45
Disposals    – (4) (19) – (23) 
Exchange differences    – (1) – – (1) 
At	 31	 March	 2010	 	 	 	 –	 658	 	3 	 	 64	 	 725 	
Net	 book	 value
At	 31	 March	 2010	 	 	 	 800	 	 47	 	4 	 	 81	 	 932 	
At 31 March 2009    784  46  6  99  935  84 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
17	 Property,	 plant	 and	 equipment
        2009/10      2008/09
  Land	 and	 Plant	 and	 Assets	 under   Land and Plant and Assets under  
  buildings	 equipment	 construction	 Total buildings equipment construction Total
  £m	 £m	 £m	 £m £m £m £m £m
Cost        
At 1 April 315	 	 5,186	 	 55	 	 5,556  302  4,849  73  5,224 
Additions –	 4	 	 250	 	 254  1  73  172  246 
Movements in asset retirement obligations (1)	 (1)	 	 –	 (2)  3  5  – 8 
Business combinations –	 –	 –	 – 11  191  – 202 
Disposals (2)	 (30)	 –	 (32) (30) (207) (3) (240)
Transfers between categories 12	 		224	 (236)	 – 11  178  (189) - 
Exchange differences (2)	 (7)	 	– 	 	 (9)  17  97  2  116 
At 31 March 322	 5,376	 	 69	 	 5,767 315  5,186  55  5,556 
Depreciation        
At 1 April 262	 	 4,346	 	 –	 4,608	 269  4,297  – 4,566 
Charge for the year 9	 214	 	 –	 223	 6  168  – 174 
Disposals (2)	 (28)	 –	 (30) (30) (207) – (237)
Exchange differences (1)	 (7)	 	 –	 (8)  17  88  – 105 
At 31 March 268	 4,525	 –	 4,793 262  4,346  – 4,608 
Net	 book	 value	 at	 31	 March 54	 851	 	 69	 	 974	 53  840  55  948 
Included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment at 31 March 2010 is £38 million (31 March 2009 – £19 million) of assets held 
under finance leases.
Additions during the year include own work capitalised during the construction of certain assets of £56 million (2008/09 – £44 million).
18	 Investments	 in	 joint	 ventures	
            2009/10 2008/09 
       £m £m
Gross	 carrying	 amount
At 1 April
– Cost       5 12 
– Share of post-acquisition reserves       (2) (17)
       3 (5)
Transfer to subsidiary undertaking       – 8 
At 31 March       3 3
Impairment	 allowance
At 1 April and 31 March       (3) (3)
Net	 carrying	 amount	 at	 31	 March       – – Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 85
There are no results of joint ventures in the year (2008/09 - £nil).
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The carrying amount of the investments comprise the cost of the 
investment together with the Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss less any impairment allowances. 
There were no significant restrictions on joint ventures’ ability to transfer funds to the Group. The joint ventures had no significant contingent 
liabilities to which the Group was exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in joint ventures.  
The Group’s joint ventures did not discontinue any operations during any of the periods presented.
On 1 April 2008 the Group gained control of Apollo Submarine Cable Systems Limited which was previously accounted for as a joint venture  
(see note 34).  
On the demerger from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned 
by and for the continuing use of the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups (see note 36).  
19	 Available-for-sale	 financial	 assets
       2009/10	 2008/09
       £m	 £m 
At 1 April      	 11  –
Additions      	–  1 
Reclassified to cash and cash equivalents      	 (10) –
Business combinations      	– 10 
At	 31	 March      	1  11 
At 31 March 2010 available-for-sale financial assets primarily comprised cash held as collateral and equity investments (31 March 2009 – cash 
held as collateral and equity investments). These assets are measured at fair value based on observable market data. During the year, the cash 
held as collateral was reclassified to cash as the collateral was no longer required.  
20	 Trade	 and	 other	 receivables
         31	 March 31 March
       2010  2009
         £m £m
Gross trade receivables      	 457	 506 
Valuation allowance      	 (33) (31)
Net	 trade	 receivables      	 424	 475 
Other receivables      	 86	 52 
Prepayments and accrued income      	 177	 156 
Taxation and social security receivables      	4 	 2 
Trade	 and	 other	 receivables	–	 current      	 691	 685 
Other receivables      	5 	 5 
Prepayments and accrued income      	 19	 21 
Other	 receivables	–	 non-current      	 24	 26 
Total	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables      	 715  711
 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value. There is no material difference between the carrying value and 
fair value of trade and other receivables presented.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated. Receivables 
predominantly relate to Governments and corporate entities as well as other telecoms operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer. These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history 
analysis and credit approval limits. Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither 
past due nor impaired as low risk. There have been no significant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that 
indicate this would change in the future. There has been an economic downturn in markets in which the Group operates. This would indicate an 
increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. However, management have assessed this risk and, after providing 
additional valuation allowance where necessary, continue to support the assessment of credit quality as low risk.  86 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
20	 Trade	 and	 other	 receivables	 continued
An ageing analysis of the current net trade and other receivables that are not impaired is as follows:
         31	 March	 2010     31 March 2009
   Trade	   Trade   
   and	 other	   and other   
  	 receivables 		 	 Total 	 trade	 receivables   Total trade 
  	 (excluding			 Interconnect 	 	 and	 other	 (excluding   Interconnect  and other 
   	 interconnect)	 	 receivables 	 	 receivables 	 interconnect)  receivables  receivables
   	 £m		 £m		 £m  £m  £m  £m 
Not yet due  	 230	 	 89	 	 319	 179  76  255 
Overdue 30 days or less  	 34	 	 11	 	 45 52  27  79 
Overdue 31 to 60 days  	 12	 	9 	 	 21  20  4  24 
Overdue 61 to 90 days  	 10	 	6 	 	 16	 11  9  20 
Overdue 91 days to 180 days  	9 	 	 26	 	 35	 18  29  47 
Overdue 181 days or more  	4 	 	 70	 	 74  –  102  102 
Current	 net	 trade	 and	 other	 receivables  	 299	 	 211	 	 510  280  247  527
 
Due to the nature of the telecommunications industry, balances relating to interconnection with other carriers often have lengthy settlement 
periods. Generally, interconnection agreements with major carriers result in receivables and payables balances with the same counterparty. 
Industry practice is that receivable and payable amounts relating to interconnection revenue and costs for a defined period are agreed between 
counterparties and settled on a net basis. Included within trade and other receivables are amounts relating to interconnection with other carriers of 
£211 million (31 March 2009 – £247 million). In most circumstances, the Group also has a corresponding payable to the receivable counterparty.
An analysis of movements in the trade receivables valuation allowance for the period is as follows:
         2009/10  2008/09
         £m £m
At 1 April       31	 40
Bad debts written off       (13) (9)
Increase/(decrease) in allowance       15	 (1)
Exchange differences       –  1
At	 31	 March       33  31
 
All trade transactions with joint ventures arose in the normal course of business and primarily related to fees for use of the Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide Group’s products and services, network and access charges. There were no material transactions with joint ventures during the 
year ended 31 March 2010.
21	 Inventories
Inventories represent equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale. It also includes capacity on sub-sea cable systems currently in the 
course of construction and held for resale of £15 million (2008/09 - £nil).
Inventories of £17 million (31 March 2009 – £3 million) are presented net of an allowance of £nil (31 March 2009 – £2 million) made against slow 
moving or obsolete items.
The cost of equipment, consumables and accessories held for sale that were expensed within operating costs in 2009/10 was £11 million 
(2008/09 – £6 million). 
22	 Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents
         31	 March 31 March
       2010  2009
         £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand       51  74
Short-term deposits       175  70
Cash and cash equivalents       226  144
  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 87
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank, short-term bank deposits and money market funds.
Short-term bank deposits consist primarily of money market deposits, which can be readily converted to cash at short notice. The effective 
interest rate on short-term bank deposits at 31 March 2010 was 0.37% (31 March 2009 – 0.45%). At 31 March 2010 these deposits had an 
average maturity of 15 days (31 March 2009 – 5 days).
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value.
23	 Trade	 and	 other	 payables
         31	 March 31 March
       2010  2009
         £m £m
Trade payables       398  438
Other taxation and social security costs       58  36
Accruals       236  308
Deferred income       317  289
Other payables       4  20
Trade	 and	 other	 payables	–	 current       1,013  1,091
 
Accruals       –  6
Other payables       1 –
Trade	 and	 other	 payables	–	 non-current       1  6
Total	 trade	 and	 other	 payables       1,014  1,097
 
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other payables presented.	 	
24	 Loans	 and	 obligations	 under	 finance	 leases
         31	 March 31 March
       2010  2009
         £m £m
Loans
Sterling £200 million revolving credit facility repaid in 2010       –  95
Sterling £230 million convertible bonds due 2014       204 –
US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2010       7 8
Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2010       3  3
        214  106
  
Loans	–	 current        10  8
Loans	–	 non-current        204  98
Finance	 leases
Obligations under finance leases        32  22
Obligations	 under	 finance	 leases	–	 current       15  10
Obligations	 under	 finance	 leases	–	 non-current        17  12
 
Loans	 and	 obligations	 under	 finance	 leases	–	 current        25  18
Loans	 and	 obligations	 under	 finance	 leases	–	 non-current       221  110
 
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of loans and obligations under finance leases presented.   88 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
24	 Loans	 and	 obligations	 under	 finance	 leases	 continued
Loans
The contractual cash flow profile of loans (including interest payable at rates prevailing at the reporting date) is as follows:
         31	 March 31 March
       2010  2009
         £m £m
Loans
Due in less than one year       31  9
Due in more than one year but not more than two years       22  14
Due in more than two years but not more than five years       278  106
Total	 loans       331  129
Less future finance charges on loans       (117) (23)
Total	 loans       214  106
Sterling	 revolving	 credit	 facilities
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Sterling £200 million revolving credit facility (£99 million drawn down at 31 March 2009, £95 million net of directly 
attributable costs) was repaid during the year. 
During the year, the Group obtained a Sterling £300 million revolving credit facility repayable in 2013 of which £nil was drawn down at  
31 March 2010.  Up to £100 million of this facility may be utilised by letters of credit to the benefit of the trustees of the Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide Retirement Plan (see note 29). The facility also contemplates that the Group may enter into permitted bilateral facilities with the lenders 
of up to £75 million, subject to certain conditions. The facility is secured by way of guarantee from Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and other 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group companies and security over assets of Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.
Convertible	 bonds
The convertible bonds due in 2014 of £230 million were issued by Cable and Wireless plc on 24 November 2009.  These bonds were 
subsequently transferred to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc on 19 March 2010 before being transferred to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 
(the ultimate parent of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group) on 26 March 2010 as part of the demerger.  The convertible bonds were separated 
into their loan and equity components being £208 million of loan and £22 million of equity. Directly attributable transaction costs of £4 million were 
capitalised against the loan component as part of this transaction.
Each bond entitles the holder to convert the amount of such bond into fully paid ordinary shares of 5 pence each at a rate of 90,090 shares for 
each £100,000 held at an initial conversion price of 111 pence per ordinary share.  Unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and 
cancelled, the convertible bonds will be redeemed on 24 November 2014 at their principal amount.  The bonds carry a coupon of 5.75% per 
annum payable semi-annually in arrears (with the exception of a long first coupon in June 2010 and a short last coupon on the maturity date). 
The convertible bonds are senior debt obligations. They contain a negative pledge which provides that, so long as any of the convertible bonds 
remain outstanding, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and its principal subsidiaries will not create or permit to subsist security upon their respective 
assets to secure, guarantee or indemnify any other debt instruments which are listed or capable of being listed.
US	 dollar	 and	 other	 currency	 loans
The US dollar loan is secured by way of a guarantee from Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and other Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group 
companies. The other currency loan is secured over assets and receivables of Cable & Wireless Networks India Private Ltd. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 89
Obligations	 under	 finance	 leases
The repayment profile of obligations and the present value of future minimum finance lease repayments under non-cancellable finance lease 
agreements is as follows:
     Net finance lease Minimum finance
     liabilities lease payments
          31	 March 31 March 31	 March 31 March
          2010 2009 2010 2009
          £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year     15  10  16  11
Due in more than one year but not more than two years     10  7  11  7
Due in more than two years but not more than five years     5  3  7  3
Due in more than five years     2  2  2  2
Total     32	 22  36  23
Less future finance charges on finance leases       (4) (1)
Present	 value	 of	 finance	 lease	 liabilities       32  22
Interest	 rates
Interest is payable on loans and obligations under finance leases falling due after more than five years at a rate of 10%.        
The weighted average effective interest rates at the reporting date were as follows:
     31	 March	 2010 31 March 2009
      Interest  Interest
    Type	 Currency	 rate Currency rate
    	 	 %  %
Sterling secured £300 million facility repayable in 2013    Floating GBP	 4.0 – –
Sterling secured £200 million facility repaid in 2010    Floating –	 –  GBP 4.0
Convertible bonds repayable in 2014    Fixed GBP	 5.8 – –
US dollar loans repayable at various dates up to 2010    Floating USD	 3.6  USD 3.6
Other currency loans repayable at various dates up to 2010    Floating Other	 3.9 Other 5.7
Obligations under finance leases    Fixed GBP	 6.7  GBP 7.1
   
25	 Financial	 liabilities	 at	 fair	 value
At 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009, the Group had a liability of £1 million relating to a put option in respect of a subsidiary, Cable & Wireless 
Networks India Private Ltd.
26	 Financial	 instruments
The fair value hierarchy for instruments measured at fair value is as follows:
      At	 31	 March	 2010
     Level	 1	 Level	 2	 Level	 3	 Total
	 	 	 	 Note	 £m	 £m	 £m	 £m
Assets measured at fair value:    
Equity investments    19 1 – – 1
Liabilities measured at fair value:
Put option relating to Cable & Wireless Networks India Private Ltd   25 – – 1 1
Level	 1-	 Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level	2	-	 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that ar e observable for the asset or liability either 
directly or indirectly.
Level	3	-	 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. 90 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
27	 Deferred	 tax
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are as follows:
   Capital
    allowances on       Financial
    non-current       position
    assets Tax losses Pensions Other offset Total
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax assets   19  2  1   –  (5) 17
Deferred tax liabilities   (1)  –  (1) (3) 5  –
At 1 April 2008   18  2   –  (3)  –  17
Amounts credited to the income statement   34  2   –  1   –  37
At 31 March 2009   52  4   –  (2)  –  54
Deferred tax assets   55  4   –   –  (5) 54
Deferred tax liabilities   (3)  –   –  (2) 5  –
At 31 March 2009   52  4   –  (2)  –  54
Amounts credited/(charged) to the income statement   95 (1) – 2  – 96
At	 31	 March	 2010   147	 3	 –	 –	 –	 150
Deferred tax assets   150 3 –  –  (3) 150
Deferred tax liabilities   (3) – – – 3  –
At	 31	 March	 2010   147	 3	 –	 –	 –	 150
 
The expected utilisation of deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 March 2010 is as follows:
     Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities
     31	 March 31 March 31	 March 31 March
    	 2010 2009 2010 2009
    	 £m	 £m £m £m
Within one year     18	 2  (1) (2)
After one year     135	 57 (2) (3)
     153	 59  (3) (5)
Offset     (3)	 (5) 3 5
Total	 	 	 	 	 150	 54	 –	 –
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences (gross):
      Capital
       allowances
    available on
       non-current
       assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total
       £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 March 2009       3,753 18,126  13  57  21,949
As	 at	 31	 March	 2010	 		 		 	 	 3,546	 21,537	 	 167	 	 190	 	 25,440 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 91
Tax losses (recognised and unrecognised) expire as follows:
             	 31	 March 31 March
              2010 2009
              £m £m
Within 1 year      	8  13
Within 3 years      	5  13
Within 5 years      	5  15
Within 10 years      	 88  81
After more than 10 years      	 11  48
Other tax losses are not subject to expiry.
The £21,537 million (31 March 2009 - £18,126 million) gross losses include a UK capital loss of £5,197 million (31 March 2009 - £5,192 million).  
Other losses principally arose in overseas holding companies of £15,547 million (31 March 2009 - £12,096 million) in which the opportunity to 
realise benefits therefrom is considered remote and in overseas trading companies of £695 million (31 March 2009 - £736 million) where no 
deferred tax asset is recognised due to uncertainty as to the availability of future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and branches where the Group controls the timing of remittance and 
remittance is not contemplated, and for those interests in joint ventures where it has been determined that no additional tax will arise.  The 
aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments where no deferred tax liability is recognised is £nil (31 March 2009 - £nil). 
Following the change in the UK tax treatment of dividends on 1 July 2009, no tax is expected to arise on distributions from group entities and no 
temporary difference exists, except where withholding tax or other foreign tax could arise on the remittance.
28	 Provisions
  		 		 		 	 	 2009/10        2008/09
 	 	 Network	 	   Network
 	 	 and	 asset	 	   and asset
 	Redundancy	 retirement	 	  Redundancy retirement
 Property	 costs	 obligations	 Other	 Total Property costs obligations Other Total
 £m	 £m	 £m	 £m	 £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 68	 	7 	 	 112	 	 12	 	 199	 61  5 64   11  141
Additions from business combinations 7	 	 –	 – 	 	– 	 	7 	 1   –  34  1  36
Additional provisions 15	 	 16	 	5 	 	 43	 	 79  31  23  25  17  96
Amounts used (15)	 (15)	 (8)	 (32)	 (70) (16) (19) (11) (17) (63)
Unused amounts reversed (8)	 (2)	 –	 (7)	 (17) (14) (2) (6)  –  (22)
Effect of discounting 4	 	 –	 1 	 	 –	 5  3   –  6   –  9
Exchange differences  –	 	– 	 	– 	 	– 	 	– 	 2   –   –   –  2
At	 31	 March 71	 	6 	 	 110	 	 16	 	 203	 68  7  112  12  199
Provisions	–	 current	 16	 	6 	 	5 	 	 16	 	 43	 16  7  8  12  43
Provisions	–	 non-current	 55	 	 –	 105 	 	– 	 	 160  52   –  104   –  156
Property
Provision has been made for the lower of the best estimate of the unavoidable lease payments or cost of exit in respect of vacant properties. 
Unavoidable lease payments represent the difference between the rentals due and any income expected to be derived from the vacant properties 
being sublet. The provision is expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life. This is expected to occur 
within the next 20 years.
Property provisions released during the year were as a result of the sub-letting of previously vacant properties or lease exits where dilapidations 
and other exit costs were less than previously provided for.
Redundancy
In the periods presented, redundancy provisions included the total employee related costs of redundancies announced prior to the reporting date. 
Amounts provided for and spent during the periods primarily related to the restructuring of the Group’s business subsequent to the acquisition of 
THUS Group plc in October 2008. The provision is expected to be used within one year. 92 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
28	 Provisions	 continued
Network	 and	 asset	 retirement	 obligations
In the periods presented, provision was made for the best estimate of the unavoidable costs associated with redundant leased 
network capacity. These provisions are expected to be used over the shorter of the period to exit and the lease contract life.
Provision was also made for the best estimate of the asset retirement obligation associated with office sites, technical sites, domestic 
and sub-sea cabling. This provision was expected to be used at the end of the life of the related asset on which the obligation arose. 
Amounts utilised in the periods presented related predominantly to cash expenditure against unavoidable costs associated with 
redundant network capacity.
Other
Other provisions included the costs of integration of the THUS Group, business transformation initiatives and specific legal claims 
against the Group.
29	 Retirement	 benefits	 obligations
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group operates pension schemes for its current and former UK and overseas employees. These 
schemes include both defined benefit schemes, where retirement benefits are based on employees’ remuneration and length of 
service, and defined contribution schemes, where retirement benefits reflect the accumulated value of agreed contributions paid by, 
and in respect of, employees. Contributions to the defined benefit schemes are made in accordance with recommendations from 
independent actuaries who value the schemes.
Demerger
Prior to demerger, a number of the Group’s current and former employees participated in the defined benefit portion of the Cable & 
Wireless Superannuation Fund (CWSF), operated by the Cable & Wireless Group (now Cable & Wireless Communications Group). 
Amounts related to the defined benefit net expense or credit in the CWSF prior to the transfer were recharged to the Group by 
the Cable & Wireless Communications Group as Cable&Wireless Worldwide did not have a legal obligation to the CWSF for these 
amounts. These amounts have been recorded as though they were defined contribution expenses.
As a result of the demerger (see note 4), a portion of the assets and pension obligations of the CWSF were transferred to the Cable 
& Wireless Worldwide Retirement Plan (CWWRP), a new plan operated by the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group. The obligations 
transferred to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group were determined based on members’ last known employer. The plan assets to 
be transferred to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group will be determined by reference to the obligations transferred. Under IAS 19, 
this results in defined benefit plan assets of £1.2 billion and defined benefit pension obligations of £1.3 billion being transferred to the 
Group on 26 March 2010. Due to the timing of this transfer, no information regarding movements in the CWWRP from 26 March 2010 
to 31 March 2010 has been presented as this does not result in material or useful information. Similarly, no comparative information 
has been presented.
Defined	 contribution	 schemes
The pension cost for the year for the Group schemes accounted for on a defined contribution basis was £18 million (2008/09 – £2 
million). Of this amount, a net expense of £4 million (2008/09 – net credit of £10 million) related to expenses and credits recognised 
in respect of management charges as a result of membership of the CWSF allocated historically to the Group. A further £14 million 
expense (2008/09 – £12 million expense) represented other defined contributions made in respect of Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
members of the CWSF .
The pre-exceptional defined contribution pension cost has been included in employee benefit expenses (note 9).
Defined	 benefit	 schemes
As part of the demerger, Cable&Wireless Worldwide established the CWWRP to administer the plan assets and pension obligations 
transferred to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group from the CWSF . This plan provides defined benefit and defined contribution 
arrangements for current and former employees of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group. These arrangements are provided on 
the same basis as under the CWSF , operated by the Cable & Wireless Group (now Cable & Wireless Communications Group). The 
CWRRP has been closed to new defined benefit members since its inception in 2010. No new defined benefit members have entered 
the CWSF since 1998. The assets of the CWWRP include an appropriate share of the bulk annuity policy that was purchased by the 
Trustee of the CWSF in 2008/09. These annuity policies are treated as pension assets and match the respective pensioner obligations 
which have been transferred to the CWWRP .
The terms of the CWWRP Trust Deed allow the Trustee or the Company to call for a valuation at any time. The first funding valuation 
of the CWWRP is due to take place in 2010/11. In the meantime, the Group will make contributions to the CWWRP at the rate of 
28.5% of pensionable earnings which applied in the CWSF prior to demerger. The contribution rate includes an allowance of 3% 
of pensionable earnings for administration expenses, excluding the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) levy. The PPF levy for 2009/10 
was £0.3 million. The Group therefore paid a total contribution rate of 28.5% towards the CWSF in respect of its current and former 
employees in 2009/10, or £9.4 million. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 93
In July 2009, an interim funding agreement was reached with the CWSF Trustee whereby additional contributions were to be paid to the CWSF in 
anticipation of the 31 March 2010 actuarial valuation. This agreement was replaced with two interim funding agreements, one for CWSF and one 
for CWWRP , on demerger. As a result, the Group will pay £11 million into the CWWRP in October 2010 and a further £25 million in April 2011. In 
addition, the Group made a £5 million cash contribution to the CWWRP on 31 March 2010.
A £100 million contingent funding agreement was agreed with the CWWRP Trustee in connection with the demerger, under which the Trustee can 
call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as material deterioration in the financial performance of the business.
Other	 schemes
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group operates the THUS Group plc Pension Scheme. An independent actuarial valuation of the THUS Group 
plc Pension Scheme carried out with an effective date of 31 December 2008 showed a deficit of £2 million on a funding basis. Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide made a one-off £1 million contribution on 31 March 2010 in order to fully fund this scheme on an ongoing basis. 
The Group also operates defined benefit arrangements in Hong Kong and Ireland, unfunded liabilities in the UK relating to pension provision for 
former directors and other senior employees in respect of their earnings in excess of the previous Inland Revenue salary cap, and other small 
defined benefit and defined contribution pension arrangements in the UK.
IAS	 19	 valuation	–	 Cable	&	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 Retirement	 Plan	 (CWWRP)	 and	 other	 schemes
IAS 19 valuations of the defined benefit pension schemes operated by the Group have been updated to 31 March 2010 by qualified independent 
actuaries. Lane Clark & Peacock LLP prepared the valuation for the CWWRP and unfunded arrangements in the UK. Towers Watson & Co 
prepared the valuation for the THUS Group scheme, and reviewed the IAS 19 valuations prepared for all other schemes.
The main financial assumptions applied and an analysis of the schemes’ assets at 31 March 2010 are as follows:
  	 	 	 	31	 March	 2010  31 March 2009
  	 	 	 	 Other  Other
  	 	 CWWRP	 	 schemes  schemes
          
  	 Assets	 Assumption	 Assets	 Assumption Assets Assumption
  	 £m	 %	 £m	 % £m %
Inflation assumption  	 	 3.6	 	 3.2	  2.3
Salary increases  	 	 4.1	 	 	 4.1	  4.0
Pension increases  	 	 2.3	–	 3.5	 	 3.4	  3.0
Discount rate  	 	 5.5	 	 	 5.4   5.7
Long-term expected rate of return on plan assets
– Annuity policies  	 332	 	 5.5	 	– 	 	– 	  –  –
– Equities  	 510	 	 8.3	 	 73	 	 7.8	 54  7.5
– Bonds and gilts   	 115	 	 5.4	 	 53	 	 5.1  40  4.7
– Property   	 69	 	 6.8	 	– 	 	 6.8	 –  –
– Cash and swaps  	 170	 	 3.9	 	 4	 4.0  2  3.0
    1,196	 	 	 130	  96
 
The assumptions regarding mortality rates in retirement for the CWWRP include allowances for future mortality, improvements in line with medium 
cohort projections of the 1992 mortality series tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, subject to a minimum annual rate of 
improvement of 1.5%. These are the mortality rates used for calculating the defined benefit obligation in the statement of financial position for the 
year ended 31 March 2010.
Based on these assumptions, the life expectancy of pensioners aged 60 are as follows:
      On 31  On 31  On 31
      March March March
      2010  2020  2030
      (years) (years) (years)
Male           27.8 29.3 30.8
Female           29.1 30.7 32.3
 
Assumptions used are best estimates from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which may not necessarily be borne out in practice. The 
assumptions shown above for Other schemes represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the individual schemes. 94 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
29	 Retirement	 benefits	 obligations	 continued
A one year increase in the life expectancy assumptions would have increased the CWWRP liabilities by approximately £31 million as at 31 March 
2010. The corresponding increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy is £8 million. A 0.25% pa  
decrease in the discount rate used to value the scheme liabilities would have increased the liabilities by around £77 million. The corresponding 
increase in the value of assets due to the change in the estimated value of the annuity policy is £13 million. A 0.25% pa change in the assumed 
rate of salary increases would have changed the liabilities by around £5 million.
Excluding the annuities, which are measured at the value of the obligation to which they relate, the overall expected rate of return for each pension 
scheme is a weighted average of the expected asset return for each asset class. The expected asset return for each asset class has been set as 
a best estimate of the long-term return that will be achieved for the particular asset class in the country in question having regard to investment 
yields on the measurement date.
The CWWRP is closed to new entrants. Under the projected unit credit method used for the valuation of liabilities, the current service cost is 
expected to increase when expressed as a percentage of pensionable payroll as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes operated by the Group are presented below:
      	31	 March	 2010 31 March 2009
    	 	 	 Other	 Other
    	 CWWRP	 schemes	 Total schemes
    	 £m	 £m	 £m £m
Total fair value of plan assets   	 	 1,196	 	 130	 	 1,326  96
Present value of funded obligations    	 (1,332)	 (159)	 (1,491) (110)
Excess of liabilities for funded obligations    	 (136)	 	 (29)	 	 (165)	  (14)
Present value of unfunded obligations    	 –	 (2)	 (2) –
Net	 deficit    	 (136)	 	 (31)	 (167)	 (14)
Liabilities
Defined benefit pension plans in deficit    	 (136)	 (31)	 (167) (14)
Assets
Defined benefit pension plans in surplus    	– 	 	– 	 	– 	 –
 
Included within the Other schemes liabilities is an amount of £nil (2008/09 - £nil) to cover the cost of former Directors’ pension entitlements.
When defined benefit funds have an IAS 19 surplus, they are recorded at the lower of that surplus and the future economic benefits available in 
the form of a cash refund or a reduction in future contributions. In addition, the Group may be required to recognise an additional liability to the 
extent that it is committed to a funding plan which may in the future push the scheme into an irrecoverable surplus. Any adjustment to the surplus 
is recorded directly in equity. The effect of these adjustments (described as asset ceiling adjustments) was £nil as at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 
2009.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of defined benefit schemes are as follows. Due to the timing of the transfer, no 
information regarding movements in the CWWRP from 26 March 2010 to 31 March 2010 has been presented.
       2009/10	 2008/09
    	 	 	 Other	 Other
    	 CWWRP	 schemes	 Total schemes
    	 £m	 £m	 £m £m
Current service cost     – (3)	 (3) (2)
Interest cost     – (7)	 (7) (4)
Past service cost on demerger                                                         (141)               	 (2)		          	 (143) –    
Expected return on plan assets     – 6	 6  4
Losses on curtailment or settlement (excluding demerger)     – –	 –  (5)
Total	 net	 expense     (141)	 (6)	 (147)  (7)
 
The pre-exceptional defined benefit expense has been included in employee benefit expenses (note 9).
The actual return on the other scheme defined benefit plan assets was a gain of £31 million (2008/09 – loss of £4 million). The main factor in this 
increase is the experience gains which arose from an increase in asset values in the period due to improving financial market conditions.
The initial recognition of the CWWRP has been recorded as a past service cost of £141 million and treated as an exceptional item (see note 6).   Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 95
This amount equates to the difference between the estimated IAS 19 value of the plan assets and pension obligations transferred as part of the 
demerger.  It is recognised as a past service cost since this obligation relates entirely to service periods prior to the transfer to the CWWRP .
The total amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the current financial year and cumulatively to 31 March 2010 was a 
loss of £20 million (2008/09 – loss of £7 million) and loss of £36 million (2008/09 – loss of £16 million) respectively.
Changes in the fair value of defined benefit assets were as follows:
         	 	 2009/10 2008/09
       CWWRP	 Other	 Total Other
       £m	 £m	 £m £m
Fair value of assets as at 1 April     –	 96	 	 96 29
Expected return     –	 6	 	6 4
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in equity     –	 25	 	 25 (8)
Contributions by employer      5	 7	 	 12	 3
Employee contributions     –	 1	 	1 1
Assets acquired     –	 –	 	– 63
Assets transferred on demerger (note 4)     1,191	 –	 	 1,191	 –
Benefits paid     –	 (4)	 	 (4) (2)
Exchange differences on foreign plans     –	 (1)	 	 (1)  6
Fair	 value	 of	 assets	 as	 at	 31	 March     1,196	 130	 	 1,326 96
 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows:
         	 	 2009/10 2008/09
       CWWRP	 Other	 Total Other
       £m	 £m	 £m £m
Obligation at 1 April      –	 (110)	 	 (110) (32)
Current service cost      –	 (3)	 	 (3) (2)
Interest cost     –	 (7)	 	 (7) (4)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in equity     –	 (45)	 	 (45)	 1
Employee contributions     –	 (1)	 	 (1) (1)
Obligations acquired     –	 –	 	– (63)
Obligations transferred on demerger (note 4)     (1,332)	 (2)	 (1,334)	 –
Settlements/curtailments     –	 –	 	– (6)
Benefits paid     –	 4	 	4 	 3
Exchange differences on foreign plans     –	 3	 	3 (6)
Obligation	 at	 31	 March     (1,332)	 (161)	 (1,493) (110)
 
Experience gains for the period are as follows:
    31	 March  31 March  31 March  31 March  31 March 
   	 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
          
  	 CWWRP	 Other Other Other Other Other
  	 £m	 £m £m £m £m £m
Plan assets  	 1,196	 	 130	 96  29  29  27
Defined benefit pension plan obligations 	 	 (1,332)	 (161) (110) (32) (31) (32)
Deficit 	 	 (136)	 (31) (14) (3) (2) (5)
Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets  	 –	 25 (8) (4)  –  3
Experience gains on plan liabilities   	– 	 	3 	  –   –  2  –
  96 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
29	 Retirement	 benefits	 obligations	 continued
The best estimate of defined benefit contributions for 2010/11 is:
      CWWRP Other Total
      £m £m £m
Employer contributions      21* 6  27
Employee contributions      2  1  3
 
* Based on an employer contribution rate of 28.5% of pensionable earnings plus contributions due under the interim funding agreement and the estimated PPF levy payable in the year  
  ending 31 March 2010.            
 
30	 Share	 capital	 and	 other	 reserves
The ultimate parent company of the Group, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, was incorporated on 24 September 2009. 
As discussed in note 2.1, during the period Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the ultimate parent of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group.  
This transaction has been accounted for using the principles of reverse acquisitions.
The main principles used in the presentation of share capital and other reserves for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group were as follows:
■ ■ The equity instruments of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc were initially recognised at their fair value on the date of the demerger.
■ ■ The movements in share capital prior to 26 March 2010 reflect the movements in the share capital of Cable & Wireless UK Holdings (the former 
parent of the companies that form part of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group). However, share capital for these prior year share issues has 
been restated using the nominal value of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shares at 5 pence each in order to present the movements as though 
the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group had been in existence in its current form since 1 April 2008. The difference arising on this restatement 
has been included in the share premium. 
■ ■ Any difference between the fair value of these instruments on the date of the demerger and the historical cost of the instruments on issue in 
Cable & Wireless UK Holdings were recorded in retained earnings.
See note 10 to the financial statements of the Company for further information on the shares issued by the Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc since 
its incorporation.
             Number of
             shares £m
Issued,	 called-up	 and	 fully	 paid	 ordinary	 shares	 of	5	 pence	 each
At 1 April 2008           2,539,624,386 127
Issued under recapitalisation      83,947,638  4
At 31 March 2009           2,623,572,024  131
Issued under recapitalisation          1,000,000  –
At	 31	 March	 2010	 	 	 	 	 	 2,624,572,024	 131
The Company did not repurchase any shares in 2008/09 or 2009/10. The Company did not have any Treasury shares outstanding during the  
year (2008/09 - nil).
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, each share (other than those held in treasury) entitles the holder to one vote at 
General Meetings of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc. The Company’s shareholders can declare dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but 
the payment cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors. There are no restrictions on the repayment of capital other than those 
imposed by law. For further information refer to pages 37 to 38 of the Directors’ report.
On 26 March 2010 Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc issued 2,624,572,024 ordinary shares of 5 pence each receiving in consideration the  
business and brand of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business. This resulted in share capital of £131 million and share premium of £2,527 million 
(net of issue costs of £14 million). On 29 March a court approved reduction in share capital took place reducing the share premium balance to  
£56 million.
The Group defines capital as share capital, share premium, other reserves (including capital reserve, fair value reserve and foreign 
currency translation reserve) and retained earnings. It does not have any externally imposed requirements for managing capital, other 
than those imposed by company law. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 97
The Group manages its net assets in such a way as to optimise the weighted average cost of debt and equity taking into account:
a)  the liquidity required in the light of the projected funding requirements of the Group’s operating businesses with an appropriate level 
of contingency; 
b) the level of financial strength required to maintain the Group’s terms of trade taking account of its operational cash generation;
c) the relative post-tax cost of debt and equity; and
d) the extent to which external debt finance is, or is likely to be, available to the Group on acceptable terms.
The Articles of Association of the Company permit borrowing up to three times the adjusted capital and reserves of the Group.
The Group ensures that sufficient funds and distributable reserves are held to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders. 
This process is managed through the Group’s budget and longer term forecasting process.
Foreign	 currency	 translation	 reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency 
different to the presentation currency of the Group.
31	 Share-based	 payments
Prior to the demerger, a number of Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group employees participated in share-based payment schemes of 
the Cable & Wireless Group (now Cable & Wireless Communications Group, an unrelated company). As part of the demerger, the 
majority of these schemes were rolled over into Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group equivalent share-based payment schemes.
Awards made prior to demerger were granted over Cable and Wireless plc shares. Therefore, some of the information relating to these 
awards may not be comparable.
Share	 option	 schemes
The Group does not currently have any outstanding share option awards over its own shares (2008/09 - nil). There are 1,573,793 
outstanding share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
employees prior to demerger which the Group is obliged to settle. These options were originally issued over Cable and Wireless 
plc shares at exercise prices between 100-149 pence (1,285,941 options) and 150-199 pence (287,852 options). All options have 
vested in full. Post-demerger, these options have been redesignated as an option over a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (an unrelated company). The liability for these stapled unit 
options is classified as an other payable and amounts to £nil million.
Other	 equity	 instrument	 awards
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Under the PSP , Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of performance shares is subject to relative Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc TSR performance conditions (see 
performance conditions for share-based awards on pages 46 and 47). A dividend award supplement operates on the PSP . Dividends 
that would have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be regarded as having been re-invested in additional shares.
Prior to demerger, PSP awards by Cable&Wireless Worldwide employees were subject to relative TSR performance of Cable and 
Wireless plc. Post-demerger, these have been adjusted to be an award over Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc ordinary shares of an 
equivalent value.
TSR is the main performance measure used in share plans where performance conditions apply as it provides an objective external 
measure of financial performance. The Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of the 
Company at the end of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is important to measure and reward relative performance against an appropriate 
set of companies. The Company’s relative TSR performance is assessed against a comparative group comprising the FTSE Global 
Telecoms Sector Index (FTSE GTSI), which provides a global benchmark of independently selected industry peers. Awards vest 
depending upon the Company’s TSR ranking relative to the comparative group at the end of a single three year performance period.
Restricted share plan (RSP) 
The RSP provides for awards of restricted shares to Executive Directors and selected employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool. 
Generally, restricted shares awarded under this plan vest over periods of one to three years.
Restricted shares are also used to award matching shares with performance conditions to Executive Directors who invested their own funds into 
Company shares. Attainment of these matching shares is dependent on the Executive Director continuing to hold the invested shares and on 
meeting the required TSR performance conditions (if applicable). 100% of any shares awarded under this plan vest after three years. 98 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
31	 Share-based	 payments	 continued
Prior to demerger, RSP awards held by Cable&Wireless Worldwide employees were made in respect of shares in Cable and Wireless plc. Post-
demerger, these awards have been adjusted to be an award over Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc ordinary shares of an equivalent value.
Stock appreciation rights plan (SARs) 
The SARs plan is used to replicate exactly the plans described above, but rewards are delivered as a cash equivalent. It is used in 
exceptional cases for countries in which tax or legal issues preclude the use of real shares or share options.
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Share purchase plan (SPP) 
The Company also offers its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, the 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide share purchase plan which is a Revenue approved share incentive plan. Under the SPP , employees can contribute up 
to a value of £1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year (whichever is the lower), to buy partnership shares in the Company, and the Company will offer 
a match of one share for each partnership share purchased.
Share awards 
The equity instrument awards of the Group can be summarised as follows:
Awards	 granted	 to	 employees	 of	 Cable&Wireless	 Worldwide	 during	 2009/10	 and	 2008/09	
																																																										Awards	 of	 Cable	&	 Wireless	 Worldwide	 plc	 shares Awards	 of	 Cable	 and	 Wireless	 plc	 shares Awards of Cable and Wireless plc shares
																																																							granted	 between	 26	 March	 2010	 and	 31	 March	 2010 granted	 between	1	 April	 2009	 and	 26	 March	 2010 granted during 2008/09
    
                                                                                                  Weighted     Weighted     Weighted
																																																																																																					average              Features    average	 Features   average Features
																																																																																																			fair	 value       incorporated   	 fair	 value	 incorporated   fair value incorporated
Award                                                                  Shares   (pence/share)												schemes  Shares	 (pence/share)	 in 	 schemes Shares (pence/share) in schemes
PSP                                                        	– 																		– 																			–  11,685,032	 70	 TSR	 – – –
RSP                                         	 1,916,304																86																			–  434,488	 	 129	 	– 581,059 150 –
SARs                                                       – 																		–	 																			–  589,039	 	 142	 	– 479,406 136 –
SPP scheme 
(matching shares)                                			– 																		–	 																			–  1,709,051	 	 140	 	– 1,306,472 156 –
 
The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the PSP grants (based on Cable and Wireless plc shares) in 2009/10 and 
2008/09 were:
       2009/10 2008/09
Weighted average share price (pence per share)       140  142
Dividend yield       6.2% 5.5%
Expected volatility       33.2% 31.0%
Risk-free interest rates       1.8% 3.0%
Expected life in years       2.9	 years 3 years
A summary of the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2010 is as follows:
    	 	 	 	31	 March	 2010 
      
     	 	 	 	 Weighted
        Weighted	 average
   	 	 	 	 Number	 of	 average	 remaining	 life
       shares	 	 fair	 value	 (rounded	 to
Award      outstanding	 (pence/share)
1
	 nearest	 year)
	
PSP      18,427,248	 	 70	 	3 
RSP      2,191,054	 	 86	 	1  
SARs      867,684	 	 92	 2 
 
1 The fair value of share awards made in respect of shares in Cable and Wireless plc has been adjusted in line with the conversion of share awards into Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc  
awards. This adjustment was based on the proportion of value of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc to the combined value of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc and Cable & Wireless  
Communications Plc for the five trading days post-demerger. 
The total expense relating to share-based payments which are equity settled transactions was £8 million (2008/09 – £6 million). In 2009/10, this 
expense included £3 million related to early vesting of share purchase plan awards on demerger, which is shown in exceptional items in note 6. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 99
32	 Reconciliation	 of	 net	 funds
Funds are defined as cash at bank and in hand, money market funds and short-term deposits. Debt is defined as loans, bonds and finance  
lease obligations.
A reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds is as follows:
       2009/10 2008/09
        £m £m
Increase in cash during the year         79 123
(Increase)/decrease in debt and lease financing         (97) 25
Cash (outflow)/inflow in net funds         (18) 148
Finance leases entered into during the year       (21) (12)
Net debt of businesses acquired         – (119)
Exchange differences         3 (1)
Movement in net funds in the year         (36) 16
Net funds at 1 April         16	 –
Net	 (debt)/funds	 at	 31	 March        (20) 16
Analysis of changes in net funds:
      Finance
      leases entered
     At 1 April    into during Exchange  At	 31	 March
    2009 Cash flow  the year  movements 2010
     £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand    74  (26) – 3  51
Short-term deposits    70  105 – –  175
Cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents    144  79 – 3  226
Debt due within one year    (18) 1 (8) – (25)
Debt due after one year    (110) (98) (13) – (221)
Total	 debt    (128) (97) (21) – (246)
Total	 net	 funds    16  (18) (21) 3 (20)
 
33	 Commitments,	 guarantees	 and	 contingent	 liabilities
Commitments
The Group had capital commitments at the end of the financial year relating to the purchase of plant and equipment of £118 million 
(31 March 2009 – £86 million). No provision has been made for these commitments.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Group’s business. The most significant 
of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs. In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional 
contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements. The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and 
renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2010 is disclosed in note 6. The aggregate future minimum lease payments 
under non-cancellable operating leases are:
       31	 March 31 March
       2010  2009
       £m £m
No later than one year             121  114
Later than one year but not later than five years             198  230
Later than five years             263  209
Total	 minimum	 operating	 lease	 payments	 		 		 		 		 		 	 	 582  553 100 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
Guarantees	 and	 contingent	 liabilities
Guarantees at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows:
       31	 March 31 March
       2010  2009
       £m £m
Trading guarantees             513  400
Other guarantees             59  73
Total	 guarantees	 		 		 		 		 		 	 	 572  473
 
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the 
Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The nature of contracts includes 
projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials. The guarantees 
expire either following the completion of the relevant guaranteed obligations or following the expiry of the relevant contract.
Historically, Cable and Wireless plc provided guarantees to third parties in respect of trading contracts between these third parties and the 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group. At 31 March 2010, these guarantees amounted to £378 million (31 March 2009 – £462 million) and are included 
in the table above. The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group has agreed a fee schedule with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group for the 
benefit of these guarantees post-demerger. Further, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group has indemnified the Cable & Wireless Communications 
Group for these guarantees.
Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of borrowings, property and other leases and letters of credit.
34	 Business	 combinations	 and	 acquisitions	 of	 non-controlling	 interests
There were no subsidiaries acquired during 2009/10.
THUS	 Group
On 1 October 2008, Cable & Wireless obtained control of THUS Group plc (THUS Group) for a total consideration of £343 million. The 
consideration comprised £336 million to acquire the entire share capital of THUS Group and £7 million of direct costs.
The acquisition is summarised below:
 Provisional amounts at  Final amounts at
 31 March 2009  30 September 2009
   £m  £m
Consideration paid 343  343
Goodwill arising on acquisition 341  358
Fair value of net assets acquired 2  (15)
Cash outflows on acquisition 343  343
Less: cash acquired (13) (13)
Net	 cash	 outflow	 on	 acquisition 330  330 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 101
The Directors made a provisional assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities at 31 March 2009. This assessment was updated at 
30 September 2009 to adjust for new information regarding the previously assessed balances. The fair values, both provisional and final, were as 
follows:
        Provisional   Adjusted fair
      Alignment of   fair value at   value at 
    accounting   Fair value 31 March  30 September
    Book value  policy  adjustments  2009  Adjustments  2009
    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Property, plant and equipment   282   –  (80) 202   –  202
Purchased goodwill   50   –  (50)  –   –  -
Customer contracts and relationships    –   –  15  15   –  15
Trademarks and other intangibles   8   –  (3) 5   –  5
Trade and other receivables   130  5  (29) 106  (4) 102
Inventories   7   –  (7)  –   –  –
Deferred tax   56  (56)  –   –   –  –
Defined benefit pension scheme   4  (4)  –   –   –  –
Cash and cash equivalents   13   –   –  13   –  13
Available-for-sale financial assets   10   –   –  10   –  10
Trade and other payables   (111) (64) (28) (203) (6) (209)
Loans and other borrowings   (113)  –   –  (113)  –  (113)
Provisions    –  (33)  –  (33) (7) (40)
Total   336	 	 (152)	 (182)	 2	 	 (17)	 (15)
 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of THUS Group included the value of expected synergies resulting from the integration into the existing 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide business, the value of the workforce and other intangible assets that did not meet the recognition criteria set out in IAS 
38 Intangible Assets as they were unable to be separately identified.
In 2008/09, THUS Group contributed £237 million to Group revenue and a loss of £17 million to Group profit from the date of acquisition. If the 
acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2008 the contribution to Group revenue would have been £518 million and the contribution to Group profit 
would have been a loss of £34 million.
Apollo
On 1 April 2008 the Group gained full management control of Apollo Cable Submarine Systems Limited (‘Apollo’) which was previously accounted 
for as a joint venture. Goodwill arising on this business combination amounted to £9 million. The net liabilities acquired were £9 million (including 
£4 million of cash and cash equivalents). In 2008/09, Apollo contributed £7 million to revenue and £nil to profit after tax. On 13 November 2008 
the Group increased its effective interest in Apollo from 55% to 60% for consideration of £nil. This transaction resulted in £nil of minority interest 
transferred to retained earnings and a £nil increase in other reserves.
35	 Related	 party	 transactions
Transactions	 with	 the	 Cable	&	 Wireless	 Communications	 Group	 prior	 to	 demerger
Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies were related parties of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and its subsidiaries as they 
were wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Cable & Wireless Group.
The following sales and purchases and respective balances have arisen from transactions between the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and 
Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies.
       2009/10  2008/09
       £m £m
Sales to Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies      8  7
Purchases from Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies      (6)  (6)
Management (charge)/credit for the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund pension plan    (4) 10
Interest on funding balance with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group     (14) (74)
 
       31	 March 31 March
       2010  2009
       £m £m
Trade payables with Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies                     (3)  (3)
Other receivables with Cable & Wireless Communications Group companies          79 37
Funding loan with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group      – (976) 102 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
Other receivables relates to an amount of £79 million that was received from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group on 1 April 
2010 to settle the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group’s portion of the 2009/10 final dividend of the former Cable & Wireless Group.
In accordance with the demerger terms, Cable & Wireless Communications Group has agreed to transfer 22 million shares held by the 
Cable&Wireless Employee Share Ownership Trust to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Employee Share Ownership Trust.  This transfer 
will occur in May 2010. The shares received will be included in equity.
On demerger, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by and for the continuing use of the 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and the Cable & Wireless Communications Group.  See note 36 for further information.  
The Group has also provided indemnities to the Cable & Wireless Communications Group for trading guarantees. See note 33 for further 
information.
Transactions	 with	 key	 management	 personnel
There were no material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration (see notes 9 and 31),  
and shareholdings.
Transactions	 with	 other	 related	 parties
There are no controlling shareholders of the Group.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company. Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group 
has no other material related parties.
36	 Licences
In a number of countries the Group holds licences to operate. These licences take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and 
obligations vary significantly. The Group assumes that it will renew licences as they expire. Previous history indicates this is the most 
likely outcome.
There were no significant changes to the terms of the Group’s licences and operating agreements in the periods presented.
On the demerger from the Cable & Wireless Communications Group, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture 
entity owned by and for the continuing use of the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable&Wireless Worldwide Groups. As part 
of this transfer, Cable&Wireless Worldwide received a royalty free licence granting full rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand held by 
the joint venture in the Group’s jurisdictions.
37	 Legal	 proceedings	 and	 agreements
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews. The 
facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a 
future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient. Accordingly, 
significant management judgement relating to contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The 
Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the actions to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial 
position of the Group.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable&Wireless Worldwide also agree to provide each other 
with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Cable & Wireless Communications Group 
may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion 
of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the other. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 103
38	 Subsidiaries	 and	 joint	 ventures
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those 
companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the financial statements.
   Voting
    rights and
   ownership
   Local percentage Class of Country of Nature of
   currency % shares incorporation business
Subsidiaries
Cable & Wireless U.K.  GBP 100  Ordinary England Telecommunications
Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited  GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company
Cable & Wireless Europe Holdings Limited  GBP 100 Ordinary England Holding company
THUS Limited  GBP 100 Ordinary England Telecommunications
Cable & Wireless Global Network Limited  GBP 100 Ordinary Ireland  Telecommunications
Joint	 venture
Cable & Wireless Trade Mark Management Limited  GBP  50  Ordinary England Brand management
 
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual Return, to be filed with 
the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
39	 Financial	 risk	 management
Treasury	 policy
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk), 
credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial 
performance. Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to Treasury, within specified financial limits for each type of transaction 
and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities. Material 
subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury. Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group Board.  
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk. 
The majority of the Group’s cash resources and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Group may, from time to time, use derivatives such as forward foreign exchange contracts in the management of its foreign currency and 
interest rate exposures. The use of these instruments would be in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury, subject to 
policies approved by the Board. Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and all derivative transactions and positions are 
monitored and reported to the Board on a regular basis. The Group currently does not hold any hedging instruments.
Exchange	 rate	 risk
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group trades in several countries, however, the majority of the Group’s revenue is earned in Sterling. The Group’s 
main foreign currency exposure relates to movements in exchange rates for foreign currency receipts and payments. Exchange risk is measured 
on the basis of net current or future foreign currency payments.
Where appropriate the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts 
and other derivative instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short-term. The Group will 
undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create significant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where 
appropriate. The reported results of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets and borrowings are denominated in the 
following currencies:
      31	 March	 2010  31 March 2009
         Financial  Financial
         assets	 Borrowings  assets Borrowings
         £m	 £m  £m £m
Sterling        178	 	 204  138  95
US dollar and currencies linked to the US dollar        31	 	7  1  8
Euro        10	 	– 8  –
Other currencies        8	 	3  8  3
         227	 	 214  155  106 104 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes	to	the	consolidated	financial	statements 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
Interest	 rate	 risk
At 31 March 2010 95% of the Group’s borrowings were at a fixed rate. A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the 
fair value of the Group’s fixed rate borrowings. However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until 
maturity. As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on fixed rate borrowings and, as such, it has not been modelled.
The Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances. The Treasury function may seek 
to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate. There 
were no interest rate derivatives in place as at 31 March 2010.
A one percentage point lowering of interest rates will have a £2 million impact on the income received from the surplus cash balances of the 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group and a £nil impact on borrowings with floating interest rates. The impact on equity is limited to the impact  
on the income statement.
Credit	 risk
Cash deposits and similar financial instruments give rise to credit risk, which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty 
failed to perform as contracted. Management seeks to reduce this risk by ensuring the counterparties to all but a small proportion of the Group’s 
financial instruments are entities rated A1 short-term and/or AA – (or better) long-term by Standard & Poor’s (or equivalent by Moody’s and/or 
Fitch). The credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a continuing basis.
The types of instrument used for investment of funds are prescribed in Group treasury policies approved by the Board. These policies contain 
limits on exposure to any one counterparty.
Credit risk on receivables is discussed in note 20.
Liquidity	 risk
At 31 March 2010, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of £226 million. These amounts are highly liquid and are a significant component  
of the Group’s overall liquidity and capital resources. An analysis of the maturity of Group’s financial instruments is contained in notes 20 and  
22 to 24.
Liquidity forecasts are produced on a regular basis to ensure the utilisation of current facilities is optimised, to ensure covenant compliance and 
that medium-term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying long-term strategic funding requirements. The Directors also regularly 
assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group.
The majority of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group’s cash is held centrally and is predominantly invested in short-term bank deposits.
40	 Reconciliation	 of	 GAAP	 to	 non-GAAP	 items
       2009/10  2008/09 
       £m £m
Total	 operating	 (loss)/profit	 	 	 	 	 	 	 (59)	 21
Depreciation and amortisation       268 212
LTIP charge       14 17
Net other operating expense       1  –
Exceptional items       207	 76
EBITDA       431  326
  105 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for the period from incorporation on 
24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010 set out on pages 106 to 112. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for  
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s web-site at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP .
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Company financial statements:
■ ■ give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2010; 
■ ■ have been properly prepared in accordance with UK GAAP as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
■ ■ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
■ ■ the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; 
■ ■ the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
■ ■ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
■ ■ the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or
■ ■ certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
■ ■ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the listing rules we are required to review: 
■ ■ The Directors’ statement, set out on page 39, in relation to going concern; and
■ ■ The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 41 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 
2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc for the year ended 31 March 2010. 
Peter Meehan (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants  
8 Salisbury Square 
London 
EC4Y 8BB
26 May 2010
1   Formerly Cable & Wireless Worldwide Limited, formerly Project Swan No. 1 Limited.
Independent audItor’s report to the  
members of Cable & WIreless WorldWIde plC
1 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 106
Company balanCe sheet
as at 31 March 2010
        31 March
        2010 
        Note £m 
Fixed assets investments        
Investments in subsidiaries             6 2,907 
       
Current assets            
Debtors            7  1 
       
Current liabilities              
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year             8  (24) 
Net current liabilities              (23) 
Total assets less current liabilities              2,884
Non-current liabilities      
Loans            9 204
Net assets              2,680 
Capital and reserves             
Called-up share capital             10  131 
Share premium account             10  56 
Other reserves             10  2,493
Profit and loss account       10 –
Equity shareholders’ funds              2,680
The accompanying notes on pages 108 to 112 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company.
The financial statements of the Company on pages 106 and 107 were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 May 2010 and signed on its  
behalf by:
John Pluthero Tim Weller
Chairman Chief Financial Officer Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 107
                                     24 September 
             2009 - 31 
        March 2010 
         £m 
Profit for the period           – 
Share capital issued on acquisition of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide businesses         2,658 
Reduction of share premium        (2,471)
Distributable reserves arising on reduction of share premium       2,471
Equity component of convertible bond transferred on demerger       22 
Increase in equity shareholders’ funds           2,680 
Opening equity shareholders’ funds            –  
Closing equity shareholders’ funds            2,680   
The accompanying notes on pages 108 to 112 are an integral part of the financial statements of the Company.
reConCIlIat Ion of movements In equIty shareholders’  
funds for the Company for the period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 108
notes to the Company fInanCIal statements for the period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010
1 Statement of accounting policies  
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc (the Company) (formerly Cable & Wireless Worldwide Limited, formerly Project Swan No. 1 Limited) 
was incorporated on 24 September 2009.
1.1 Basis of preparation  
The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally 
accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. They have been prepared on 
the historical cost basis where appropriate.
These financial statements set out the position of the Company and not the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group (the Group) which 
it heads. The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in 
relation to the Company’s financial statements.
Under FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to provide its own financial 
instruments disclosures on the grounds that they are included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include 
disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent standard. 
1.2 Use of estimates  
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the 
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
FRS 18 Accounting Policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided 
where the change has a material impact on the reported results for the period.
1.3 Investments in subsidiaries  
Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at historical cost less any impairments recognised. Impairment reviews 
are carried out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the subsidiary may not be fully 
recoverable. Impairments are determined by comparing the carrying value of the subsidiary to its recoverable amount, being the 
higher of the subsidiary’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Fair value represents market value in an active market. Value 
in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the subsidiary with reference to the Group’s own projections using 
pre–tax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the Company. Impairments are recognised 
in the profit and loss.
1.4 Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities 
The Company classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the profit and loss, loans 
and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for 
which the assets are held. The Company currently does not classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity investments, available-
for-sale or fair value through the profit and loss. The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 1.5.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at 
fair value through the profit and loss.
Debtors 
Debtors are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable receipts that are not quoted in an active market. They arise 
when the Company provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the debtor. They are 
included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the balance sheet date (these are classified as 
non-current assets). 
Debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined using the 
effective interest method less allowance for impairment. An allowance for impairment of receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.  
The amount of the allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash 
flows (discounted at the original effective interest rate). The amount of the allowance is recognised in the profit and loss.
Recognition and measurement 
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and 
the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets 
is impaired.  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 109
Loans 
Loans are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Loans are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in profit and 
loss over the period of the loans using the effective interest method.
Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
12 months after the reporting date.
Convertible bonds issued by the Company are initially recognised at fair value. These bonds are separated into a liability and equity 
component. The liability component is recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The equity component 
represents the residual of the fair value of the bond less the liability component. The liability component is subsequently measured  
on an amortised cost basis. 
1.5 Fair value estimation 
The nominal value (less estimated impairments) of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair 
value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is 
available to the Company for similar financial instruments. Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority 
of remaining financial instruments.
1.6 Tax 
The charge for tax is based on the result for the period and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the 
treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets are regarded as 
recoverable to the extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be 
suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences  
that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
1.7 Dividends
Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Company’s shareholders or their payment.
1.8 Pensions             
Costs in respect of the Company’s contributions to the Group defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss 
on an accruals basis as contributions become payable.
2 Company’s profit and loss account
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its 
own profit and loss account. The profit for the period from incorporation to 31 March 2010 of the Company amounted to £nil million.
3 Remuneration of Directors 
Information covering Directors’ remuneration, interests in shares, share options and pension benefits is set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 44 to 55.
4. Demerger
At a General Meeting on 25 February 2010, the shareholders of Cable and Wireless plc approved the demerger of the Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide business. On 26 March 2010 (the demerger date), the Cable&Wireless Worldwide business was transferred to an unrelated 
company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, in exchange for the entire share capital of that company. As a result of the demerger, 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc became the ultimate parent company of Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group subsidiaries. Trading  
of shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 26 March 2010.
Refer to note 4 of the consolidated financial statements for further information.
  110 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes to the company financial statements 
for the period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010
5 Staff numbers and costs
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the period since incorporation was:
                                     24 September 
             2009 - 31 
        March 2010
Average number of persons employed by the Company          3
Directors were not paid for their services to the Company until 26 March 2010. For the five day period, the Directors’ employment costs were £nil 
million. Refer to page 51 of the Directors’ remuneration report for further information.
6 Fixed asset investments
              Subsidiary 
              undertakings 
              £m
Cost       
At 24 September 2009         –
Additions         2,673
At 31 March 2010         2,673 
Loans      
At 24 September 2009         –
Additions         234
At 31 March 2010         234
      
Net book value       
At 31 March 2010         2,907  
 
7 Debtors
              31 March 
        2010
              £m
Amounts falling due within one year         
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings        1  
Total debtors        1  
   
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of debtors at 31 March 2010.
8 Creditors
              31 March 
        2010
              £m
Amounts falling due within one year         
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings        19  
Accruals and deferred income        5
Total creditors        24  
   
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of creditors at 31 March 2010. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 111
9 Loans 
              31 March 
        2010
              £m
Convertible bonds        204  
Total non-current loans        204 
The convertible bonds due in 2014 of £230 million were issued by Cable and Wireless plc on 24 November 2009 and transferred to the Company 
on the date of demerger. These bonds were separated into loans and equity of the Group as £208 million of loans and £22 million of equity. 
Directly attributable transaction costs of £4 million were capitalised against the loan component as part of this transaction.
Further details can be found in note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
10 Called-up share capital and reserves
The Company was incorporated on 24 September 2009. On incorporation, the Company’s authorised share capital was £1 consisting of one 
ordinary share of £1.
On 25 January 2010, the Company issued one ordinary share of £1 and two redeemable preference shares of £25,000 each. The ordinary share 
was issued to the subscribers to the memorandum of association and paid up in full in cash. The preference shares were allotted for cash and 
remained unpaid (by virtue of the holder giving an undertaking to pay up each share to such amount pursuant to sections 583(2) and 583(3) of the 
Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”)). On the same date, the existing ordinary shares of £2 were subdivided into 40 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
On 26 March 2010, the Company issued 2,624,571,984 ordinary shares of 5 pence each at a premium of 97 pence per share, less issue costs 
of £14 million, to the public shareholders of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc in return for the receipt of the entire share capital of Cable & 
Wireless UK Holdings Limited. 
On 29 March 2010, the share premium relating to the ordinary shares was reduced by £2,471 million by way of a court-approved capital reduction 
scheme in accordance with section 641 of the Act.  This had the effect of creating a capital reserve of £2,471 million, which may be released, in 
whole or in part, to distributable reserves of the Company at the discretion (and upon the resolution) of the Board of Directors or a duly constituted 
committee of the Board of Directors.
On 25 May 2010, a duly constituted committee of the Board of Directors approved the release of £85 million, being an amount sufficient to allow 
payment of the proposed dividend.
On 31 March 2010, the preference shares were redeemed pursuant to Article 8 of the Articles. 
Allotted, called-up and fully paid 
              31 March
              2010
              £m
2,624,572,024 ordinary shares of 5 pence each             131  
          Capital Profit 
        Share Share  and other and loss 
        capital  premium reserves account Total
        £m  £m £m £m £m
At incorporation on 24 September 2009    – –  –  –  – 
Share capital issued on acquisition of Cable&Wireless Worldwide business  131 2,527 – – 2,658
Profit for the period    – – – – –
Reduction of capital    – (2,471) 2,471 – –
Equity component of convertible bonds    – – 22 – 22 
At 31 March 2010     131 56 2,493  – 2,680 
  112 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Notes to the company financial statements 
for the period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010
11 Related party transactions
Under FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures, the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose transactions with entities that are wholly owned.
Transactions with the Cable & Wireless Communications Group post-demerger
All transactions entered into are done so at arms length and on commercial terms.
Transactions with key management personnel 
There were no material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration (see notes 9 and 31 of the 
consolidated financial statements) and shareholdings.
Transactions with other related parties 
There are no controlling shareholders of the Company.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company. 
12 Subsidiaries and joint ventures 
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those 
companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affects the figures shown in the financial statements.
             
       Ownership       
   Local percentage Class of Country of  Nature of
   currency % shares incorporation  business
Subsidiaries       
Cable & Wireless U.K.   GBP 100  Ordinary England        Telecommunications
Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited   GBP 100 Ordinary England           Holding company
Cable & Wireless Europe Holdings Limited   GBP 100 Ordinary England           Holding company
THUS Limited   GBP 100 Ordinary England        Telecommunications
Cable & Wireless Global Network Limited   GBP 100 Ordinary Ireland        Telecommunications
Joint ventures
Cable & Wireless Trade Mark Management Limited   GBP 50 Ordinary England        Brand management
Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and trade investments will be attached to the Company’s Annual Return, to be filed with 
the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales. 
13 Dividends 
Refer to note 14 in the consolidated financial statements.
14 Commitments  
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2010.  
15 Guarantees and contingent liabilities  
The Company had provided trading guarantees of £125 million at 31 March 2010.
Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that 
the Group companies will meet their obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions. The nature of 
contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials. 
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
In addition the Company has, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of 
disposals of subsidiary undertakings in prior years. Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although 
some uncapped indemnities have been given. The Company also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including 
facility sharing agreements and general commercial agreements. Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps. Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 113
The following information was included in the Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc prospectus issued on 2 February 2010, and is repeated here in 
accordance with Listing Rule 9.2.18. This information has been extracted without amendment from pages 70 and 143 to 144 of the Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc prospectus. For a full understanding, it should only be read in conjunction with that document. This prospectus can be 
obtained from the Company Secretary or from www.cw.com.
Capitalisation and indebtedness
The following table sets out the unaudited capitalisation and indebtedness of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group. The financial information in 
this table as at 30 November 2009 has been extracted without material adjustment from the unaudited accounting records of the Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide Group.
        As at 
        30 November  
         2009 
        £m
Current debt
Loans (guaranteed)         6
Finance leases (secured)        11
Total current debt         17
Non-current debt
Loans (guaranteed)         1
Loans (secured)         97
Finance leases (secured)         15
Total non-current debt         113
Total debt          130
 
Analysis of debt
Total secured          123
Total guaranteed          7
        130
 
Liquidity
Cash and cash equivalents         109
Total        109
Current debt          (17)
Net current cash         92
Non-current debt          (113)
Net debt         (21)
 
As at 31 December 2009, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group had cash and cash equivalents of £91 million, debt of £116 million (of which 
£81 million was drawn down under its bank facilities) and undrawn facilities of £126 million.
extraCts from the Cable & WIreless WorldWIde plC prospeCtus (unaudIted) 114 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Profit forecast for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group for the year ended 31 March 2010
On 5 November 2009, Cable and Wireless plc published its Interim Results for the six months ended 30 September 2009. The Interim 
results contained the following statements in respect of the Cable & Wireless Group:
“With EBITDA growth of 44% in the first half, the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group business is performing well as we continue to 
increase margin from our strategic product set and reduce costs in the face of a global recession which has led to lower traditional 
voice revenue and less discretionary project work. We continue to expect that the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group 2009/10 EBITDA 
will be approximately £430 million. We have reclassified £20 million of cost to achieve the THUS Group synergies from exceptionals 
to capital expenditure, reflecting a change in how the costs are expected to arise. We have reduced our expected Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide Group P&L exceptional costs for 2009/10 by £15 million to £55 million, reflecting the reclassification of THUS Group costs 
to achieve, partially offset by bringing forward £5 million of exceptional restructuring costs from 2010/11. Overall, the Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide Group’s cash guidance remains unchanged.” 
Accordingly, on the basis of preparation, and based on the principal assumptions set out below, the Directors forecast that for 
the year ending 31 March 2010, the post-exceptional EBITDA (as defined below) of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group will be 
approximately £375 million. The statements above regarding post-exceptional EBITDA in 2009/10 represent a profit forecast under 
the Prospectus Rules. The Directors have considered the above statement and continue to believe that it is valid based on the 
assumptions below. 
The Directors do not expect the full year tax profile for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group to be materially different from that set 
out in the income statement for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group for the six months ended 30 September 2009.
Basis of preparation
The Directors confirm that the profit forecast described in the section entitled “Profit forecast for the Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
Group for the year ended 31 March 2010” (the Profit Forecast), has been properly compiled on the basis of the assumptions stated 
below and using accounting policies which are in accordance with IFRS, as adopted in the EU, and is consistent with those adopted 
by the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group in the preparation of the accounts. 
The Profit Forecast is based upon the audited consolidated results for the six months ended 30 September 2009, the results shown 
by unaudited management accounts for the three months ended 31 December 2009 and the Directors’ forecast of the results for the 
three month period ending 31 March 2010. 
Post-exceptional EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, LTIP credit/charge and net other 
operating income/expense. The Profit Forecast does not include any costs related to the demerger. 
The Profit Forecast is stated on the basis of the EBITDA after exceptional items rather than profit before tax due to the extent 
of existing guidance which has been provided to the market by Cable and Wireless plc on both EBITDA and exceptional items. 
Guidance on the EBITDA performance of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group has been provided for a number of years as it 
represents the measure on which management consistently assess the performance of the business and it is also the measure on 
which both shareholders and analysts attach greatest significance. During the course of 2009, Cable and Wireless plc also provided 
guidance on the level of exceptional items in the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group. Accordingly, the Directors consider EBITDA after 
exceptional items to be the most appropriate basis to present the Profit Forecast. 115 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report
Principal assumptions
The Profit Forecast has been prepared on the basis of the following principal assumptions:
Assumptions within the control or influence of the Directors 
There will be no material acquisitions and disposals during the financial year ending 31 March 2010 other than those already reported.
Assumptions outside the control or influence of the Directors 
The main assumptions outside the control of the Directors are:
■ ■ there will be no material changes to the general trading and economic conditions in each of the markets or jurisdictions in which the 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group operates from that which is currently prevailing and/or anticipated by the Directors, which would cause a 
material change in levels of demand;
■ ■ there will be no material litigation or customer dispute that may arise in the period other than those that are currently prevailing and/or 
anticipated by the Directors;
■ ■ there will be no change to legislation or regulatory environments in the jurisdictions in which the business operates that would materially 
impact on the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group’s operations, or its accounting policies;
■ ■ there will be no major disruption to the business of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group, its suppliers or customers due to natural disaster, 
terrorism, extreme weather conditions, industrial disruption, civil disturbance or government action;
■ ■ there will be no material changes in interest, inflation or exchange rates;
■ ■ there will be no material change in the present management or control of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group or its existing operational 
strategy; and
■ ■ the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group will continue to enjoy the goodwill and confidence of present and potential customers, 
and of its strategic partners. 116	
shareholder information
UsefU l information
Registrar 
If	you	have	any	queries	regarding	your	shareholding	in		
Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc,	please	contact:
Equiniti,		
Aspect	House,		
Spencer	Road,		
Lancing,	
West	Sussex	BN99	6DA	
United	Kingdom	
Telephone:	0871	384	2104
1
	(UK	shareholders)	
+44	(0)121	415	7052	(overseas	shareholders)
Shareholders	can	view	up-to-date	information	about	their	
shareholding	at	www.shareview.co.uk.
THUS Group plc shareholders 
If	you	have	not	yet	completed	your	Form	of	Acceptance	relating	
to	your	shares	in	THUS	Group	plc,	please	contact:
The	Dissentients	Department,			
Capita	Registrars,		
The	Registry,			
34	Beckenham	Road,		
Beckenham,		
Kent	BR3	4TU	
United	Kingdom	
email:	dissentients@capitaregistrars.com			
or	call	them	on	0871	664	0300
2
	(UK	shareholders)	
+44	(0)20	8639	3399	(overseas	shareholders).
ShareGift 
If	you	have	a	small	number	of	shares	whose	value	makes	them	
uneconomic	to	sell,	you	may	wish	to	consider	donating	them	
to	charity.	ShareGift	is	a	registered	charity	(no.	1052686)	which	
collects	and	sells	unwanted	shares	and	uses	the	proceeds	to	
support	a	wide	range	of	UK	charities.	Further	information	about	
ShareGift	and	the	charities	it	supports	is	available	at		
www.ShareGift.org	or	by	contacting	them	at:	
17	Carlton	House	Terrace,		
London	SW1Y	5AH	
United	Kingdom		
Registered Office and Company Secretary 
The	Company’s	Registered	Office	and	Head	Office	is:
Liberty	House,		
76	Hammersmith	Road,	
London	W14	8UD	
United	Kingdom		
Telephone:	+44	(0)1344	713	000	
email:	companysecretary@cw.com
Philip	Davis	is	the	General	Counsel	and	Company	Secretary.
Investor Relations 
Enquiries	may	be	directed	to:
Liberty	House,		
76	Hammersmith	Road,	
London	W14	8UD	
United	Kingdom
Kieran	McKinney	is	the	Director	of	Investor	Relations.			
Telephone:	+44	(0)	208	243	4700	
email:	IR@cw.com
Financial calendar 
Ex-dividend	date	 9	June	2010		
Record	date	 11	June	2010		
AGM	 21	July	2010		
Payment	of	final	dividend	 12	August	2010		
Announcement	of	interim	results	2010/11	 9	November	2010
Dividends 
The	Directors	have	recommended	a	dividend	for	the	year		
ended	31	March	2010	of	3.00	pence	per	ordinary	share.		
Subject	to	approval	at	the	AGM,	the	dividend	will	be	payable		
on	12	August	2010	to	ordinary	shareholders	on	the	register		
at	the	close	of	business	on	11	June	2010.
In	the	Company’s	prospectus	dated	2	February	2010,	the	
Company	announced	its	intention	to	pay	such	a	dividend	and	
explained	that	when	aggregated	with	the	interim	dividend	of		
3.16	pence	per	share	paid	by	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	on		
22	January	2010	and	the	dividend	of	3.34	pence	per	share	
expected	to	be	declared	by	Cable	&	Wireless	Communications	
Plc,	the	resultant	notional	full	year	dividend	for	a	former	holder	of	
Cable	and	Wir eless	plc	shares	(assuming	they	have	retained	the	
shares	in	the	Company	and	Cable	&	Wireless	Communications	
pursuant	to	the	Demerger)	is	9.50	pence	per	ordinary	share.	
Subject	to	approval	at	the	AGM,	Cable	&	Wireless	Worldwide	plc	
intends	to	offer	a	scrip	dividend	scheme.	Save	for	the	CREST	
shareholders	referred	to	below,	if	you	have	already	registered	
for	the	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	scrip	dividend	scheme	then	you	
need	do	nothing,	as	you	will	automatically	continue	to	receive	
scrip	dividends	under	the	new	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	
Scrip	Dividend	Scheme.	If	you	are 	a	CREST	shareholder	
who	has	previously	submitted	an	evergreen	CREST	Dividend	
Election	Input	Message	for	the	Cable	and	Wireless	plc	scrip	
then	you	will	need	to	make	a	new	election	if	you	wish	to	join	
the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	Scrip	Dividend	Scheme	for	
the	dividend	(and	all	future	dividends)	by	submitting	a	CREST	
Dividend	Input	Message	prior	to	5pm	on	Monday	19	July	2010.	
If	you	do	not	currently	receive	scrip	dividends	but	would	like	
to	join	the	Cable&Wireless	Worldwide	scrip	dividend	scheme	
for	the	dividend	(and	all	future	dividends)	then	please	complete	
and	return	the	mandate	form	enclosed	with	this	Annual	Report	
to	the	Registrar,	Equiniti,	prior	to	5pm	on	Monday	19	July	2010.	
Additional	copies	of	the	mandate	form	and	the	scrip	dividend	
brochure	can	be	obtained	from	Equiniti	(UK	callers:		
0871	384	2268
1
,	overseas	callers	+44	(0)	121	415	7173)	
or	from	the	Company’s	website.
If	your	dividend	is	paid	directly	into	your	bank	or	building	society,	
you	will	receive	one	consolidated	tax	voucher	each	year,	which		
is	sent	to	you	in	January	at	the	time	that	the	interim	dividend		
is	paid.	If	you	would	prefer	to	receive	a	tax	voucher	with		
each	dividend,	please	contact	our	shareholder	helpline	on		
0871	384	2104
1
.
If	your	dividend	is	not	currently	paid	direct	to	your	bank	or	
building	society	and	you	would	like	to	benefit	from	this	service,	
please	contact	our	shareholder	helpline	on	0871	384	2104
1
.	
By	receiving	your	dividends	in	this	way	you	can	avoid	the	risk	
of	cheques	getting	lost	in	the	post.	It	is	also	now	possible	for	
shareholders	in	over	30	countries	worldwide	to	benefit	from	a	
similar	service.	Further	information	can	be	obtained	from		
www.shareview.co.uk	or	by	calling	+44	(0)121	415	7052.  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 117
Apportionment of tax base cost in  
Cable and Wireless plc shares
Based on the share prices of Cable & Wireless 
Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 
on 26 March 2010, a shareholder’s base cost in Cable and 
Wireless plc shares for UK capital gains tax purposes will be 
allocated 37.78% to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
and 62.22% to Cable&Wireless Worldwide plc.
March 1982 value
The closing mid-market price of Cable and Wireless plc’s 
shares on 31 March 1982 was 243 pence. When adjusted for 
subsequent bonus issues and share splits, this corresponds 
to a price of 40.5 pence for each share still held immediately 
prior to the Demerger. 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc trading market 
The Company’s shares are traded on the London Stock 
Exchange. As at 31 March 2010, the Company had a market 
capitalisation of approximately £2,415 million.
At year end, the Company was 93 out of 100 in the FTSE 100. 
The high and low middle market quotations for the ordinary 
shares on the London Stock Exchange as reported on its 
Daily Official List. For the period from 26 March 2010 to  
31 March 2010 were 98.5 pence and 86.8 pence respectively.
LSE ticker: CW.  
ISIN: GB00B5WB0X89 
Distribution and classification of  
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc shareholdings
 Number  Number of  
Shares at 31 March 2010 of accounts % of total shares % of total
Up to 1,000  68,890 67.48 29,243,608 1.11
1,001 – 10,000 30,457 29.83 78,133,646 2.98
10,001 – 100,000 2,078 2.04 48,790,738 1.86
100,001 – 1,000,000 395 0.39 142,603,417 5.43
1,000,001 and over 270 0.26 2,325,800,615 88.62
Total 102,090 100.00 2,624,572,024 100.00
 
Electronic communication 
Together with Equiniti, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc is able 
to offer shareholders the option to manage their shareholding 
online and receive communications from the Company 
electronically as an alternative to receiving documents 
through the post. To make use of this facility, please register 
at www.shareview.co.uk following the onscreen instructions.
Unsolicited mail 
Company law allows people unconnected with the Company 
to obtain a copy of our share register. As a consequence, 
shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including mail 
from unauthorised investment firms. For more information  
on unauthorised investment firms targeting UK investors,  
you should visit the website of the Financial Services 
Authority (www.moneymadeclear.org.uk).
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, 
please contact:
The Mailing Preference Service,  
DMA House,  
70 Margaret Street,  
London W1W 8SS  
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 0845 703 4599  
Online www.mpsonline.org.uk
Documents on display 
Shareholders can view the service contracts of Executive 
Directors and letters of appointment of Non-executive 
Directors at the Company’s Registered Office. Shareholders 
may also obtain copies of the Company’s Articles of 
Association at the Company’s Registered Office or on  
the website (www.cw.com).   
Alternative format
If you would like this Annual Report and Accounts or any 
other shareholder documentation in an appropriate alternative 
format, please send a request to companysecretary@cw.com.
1  Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 
from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
2  Calls to this number are charged at 10p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 
from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday. Cable&Wireless Worldwide
Liberty House
76 Hammersmith Road
London W14 8UD
Telephone: +44 (0) 1344 713 000
www.cw.com
Designed by Further
furthercreative.co.uk
This Report is produced from pulps sourced from fully  
sustainable forests and has been made without the use  
of elemental chlorine (ECF).
  
Printed using vegetable based inks. Both manufacturing mill 
and printer are FSC certified and both have been accredited 
with ISO14001 environmental management system.
 
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press, ISO14001, FSC certified 
and CarbonNeutral MISSION 
CRITICAL 
COMMUNICATIONS
2009/10 Annual Review 01 Introduction
02 About us
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive’s statement
08 Mission critical communications
12 Business review
16 Corporate responsibility
GOVERNANCE AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18 Board of Directors
20 Independent auditor’s statement
21 Summary consolidated income statement
22 Summary consolidated statement of financial position
23 Summary consolidated statement of cash flows
24 Summary remuneration report
27 Summary Directors’ report
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
28 Useful information £2,265M
+14%
£431M
£71M
£2,265 MILLION REVENUE
Increasing proportion from our strategic  
products: IP , data, hosting and appilcations
14% GROSS MARGIN INCREASE 
Growth in strategic products and the full year impact  
of the acquisition of THUS Group
£431 MILLION EBITDA 
Up 32% on last year with EBITDA margin  
now 19% of revenue
£71 MILLION TRADING CASH FLOw 
Showing significant growth in the year, 
up from £13 million in 2008/09 
w ELCOME 
Welcome to the first annual review of Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc as an independent business, following our 
demerger from Cable and Wireless plc on 26 March 2010.
Our goal is to create sustainable, long term shareholder value  
by becoming the first choice for mission critical communications. 
To do this we have a vision for the next generation 
communications provider.
Our proposition is a compelling mix of global reach in the form of 
an intercontinental network, coupled with the ability to host and 
deliver applications that our customers want. This is backed by 
an obsession for customer service that is shared by every 
colleague throughout our business.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 
VISIT www.Cw.COM/REpORTS DRIVEN BY AN OBSESSION FOR THE CUSTOMER
At Cable&Wireless Worldwide, we have put 
customers at the heart of our strategy, creating 
intimate working relationships through a detailed 
understanding of their business. 
Many of the products and services we provide 
are typically tightly integrated into our 
customers’ operational activity. 
A deep understanding of the ways in which our 
services are used, how they contribute to the 
success of their business (and therefore to ours), 
and how they might be developed to generate 
additional value is one of the ways in which we 
differentiate ourselves. 
THE CAp ABILITY TO DELIVER
We continue to expand our network and 
technologies to improve capability to meet 
customer demand, both in the United Kingdom 
and in our global footprint. 
We operate the UK’s biggest fibre network dedicated 
to business users of telecommunications and 
can provide connectivity to 153 countries. Our 
network reaches far beyond the UK, spanning 
approximately 500,000 km including interests in 
more than 69 major global cable systems. With 
full resiliency on key routes, this is an unmatched 
asset for our business and our customers. Our 
extensive UK and global network, together with 
our product suite and service focus, positions us 
to successfully exploit growing markets and to 
build on our track record of increasing market 
share in the UK and overseas.
THE RIGHT pRODUCTS
T oday we are one of the world’s leading 
communications companies specialising in 
providing mission critical communication 
services. 
We work with large enterprises, as well as the 
public sector and carriers both, in the UK and 
globally to provide a range of high quality 
managed voice, data and IP based services 
and applications. We also serve the UK 
mid-market, directly through THUS and 
indirectly through our reseller partners, with  
a range of voice, hosting and connectivity 
services tailored to their needs.
Our strategic product set of data, IP , hosting 
and application services continues to become 
an ever increasing part of our business. 
02 ABOUT US IP and data
Hosting and applications 
Traditional voice and legacy
Percentage of gross margin
IP and data
Hosting and applications 
Traditional voice and legacy
Percentage of gross margin
1 53
Connectivity to 153 countries
56
16
28
03 Friday 26 March 2010 is now a date to  
add to the long and impressive history  
of Cable & Wireless. Our demerger from  
Cable and Wireless plc on that date marked 
the beginning of the latest chapter in our  
140 year history. 
When I joined this business more than four 
years ago, such a milestone seemed a very  
long way away. For many years previously, 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide had struggled to 
define a role for itself in the rapidly changing 
communications industry – it had stuttered, if 
not stumbled.
The process of regeneration started with  
Sir Richard Lapthorne’s arrival in 2003. By  
the time of demerger the Cable & Wireless 
group had been transformed. Contingent 
liabilities were avoided, the envelope of our 
activities sharpened, the share price trebled and 
the Cable & Wireless group returned firmly to 
profit. This was a successful period in the Cable 
& Wireless group’s history and I would like to 
extend my thanks and best wishes for the  
future to Sir Richard and the continuing  
board of Cable & Wireless Communications.
Our turnaround was about getting things  
done – execution. Little had I realised that such 
an approach played handsomely to our greatest 
strength, our people. Passionate and talented 
yes, but more impressive by far was their unified 
commitment to restoring the fortunes and 
reputation of the business.
This turnaround has been defined by the rapidly 
improving outcome for three constituencies: 
customers, shareholders and colleagues. 
If customers don’t see an improvement then it 
isn’t happening, if shareholders don’t see an 
improvement they don’t let you play (it’s their 
money after all) and if there’s nothing in it for 
colleagues, then our key asset literally walks out 
the door. 
Our statistics tell our story
The faith our customers place in us continues to 
increase. We have not lost a major enterprise 
customer since the start of 2006. The average 
contract length for these customers has 
increased by 22% and half of our gross margin 
now comes from customers who trust us to 
provide a managed service.
Over the last four years we have led the delivery 
of significant value for shareholders, as part of 
the broader group. The total shareholder return 
for Cable and Wireless plc was almost 65%, 
against 39% for the FTSE Global Telecoms 
Index and just 12% for the broader FTSE 100.
Colleagues in the business have become 
increasingly engaged in the turnaround over the 
years, evidenced by the fact that the attrition rate 
has halved over four years as our colleagues 
have led our customer service renaissance.
That’s not at all bad when you consider that for 
the last 20 months of this journey we’ve been 
tip-toeing our way through the sharpest 
‘ THE MARKET Opp ORTUNITY  
IS THERE AND w E w ILL SIMp LY 
CONTINUE TO FOCUS ON 
RELENTLESS EXECUTION.’
04 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT recession in a generation, a crunch whose full 
consequences are still playing out. 
But, if our turnaround is now largely complete, 
the logical question is, “where next?”.
As we look forward, we do so knowing that our 
operating environment – regulation, competition, 
technology trends, demand levels – is 
encouraging. Certainly the rapid movements 
towards ever more bandwidth and network-
centric applications, such as cloud computing, 
offer very real drivers for future growth. The 
market opportunity is there and we will simply 
continue to focus on relentless execution.
Somebody once said that you cannot please all 
of the people all of the time. This is particularly 
true of the investment universe. It can be 
difficult to reconcile the myriad of opinions and 
requests, and the flavour of the day changes 
before your very eyes. We have consistently 
delivered against one simple mantra: if it doesn’t 
create sustainable, long term, shareholder value 
then we will not do it. Our record to date, the 
best predictor of our future behaviour and 
performance, stands up to the closest scrutiny.
My role as a FTSE Chairman is new to me and  
I am intent on serving the Board, this business 
and its shareholders to the best of my abilities. 
We take up our new challenges well equipped 
for the task and with momentum on our side, as 
our results from the past 12 months demonstrate. 
Our Non-executive Directors, John Barton,  
Clive Butler and Penny Hughes, offer insight 
and robust challenge, borne out of experience.  
The Executive management team is a mix of 
those fire-tested by the turnaround of this 
business plus the fresh eyes and insight of  
Tim Weller who joined as Chief Financial Officer 
in May. We also start our new existence with  
a strong balance sheet and good liquidity. 
Many of our achievements to date have been 
delivered with a business which has been 
constrained by its own past mediocrity – we 
have been swimming against the tide. This is  
no longer the case. The industry trends and the 
business transformation over the last few years 
open up a wealth of opportunities both in the 
UK and beyond. 
So, it is with great excitement and no lack of 
ambition that we look to the future. We are 
seeking to secure our market positions, to 
exploit the opportunities we have built for 
ourselves and to create a better outcome for 
customers, shareholders and colleagues alike.
John Pluthero
Chairman
05 I am pleased that we generated strong results 
yet again and made real strategic progress.  
Not only did we deliver our cash and EBITDA 
guidance once again, but we also completed 
our demerger from Cable and Wireless plc. 
This is a very proud moment that has been 
years in the making. I see this as our coming  
of age, having spent four years on the 
turnaround of our business and we now  
have the opportunity to show the world our 
true capability and potential.
Our primary market remains UK enterprise and 
public sector, where we continued to improve 
our market share. These customers are 
increasingly dependent on communications to 
ensure the smooth running of their business. 
Increasingly, they are seeing the value, reliability 
and scalability that our fully managed service 
proposition offers. It’s this realisation that a 
communications partner can add value that is 
driving our sales momentum, and in certain 
sectors, we now have clear market leadership. 
It’s not just the UK where we work with large 
enterprise customers. Our global network has 
already given us market advantage in certain 
geographies. We believe our network is still 
under-exploited, particularly given the rapid 
increase in data and explosive demand for 
bandwidth that is taking place at present.
This is why we continued to make targeted 
investment in our network, through both the 
coming year’s completion of the Europe/India 
Gateway and our involvement in the West Africa 
Cable System. These investments strengthen 
our position in a number of emerging markets.
Our direct mid-market business, THUS, is already 
the professional brand in mid-market data. We 
are committed to this market and to establishing 
ourselves as the clear winner in the mid-market 
data space. In doing this we will continue to work 
with our indirect reseller customers to build a 
significant wholesale business.
We have our carrier business – the wholesale 
operation that’s important to any telecoms 
company in order to achieve the best network 
economics. Within this we have a fast growing 
line of business which is wholesale consumer 
broadband, supporting significant industry 
players such as Tesco Broadband and  
Virgin Media. 
The demand for global bandwidth plays well to 
our extensive next-generation network reach 
and global Multi Service Platform (MSP). The 
significant interest in cloud computing offers us 
the opportunity to combine our high quality 
network and data centres with our managed 
services ethos. As cloud computing moves from 
a fringe activity to an accepted norm, our scale 
and expertise in hosting positions us strongly 
for the future.
‘ wE DIFFERENTIATE OURSELVES 
THROUGH OUR CUSTOMER SERVICE. 
THIS HAS BEEN THE BEDROCK OF 
OUR TRANSFORMATION AND w ILL 
REMAIN SO.’
06 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT We are well positioned for future growth and in 
terms of our priorities for the year ahead, they 
break down into three areas: 
Uniqueness
We differentiate ourselves through our customer 
service. This has been the bedrock of our 
transformation and will remain so. Customers 
will always be at the heart of everything we do.
Growth
The delivery of profitable revenue growth 
remains a priority, with improvements in  
the economic conditions, a strong sales 
performance last year and growing demand 
across all our core markets. 
Cash
Sustainable cash flow that’s delivered through 
continued margin growth, continued opex 
reduction and increasingly better capex 
utilisation. The growth in cash generation will 
outstrip earnings growth, as we concentrate on 
improving our processes and pursue additional 
operating cost savings and as the exceptional 
cash charges reduce rapidly; we currently 
expect these to reduce by around 75%  
over the next two years. 
We’ve improved all aspects of our business and 
have achieved a scale that allows us to progress 
rapidly and I believe that the telecommunications 
environment is beginning to favour fixed line 
operators, with the demand for bandwidth 
outstripping anything that can be provided  
by the mobile spectrum. 
Outlook
Market conditions are improving and we are 
experiencing good momentum in our core 
business segments and key areas of future 
growth, both in the UK and globally. We already 
generate 72% of our margin from data and 86% 
of our sales pipeline is in our higher margin 
strategic product set. We also see further scope 
for operating efficiencies and a steep downward 
trajectory for cash exceptional charges. Taking 
all of these factors together, we remain 
confident in meeting expectations for cash  
and EBITDA generation for 2010/11. 
In summary, it is a very exciting time for 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide. Yet again,  
we’ve delivered on our commitment to our 
shareholders and our customers and we will 
continue to do so. Now, with the turnaround 
complete and the Demerger now history, this 
really is our moment to build on our success, 
grow our business and deliver our full potential.
 
Jim Marsh
Chief Executive Officer
07 Our world is more connected than ever before.
Communications technology is driving new behaviours fuelled by a desire for 
constant connectivity and integration. Businesses are increasingly dependent on 
networks and technology just to operate. They need a partner who can deliver a fast, 
flexible, total solution underpinned by exceptional service if they want to stay ahead 
of the competition.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide aims to become the first choice for mission critical 
communications by making integrated communications a reality. Our customers  
rely on the telecommunications infrastructure and services that we provide in  
order to operate their businesses every day.
08 MISSION CRITICAL COMMUNICATIONS ‘ CABLE&wIRELESS wORLD w IDE  
HAS BEEN CONSISTENTLY 
RELIABLE AND THEY ALw AYS 
DELIVER w HAT THEY SAY 
THEY w ILL.’
ERIC NEVILLE, IT DIRECTOR, RYANAIR
Cable&Wireless Worldwide delivers mission 
critical communications to Ryanair, one of 
Europe’s leading airlines. It manages Ryanair’s 
entire European telecommunication network 
including all airports, bases, data centres and 
corporate offices. Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
provides an ‘always-on communications’ 
network that supports passengers from  
online booking to airport check in.
FIVE-YEAR, €15 MILLION 
CONTRACT
CONNECTING 180 AIRp ORTS  
IN 26 COUNTRIES
SUpp ORTING 60 MILLION 
p ASSENGERS ON MORE  
THAN 850 ROUTES
09 CASE STUDY: RYANAIR Cable&Wireless Worldwide has worked in 
partnership with Aviva for more than a decade  
to deliver advanced voice and data managed 
services. Key data services include IPVPN,  
LAN and wireless LAN. Additionally, Aviva  
trusts Cable&Wireless Worldwide to manage  
its external email, internet access, remote 
access and security as well as its business 
critical data centres, e-commerce and  
mainframe infrastructures.
70+ SEp ARATE SERVICES, 
29 ARE DATA NETw ORK  
SERVICES SUpp ORTING MORE  
THAN 75,000 SERVICE END  
p OINTS w ITH IN EXCESS OF  
5,000 NETw ORK DEVICES
‘ wE TRUST CABLE&wIRELESS 
wORLD w IDE TO DELIVER THE 
BEST SOLUTION FOR US THAT 
MEETS OUR NEEDS AND w E 
TRUST THEM TO BE THERE 
w HEN w E NEED THEM.’
NIALL QUINN, DIRECTOR OF UK 
pROCUREMENT AND COMMERCIAL 
SERVICES, AVIVA
10 CASE STUDY: AVIVA ‘ THE SAFE TRANSMISSION OF 
ELECTRICITY OVER NATIONAL 
GRID’S NETw ORK IS 
DEp ENDENT ON 
CABLE&wIRELESS 
wORLD w IDE’S Op ERATIONAL 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
SOLUTIONS.’
NATIONAL GRID
Cable&Wireless Worldwide is responsible  
for designing, delivering and managing a 
dedicated Next-Generation Operational 
Telecommunications Network (OpTel NGN) to 
support National Grid’s Network Infrastructure 
and Operational Systems. Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide provides them with a complete 
managed next-generation network service.
15 YEAR, £207 MILLION 
CONTRACT
NATIONAL GRID IS AN 
INTERNATIONAL ELECTRICITY  
AND GAS COMp ANY AND ONE  
OF THE LARGEST INVESTOR- 
Ow NED ENERGY COMp ANIES  
IN THE w ORLD.
11 CASE STUDY: NATIONAL GRID Group revenue for the period was broadly flat  
at £2,265 million (2008/09: £2,268 million) as 
recessionary and regulatory impacts were offset 
by the full year effect of the acquisition of THUS 
Group. EBITDA
1
 was up by 32% at £431 million 
(2008/09: £326 million) and adjusted operating 
cash flow
2
 was an inflow of £81 million, up 
by £91 million on the prior year (2008/09:  
£10 million outflow).
We engage with customers through several 
market channels that are managed on a unified 
basis reflecting the integrated nature of our 
global network. We present details of our 
performance divided into market channels to 
help explain our overall performance and the 
development of our business.
UK enterprise
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 837 827 1%
Cost of sales
3
 (391) (422) (7)%
Gross margin 446 405 10%
Gross margin % 53% 49% 
Source: Management information
Our UK enterprise channel serves large users  
of mission critical communications where the 
principal relationship is based in the UK. 
We continued to grow our share of this market, 
which we estimate now to be approximately 
19%. Revenue increased to £837 million 
(2008/09: £827 million), with gross margin 
increasing by £41 million to £446 million.  
We further improved our sales success with 
increasing sales of our strategic product set 
(consisting of IP , data, hosting and applications) 
compared to the prior year. 
Our continued focus on delivering great service 
has encouraged customers to look to us to 
provide a broader range of services, deeper  
into their organisations. This includes innovative 
products such as Fixed Mobile Convergence 
(FMC). FMC allows organisations to integrate 
their fixed line, data and mobile 
communications. We are now actively rolling  
this out across four important UK enterprise 
customers. We are seeing a greater number of 
our customers opting for a full managed service.
There have been some notable contract  
wins this year. We announced a £207 million 
contract with National Grid to deliver a 
telecommunications network to support the 
transmission of electricity in the UK over the next 
15 years.  We extended our contract with Tesco 
to include the provision of the network to support 
their ambitions in consumer broadband in the 
UK. In March we announced an extension to  
the current United Utilities contract, now a  
£30 million, five year deal, to provide converged 
voice and data network services to its 300 UK 
UNDERSTANDING OUR 
BUSINESS p ERFORMANCE
21%
INCREASE IN QUALIFIED  
p Ip ELINE FOR UK ENTERp RISE
12%
REDUCTION IN SALES CYCLE 
FOR BIG ENTERp RISE DEALS
12 BUSINESS REVIEw 1  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, 
long term incentive plan (LTIP) charge, net other operating 
income or expense, profit or loss on disposal of non-current 
assets and exceptional items.
2  Adjusted operating cash flow represents EBITDA, less cash 
exceptional items, less balance sheet capital expenditure 
excluding asset retirement obligations and fair value 
adjustments to intangible assets, less income taxes paid.
3  Cost of sales does not include unallocatable network costs. sites, including data centres and contact centres.
We also strengthened our market share in the 
banking and insurance sector with recent wins. 
This included a 4,000 site retail branch network 
and large contact centre transformations.
We continued to make inroads into multi-site 
retail with the completion of a 500 site retail 
store network and the commencement of the 
rollout of a new Wide Area Network (WAN) and 
business grade broadband connecting 600 UK 
retail stores, key distribution sites and a 
warehouse operation for HMV. 
We anticipate that in the coming year an 
increasing number of businesses will begin 
making decisions that were previously on-hold  
as a result of the recession. We have already 
announced the three year contract with  
PZ Cussons to provide a global WAN  
connecting its offices in Europe, Asia and  
Africa. This contract once again demonstrates 
the importance of our global network even  
where the customer is based in the UK.
UK public sector
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 285 268 6%
Cost of sales (117) (121) (3)%
Gross margin 168 147 14%
Gross margin % 59% 55% 
Source: Management information
The UK public sector channel includes central 
and local government organisations like the 
Ministry of Justice as well as other significant 
service providers such as the NHS and the 
police service.
UK public sector revenues increased by  
£17 million in 2009/10, despite increasing 
challenges to government expenditure, while 
gross margin rose by £21 million.
We sold a larger proportion of our strategic 
product set which significantly improved the 
average gross margin percentage. During the 
second half of the year, there was also higher 
demand for project and professional services 
work across the public sector. Our public sector 
customers are increasingly utilising the full range 
of our integrated services, enabling them to 
achieve greater operational efficiency.
Our ability to provide highly secure 
communication networks resulted in significant 
new deals in the criminal justice sector, including 
Managed Video Conferencing for the Office for 
Criminal Justice Reform, and managed 
telephony with Her Majesty’s Courts Service.  
We helped the police service deliver a number  
of projects, including mobile data initiatives, 
which improve officers’ abilities to share 
information while out on patrol.
In the health service, we successfully 
implemented and continue to manage NHSmail, 
the secure email service for NHS staff.
UK carrier
 2009/10 2008/09 Change 
 £m £m  %
Revenue 349 369 (5)%
Cost of sales (238) (254) (6)%
Gross margin 111 115 (3)%
Gross margin % 32% 31% 
Source: Management information
UK carrier comprises major UK based fixed line 
carriers and mobile operators.
The UK carrier market was hit hard by the 
economic downturn, which drove down 
wholesale call volumes by around 5%, with a 
corresponding impact on revenues and margins. 
Regulatory changes in the UK reduced 
termination rates for mobile calls and non-
geographic number ranges, creating downward 
pressure on revenues. Margins were not 
significantly affected by these changes as these 
costs are passed through to customers. We 
delivered a number of major network outsource 
deals during the period, as a result of our ability 
to take on significant migrations together with 
32%
INCREASE IN EBITDA
60%
OF THUS REVENUE  
FROM DATA SERVICES
13 our extensive network coverage, delivered 
savings for the end customer. This offset  
most of the regulatory and other factors 
impacting revenue.
Through this difficult climate we still carried 
approximately 70% of all calls made from 
mobiles that terminate on UK geographic 
numbers and have been successful in 
diversifying away from voice products by 
providing hosted services (infrastructure and 
hosting space) to mobile operators for their  
key mobile applications. We also provide the 
network services that underpin the mobile 
operators UK and overseas contact centres.
During the year, Tesco announced its intention  
to move into consumer broadband and chose 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide to provide the 
network infrastructure to support this initiative. 
This is expected to go live in the first quarter  
of 2010/11.
Mid-market
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 242 212 14%
Cost of sales (124) (129) (4)%
Gross margin 118 83 42%
Gross margin % 49% 39% 
Source: Management information
Mid-market is comprised of customers who 
resell our products to small or medium size 
businesses. This includes our direct THUS 
business. 
In the year we increased revenue by 14% to  
£242 million and grew gross margin by 42%  
to £118 million. We have also increased our 
pipeline by about a third over the last 12 months.
Declining voice revenues were offset by strong 
performance across data products, which 
delivered steady growth across our core 
connectivity products. In 2009/10 we also 
completed a £3.2 million per annum network 
outsource deal with one of our existing large 
resellers, which completed mid year. This 
contract will last four years and we expect  
to see further incremental project work as  
part of the deal. 
The voice market continued to consolidate, 
which created some pricing pressures. However, 
our strategy of improving our product mix 
towards higher margin data products helped  
us raise our gross margin in the year. 
We spent some time during the year assessing  
the mid-market business that came with our 
acquisition of THUS Group and have been 
pleased with the strength of the business.  
This business is 60% data – and the average 
customer size places it towards the higher  
end of the SME market. 
In THUS we upgraded around half of our Demon 
internet customers onto ADSL2+ services, 
doubling the bandwidth to the customers at  
no extra charge. We also on-shored Demon 
customer service support, further enhancing  
the customer experience. 
Global
Global enterprise
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 184 181 2%
Cost of sales (85) (96) (11)%
Gross margin 99 85 16%
Gross margin % 54% 47% 
Global carrier
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 368 411 (10)%
Cost of sales (235) (301) (22)%
Gross margin 133 110 21%
Gross margin % 36% 27% 
14 BUSINESS REVIEw 72%
OF MARGIN FROM STRATEGIC 
p RODUCTS
50%
OF MARGIN FROM CUSTOMERS 
TAKING MANAGED SERVICES Global total
 2009/10 2008/09 Change
 £m £m  %
Revenue 552 592 (7)%
Cost of sales (320) (397) (19)%
Gross margin 232 195 19%
Gross margin % 42% 33% 
Source: Management information
Global comprises enterprise customers where 
our main relationship is outside the UK, in EMEA, 
Asia, India and the US and international fixed 
line carriers and mobile operators.
Our total global revenue declined to £552 million 
from £592 million in 2008/09. This decline 
reflects the general fall in international voice 
traffic and our managed reduction of low margin 
international voice contracts, partially offset by 
growth in data products in both the global carrier 
and enterprise markets. 
The reduction in call volumes and an increase  
in sales within our strategic product set led to  
an increase in global enterprise revenue and 
margin. This included solutions such as our 
Managed Video Conferencing applications  
that are proving popular with customers such  
as large multinational banks. This product 
capitalises on the trend of businesses wishing  
to reduce their carbon footprint and lower their 
international travel costs. We expect this growth 
to continue.
We had several noteworthy contract wins during 
the year. These included a €15 million, five year 
contract with Ryanair to manage the airline’s 
entire business critical European 
telecommunication network, covering all 
airports, data centres and corporate offices.
In Apollo Submarine Cable Systems Limited,  
a company we own in partnership with Alcatel, 
through which we provide transatlantic cable 
capacity linking the US to Europe, revenue  
grew by 38% to £11 million and gross margin  
by £4 million to £10 million. 
We also made progress in strengthening our 
core capability and reducing the cost of 
delivering global solutions. In May 2009 we 
announced our role in a consortium which is 
laying the West Africa Cable System (WACS)  
that will provide the first ever submarine 
connections to Namibia, the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, and Togo. 
The new cable system will ensure that the 
necessary submarine resilience for existing 
international services is in place and also  
enable us to exploit de-regulating markets.  
We successfully pre-sold a significant proportion 
of our allocated capacity to a number of internet 
content providers to underpin our investment. 
WACS is due to become operational in Q4 2011. 
We also saw further progress with our 
investment in the Europe/India Gateway (EIG), 
which is due to complete towards the end of 
2010/11, again with significant sales of capacity 
prior to commissioning.
24%
OF REVENUE FROM  
OUR GLOBAL BUSINESS
16%
MARGIN GROw TH IN  
GLOBAL ENTERp RISE
15 ‘ REDUCING EMISSIONS AND 
COSTS THROUGH CARBON  
AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT  
IS A p RIORITY .’
We are committed to becoming a sustainable 
business. We have set out our progress against 
our sustainable business principles.
Seek continual improvement in our 
environmental performance
Reducing emissions and costs through carbon  
and energy management is a priority. Our carbon 
footprint in the UK and Northern Ireland, externally 
verified for the fourth consecutive year by the 
Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management using 
the Greenhouse Gas methodology, is 239,679 
tonnes of CO2e compared with 205,885 tonnes 
CO2e for the last financial year. The increase is due 
to the inclusion of electricity consumption at the 
THUS sites and improvements to the monitoring 
and reporting of consumption. With more than 
90% of our carbon footprint attributable to network 
electricity usage, we have set a target to reduce 
carbon emissions per unit of network traffic and 
data storage by 20% by April 2015 (from a 
2009/10 baseline).
We recognise the importance of best practice  
in environmental management systems and we 
have set a target to achieve ISO 14001 in the UK 
by April 2011 and across our global operations 
by April 2013.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide is in scope for the 
new UK Carbon Reduction Commitment (Energy 
Efficiency) scheme, which will require us to 
report our carbon footprint and to purchase the 
equivalent number of carbon allowances 
annually. We have focused on improving our 
carbon management strategies this year to 
ensure that we are fully prepared for the scheme.
Energy consumption in the UK
  2009/10 2008/09
1
Electricity
2
 (kWh)  403,681,907 330,889,809
Natural gas
3
 (kWh)  17,294,554 18,290,586
1  The 2008/09 figures exclude Thus and landlord sites.
2  Used to power our network, to provide support services such 
as network cooling, and in our offices; inclusive of landlord and 
unmetered sites.
3 Used to heat our offices.
The closure of our largest earth satellite station  
at Thameside and the associated move to a new 
site has provided four times the capacity in a 
quarter of the original floor space. The addition  
of a living roof will help to insulate the building as 
well as attract wildlife.
The introduction of a Workforce Management 
System for our field engineers during the year is 
delivering benefits both in terms of reducing CO2 
emissions per fault and improving the well-being 
of engineers by enabling them to spend less 
time on the road for each fault attended. 
The amount of waste recycled has increased 
from 15% of office waste last year to 28% of 
waste, including office waste and installation 
packaging from network sites, recycled this 
financial year.
Facilitate and encourage responsible and 
innovative product and service design
IP , data, hosting and applications are intensive 
users of energy. Energy efficiency measures and 
maintenance improvements have contributed to 
the higher operational efficiency of equipment. 
Developments in reporting and alarm systems 
have also contributed to reductions in energy 
surges often associated with fault repair. 
16 CORpORATE RESpONSIBILITY We are one of the first telecommunications 
companies to achieve the BS25999 standard for 
business continuity which reflects our commitment 
to provide service continuity and reduce risks for 
customers. A commitment to security is also 
reflected by achieving ISO 27001 accreditation, 
the international best practice standard for 
Information Security Management Systems. 
Our Managed Video Conferencing solution has 
expanded globally with our partner Regus 
opening sites in 14 of the world’s business 
capitals including Mumbai, Shanghai and 
Singapore which offer businesses a real 
alternative to travel. 
Contribute to the positive social and 
economic development of the communities  
in which we operate
Colleagues’ determined and committed 
approach to their day jobs is replicated in their 
enthusiasm to support charitable events and 
their local communities. The Radio 2 Children in 
Need appeal in November was a great example 
of colleagues volunteering their technical 
expertise and time to provide the phone lines and 
take calls from donors.
Télécoms Sans Frontières remains a key partner 
for us globally as does Christel House, 
supported by Cable&Wireless Worldwide in 
India. At Christel House, Class 4B continues to 
receive funding for a holistic education to 
provide skills for everyday life as well as 
academic teaching. 
The Advanced Apprenticeship Scheme and 
Graduate programmes have expanded by 50% 
and 20% respectively this year. These 
programmes underpin our support for the UK 
government’s ‘Backing Young Britain’ campaign 
which, at its core, is about providing opportunities 
for young people. 
Our sponsorship of Get Safe Online underpins 
the importance of delivering online security to 
our customers and, more widely, promoting it in 
society. THUS Limited, as the consumer facing 
part of the business, is also a member of the 
Internet Watch Foundation. 
Uphold fundamental human rights and 
respect cultures, customs and values in 
dealing with colleagues and others who  
are affected by our activities
We recognise the growing importance of  
good business ethics to the wider economy and 
society. We are finalising a new mandatory online 
business ethics training module which will help  
to ensure that colleagues understand what is 
expected of them and in turn the support  
available. Online learning is an important 
development tool for colleagues across the global 
business. The number of training hours including 
e-learning was 14 hours per colleague in 2009/10. 
We were the first telecommunications company  
to assist our partners, the Royal Society for the 
Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) and the National 
Examination Board for Occupational Safety & 
Health (NEBOSH) with the International Working 
Safely award which aims to provide colleagues 
with an overall awareness of the health and  
safety standards and legislation in their  
respective countries. 
In addition, Cable&Wireless Worldwide  
was awarded the RoSPA Gold Award for 
Occupational Health and Safety reflecting our 
continuing commitment to protecting the health 
and well-being of our colleagues and others. 
In 2009, with more than 6,000 colleagues in the 
business, eight incidents were reported under 
the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations  
(RIDDOR) and there were no fatalities.
28%
OF OUR w ASTE HAS 
BEEN RECYCLED 
THIS YEAR
17 John Pluthero n Chairman and Chair of the 
Nomination Committee
John Pluthero was appointed as a 
Director on 25 January 2010 and 
became Chairman on Demerger. 
John served as an executive director 
of Cable and Wireless plc from 
November 2005 until the Demerger 
and served as Executive Chairman of 
the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group 
from April 2006, having previously 
been its Executive Director since 
November 2005. During the period 
from 12 November 2007 to  
11 November 2008, John was also 
executive chairman of the Cable  
& Wireless Communications Group 
prior to the appointment of a Cable  
& Wireless Communications Group 
chief executive. From September 
2002 until its acquisition by Cable 
and Wireless plc in November 2005, 
John was chief executive of Energis. 
He was founder and chief executive 
officer of Freeserve Limited (now part 
of Orange), leading it to its flotation 
and, prior to this, John held various 
strategy and operations positions 
within the Dixons Group Limited. 
Jim Marsh
Chief Executive Officer  
and Executive Director 
Jim Marsh was appointed as a 
Director on 25 January 2010 and 
became Executive Director and Chief 
Executive Officer on Demerger. Jim 
was on the Cable and Wireless plc 
board from 1 January 2010 until  
the Demerger. Jim has also served  
as Chief Executive Officer and a 
member of the operating board  
of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
Group since April 2006. Prior to its 
acquisition by Cable and Wireless plc 
in November 2005, Jim was business 
development director of Energis.  
In this role, he oversaw the 
development and service of all of 
Energis’ channels to market. Before 
joining Energis in 2004, Jim was chief 
operating officer at Atos KPMG 
Consulting, overseeing the consulting 
business across all its industry 
sectors. Prior to becoming a partner 
at KPMG in 1997, he was head of 
strategic planning at Boots the 
Chemists Limited. 
John Barton anr Deputy Chairman and  
Senior Independent Director 
John Barton was appointed as a 
Director on 25 January 2010 and 
became Deputy Chairman, Non-
executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director on Demerger. 
John served as a non-executive 
director of Cable and Wireless plc 
from his appointment on 9 March 
2009 until the Demerger. John has 
been chairman of Next plc since 
2006, having joined their board of 
directors in 2002, and was deputy 
chairman from 2004. He is also the 
chairman of Brit Insurance Holdings 
plc and a non-executive director of 
WH Smith PLC. John was formerly 
the chief executive of JIB Group PLC 
and chairman of Jardine Lloyd 
Thompson Group plc and Wellington 
Underwriting plc. 
18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Clive Butler anr 
Non-executive Director and Chair  
of the Remuneration Committee
Clive Butler was appointed as a 
Director on 25 January 2010 and 
became a Non-executive Director 
and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee on Demerger. Clive 
served as a non-executive director  
of Cable and Wireless plc from his 
appointment in May 2005 until the 
Demerger. He was appointed as 
senior independent director of Cable 
and Wireless plc in July 2006 and 
chairman of Cable and Wireless plc’s 
nominations committee in July 2007. 
Clive was corporate development 
director at Unilever plc, serving on  
its main board of directors from 1992 
until his retirement in 2005. He also 
undertook the roles of personnel 
director and category director for the 
home and personal care division, 
having worked in a variety of 
marketing and general management 
roles since joining Unilever in 1970. 
Penny Hughes anr Non-executive Director and  
Chair of the Audit Committee
Penny Hughes was appointed as a 
Director on 25 January 2010 and 
became a Non-executive Director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee on 
Demerger. Penny served as a 
non-executive director of Cable and 
Wireless plc from her appointment on 
1 July 2009 until the Demerger. 
Penny is a non-executive director of 
Home Retail Group plc (where she is 
also the chair of the remuneration 
committee), Royal Bank of Scotland 
Group plc, and Wm Morrison 
Supermarkets PLC. Penny spent ten 
years with Coca-Cola, initially as 
marketing director, ending as 
president of Coca-Cola GB & Ireland, 
having started her career with Procter 
& Gamble Limited and then the Milk 
Marketing Board. Penny has held a 
number of non-executive roles on the 
boards of international businesses, 
including Reuters Limited, Vodafone 
Limited, Trinity Mirror plc, Body Shop 
International plc and Gap, Inc. She  
is president of the Advertising 
Association and a trustee of the 
British Museum. 
Post year end appointment
Tim Weller
Chief Financial Officer  
and Executive Director 
On 24 May 2010, Tim Weller was 
appointed as an Executive Director 
and Chief Financial Officer. Tim was 
previously chief financial officer of 
United Utilities Group PLC and 
served on its main board of directors 
since 2006. Prior to joining United 
Utilities Group PLC in 2006, Tim  
was group finance director at RWE 
Thames Water and also group 
finance director at RWE npower 
Holdings PLC (formerly Innogy 
Holdings PLC, the FTSE 100 
company). Tim started his career at 
KPMG, becoming a partner before 
joining the Granada Group PLC in 
1997, where he worked on the 
merger with Compass Group PLC 
and the subsequent demerger of 
Granada Media plc, after which  
he joined Innogy Holdings PLC. 
A Denotes membership of Audit Committee
N  Denotes membership of Nomination 
Committee 
R  Denotes membership of Remuneration 
Committee 
19 Independent auditor’s statement to the 
members of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc
We have examined the summary financial 
statement for the year ended 31 March 2010 
which comprises the summary consolidated 
income statement, summary consolidated 
statement of financial position, summary 
consolidated statement of cash flows and 
summary Directors’ report and summary 
Directors’ remuneration report set out on  
pages 21 to 27.
This statement is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with section 
428 of the Companies Act 2006. Our work has 
been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in such a statement 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our 
work, for this statement, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors  
and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Review in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion 
on the consistency of the summary financial 
statement within the Annual Review with the  
full annual financial statements, the Directors’ 
report and the Directors’ remuneration  
report, and its compliance with the relevant 
requirements of section 428 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained  
in the Annual Review and consider the 
implications for our report if we become  
aware of any apparent misstatements or  
material inconsistencies with the summary 
financial statement.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with 
Bulletin 2008/3 The auditor’s statement on the 
summary financial statement in the United 
Kingdom issued by the Auditing Practices 
Board. Our report on the Group’s full annual 
financial statements describes the basis of our 
audit opinion on those financial statements,  
the Directors’ report and the Directors’ 
remuneration report.
Opinion
In our opinion the summary financial statement 
is consistent with the full annual financial 
statements, the Directors’ report and the 
Directors’ remuneration report of Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc for the year ended  
31 March 2010 and complies with the applicable 
requirements of section 428 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
Peter Meehan (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc,  
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
8 Salisbury Square
London
EC4Y 8BB
26 May 2010
20 INDEpENDENT AUDITOR’S STATEMENT          2009/10     2008/09
    Pre-     Pre-    
    exceptional Exceptional   exceptional Exceptional 
    items items
1
 Total items items
 1
 Total
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
  
Revenue   2,265  – 2,265 2,268  – 2,268
Operating costs before depreciation  
  and amortisation   (1,848) (207) (2,055) (1,959) (76) (2,035)
Depreciation   (223) – (223) (174) – (174)
Amortisation   (45) – (45) (38) – (38)
Other operating income   – – - 1  – 1
Other operating expenses   (1) – (1) (1) – (1)
Total operating profit/(loss)   148  (207) (59) 97  (76) 21
Losses on sale of non-current assets   (1) – (1) (1) – (1)
Finance income   2  – 2  3  – 3
Finance expense   (33) (3) (36) (88) – (88)
Profit/(loss) before income tax   116  (210) (94) 11  (76) (65)
Income tax credit   95  – 95  33  – 33 
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to owners  
of the parent   211  (210) 1 44  (76) (32)
1  Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional by 
virtue of their size,  nature or incidence. The items are explained in the Annual Report. 
Earnings per share attributable to the owners  
of the parent (pence per share)
Basic     0.0p   (1.3)p
Diluted     0.0p   (1.3)p
Dividends per share attributable to the owners  
of the parent (pence per share)     n/a   n/a
No dividends were paid in the periods presented
Discontinued items
There have been no discontinued operations during the periods presented. 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
21 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT        31 March 31 March
       2010 2009
       £m £m
     
Assets
Non-current assets       2,081  1,974 
Current assets       934  832 
Total assets       3,015  2,806 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities       550  1,263 
Current liabilities       1,094  1,165 
Total liabilities       1,644  2,428
 
Net current liabilities       (160) (333)
Net assets       1,371  378
Shareholders’ equity  
Share capital       131  131 
Share premium       56  1,605 
Reserves       1,184  (1,358)
Total equity       1,371  378
 
The summary financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors
on 26 May 2010 and are signed on its behalf by:  
John Pluthero Chairman  Tim Weller Chief Financial Officer 
as at 31 March 2010
22 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL pOSITION        2009/10 2008/09
       £m £m
        
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations       264 242 
Income taxes paid       (1) –
Net cash from operating activities       263  242
Net cash used in investing activities       (244) (568)
Net cash from financing activities       60  449 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents      79  123 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April       144  19 
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents      3  2 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March      226  144
 
for the year ended 31 March 2010
23 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOwS Remuneration philosophy 
The Committee recognises that Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide is a people leveraged business, 
therefore the remuneration structure should 
attract, retain and motivate the best talent in 
order to deliver outstanding long term 
shareholder value. This is underpinned by the 
following guiding principles:
n There should be a genuine alignment of the 
interest of the senior team and shareholders. 
Executive Directors will be encouraged to 
maintain a significant investment in the 
shares of the Company to align their interests 
with shareholder value;
n The majority of total remuneration for the 
senior team should only be receivable after 
achieving challenging performance targets;
n Total reward levels will reflect the markets in 
which we operate. The competitive position 
of the remuneration packages we provide will 
be regularly monitored by independent 
analysis against comparator groups of 
companies selected on the basis of relevant 
size, business and geographic focus;
n Base salaries and benefits will be set at the 
mid-market level of our comparator 
companies. However, some variances may 
occur to reflect executives’ experience and 
expertise;
n An appropriate mix of short and long term 
incentives will be set so that the senior team 
are incentivised to deliver performance over 
both the short and long term with greater 
emphasis on creating value over the longer 
term;
n The remuneration structure for Executive 
Directors should be consistent with that of 
other senior executives whilst also 
recognising their greater Group 
responsibilities;
n All aspects of remuneration for the Executive 
Directors and other members of the senior 
team will be approved by the Committee.
Summary of Executive Directors’ remuneration 
As part of the Demerger, shareholders approved 
the continuation of the Cable and Wireless plc 
incentive framework through the implementation 
of replacement Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc 
incentive plans. 
The remuneration structure is as follows:
n Base salaries have been set based on the 
market and to reflect the new responsibilities 
of Executive Directors;
n The Executive Directors’ 2010/11 annual 
bonus potential remains at up to 100% of 
base salary for the achievement of stretch 
targets;
n Executive Directors and other members of 
the senior team will receive annual awards of 
performance shares. These shares will vest 
from 2013 onwards subject to the 
achievement of stretching total shareholder 
return (TSR) and earnings per share (EPS) 
targets;
n The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) originally 
established by Cable and Wireless plc for 
Executive Directors and other members of 
the senior team will end in 2011; and
n In order to incentivise Executive Directors to 
double the Company’s share price between 
2011 and 2014, the Committee intends to 
grant Exceptional Performance Awards 
(EPAs).
 
At the time of reporting, the Committee is 
consulting with key shareholders about the 
rationale behind the remuneration arrangements, 
in particular, details around the performance 
shares and EPAs. As part of an ongoing 
commitment to maintain open dialogue with key 
shareholders on remuneration, the Committee 
intends to consult on any substantial changes to 
remuneration in the future.
The chart below illustrates the typical balance 
between the different elements of the 
remuneration package for Executive Directors. 
Figures reflect payment potential for a ‘target’ 
level of performance achieved for the annual 
bonus plan and for the ‘expected value’ of 
performance shares to be granted in 2010/11. 
24 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REpORT  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Business Value
 FTSE GTSI
 FTSE 100
0
100
200
300
31 Mar
2006
31 Mar
2007
31 Mar
2008
31 Mar
2009
31 Mar
2010
Performance chart – Worldwide business value 
compared to FTSE 100 and FTSE GTSI
Value in £ from 31 March 2006 to 31 March 2010
Performance graphs 
The following graph shows the value, by 31 March 2010, 
of £100 invested in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc at 
close of trading on 26 March 2010 (the date shares in 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc were admitted to the 
Official List) compared with the value of £100 invested in 
the FTSE 100 and £100 invested in the FTSE Global 
Telecoms Sector Index (GTSI).
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide
 FTSE GTSI
 FTSE 100
99.0
99.2
99.4
99.6
99.8
100.0
26 Mar
2010
31 Mar
2010
Total shareholder return 
Value in £ from 26 March 2010 to 31 March 2010
Graph is required for statutory purposes, note that it only 
shows a five day period. 
The Committee considers the Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
business value derived for the purpose of the LTIP (as 
adjusted for cash flows to and from the corporate centre), 
to be the most representative equivalent to listed market 
value. The following graph shows the change in value of a 
notional £100 holding in Cable&Wireless Worldwide over 
the four years since the start of the LTIP compared with 
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100 and £100 
invested in the FTSE Global Telecoms Sector Index (GTSI).
25 Directors’ remuneration
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc is required to present the Directors’ 
remuneration from 24 September 2009 (the date of incorporation) through to 31 March 2010. The Demerger of the 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide business from the Cable & Wireless Group took place on 26 March 2010. Prior to this  
date, the Directors were not remunerated for their role as Directors of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc as this entity  
was unrelated to the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group until this date.
In order to provide a historical track record and greater transparency of Directors’ remuneration, the remuneration of 
the Cable&Wireless Worldwide Directors has been presented on a proforma basis in addition to the statutory basis.  
This basis presents Directors’ remuneration as if the Group had existed in its current form throughout the year, using 
amounts paid to the Directors for their services to the former Cable & Wireless Group as the basis of remuneration.
For the proforma period 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010 (audited information)
   Salaries   Benefits Cash  Total  Total
   and fees  Bonuses
1
  in kind
2
  allowance  2009/10  2008/09
   £  £ £ £ £ £
     
Chairman 
John Pluthero   600,000 –  34,582  150,000
3
 784,582 1,301,979
Executive Director
4
      
Jim Marsh   500,000 
5
 –  28,640  10,800
6
  539,440  716,198
Non-executive Directors       
John Barton    65,000 –  701  –  65,701  4,189
Clive Butler   85,000  –  732  –  85,732  87,883
Penny Hughes (since 1 July 2009)   48,750  –  378  –  49,128  –
Total    1,298,750 –  65,033  160,800  1,524,583 
7
 2,110,249
For the statutory period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010 (audited information)
 
        Total for
        24 September
        2009 to
    Salaries   Benefits Cash  31 March 
    and fees  Bonuses
1 
 in kind
2 
 allowance  2010
    £  £ £   £ £
     
Chairman 
John Pluthero (since 25 January 2010)    8,695 – 568  2,180
3
  11,443
Executive Director
4
Jim Marsh (since 25 January 2010)    7,246
5
  – 471  174
6
  7,891 
Non-executive Directors
John Barton (since 25 January 2010)    942 –  12  –  954 
Clive Butler (since 25 January 2010)    1,232  –  12  –  1,244 
Penny Hughes (since 25 January 2010)    942  –  6  –  948 
Directors on incorporation
Alnery Incorporations No. 1 Limited  
(24 September 2009 to 25 January 2010)    –  –  –  –  – 
Alnery Incorporations No. 2 Limited  
(24 September 2009 to 25 January 2010)    –  –  –  –  – 
Craig Morris (24 September 2009 to 25 January 2010)  –  –  –  –  – 
Total     19,057 – 1,069  2,354  22,480
7
1  No bonuses were payable during the period. 
2  In compliance with the Companies Act 2006, ‘Benefits in kind’ include 
Company provided life assurance and travel.
3  Company pension contributions in 2009/10 have been paid to John 
Pluthero as an annual cash allowance. Pension contributions relating to 
Jim Marsh were paid as employer contributions into the Company’s 
defined contribution pension plan.
4  Tim Weller was not employed until 24 May 2010 and therefore received no 
remuneration from the Company during the 2009/10 financial year. 
5  Jim Marsh’s salary is shown prior to any salary sacrifice under pension 
arrangements.
6  Jim Marsh was paid a cash allowance in 2009/10 in lieu of provision of a 
company car. 
7  The aggregate emoluments of the Directors which include employer 
pension contributions were £1,587,731 for the proforma period 1 April 
2009 to 31 March 2010 (2008/09: £2,164,569) and £23,386 for the 
statutory period 24 September 2009 to 31 March 2010.
26 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REpORT 27 SUMMARY DIRECTORS’ REpORT
Principal Activities 
Cable & Wireless Worldwide is a global 
communications business providing mission 
critical telecommunications to large enterprise 
and carrier customers.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend of  
3.0 pence per ordinary share payable on  
12 August 2010, subject to approval at the AGM, 
to ordinary shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 11 June 2010.
Directors
The names and biographical details of the 
Directors are set out on pages 18 and 19. All of 
these directors were appointed on 25 January 
2010 except for Tim Weller who joined the 
Company as Executive Director and Chief 
Financial Officer on 24 May 2010. During the 
financial period ended 31 March 2010 Alnery 
Incorporations No.1 Limited, Alnery 
Incorporations No. 2 Limited and Craig Morris 
also served as directors of the Company. They 
were all respectively appointed on 24 September 
2009 and resigned on 25 January 2010.
Change of name
The Company was incorporated with the name 
Project Swan No.1 Limited with registered 
number 7029206 on 24 September 2009 and 
changed its name to Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide Limited on 13 January 2010. The 
Company re-registered as a public limited 
company and changed its name to Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc on 27 January 2010.
Demerger
At a general meeting of Cable and Wireless plc 
on 25 February 2010, shareholders approved the 
demerger of the Cable&Wireless Worldwide 
Group. The board of Cable and Wireless plc set 
up a sub-committee to ensure the demerger was 
carefully managed and completed in accordance 
with the agreed timetable. The key steps 
required to implement this proposal included the 
insertion of a new holding company, Cable & 
Wireless Communications Plc, between Cable 
and Wireless plc and its shareholders via a 
scheme of arrangement; a reduction of share 
capital of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
in order to facilitate the demerger and provide 
potentially distributable reserves for the Cable & 
Wireless Communications Group; the demerger 
of Cable&Wireless Worldwide in return for the 
issue of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc ordinary 
shares; and a reduction of capital of Cable & 
Wireless Worldwide plc to provide potentially 
distributable reserves for the Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide Group.
The Demerger became effective and the 
Company was admitted to the Official List of the 
UK Listing Authority and to trading on the 
London Stock Exchange on 26 March 2010.
Full annual report
This Annual Review and Summary Financial 
Statement is only a summary of information 
derived from the Company’s Annual Report and 
Financial Statements. It does not contain the full 
text of the Directors’ report or Directors’ 
remuneration report but information derived from 
those reports and does not contain sufficient 
information to allow as full an understanding of 
the Company’s results, state of affairs and its 
policies and arrangements on directors’ 
remuneration as would be provided by the full 
Annual Report and Accounts. Copies of the 
Annual Report can be obtained free of  
charge from our website www.cw.com or  
by contacting the Company Secretary at 
companysecretary@cw.com. Shareholders and 
other entitled persons who have elected to 
receive this Annual Review can elect to receive 
the full Annual Report for all future financial years  
by contacting Equiniti using the details provided 
on page 28. The auditor’s report on the annual 
accounts and the auditable sections of the 
Directors’ remuneration report was unqualified; 
contained no statement under section 498 of the 
Companies Act 2006; and contained no 
qualification in respect of the consistency of the 
Directors’ report and the financial statements.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board is responsible for the system of 
internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness on a continual basis. The system 
of internal control is designed to manage, rather 
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. The concept of 
reasonable assurance recognises that the cost 
of control procedures should not exceed the 
expected benefits.
Going Concern
After reviewing budgets and other longer term 
plans and making enquiries, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
financial statements. Registrar 
If you have any queries regarding your 
shareholding in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, 
please contact:
Equiniti,  
Aspect House,  
Spencer Road,  
Lancing, 
West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom 
Telephone 0871 384 2104
1
 (UK shareholders) 
+44 (0)121 415 7052 (overseas shareholders)
Shareholders can view up-to-date information 
about their shareholding at www.shareview.co.uk.
THUS Group plc shareholders 
If you have not yet completed your Form of 
Acceptance relating to your shares in THUS 
Group plc, please contact:
The Dissentients Department,   
Capita Registrars,  
The Registry,   
34 Beckenham Road,  
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, United Kingdom
email: dissentients@capitaregistrars.com 
or call them on 0871 664 0300
2
 (UK shareholders) 
+44 (0)20 8639 3399 (overseas shareholders).
ShareGift 
If you have a small number of shares whose value 
makes them uneconomic to sell, you may wish to 
consider donating them to charity. ShareGift is a 
registered charity (no. 1052686) which collects 
and sells unwanted shares and uses the proceeds 
to support a wide range of UK charities. Further 
information about ShareGift and the charities it 
supports is available at www.ShareGift.org or by 
contacting them at:
17 Carlton House Terrace,  
London SW1Y 5AH United Kingdom
Financial calendar 
Ex-dividend date 9 June 2010  
Record date 11 June 2010  
AGM 21 July 2010  
Payment of final dividend 12 August 2010  
Announcement of interim  
results 2010/11 9 November 2010
Subject to approval at the AGM, Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc intends to offer a scrip dividend 
scheme. Save for the CREST shareholders 
referred to below, if you have already registered 
for the Cable and Wireless plc scrip dividend 
scheme then you need do nothing, as you will 
automatically continue to receive scrip dividends 
under the new Cable & Wireless Worldwide Scrip 
Dividend Scheme. If you are a CREST 
shareholder who has previously submitted an 
evergreen CREST Dividend Election Input 
Message for the Cable and Wireless plc scrip 
then you will need to make a new election if you 
wish to join the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Scrip 
Dividend Scheme for the final dividend (and all 
future dividends) by submitting a CREST Dividend 
Input Message prior to 5pm on Monday  
19 July 2010.
If you do not currently receive scrip dividends but 
would like to join the Cable & Wireless Worldwide 
scrip dividend scheme for the final dividend (and 
all future dividends) then please complete and 
return the mandate form enclosed with this 
Annual Review to the Registrar, Equiniti, prior to 
5pm on Monday 19 July 2010. Additional copies 
of the mandate form and the scrip dividend 
brochure can be obtained from Equiniti (UK 
callers: 0871 384 2268
1
, overseas callers: 
+44 (0) 121 415 7173) or from the Company’s 
website.
Shareholders whose dividends are paid directly 
to a bank account will receive one consolidated 
tax voucher each year sent in January at the 
time that the interim dividend is paid. If you 
would prefer to receive a tax voucher with each 
dividend, please contact Equiniti.
Shareholders who wish to be paid by direct bank 
transfer should contact Equiniti.
1  Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network 
extras. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
2  Calls to this number are charged at 10p per minute plus network 
extras. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
28 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Electronic communication 
Together with Equiniti, Cable & Wireless 
Worldwide plc is able to offer shareholders the 
option to manage their shareholding online and 
receive communications from the Company 
electronically as an alternative to receiving 
documents through the post. To make  
use of this facility, please register at  
www.shareview.co.uk following the  
onscreen instructions.
Registered Office and Company Secretary 
The Company’s Registered Office and Head 
Office is:
Liberty House,  
76 Hammersmith Road, 
London W14 8UD United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0)1344 713 000
email: companysecretary@cw.com 
Philip Davis is the Company Secretary.
Unsolicited mail 
Company law allows people unconnected with 
the Company to obtain a copy of our share 
register. As a consequence, shareholders may 
receive unsolicited mail, including mail from 
unauthorised investment firms. For more 
information on unauthorised investment firms 
targeting UK investors, you should visit the 
website of the Financial Services Authority 
(www.moneymadeclear.org.uk).
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail 
you receive, please contact:
The Mailing Preference Service,  
DMA House,  
70 Margaret Street,  
London W1W 8SS United Kingdom 
Telephone 0845 703 4599  
Online www.mpsonline.org.uk
29 Cable&Wireless Worldwide
Liberty House
76 Hammersmith Road
London W14 8UD
Telephone: +44 (0) 1344 713 000
www.cw.com
Designed by Further
furthercreative.co.uk
This Review is produced from pulps sourced from fully  
sustainable forests and has been made without the use  
of elemental chlorine (ECF).
  
Printed using vegetable based inks. Both manufacturing mill 
and printer are FSC certified and both have been accredited 
with ISO14001 environmental management system.
 
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press, ISO14001, FSC certified 
and CarbonNeutral.
