  Discovering 
Hi DD en v alu e 
 tHrougH 
e ntrepreneurial 
 exploration
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 D I SCOVER m OR E Ca IRnE nER gy .COm/ a R2011
Discover Cairn
2 How We Work
6 Strategy and KPIs
8 Assets and Investments 
 Principal Licence Interests
10  Our Track Record  
of Delivering Value
14 Sustainability and Safety
18 Key Achievements
Business Review
21  Highlights
22  Chairman’s Statement
24  Chief Executive’s Review 
26  Industry Overview
28  Operational Review
32  Financial Review
36 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
44  Corporate Responsibility
Leadership and Governance
54  Board of Directors
56  Directors’ Report
59   Corporate Governance Statement
69   Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
88  Independent Auditor’s Report
90 Group Income Statement
91 Statements of Comprehensive Income
92 Balance Sheets
93 Statements of Cash Flows
94 Statements of Changes in Equity
96 Notes to the Financial Statements
128  Appendices to the Notes  
to the Financial Statements
Additional Information
133 Company Information
134  Glossary of Terms
136 Corporate Offices Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  1    
Cairn is one of Europe’s leading independent oil  
and gas exploration and development companies.  
At Cairn, we believe in doing things the right way.
For us, that means developing the greatest value  
in our assets and operations, nurturing the talent  
of our people and building strong, open and lasting 
relationships with all of our stakeholders.
It also means we act with respect – for people  
and their communities, the environment, the rule  
of law and human rights. We believe in, and act  
upon, our responsibility to care for people, the 
environment and society.
Discover more on pages 2 to 20
DISCOVER CAIRN
DISCOVER OUR R E S UL T S
From pages 2 to 20
From page 21 onwards
Our strategy within a well-balanced oil and  
gas exploration and production portfolio is  
to focus on exploration opportunities with  
material growth potential to create and  
deliver shareholder value.
Our strong balance sheet and retained 
interest in the Indian business give us the 
financial flexibility to invest in assets that make 
commercial sense to our business.
We have a consistent record of returning 
capital to shareholders. The Cairn philosophy  
is about creating, then realising value – and  
then growing the business once again.
h h 20-year track record of delivering transformational 
value for all our stakeholders
h h Assets in Greenland, Spain, Nepal and 
Albania, held through Capricorn, a non-listed 
subsidiary, with principal exploration  
interests in Greenland
h h Track record of successful discoveries – 
Cairn’s interest in South Asia resulted in 
more than 40 oil and gas discoveries
h h We retain a 22% interest in Cairn India – 
which has the potential to account for  
more than 30% of India’s oil production 
h h We act with respect – for people and their 
communities, the environment, the rule  
of law and human rights
h h Listed on the London Stock Exchange 
h h Based in Edinburgh; operational offices  
in Nuuk (Greenland), Madrid (Spain) and 
Kathmandu (Nepal)
Discover Cairn 2  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Discover Cairn
How We Work
OUR VISION
O UR F OC U S
O U R E D g E Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  3    
OUR VISION
O UR F OC U S
O U R E D g E
W
e aim to be pioneers within a balanced 
portfolio. We are partners: we work 
with Governments, joint venture 
associates, communities and suppliers to  
deliver value for all our stakeholders. 
We are passionate, driven and determined. 
We embrace change and encourage collaboration 
and teamwork in all that we do. It is these 
qualities, along with skill, stamina and our ability  
to combine technical and commercial expertise, 
that are essential to the business.
Our Values
At Cairn, we believe in doing things the right 
way. Our values of building respect, nurturing 
relationships and acting responsibly are at the 
core of all that we do and inform how we work.
 h Building Respect – We act with respect for 
people, their communities, the environment, 
human rights and the law.
 h Nurturing Relationships – We act honestly, 
transparently and with integrity to develop 
strong, lasting relationships with all our 
stakeholders.
 h Acting Responsibly – We behave fairly, 
ethically and are accountable for our actions. 
We believe in, and act on, our responsibility to 
care for people, society and the environment. 
u u
Cairn is a dynamic, entrepreneurial company. Our agility 
and ability to forge strong, open and lasting relationships 
are essential to our success. 
Discover Cairn 4  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Discover Cairn
How We Work 
Continued
O UR F OC U S I S ON LO N g T E R m V A L U E C R E A TI O N
 VA L U E C R E A T I O N VA L
Our aim is to discover, develop and deliver value  
in our assets and people for the benefit of all our 
stakeholders. We are passionate about enriching  
people’s lives through energy exploration and 
development. For us, this includes nurturing the  
talent of our staff, developing safe and healthy  
work places, protecting the environment and  
supporting strong, vibrant communities.  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  5    
O UR F OC U S I S ON LO N g T E R m V A L U E C R E A TI O N
 VA L U E C R E A T I O N VA L
Our Approach
People are our most important asset and 
helping them develop their skills and abilities 
ensures we continue to work towards our 
goals. We encourage them to realise their 
potential and provide them with a supportive 
workplace in which diversity and equality are 
respected and valued.
The health and safety of our people  
and the environment is also vitally important  
to us. Throughout our global activities we 
ensure our people have a healthy, safe and 
secure workplace. Before operating in any  
new area, we assess the potential social  
and environmental impacts of our activities  
and identify ways to mitigate against these  
and design our plans accordingly.
Wherever we work, we aim to develop 
long-term partnerships with local communities 
and work with them where possible to develop 
sustainable economic, social and environmental 
initiatives. We encourage local people to 
contribute to, and benefit from, our projects  
and believe that by working together we  
can succeed together. The benefits our 
operations can include energy, infrastructure, 
employment and trade with local enterprises.
Simon Thomson 
Chief Executive
Discover Cairn 6  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Discover Cairn
Strategy and KPIs
OUR g OALS  
& p ER FOR m ANCE
Cairn aims to deliver value for shareholders through 
exploration and development in the global oil and 
gas sector. This will be achieved by focusing on a 
combination of operational excellence and optimising 
the allocation of resources to deliver growth and  
execute corporate development plans, whilst at all  
times managing and developing our corporate reputation 
as responsible citizens. Our primary objective in 2012 is  
to strengthen Cairn’s position in the oil and gas sector 
for the long-term as the business reshapes following the 
sale of the majority holding in Cairn India Limited (CIL). 2
3
1
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  7    
Sustainability
What is the business plan?
h h Maximise the value of the residual interest in CIL and 
complete the return of the cash received in December 2011
h h Preserve cash for investments and ensure rigorous  
analysis of investment opportunities to ensure the optimum 
deployment of cash resources
h h Work with partners to maximise the cost recovery and 
returns from Joint Venture (JV) alliances
h h Organisational effectiveness where strategy is delivered  
from a fully resourced business with the right skills at the 
right time, highly functioning with clear roles and 
responsibilities, underpinned by leadership behaviours 
reflecting our core values
h h Protect our license to operate where we manage and develop 
our corporate reputation by raising our Health, Safety and 
Environment (HSE) performance. This includes raising 
awareness of HSE risks and their management across the 
business and adopting and monitoring leading HSE indicators
Balanced Portfolio  
and Growth Potential 
How we do it? 
h h Rebalancing the portfolio by seeking new business and 
commercial opportunities across key asset classes, including  
both near term and transformational exploration, appraisal, 
development and production opportunities
h h Aiming to grow our reserves and resource base to provide  
a basis for future growth 
h h Rebalancing our financial exposure in Greenland with 
commercially attractive farm-out arrangements whereby 
industry partners contribute funding and knowledge towards 
future investment requirements and operations 
Operational Excellence
Delivering results by:
h h Conducting our operational programmes on approved 
timescales, on budget and without injuries or environmental 
incidents to the defined quality standards
The Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) underpinning 
our strategy in 2012 are 
outlined here. 
Discover Cairn Greenland Discover Cairn
Assets and Investments
Principal Licence Interests
 a wor ld of 
opportunity 8  Cairn energy Pl C a nnual r eport 2011
Assets Working interest
Exclusive Licence 2002/15 (Atammik) 87 .5%
Exclusive Licence 2005/06 (Lady Franklin) 87 .5%
Exclusive Licence 2008/10 (Sigguk) 87 .5%
Exclusive Licence 2008/11 (Eqqua) 87 .5%
Exclusive Licence 2008/13 (Saqqamiut) 92.0%
Exclusive Licence 2008/14 (Kingittoq) 92.0%
Exclusive Licence 2009/10 (Uummannarsuaq) 92.0%
Exclusive Licence 2009/11 (Salliitt) 92.0%
Exclusive Licence 2011/13 (Pitu) 56.875%
Exclusive Licence 2011/16 (Napariaq) 87 .5%
Exclusive Licence 2011/17 (Ingoraq) 87 .5%
Greenland
Assets Working interest
Block Joni-5 85.0%
Albufera, Alta Mar 1 and 2, Beninfayó, Gandía,  100.0%
Blocks 1, 2, 4, 6 & 7 100.0%
Albania
Spain
Nepal In DIA
NEPAL
SPAIN
UK
ALBANIA
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  9    
Investments Working interest
Block PKGM-1 (Ravva) 22.5%
Block KG-DWN-98/2 10.0%
Block KG-ONN-2003/1 49.0%
Block KG-OSN-2009/3 100.0%
Block CB/OS-2 development areas 40.0%
Block RJ-ON-90/1 development areas 70.0%
Block KK-DWN-2004/1 40.0%
Block PR-OSN-2004/1 35.0%
Block MB-DWN-2009/1 100.0%
Block SL 2007-01-001 100.0%
Cairn Energy retains a 22% shareholding in Cairn India, following the 
completion of the sale of a 40% shareholding to Vedanta Resources in 
December 2011.
India
Asset
Investment
Offices
Key
Discover Cairn 10  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Discover Cairn
Our Track Record 
of Delivering V alue
 
A RE CO RD  
OF CR EA TI N g 
g R O w TH AN D 
D ELIVERI N g V ALUE
T  
hroughout Cairn’s time in South Asia,  
the Company has made more than  
40 oil and gas discoveries onshore  
and offshore in its assets in Rajasthan, 
the Cambay Basin and the Bay of Bengal.  
The three largest Rajasthan fields alone 
(Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya (MBA)) 
have gross recoverable reserves of one billion 
barrels of oil equivalent and the potential to 
produce more than 30% of India’s domestic  
oil production.
Cairn’s success stems from being pioneers 
and partners. We focus on identifying assets  
that are capable of providing significant and 
sustainable growth, capturing as high an equity 
position as possible in frontier areas, using our 
strong technical and commercial expertise and 
working with our partners to take our assets from 
discovery to development safely. Cairn’s quick 
decision making, agility and the ability to form 
strong and lasting relationships has benefitted  
not only the business but all stakeholders. 
Cairn has a proven track record of creating 
transformational growth and delivering significant  
value through exploration and development.  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  11    
Discover Cairn 12  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Discover Cairn
Our Track Record 
of Delivering V alue 
Continued Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  13    
Delivering Value  
Through Development
Cairn’s projects in South Asia in both India and 
Bangladesh have helped meet both countries’ 
energy demands. These developments  
demonstrate Cairn’s ability to safely, rapidly  
and successfully deliver complex, large-scale  
oil and gas developments. The Rajasthan 
development in particular emphasises Cairn’s 
capacity for managing unique operational 
challenges such as working in an environment 
with extreme temperatures and operating in 
a remote location with limited infrastructure.
The Mangala Processing Terminal (MPT) 
currently processes oil from the Mangala and 
Bhagyam fields. It covers an area equivalent  
to 200 football pitches and contains more than 
80km of roads, comparable with the distance 
from London to Brighton. The MPT was planned, 
built and completed in a little over two years. 
Constructing the world’s longest continuously 
heated pipeline, currently some 590km long 
with an additional 80km being built, has given 
the joint venture partners access to more than 
75% of India’s refining capacity. The success  
of Cairn’s operations in India has enabled the 
Company to return approximately $4.5 billion  
to shareholders over the last five years.
Discover Cairn 14  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Discover Cairn
Sustainability and Safety
Building Sustainable Futures
Not only has Cairn delivered value for India and 
for shareholders, it has also worked with local 
communities to improve infrastructure, health, 
education and economic prospects. Together 
with its JV partners, Cairn has invested in 
projects that have focused on developing 
sustainable social capital and stimulating local 
economies in communities near our assets. 
Supporting local communities is one of the ways 
in which Cairn helps to ensure that a positive 
impact results from our presence in a country  
or region.
Specifically, in Rajasthan, Cairn has 
developed the following:
Economic and Skills Development Initiatives
h h The Enterprise Centre promotes and 
supports local economic development in 
Rajasthan. More than 6,000 people have 
been trained to date with 80% finding 
employment opportunities.
h h The Rural Dairy Development Programme 
developed a marketplace for farmers to  
sell their surplus milk, thus turning it into  
a marketable commodity. More than 
$800,000 in revenue has been generated  
to date through milk sales. u u
 E V E R y T HIN g 
w E D O I S
 g UIDE D b y 
THE 3Rs
Respect, Responsibility and Relationships – these  
values inform our day-to-day business activities  
and are promoted to staff, partners and contractors. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  15    
Discover Cairn 16  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Discover Cairn
Sustainability and Safety 
Continued
Health Initiatives
h h The Mobile Health Van provides diagnostic 
and preventative healthcare to remote 
communities in the Barmer region of 
Rajasthan. More than 100,000 people  
have been treated to date.
h h The Child and Maternal Healthcare 
Programme for 25,000 vulnerable villagers  
in Andhra Pradesh has been instrumental  
in achieving reduced maternal and child 
mortality rates in five villages in the area.
Environmental Initiatives
h h Access to fresh water. Cairn supported  
the construction of more than 1,300 
rainwater harvesting structures, providing  
a storage capacity of over 10 million litres.
h h Infrastructure Capacity – provided local 
authorities with extensive well database  
for mapping fresh water aquifers. Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  17    
A Track Record for Safety
Cairn has consistently demonstrated our  
ability to develop and manage complex 
exploration, drilling, construction and production 
operations while also safeguarding people and 
the environment. Wherever possible, Cairn  
aims to avoid, mitigate, or at the very least 
manage, any impacts our operations may have. 
Cairn has successfully used Environmental 
Impact Assessments (EIAs) to consider the 
potential impacts of its activities on the 
environment. 
Based on the EIAs conducted in advance 
of its drilling operations in Greenland, Cairn 
reduced its impact on the marine environment 
by using rigs that did not require anchoring to 
the seabed, while helicopter travel was also 
re-routed so minimising disturbance to coastal 
seabird colonies.
Prevention is also a key focus  
across all of Cairn’s operations. Our drilling 
programmes are designed with the aim  
of reducing all the associated risks as much  
as reasonably practical. 
The team responsible for the exploration 
campaign in Greenland has more than 1,000 
years of combined experience of operating  
in challenging environments. To complement 
this in-house expertise, Cairn also partnered 
with companies who are leaders in their fields. 
In Greenland, Cairn has worked with a top  
ice management company and a leading 
organisation in global oil spill response. 
Cairn has now completed four years of 
operations offshore Greenland without fatality, 
serious injuries or environmental incident. 
 
Cairn’s approach elsewhere follows that 
which we have pursued in South Asia. Through 
Social Impact Assessments (SIAs) and a 
consultation process, Cairn learnt that increasing 
Greenlandic participation in oil and gas activities 
was important to local people. We also identified 
that the development of skills, employment, 
enterprise and infrastructure associated with the 
industry should be sustainable. In 2010 and 2011 
Cairn worked with the Greenlandic Government 
to put in place Impact Benefit Agreements 
(IBAs) that addressed each of these issues. 
Should Cairn go on to discover a significant 
amount of hydrocarbons, the Company would 
then look to support local projects on a more 
permanent basis through a number of relevant, 
targeted and sustainable initiatives.
Discover Cairn p IONEERS
&p ARTNERS
Discover Cairn
Key Achievements
Rajasthan, India
h h 3 of 7 landmark discoveries in India  
since 2000 made by Cairn
h h Mangala discovery; largest onshore 
hydrocarbon find in India in 25 years 
h h Current discovered resource potential  
~6.5 billion boe
h h Rajasthan development (MPT and heated 
pipeline) one of the largest oil and gas 
projects in India
h h Potential to produce > 30% of India’s current 
crude production
h h Pipeline capable of accessing > 75%  
of India’s refining capacity
h h Discovery to production in just over  
five years
h h Will generate more than $100 billion  
for the Indian authorities
Ravva, India
h h Reserves taken from 100 million barrels of 
oil equivalent (mmboe) to 300 mmboe post 
investment by Cairn 
h h Production increased ~14 times over
h h Produced at plateau rate in excess of  
50,000 barrels of oil per day (bopd)  
for more than nine years
h h Direct operating cost per barrel amongst 
lowest in world
h h > 230 million barrels produced to date – 
more than double the initial expectation  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  19    
Greenland
h h Largest acreage holder and, to date, the 
most active operator in Greenland 
h h Acreage position of 102,000km
2
, equivalent 
to almost half the size of the UK 
h h Eight of the 14 wells drilled to date offshore 
Greenland completed by Cairn
h h Team with combined total of > 1,000 years 
experience in frontier/challenging 
environments 
h h Safely operated in Greenland for four years 
without fatality, serious injury or adverse 
impact on communities
h h Acquired extensive knowledge and data on 
Greenland – hold a 2D seismic database 
~85,000km
h h Impact benefit agreement for Greenland 
providing $575,000 for 21 projects
h h 84 Greenlanders employed in 2011  
(2010: 55) 
Discover Cairn 20  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  21    
Business Review
 “Cairn has delivered on its key objectives for 2011: 
completion of the sale of 40% of Cairn India, the return 
of $3.5 bn to shareholders and the farm-down of the Pitu 
block in Greenland to Statoil.
With full cycle capabilities and balance sheet strength, 
Cairn is well positioned to create significant value from 
transformational exploration, within a well balanced 
portfolio of exploration and production assets.” 
Simon Thomson, Chief Executive
Business Review
Highlights
Highlights
The completion of the transaction with Vedanta Resources plc 
(Vedanta) crystallises the value creation Cairn has delivered 
from the Indian business, returning approximately  
(~)$4.5 billion (bn) to shareholders over the past five years 
Record profit after tax of ~$4.6 bn
At 31 December 2011, the Group had cash of ~$4.7 bn 
In February 2012, the Group returned $3.5 bn of cash  
to shareholders, retaining ~$1.2 bn to fund future  
growth opportunities
Cairn retains a 22% investment in CIL currently valued  
at ~$2.9 bn. Rajasthan production from Mangala and 
Bhagyam fields targeted to reach 175,000 bopd in H1 2012 
Significant part of currently envisaged potential of 240,000 bopd 
to be met from MBA fields in 2013 
Farm-down of 30.625% interest in the Pitu block in Greenland 
to Statoil ASA
Processing of 3D seismic on Pitu and Southern blocks in 
Greenland ongoing
First phase of Cairn’s exploration programme in Greenland 
encountered oil and gas shows across multiple basins  22  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
We can now look forward with 
confidence, excitement and 
ambition to building the future 
of the Company in new strategic 
directions from a position of 
significant strength. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SiR Bill Gammell 
Chairman Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  23    
Business Review
L
ast year represented a watershed  
in Cairn’s corporate history. The sale  
of the majority of our holding in CIL  
to Vedanta in December 2011 marked the 
culmination of an effective twenty year 
association with the economic growth of the 
sub-continent. We can now look forward with 
confidence, excitement and ambition to building 
the future of the Company in new strategic 
directions from a position of significant strength. 
Following the Rajasthan discoveries in 2004, 
Cairn elected to float its Indian business on  
the Bombay Stock Exchange and National 
Stock Exchange of India in 2007, thereby 
establishing CIL as a majority owned but listed 
subsidiary of Cairn. Proceeds from the IPO 
enabled approximately $1 billion to be returned 
to shareholders, demonstrating the Company’s 
focus on not just creating, but also crystallising 
value, while a further $1 billion was re-invested 
in the business. The Company ceded control  
of its Indian business late in 2011, when we 
completed the sale of 40% of CIL to Vedanta. 
The net proceeds of the Vedanta sale were 
approximately $5.4 billion, allowing a cash 
return of $3.5 billion to shareholders in February 
2012. This brings the total cash returned to 
shareholders in the past five years to 
approximately $4.5 billion. 
The remaining 22% shareholding in CIL, 
currently valued at ~$2.9 billion by the Indian 
market, along with current cash of ~$1.2 billion, 
provides financial flexibility and an excellent 
platform for Cairn to pursue future growth 
opportunities.
India
Cairn’s success in South Asia has created 
significant value for shareholders and Cairn 
India has one of the fastest growing production 
profiles of any company in the world. In 
particular, the desert site at Mangala has  
been transformed by the construction of the 
MPT, hundreds of wells have been drilled and 
infrastructure is now in place, including the 
longest heated pipeline in the world, to take  
the Mangala and other crude to market.
A significant consequence of concluding  
the Vedanta transaction is that the Rajasthan  
JV is now aligned around a vision to increase 
substantially production from the Rajasthan 
fields. Achieving this vision will require further 
capital investments, partner and regulatory 
approvals as well as the cooperation of the 
Government of India (GoI).
It is a great source of pride that Cairn has made 
a difference wherever it has operated across 
the sub-continent and its success is testament 
to a longstanding vision that a well-balanced 
exploration and production portfolio could be 
built in South Asia. 
The oil output from Rajasthan helps the  
Indian economy as it reduces imports and 
generates revenue for the Government, while 
the investment made by CIL and its partner, 
ONGC, into the exploration and development  
of the area has provided work for thousands  
of people, and provided significant community 
investment and support.
Greenland
Cairn operates approximately 40% of the 
currently contracted exploration acreage  
in Greenland. Several of the world’s major  
oil companies now have a presence in  
the country (including Shell, Exxon, Statoil, 
Chevron, Conoco, Maersk and GdF). Of the  
14 wells that have been drilled by the industry 
in Greenland to date, eight have been drilled  
by Cairn. 
Whilst we have to date not established 
commercial quantities of hydrocarbon, we 
remain convinced that all of the ingredients  
for success in Greenland are present and we 
are delighted to welcome Statoil as a partner  
in the Pitu Block. 
All of the first stage work programme 
commitments have been fulfilled on our 
acreage throughout Greenland and we are  
well placed to seek partners in selected areas 
in the future.
Board
A number of changes to the composition of the 
Board of Directors took effect from 1 July 2011.
Norman Murray decided to stand down  
and turn his energies and attention to new 
challenges following 12 years on the Board, 
nine as Chairman. Norman contributed 
enormously to the growth of Cairn during  
this time, providing constructive challenges, 
wise counsel and valuable guidance. 
Malcolm Thoms, Chief Operating Officer,  
and Philip Tracy, Group Engineering and 
Operations Director, also stepped down  
from the Board. Both Malcolm and Phil  
made substantial contributions to the  
success of Cairn over the last 22 years.
In Norman’s place, the Board decided that  
I should become Chairman and Simon Thomson 
should be appointed Chief Executive. 
Simon has been with Cairn for more than  
15 years and has played an instrumental role  
in the delivery of Cairn’s strategy, including 
accessing the opportunities that Greenland 
offers as well as delivering value from Cairn’s 
interests in South Asia. Simon’s energy and 
abilities are of outstanding value to Cairn and  
he has made a hugely positive impact in  
leading the business in his new role.
Jann Brown became Managing Director and 
Chief Financial Officer in light of widening 
responsibilities including Human Resources, 
Corporate Affairs and Company Secretarial.
Dr Mike Watts continues in his role as Deputy 
Chief Executive. 
The executive team of Simon, Jann and Mike  
is well-placed to lead the Group into the future 
and continue the strategic focus of delivering 
significant growth potential in new directions. 
The Cairn Board continues to pursue diversity 
among its directors and senior executives: 
currently two of its nine board members  
are female. 
Outlook
Cairn’s vision is to become the exploration 
company of choice for governments and 
investors by offering transformational 
exploration potential within a well balanced 
exploration and production portfolio. 
The completion of the transaction with  
Vedanta crystallises the significant value  
we have delivered from the Indian business, 
allowing us to return approximately $4.5 billion 
to shareholders over the last five years. With  
a strong balance sheet and the first Greenland 
farm-down completed, Cairn is well-positioned 
to access new opportunities and further growth 
in 2012 and beyond.
Sir Bill Gammell 
Chairman 
23 March 2012 24  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 24  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Business Review
Chief executive’s 
Review
Cairn wishes to offer investors 
exposure to transformational 
organic growth potential through 
securing high equity exploration 
positions in prospective frontier 
geological basins.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Simon T Hom Son 
Chief e xe Cutive Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  25    
Business Review
C
airn is in a process of evolution,  
triggered by the sale of a majority 
shareholding in CIL to Vedanta.  
The Company’s strategy remains the same:  
to focus on exploration-led organic growth.
Cairn wishes to offer investors exposure  
to transformational organic growth potential 
through securing high equity exploration 
positions in prospective frontier geological 
basins. Exploration in these basins, if 
successful, can have a material impact on  
the Company’s net worth because of the 
prospective volumes and the normally attractive 
commercial terms appropriate for the risk.  
This exploration activity, however, needs to  
be funded from within a balanced portfolio  
of assets capable of generating sustainable 
cash flow from producing properties and 
augmented with industry farm-downs. 
As has previously been demonstrated, Cairn 
aims to return value to shareholders at the 
appropriate time through mechanisms such  
as one off special dividends, following the 
grow-and-shrink, or ‘saw-tooth’, exploration-led 
strategy, which has served the Company well in 
the past.
The Vedanta transaction has been one of  
the key strategic goals for the Company to 
complete in the last twelve months. It allowed 
a return of $3.5 billion of cash to shareholders 
and provides the Company with the financial 
flexibility and strength to pursue new 
opportunities in areas where the Company 
believes it has the ability to build and grow. 
The Rajasthan project is of national importance 
and, at current prices, can be expected to 
generate well over $100 billion of revenues  
for the GoI and the Rajasthan State. The 
residual 22% shareholding Cairn now holds in 
CIL is viewed by the Company as an important 
investment asset from which further value can 
be realised at the appropriate time. 
Cairn will aim to maintain its focus on balance 
sheet strength which provides an engine for 
future growth. At all times, we seek to apply 
strategic and capital discipline across the 
business in both existing operations and in 
reviewing new opportunities. Our growth 
strategy is to seek exposure for shareholders  
to transformational exploration potential but  
to deliver this within a sustainable and balanced 
portfolio. In practice, this means we will seek  
to build cash flow from near term exploration, 
development and producing properties. The 
management focus is on delivering growth and 
corporate development opportunities in line 
with robust corporate development criteria.
Greenland
Cairn has built a strategic and leading early 
entry position offshore Greenland, a country 
which we believe has the necessary geological 
ingredients for oil and gas exploration success.
Commercial quantities of hydrocarbons  
have yet to be discovered, but the first phase  
of our exploration programme in Greenland  
has demonstrated that all of the geological 
ingredients necessary for success are present. 
We remain encouraged by the prospects and 
opportunities presented by exploration offshore 
Greenland and our understanding of where to 
direct future activity continually evolves as we 
interpret our extensive and growing database, 
allowing us to focus on where we best see 
material and transformational potential. After 
pioneering four years of active exploration 
operations across several basins of Western 
Greenland, the Company has a unique data 
base from which it is well positioned to be 
selective and focused in high grading certain 
areas. Future exploration drilling activity will 
initially be focused on prospects within the Pitu 
block in the undrilled Baffin Bay Basin. Statoil’s 
farm-in to the Pitu block confirms Cairn’s view 
of its potential and supports the industry view 
of the Baffin Bay potential, as exemplified by 
the presence of Shell, Conoco, GdF, Maersk 
and Statoil in adjacent acreage.
A number of exciting play types have been 
identified on the Pitu block, which is geologically 
separate from other parts of West Greenland. 
The extensive shallow coring programme 
undertaken by Cairn across the block in 2011 
confirms the presence of micro oil seeps above 
structural closures already identified. All of the 
exploration evidence acquired to date points to 
the Baffin Bay Basin being oil generative and 
having multi-billion barrel potential. 
The 3D seismic acquired over Pitu in H1 2011  
is currently being processed, with final results 
expected in May/June 2012. Subject to the final 
interpretation of those results, exploration wells 
will be planned for the Pitu prospects. We are 
delighted to be working with Statoil on this 
block given their extensive knowledge and 
track record in exploration, development and 
production in the Arctic.
In Disko and other basins to the South, we  
have already fulfilled our work obligations.  
We continue to evaluate the data acquired 
across these basins, but will not be proposing 
further exploration activity until we have 
partners in selected areas, including the 
undrilled southern Greenland basin where  
we are currently processing the 3D seismic 
acquired in 2011. 
Mediterranean 
The Company was awarded two exploration 
permits in Spain in January 2011. These permits 
comprise five blocks at 100% interest in the 
Gulf of Valencia, which is underexplored.  
It is planned to acquire a 3D seismic survey 
(1,500km²) over part of the acreage in 2012.
Commercial terms in Spain are attractive  
as the authorities try to stimulate exploration 
activity in frontier areas. Cairn has recently 
opened a small office in Madrid and is currently 
pursuing other acreage in Spain because of  
the perceived exploration potential.
As previously reported, Cairn also intends to 
participate, along with our consortium partners, 
CC Energy Development S.A.I (an associated 
company of CCC, a Lebanese private company) 
and Cove Energy PLC, in the upcoming bid 
rounds expected this year in both offshore 
Lebanon and Cyprus, subject to commercially 
suitable terms. The Cyprus round has recently 
been announced and bids are to be submitted 
in May 2012 with awards expected towards the 
end of the year. The Lebanon round has not yet 
been formally announced but it is currently 
anticipated mid-year. 
Conclusion
In the last year, we committed to delivering four 
strategic priorities: first of all, completing the 
sale of our Indian business; secondly, returning 
cash to shareholders; thirdly, beginning the 
‘farm-out’ process in Greenland; and, finally, 
opening up new business opportunities.
We have delivered on the first three strategic 
priorities and management’s focus is now on 
corporate development and future growth 
opportunities.
I look forward, along with the rest of the 
management team, to leading Cairn as we  
seek to create and deliver value for shareholders. 
Cairn’s key strength of entrepreneurial 
exploration remains the focus of the Group, 
offering investors significant growth potential  
in combination with underlying asset value  
and balance sheet strength. 
Simon Thomson 
Chief Executive 
23 March 2012 26  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Uncertain Prospects
The signs of an economic recovery were muted 
through 2011, with global growth dropping  
to 3.8% last year after having registered in 
excess of 5% in 2010
1
. GDP growth rates in  
the advanced economies halved to 1.6% as  
a result of slower than anticipated recovery  
in investment and private sector demand.  
Even the emerging economies cooled to 6.2% 
growth, from 7.3% in 2010, partially due to 
government macro-economic tightening.
Global growth in demand for oil products slowed 
as a result; having bounced back more than 3% 
in 2010 it grew by less than 1% over 2011, to 
89.1 million barrels of oil per day (mmbopd)
2
. 
Resilient demand growth, driven by energy-
intensive industrial development and demand  
for transport services, in non-OECD economies 
such as China and India continued to push 
consumption of oil products higher, in the  
same direction as the wider economy.  
However economic uncertainty in the advanced 
economies, particularly Europe, meant that 
despite positive economic growth their overall 
demand for oil products fell.
Even in the presence of these downward 
pressures, the price for Brent crude averaged 
$111.4/barrel (bbl) in 2011, up 40% on the  
2010 average of $79.5/bbl. A major reason for 
this increase was the supply side disruptions 
through the second quarter of 2011 as a result 
of the ‘Arab Spring’
3
, (although overall OPEC  
supply and delivery increased over the year). 
Indeed the majority of the expansion in world  
oil supply, from 87.4 mmbopd in 2010 to 88.5 
mmbopd in 2011, was met by OPEC, where 
non-OPEC supply expanded year-on-year by 
only 0.1 mmbopd.
Heriot-Watt University is one of the UK’s leading universities  
for business and industry and has a reputation for innovative 
education, enterprise and leading edge research. Energy research 
is a core activity and through the pan-university Energy Academy, 
research excellence ranges from solar energy and energy-focused 
materials through to energy economics, use, policy and logistics.
Business Review
industry o verview
High oil prices continued to support 
exploration activity, reversing the 
trend of falling expenditure since 
the onset of the financial crisis.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DR Julian Fennema
e nergy aC ademy,  
h eriot-Watt u niversity Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  27    
Business Review
Gas Markets in Evolution
The unconventional gas ‘revolution’
4
 that  
drove the US gas price down in 2010, opposing 
the trend of rising prices elsewhere, continued 
into 2011 as the price fell below $4 per thousand 
cubic feet. This has developed into a more 
complicated dynamic, with the same drilling 
infrastructure also able to exploit unconventional 
oil reservoirs and switching between the two  
to exploit price differences
5
.
These price differences also influenced the 
European markets, but for a different reason. 
The price at which gas is traded in long-term, 
pipeline-based, contracts is usually indexed to 
the price of oil – when one rises so does the 
other – and is a main factor as to why European 
gas prices are two to three times higher than 
those in the US. 
The de-coupling of the two prices within  
the US, experiencing a fall in the gas price 
despite increases in the price of oil, and weak 
demand in Europe due to economic uncertainty 
and weather conditions, have increased the 
pressures on the main suppliers, Russia and 
Norway, to alter the flexibility of their pricing 
structure. This downward pressure may not, 
however, be maintained as the current glut in 
global Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) supply is not 
anticipated to last, with increases in demand,  
in particular from Asia and a post-Fukushima 
Japan, outstripping growth in supply.
Exploration in 2011
High oil prices continued to support exploration 
activity, reversing the trend of falling expenditure 
since the onset of the financial crisis. Although 
total reported volumes were lower than in 2010, 
the highest year in a decade, estimates suggest 
the discovery of in excess of 26 billion barrels  
of oil equivalent (boe) with the potential for 
upwards revision
6
. 
The most prolific area for additions was Brazil 
(5.3 billion boe), where the deepwater resources 
already discovered off its east coast are forecast 
to propel the country into the top five producers 
in the world over the next decade. Two frontier 
areas, however, came increasingly to the fore in 
2011; East Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean. 
These influenced the balance between newly 
discovered reserves that are subject to political 
and economic constraints and those open to 
collaboration with independent oil companies, 
shifting it in favour of the latter over 2011. 
Large deepwater gas discoveries by 
international oil companies off Mozambique 
meant that this area was ranked third globally 
(3.4 billion boe) in terms of overall additions to 
reserves, with extensive further operations 
planned into 2012. The Eastern Mediterranean 
area had provided the largest find by an 
independent in 2010: Noble continued this 
success discovering similar volumes again 
in the basin.
M&A Wavering
The significant rise in M&A activity in the 
upstream sector in 2010 also faltered through 
2011, as although the overall volume of 
transactions remained stable the total value 
declined to $86 bn, from $170 bn in 2010
7
. The 
major driver of this was a decline in large assets 
changing hands, where both previous years had 
seen deals in excess of $40 bn occurring.
Given the earlier comments on the changing 
game in North America, coupled with its more 
liquid capital markets, it is not surprising that 
the largest area for deals in 2011 was the US. 
Almost 60% of announced transactions related 
to this arena, particularly associated with 
production acreage in shale gas. 
The main difference with respect to the previous 
year was the relative decline in acquisitions by 
the National Oil Companies (NOCs), albeit that 
the Chinese NOCs continued their aggressive 
international expansion. These accounted for 
more than 50% of the total value of transactions, 
albeit against a level of 18% of transaction value.
UK – a Barrel of Contrasts
In the North Sea the story was more mixed, 
where exploration activity in the UK sector 
continued to fall to levels not seen in more  
than a decade. This drop is in part attributable  
to the surprise supplementary tax increase on 
oil production in the 2011 Budget, used to fund 
a decrease in fuel duty, as well as ongoing 
concerns about the costs of abandonment in 
the North Sea. These two factors also buoyed 
the resurgent M&A market in the North Sea, 
supplied by companies who consider the  
area as not core to their strategy putting their 
assets up for sale in order to raise revenue  
to invest elsewhere. 
Although this casts doubt on the potential  
of the UK Continental Shelf oil production to 
reverse its decline, falling by 17% over 2011
8
  
due to production shutdowns and long-term 
depletion, the overall picture was one of 
increasing capital investment, with firms 
choosing to develop existing fields further  
rather than invest in new ones. Investment  
in new fields did occur, however, such as the 
high-profile announcement in October 2011  
by BP and partners to invest almost £10 billion  
in the UK continental shelf over the next  
five years.
Shareholder Value
In the light of conflicting macro-economic 
signals, the FTSE 100 index lost more than  
5% of value over 2011 but the oil and gas 
producers outperformed, generating more  
than 6% growth. Whilst this aggregates over 
divergent individual performances, it also 
demonstrates the continued attraction of  
the sector for investors – especially in the  
light of indications of a sustained high  
oil price relative to the historic average.
1. IMF World Economic Outlook Update, January 2012
2. IEA Oil Market Report, February 2012
3.  Libya, for example, produced more than 2% of world oil prior to the political upheaval of 2011.  
Its subsequent recovery has surprised analysts and optimistic forecasts suggest that these 
levels can be reached again by mid-2012.
4.  Gas extracted from shale, tight sands or coalbeds.
5.  The sustained high oil price has, therefore, increased the value of this second proposition, with 
an associated expansion in US supply. This effect, coupled with reductions in demand brought 
about both by policy changes and price impacts, is expected to reduce reliance on oil imports 
in the USA over the next decade, as well as offering the potential for becoming a significant 
exporter of natural gas once again.
6.  A boe is the quantity of gas with the same energy content as one barrel of oil, allowing direct 
comparison of the size of oil and gas fields.
7.  Ernst & Young ‘Global Oil and Gas Transactions Review 2011’
8. ‘UK Energy Statistics – 2011 Provisional Data’, DECC, February 2012 28  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Business Review
o perational 
Review
Rajasthan has become a world 
class development with a potential 
resource base of at least 6.5 million 
barrels of oil and has the potential 
to provide more than 30% of India’s 
crude oil production.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DR miKe Wa TTS 
deputy C hief exe Cutive Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  29    
Business Review
Cairn india a ssets
Offshore and onshore 
exploration, development 
and production acreage
DELHI
JAIPUR
KOLKATA
MUMBAI
CHENNAI
JODHPUR
INDIA
SRI LANKA
KEy
 
Oil pr OdU ctiO n
GAs pr OdU ctiO n
CB-X
AMBE
GAURI
LAKSHMI
LAKSHMI
GAURI
CB/OS-2 (CAMBA y BASIN): 40%
KG-DWN-98/2: 10%
KG-ONN-2003/1: 49%
KG-OSN-2009/3: 100%
PR-OSN-2004/1: 35%
SL-2007-01-001: 100%
RJ-ON-90/1 (RAJASTHAN): 70%
RAVVA
RAVVA
PKGM-1 (RAVVA): 22.5%
KK-DWN-2004/1: 40%
MB-DWN-2009/1: 100%
INDIA
C
airn has been involved in building a 
business in South Asia since the farm-in 
to the Holland Sea Search position in 
Bangladesh in 1993. Over the intervening years, 
Cairn acquired the Ravva oilfield through the 
acquisition of Command Petroleum, made more 
than 40 oil and gas discoveries, developed and 
brought onto production major offshore fields 
such as Sangu, Ravva, Lakshmi, Gauri and  
some of the onshore Rajasthan fields, including 
Mangala, the largest oil find in India for 25 years. 
This ‘home grown and full cycle’ business grew 
from a zero gross production base in 1993 to one 
that operated more than 168,000 barrels of oil 
equivalent per day (boepd) by the end of 2011. 
Today, Rajasthan has become a world class 
development with a potential resource base  
of at least 6.5 mmbbls and has the potential  
to provide more than 30% of India’s crude oil 
production. Recoverable reserves are estimated 
to total in excess of one billion barrels of oil and 
will support production of 175,000 bopd being 
achieved in 2012. Subject to GoI and partner 
approval, and also additional investment, it is 
estimated that these production levels could 
increase to at least 240,000 bopd and 
potentially to 300,000 bopd.
Investment in Cairn India
Rajasthan: Production and Development
Since August 2010, the Mangala field has been 
producing at the currently approved plateau  
rate of 125,000 bopd and, subject to regulatory 
approval, production is expected to increase to 
150,000 bopd. The plant uptime stands at more 
than 99%, making it one of the best performing 
facilities in the world. A total of 148 Mangala 
development wells have been drilled, of which 
85 wells are currently producing and 30 injector 
wells are injecting water into the reservoirs.  
The other wells will be brought on-stream in  
a staged manner. 
Future growth work continues at the MPT to 
exit H1 2012 at 175,000 bopd. The Bhagyam 
field, the second largest of the 25 discoveries, 
commenced production on 19 January 2012. 
The reservoir and facilities will entail a gradual 
and safe ramp up to reach the currently 
approved plateau of 40,000 bopd. Well results 
from the Bhagyam development drilling have 
been as per expectations. Development work  
is currently underway on the Aishwariya field. 
All key contracts have now been awarded.  
A significant part of the envisaged basin 
production of 240,000 bopd is to be met  
from the MBA fields by 2013. 
The continuously heated and insulated pipeline 
from the MPT to Salaya (~590km) is currently 
operational. The construction work on the 
remaining ~80km Salaya to Bhogat section  
of the pipeline, including the Bhogat terminal 
and marine facility, is ongoing. The completion 
of this section of the pipeline will give access  
to more than 75% of India’s refining market. 
The current pipeline capacity is 175,000 bopd. 
The pipeline can, however, handle much higher 
volumes in line with the basin potential through 
incremental investments and augmentation  
of facilities, subject to regulatory approvals.
The MBA fields (including Enhanced Oil 
Recovery (EOR) potential) have gross 
recoverable oil reserves and resources of 
approximately one billion barrels. The EOR  
pilot continues to progress well from the 
current polymer injection phase. The results  
to date are encouraging and, based on these 
results, a Field Development Plan (FDP) for  
a full field application of polymer flood in  
the Mangala field is under preparation and  
is expected to be submitted by end of H1  
2012. This will be the start of the process for 
monetising the full EOR potential of the block. 
A hydraulic fracturing programme to optimise 
the development of the Barmer Hill Formation 
is planned at the Mangala and Aishwariya 
fields, subject to regulatory approvals.  
This programme will allow evaluation of the 
appropriate cost effective technology for a  
fully optimised development of this widespread 
low permeability oil resource base. A Declaration  
of Commerciality for the Barmer Hill was 
submitted to the GoI in March 2010 and  
an FDP is under preparation. FDP revisions  
for two fields, Bhagyam and Aishwariya, to 
increase production are being prepared in 
conjunction with ONGC and will be submitted 
for regulatory approvals in due course. In 
addition, we believe there is a significant 
undeveloped and unexplored potential in  
the Barmer Basin.
CIL Sri Lanka 
SL 2007-01-001 Block
The first phase of exploration in the frontier 
Mannar Basin has completed with a three well 
drilling campaign resulting in two successive 
discoveries, establishing a working hydrocarbon 
system.
Cairn Lanka (Private) Limited, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of CIL, has notified the Government 
of Sri Lanka of its intention to enter Phase Two 
of the exploration period in the block. 30  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Cairn was awarded the Pitu Licence covering 
8,170km
2
 on 1 January 2011, following the 2010 
Baffin Bay Bid Round. 1,750km
2
 of proprietary 
3D seismic was successfully acquired in the 
Block in the summer of 2011. This data is 
currently being processed with fully migrated 
results expected in Q2 2012. In addition,  
Cairn acquired a seabed geochemical sampling 
survey which identified compelling evidence  
of oil micro seepage above the prospective 
areas identified on the valuable multi-client  
2D seismic.
In January 2012, Cairn entered into a farm-
down agreement with Statoil in respect of the 
Pitu Licence in the Baffin Bay Basin, West 
Greenland. Under the terms of the agreement, 
Statoil will acquire, subject to final approval 
from the Government of Greenland, a working 
interest of 30.625% in the Pitu Licence. Cairn 
will retain operatorship (56.875% interest in  
the block) of the exploration and Statoil will 
operate any future development. Nunaoil has  
an ongoing 12.5% interest in the block. The 
exact terms of the agreement are confidential, 
however Statoil will pay a signature bonus,  
back costs on the Block and promoted terms  
of future exploration expenditure. 
Disko and South Ungava 
Cairn’s earliest Greenland acreage acquisitions, 
dating back to 2007, were made in these two 
Provinces and were thus the first to be drilled. 
The eight exploration wells drilled in 2010-2011 
did not result in any commercial hydrocarbon 
discoveries but did demonstrate the presence 
of oil, wet gas condensate and biogenic gas 
petroleum systems and the other geological 
ingredients necessary for success (reservoir, 
seal and trap). Further analysis and evaluation  
of the data and samples acquired from these 
wells will continue through 2012. Depending on 
the results of these studies, future exploration 
programmes, which could include 3D seismic 
and further drilling operations, will be planned. 
Greenland 
Cairn currently operates 11 blocks in Greenland, 
with a combined area of 102,000km
2
, which  
is equivalent to 15 quadrants or 450 blocks in 
the UK North Sea. This acreage position is split 
between the four distinct Geological Provinces 
of West Greenland from north to south: Baffin 
Bay, Disko, South Ungava and South Greenland. 
All of Cairn’s drilling operations to date have 
been carried out in the Disko and South Ungava 
Geological Provinces. Cairn acquired 3D 
seismic surveys in the Baffin Bay and South 
Greenland Provinces in the summer of 2011, 
but to date both these frontier basins remain 
undrilled. 
Drilling in the Arctic is not new, recent studies 
by IHS (Information Handling Services) show 
that more than 2,500 exploration wells have 
been drilled in this region since the 1940s. 
Cairn has, however, always recognised that 
drilling offshore Greenland would present 
logistical challenges and has approached the 
campaign with a focus on safety in terms of 
people, the environment and equipment. In 
2010 and 2011, Cairn used two rigs for its 
drilling and exploration programme. Up to 14 
further vessels were used to support the drilling 
programme to provide cover for re-supply, rig 
standby, ice management and emergency oil 
spill response. In addition, Cairn also deployed 
specialist aviation to support activities including 
extensive Search and Rescue capability.
Business Review
o perational 
Review 
Continued
Greenland
Offshore exploration 
acreage
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2005/06 (LADy F RANKLIN): 87 .5%
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 201 1/13 (PITU): 56.875%
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2008/10 (SIGGUK): 87 .5%
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 201 1/16 (NAPARIAq): 87 .5%
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2008/1 1 (Eqq UA): 87 .5%
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 201 1/17 (INGORAq): 87 .5%
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2002/15 (A T AMMIK): 87 .5%
DISKO WEST
WEST GREENLAND
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2008/14 (KINGITTOq): 92%
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2009/1 1 (SALLIITT): 92%
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2008/13 (SAqq AMIUT): 92%
EXCLUSIVE LICENCE 2009/10 (UUMMANNARSUAq ): 92%
SOUTH GREENLAND
NUUK
q Aq ORTOq
AASIAAT
GREENLAND Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  31    
Business Review
South Greenland
The 1,390km
2
, 3D seismic survey acquired  
over parts of Southern Greenland in the 
summer of 2011 is currently being processed 
and fully migrated results are expected in Q2 
2012. In addition, Cairn acquired a seabed 
geochemical sampling survey which identified 
good evidence of hydrocarbon micro seepage 
above one of the main prospects identified on 
the proprietary 2D seismic acquired in 2009-10. 
Evaluation of the extensive 2D and 3D seismic 
data will continue through 2012 with the 
objective to mature prospects for potential 
drilling in 2014 and beyond.
2012 
The main exploration focus in 2012 will switch 
to the Pitu Licence in the Baffin Bay area over 
which 3D seismic and geochemical seabed 
sampling surveys were acquired in the summer 
of 2011. The Licence occupies a prime acreage 
position of 8,170km
2
, covering a large part of 
the undrilled Melville Bay Basin and adjacent 
ridge. Seismic amplitude anomalies from the 
existing 2D seismic data have been confirmed 
on the early processed products from the 3D 
seismic survey, which, together with the newly 
identified geochemical anomalies, clearly 
indicate that the ridge is a focus for oil and  
gas migration. 
A large dip closure is mapped over the crest  
of the ridge with an associated, structurally 
conformable seismic amplitude anomaly, 
further reducing the risk on the presence of 
hydrocarbons. The fully processed 3D seismic, 
scheduled for delivery in end Q2 2012, will be 
used to mature prospects for drilling both over 
the mapped closure and over several satellite 
structures identified downflank. Other plays, in 
axial and flank fan systems, possible Paleozoic 
reef structures and rotated fault blocks will  
be evaluated. Further geochemical seabed 
sampling is planned to cover an independent 
Tertiary inversion play identified on the eastern 
flank of the basin. 
Cairn is also participating in a Shell-operated 
consortium to drill up to ten shallow stratigraphic 
cored bore holes in the extreme northern part  
of Baffin Bay where the entire prospective 
Mesozoic and Paleozoic section appears to sub 
crop the seabed. These cored holes will provide 
critical information for de-risking the prospects in 
the Pitu block prior to drilling and for optimising 
future well design. 
In the West Disko and Ungava areas, rigless 
well abandonment operations will be carried 
out on the wells from the 2010 and 2011 drilling 
campaigns whilst interpretation will continue  
on integrating the results from the wells.  
In Southern Greenland, work will focus on 
prospect generation on the large structures 
identified in the 3D seismic survey acquired  
in 2011. 
Mediterranean 
Cairn entered the Mediterranean in 2008 
because it considered many parts of the Basin 
to be underexplored with potential for new 
plays to emerge. Cairn has focused some of  
its activities in the offshore parts of the Spanish 
Mediterranean in a basin where there are 
indications of the potential for hydrocarbon 
discoveries. Moreover, Cairn considers that  
the need for energy diversification in support  
of economic policy, which is allied to good fiscal 
terms for exploration make Spain an attractive 
country in which to invest.
The Spanish Government awarded Cairn two 
hydrocarbon exploration permits in January 
2011. The permits comprise five contiguous 
blocks in the Gulf of Valencia area offshore 
Spain and cover an area of approximately  
3,992km
2
, where the water depths range  
from 50 metres to more than 1,000 metres. 
Cairn has a 100% interest in these blocks and  
is actively pursuing other acreage in Spain.
mediterranean
Offshore exploration 
acreage in Spain and 
Albania
We also intend to participate, along with our 
consortium partners, CC Energy Development 
S.A.I and Cove Energy PLC, in the upcoming 
bid rounds expected during 2012 in both 
offshore Lebanon and Cyprus, subject to 
suitable commercial terms.
Albania
The Government of Albania has approved a one 
year extension to our first exploration period 
under the Joni-5 production sharing contract; 
this amendment is pending ratification.
Nepal 
We are in discussions with the Government of 
Nepal in respect of our Petroleum Agreements 
and the execution of our work programmes. 
Dr Mike Watts
Deputy Chief Executive 
23 March 2012
 
SPAIN
BLOCK AL T A MAR 2: 100% 
BLOCK GANDIA: 100% 
BLOCK AL T A MAR 1: 100%
BLOCK BENINFA yO: 100% 
ALBANIA
BLOCK JONI-5: 85%
ALBANIA
SPAIN
BLOCK ALBUFERA: 100% 32  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Business Review
Financial 
Review
Cairn’s financial strategy 
continues to focus on preserving 
our balance sheet strength and 
allocating our capital in line with 
robust investment criteria.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ja n n BR oW n
managing direC tor  
and C hief finan Cia L offi Cer Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  33    
Business Review
Financial Strategy
Cairn’s financial strategy continues to focus  
on preserving our balance sheet strength  
and allocating our capital in line with robust 
investment criteria. The completion of the  
sale of a 40% interest in Cairn India to Vedanta 
generated post-tax cash inflows of $5.4 billion, 
realising an accounting gain on disposal of  
$4.4 billion. After returning ~$3.5 billion  
(£1.60 per share) to shareholders in February 
2012, Cairn has retained over $1 billion in cash 
and cash equivalents to fund the ongoing capex 
programme and new business opportunities. 
The remaining 22% interest in Cairn India is 
now accounted for on a mark-to-market basis. 
At the balance sheet date, our shareholding 
was valued at 314 INR per share, $2.5 billion  
in total. The Group had no debt at the year end. 
The format and content of the financial 
statements have been revised from previous 
years following recommendations made in the 
Financial Reporting Council’s discussion papers 
‘Louder than words’ and ‘Cutting clutter’, 
published June 2009 and April 2011 
respectively.
Cairn has made these revisions in an effort  
to make the accounts and related disclosures 
more focused, more relevant to the drivers of 
the business, clearer and more understandable.
The contents of the financial statements  
have been reviewed and all non-material 
disclosures have been removed. Notes have 
been regrouped and re-ordered to highlight 
those areas which are judged to be key to  
the ongoing business. Significant accounting 
policies relating to individual notes have been 
embedded within the notes; non-significant 
accounting policies which remain unchanged 
from prior years have been removed and can  
be found on the Group’s website.
Assets and Investments
Oil and Gas Assets
Oil and gas assets at 31 December 2011  
were $80.8m (2010: $262.8m).
Greenland
Following completion of the five-well drilling 
programme offshore Greenland in 2011, all 
drilling costs associated with the wells on the 
Lady Franklin, Atammik, Sigguk and Napariaq 
blocks have been charged to the Income 
Statement. In addition, costs capitalised as 
unsuccessful exploration costs in accordance 
with the Group’s accounting policies relating  
to the Alpha-1 Well, (drilled and suspended in 
2010) have also been charged to the Income 
Statement as it is now considered unlikely that 
this well will be re-entered. Total unsuccessful 
exploration costs charged in the year were 
therefore $942m.
All general exploration costs capitalised,  
not directly attributed to individual wells,  
are reviewed for indicators of impairment  
at the balance sheet date. Cairn remains 
encouraged that all components for  
commercial success are in evidence and 
exploration/appraisal activities are continuing  
to evaluate and interpret the results of the  
wells drilled. However, as there are no current 
plans in place to drill on those blocks, Cairn  
has reviewed the carrying value of those  
costs and recognised an impairment charge  
of $75m in the Income Statement. 
During 2011, 3D seismic was acquired over  
the Pitu block in Northern Greenland and the 
Saqqamiut block, South Greenland. These costs 
form the majority of the $81m which remains 
capitalised in the Group’s intangible exploration/
appraisal assets at the year end. In January 
2012, Cairn completed the farm-down of 
30.625% of the Group’s working interest in  
the Pitu block to Statoil. This farm-down has  
no direct impact on the carrying value of the 
Group’s assets at the year end.
Other Exploration Assets
Minimal costs have been incurred to date  
on the licences acquired offshore Spain  
while costs incurred on the Group’s Nepal 
acreage have been charged to the Income 
Statement during the year as the unstable 
political environment continues to prevent 
meaningful exploration activity.
Available-for-Sale Financial Assets,  
Net Funds and Working Capital
Following the sale of a 40% shareholding  
in Cairn India to Vedanta, Cairn now holds  
a 22% stake in Cairn India. Cairn has no 
significant influence over Cairn India post-sale 
and, therefore, the remaining shareholding  
has been accounted for as an investment  
rather than an associate. Under International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) the 
investment is accounted for as an available- 
for-sale financial asset. 
This investment is marked-to-market at  
31 December with a closing value in the 
Group’s balance sheet of $2.5 billion, with 
deferred taxation of $254m provided against 
this investment. 
Movements in the value of the shares and  
the related deferred tax are recorded in the 
Group Statement of Other Comprehensive 
Income, not charged to the Income Statement. 
Subsequent increases in the CIL share price  
to 16 March have increased the value of this 
investment to ~$2.9 billion. 
A resolution will be proposed at the Group’s 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) to renew the 
authority granted at the Company’s General 
Meeting on 30 January 2012, to dispose of the 
remaining CIL interest on market and close to 
market price. The resolution, if passed, will be 
valid for 12 months. 
At 31 December 2011, the Group had net cash 
of ~$4.7 billion. In February 2012, the Group 
returned $3.5 billion of cash to shareholders, 
retaining $1.2 billion to fund future activities.
Other Assets and Liabilities
Goodwill of $63m allocated to the Greenland 
operating segment following the buy-out of 
non-controlling interests in prior years has been 
fully impaired at the year end following the 
completion of the 2011 drilling campaign. 
During the year, the Cairn Group, excluding  
CIL, drew $200m from its $900m bank 
facilities. This amount was fully repaid in  
July on receipt of the first tranche of Vedanta 
proceeds, and the facility was cancelled. 34  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
The Group made a profit from discontinued 
operations of $5,755m. This consists of the 
year-to-date profits of CIL to the date of 
disposal on 7 December of $1,362m and  
a $4,392m gain on disposal. 
Profits for the year to date of disposal for  
CIL ($1,362m) reflect gross production in the 
year of 168,010 boepd (2010: 126,360 boepd) 
at an average price realised of $106.02 per boe 
(2010: $69.17 per boe). Prior to completing the 
sale to Vedanta, Cairn had agreed to allow 
Royalty paid by its JV partner in Rajasthan to  
be recovered as a contract cost, which reduced 
CIL’s revenues by $629m. As the assets of 
Cairn India were classified as held-for-sale 
throughout the period, no depletion or 
decommissioning charges were recognised  
in the CIL profit. 
The gain on disposal ($4.4 billion) is calculated 
by deducting the net assets of the Cairn India 
Group from the net proceeds received plus the 
fair value of the remaining interest retained by 
the Group. The Group received net proceeds  
of $6,023m, from which withholding tax in 
India of $590m had been deducted. Expenses 
of $57m incurred in connection with the sale 
are also deducted. The net assets of the  
Cairn India Group at the date of disposal were 
$4,704m, of which $1,487m was attributable  
to non-controlling interests and $84m of related 
currency translation differences were recycled 
to the Income Statement in accordance with 
International Accounting Standard (IAS) 21. 
Finally, the fair value and related deferred 
taxation liability of the Group’s remaining  
21.8% shareholding in CIL at 7 December  
of $2,317m was credited to the gain.
Performance for the Year
Operating Loss
During the year, the Group recorded an 
operating loss from continuing operations  
of $1.1 billion.
Unsuccessful exploration costs charged during 
the year of $942m include $732m in relation  
to the 2011 drilling campaign and $210m from 
the 2010 campaign relating to the Alpha-1 well 
drilled on the Eqqua block. A further $141m 
was charged as an impairment relating to 
non-drilling costs and goodwill as noted above.
Administration costs were $33m, down  
from $35m in 2010. Non-cash items within 
administrative expenses include $3.7m (2010: 
$2.5m) of depreciation and amortisation costs 
and $6.5m (2010: $9.2m) of share-based 
payment charges. Exceptional administration 
costs of $6.7m relate to share-based payments 
arising on the replacement Long-Term  
Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards made following  
the Extraordinary General Meeting on  
21 December 2009 and are presented  
as such for consistency with prior years.  
No future charges relating to these share  
awards will occur.
Following receipts from the sale of the  
30% tranche in December, ~$3.5 billion  
was converted to £2.3 billion to allow the  
cash return to shareholders to be made in 
Sterling. This Sterling cash balance generated 
accounting exchange losses of $39m out of  
a group total of $41m to the year end, although 
these losses have reversed in 2012. Finance 
costs incurred of $14m relate to charges 
associated with the Group’s facilities which 
were cancelled during the year.
Business Review
Financial 
Review 
Continued Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  35    
Business Review
Cash Flow
The Group generated operating cash flows  
of $1,913m during the year (2010: $837m).  
The Cairn India Group generated operating  
cash flows to the date of disposal of $1,922m 
(2010: $875m) offsetting the operating 
outflows of the Group’s continuing operations. 
Investing cash inflows of $2,671m (2010: 
outflow of $1,388m) include the net cash 
impact of the Vedanta transaction of $4,722m 
reduced by expenditure of $963m on 
exploration/appraisal activities and a further 
$407m of development expenditure in CIL.  
Net proceeds received from the Vedanta 
transaction were $5,433m while $712m of  
cash and cash equivalents of CIL were 
derecognised on disposal. Exploration 
expenditure includes $831m largely related  
to Greenland drilling costs in the continuing 
Group and $132m in CIL. Financing cash 
outflows of $394m (2010: $19m) reflect 
repayments of borrowings and debentures  
in CIL prior to disposal.
Closing cash and cash equivalents of the Group 
at the year end were $4,731m. There were no 
amounts on deposits greater than three months 
(2010: $626m with $453m on bank deposits; 
$438m and $453m relating to discontinued 
operations).
Post year end, $3,530m of cash has been 
returned to shareholders in February 2012 
through a B share scheme, with a further  
$23m expected to be returned in April 2012.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
With the completion of both the disposal  
of a majority shareholding in CIL and the 
Greenland Drilling Project at the end of 2011, 
Cairn’s risk profile has changed considerably  
in early 2012. The Company is now entering  
a new phase during which it will be looking  
to develop a more balanced portfolio with 
additional investment opportunities. As we 
commence delivering this next phase of 
investments, the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Company in relation  
to the Group’s financial and operational 
performance, are as follows: 
 h Challenges of accessing the right 
opportunities at the right price to deliver  
our growth strategy;
 h Assessment of timing of monetising our 
remaining stake in CIL; and
 h Management of stakeholder relationships.
Going Concern and  
Liquidity Risk Management
The directors have considered the financial  
and operational risks relevant to support a 
statement of going concern. The Group’s 
liquidity is carefully and routinely monitored 
through cash forecasts, which are prepared 
using a number of different scenarios. These 
forecasts show that the Group will be able  
to operate with significant financial headroom 
for the 12 months from the date of approval  
of the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
Outlook 
The completion of the sale of a 40% interest  
in CIL to Vedanta in December 2011 brought 
to a successful conclusion Cairn’s direct 
involvement in India built up over a period  
of 15 years. Over the last five years, Cairn  
has now returned a total of ~$4.5 billion  
to shareholders from this success. The 
combination of cash on the balance sheet  
and our residual holding in CIL now provides  
a strong platform from which to enter a  
new phase of growth opportunities in 2012  
and beyond.
Jann Brown
Managing Director  
and Chief Financial Officer
23 March 2012 36  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
cA irn En Er Gy plc B OArd
AUdit c OMMitt EE
ris K MAn AGEMEnt c OMMitt EE
int EGr At Ed BUsin Ess ris K MAn AGEMEnt syst EM, incl Udin G 
r EviEW By t HE jO int M An AGEMEnt A nd cO rp Or At E tEAM s
cOrp Or At E  
And FUncti On Al 
dEpArt MEnt r is Ks
Ass Et r is Ks
(Gr EEnl And, 
MEdit Err An EAn  
And nE pAl)
cA irn indi A r isK s
Business Review
Principal Risks  
and uncertainties
Cairn has a detailed risk management system 
and procedures in place to support risk 
evaluation across the Group. The risks 
associated with the delivery of the business 
plan and annual work programmes, and the 
associated mitigation measures are maintained 
in asset or project risk matrices and registers. 
Functional departments also maintain their  
own risk matrices and registers. The project 
delivery process requires that each new project 
or new business opportunity also maintains a 
risk register. These are consolidated into the 
Group risk matrix and register which is regularly 
reviewed by the joint Management and 
Corporate Teams.
The Risk Management Committee is chaired by 
the Chief Executive and meets ahead of every 
Board meeting to review the consolidated Group 
risk matrix and register, and the effectiveness  
of the risk management process. They also 
consider any ‘black swan’ risks which though 
low probability could have a major impact  
on the company. Risk management updates  
are provided at each Audit Committee and  
Board meeting.
More details on Cairn’s approach to risk 
management is provided in the Internal  
Control section of the Corporate Governance 
Statement on page 67.
Managing Business Risks
Getting risk management right is an essential 
component of business success at Cairn. The 
identification, evaluation and management of 
risk, together with the way we respond to 
changes in the external operating environment, 
are key to our success and underpin the safe 
delivery of our business plans and strategic 
objectives, protect our licence to operate and 
reputation, and help to create long-term 
competitive advantage. 
In pursuing its strategy, Cairn considers 
investment opportunities that provide the right 
mix of political, commercial and technical risks. 
Cairn’s success in South Asia over the past 
fifteen years has been achieved through having 
the confidence in our technical and commercial 
acumen and ability to identify, assess and 
effectively manage uncertainties. We knowingly 
accept business risks which are appropriate for 
the component parts of our business in pursuit 
of our vision. 
Risk Identification and Management
Risk management is embedded in Cairn’s 
organisation structure, operations and 
management systems. Business risks across 
the Group are addressed in a systematic way 
through the risk management structure shown 
below. This ensures the Board’s assessment  
of risk is informed by risk factors and mitigating 
controls originating from and identified by the 
Group’s assets, functional departments and 
in-country operations, including CIL, the 
Company’s majority owned subsidiary  
in India (until 8 December 2011).
Business Risk Management at Cairn Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  37    
Business Review
 h Application of the project delivery process 
and drilling risk management system to the 
Greenland Drilling Project. This included 
performing a Hazard Identification Study 
(HAZID) assessment to identify and 
mitigate potential major accident and HSE 
risks throughout the design and operation 
of the drilling activities. 
 h Application by CIL of the ‘Ready For Start 
Up’ (RFSU) assurance process on the 
Bhagyam Field in Rajasthan, which ensures 
that the facilities are built to applicable 
national and international standards and the 
risks of injury and/or release of hydrocarbons 
to the environment are minimised during  
the start up and commissioning phase.  
The basic objective of RFSU is to ensure a 
smooth and safe transition from a ‘project 
construction’ phase to an ‘operational’ 
phase. This is achieved through a systematic 
review of a range of critical HSE and 
operational aspects by a multi-disciplinary 
team of competent professionals.
 h Enhancements to the business risk 
management system in 2011 included:
 – use of ‘bow ties’ to better define  
the risk interdependencies, causes  
and consequences and to identify 
appropriate actions, responsibilities  
and timelines; and
 – amending the level of financial impact 
criteria for the period post the return  
of cash to shareholders. 
 h With the completion of the Vedanta 
transaction in December 2011, the 
following enhancements to the business 
risk management system are currently 
underway:
 – re-articulation of our risk appetite in  
light of the change in portfolio and  
new business plan;
 – re-considering the methodology for 
determining the impact of a risk; and
 – putting greater emphasis on evaluating 
gross risks and controls to provide input 
to internal audits on key controls over 
high gross risks.
Responding to Changing Risk 
Environment in 2011 
We operate in a dynamic environment where 
the risks associated with internal and external 
changes need to be effectively managed if we 
are to deliver the Company’s business strategy 
and objectives. There were significant changes 
to the business and external environment in 
2011 and the following summarises a number  
of the key steps taken to manage these risks: 
 h Following the re-organisation in July 2011, 
responsibility for reviewing business risks 
outside of CIL was taken over by the joint 
Management and Corporate Teams.
 h Oversight of the risk management process 
in CIL was achieved through the provision  
of Cairn India Risk Reports and availability  
of CIL risk managers at the Company’s  
Risk Management Committee meetings to 
answer questions. Well design, drilling and 
HSE operational experiences gained from 
the 2010 Greenland drilling project were 
shared with CIL and a joint risk review  
held with the CIL drilling team during the 
preparations for the Sri Lanka drilling project. 
 h Cairn’s management system works to 
identify the potential for major accident 
hazards and to formulate measures to 
prevent these hazards from being realised. 
Risk: 
Assessment of timing of 
monetising our remaining  
stake in Cairn India 
Potential Impact:
Sub optimal extraction of value from the 
remaining shareholding in Cairn India
Mitigation:
Maintain options for realising value from Cairn India 
shareholding at the appropriate time
Challenges of accessing  
the right opportunities at  
the right price to deliver  
our growth strategies
Limited or inappropriate investment 
opportunities 
Source and screen investment opportunities, proceeding  
with the evaluation of those that meet Cairn’s investment 
objectives 
Incorrect decisions leading to non realisation 
of value adding opportunities
Rigorous application of Project Delivery Process and 
Investment Procedures, including due diligence processes  
on new business investment opportunities 
Ineffective management of 
stakeholder relationships
Actions by third parties or organisations 
(including non-governmental organisations 
(NGOs) potentially impacting business 
activities and reputation
Maintaining effective Corporate and Asset stakeholder 
management and communications plans
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
The Company has gone through significant change in 2011 and as a consequence the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company have 
changed on a regular basis. With the completion of both the disposal of a majority shareholding in CIL and the Greenland Drilling Project at the end of 
2011, Cairn’s risk profile has changed considerably in early 2012. The Company is now entering a new phase during which it will be looking to develop 
a more balanced portfolio with additional investment opportunities. As we commence delivering this next phase of investments, the principal risks 
and uncertainties facing the Company in relation to the Group’s financial and operational performance and the mitigating actions, are as follows: 38  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Business Review
Principal Risks  
and uncertainties 
Continued
Financial Risks 
Risk: 
inability to fund  
exploration and 
development work 
programmes
Potential Impact: 
 h Asset financial performance and access  
to funding may not be matched, leading  
to an inability to meet the Group’s financial 
obligations 
 h In the extreme case this could impact 
Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan
 h Financial Strategy
 h Cash flow forecasting
Mitigation:
 h Prudent approach applied in budgeting 
and business planning to ensure sufficient 
equity capital is available to meet 
commitments on exploration drilling, 
whilst maintaining appropriate leverage  
to enhance returns from development  
and production assets
KPIs:
 h Cash flow forecast
 h Capital expenditure 
targets
Progress in 2011:
 h Completion of the sale of the 10% tranche of Cairn India  
to Vedanta in July 2011. Part of the proceeds were used  
to fund the 2011 Greenland Drilling Project and to repay 
outstanding amounts from stand-by secured revolving  
debt facility of US$900 million, which was entered into  
at the end of 2010
 h ~$1.2 billion from the sale of the 30% tranche of Cairn 
India to Vedanta in December 2011 has been retained to 
provide funding for future exploration and development 
opportunities
 h The remaining 22% interest in Cairn India provides  
a source of additional future cash for investing in 
opportunities     
Strategic Risks 
Risk: 
inadequate portfolio 
management or  
ineffective capital  
allocation
Potential Impact: 
 h Non optimum realisation of value  
to shareholders
 h Inappropriate level of risk investment
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan
 h Investment Procedures
 h Project Delivery Process
 h Business Risk Management System
Mitigation:
 h Regular reviews are undertaken of the 
existing portfolio and new opportunities 
with the potential to add to shareholder 
value
KPIs:
 h Quarterly Valuation 
Reports (QVRs)
 h Number of asset 
opportunities in portfolio
 h Prospect Inventory
 h Level of Resources/ 
Reserves
Progress in 2011:
 h Completion of sale of 40% of Cairn India to Vedanta  
in December 2011
 h New investment opportunities evaluated, but not 
implemented due to different view of values
 h New offshore exploration blocks awarded in Spain
 h Farm-out to Statoil of interest in Pitu Block in Greenland
Risk: 
inadequate resource  
and succession  
planning
Potential Impact: 
 h Inability to recruit and retain staff with the 
right skills, and to implement succession 
plans for senior positions resulting in 
disruption to the business 
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan
 h Annual Work Programme  
and Budgeting Process 
 h Succession Plan Framework
Mitigation:
 h Resource planning annual work 
programme and budgeting exercise 
 h Staff supplemented by consultants and/or 
contractors during periods of high activity 
or where additional specialists are 
required
 h Regular reviews to ensure Cairn retains 
competitive remuneration and 
incentivisation policies
 h Staff appraisal, training and development 
programmes, along with executive and 
senior management succession plans 
KPIs:
 h Staff Turnover 
 h Proportion of Staff/ 
Consultants
 h Training spend/hours
Progress in 2011:
 h Staff recruitment led to 22% increase to support  
business growth 
 h Succession plan framework developed
 h Total rewards statements detailing full compensation  
and benefits issued to all staff
 h Annual development reviews, tailored training 
programmes
 h Introduction of mentoring and coaching programme
Risk: 
strategy fails to create 
shareholder value or meet 
shareholder expectations
Potential Impact: 
 h Loss of investor confidence and reduction 
in the share price, which reduces the 
ability to access finance and increases 
vulnerability to hostile takeover
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan 
 h Investor Relations Strategy
 h Relationship Agreement with  
Cairn India
Mitigation:
 h Strategy is to pursue material growth 
opportunities with the aim of creating  
and realising value through a balanced 
portfolio and strong balance sheet
 h Strategic alignment with listed subsidiary, 
Cairn India, managed (up to 8 December 
2011) through controlling shareholding 
and representation on the Cairn India 
Board, which is underpinned by a formal 
Relationship Agreement 
 h Effective engagement with investors and 
other stakeholders
KPIs:
 h TSR Performance
Progress in 2011:
 h Completion of the sale of 40% of Cairn India to Vedanta  
in December 2011 allowed for the return of $3.5 billion  
to shareholder and retention of ~$1.2 billion to pursue 
other material growth opportunities with the aim of 
creating and realising further value to shareholders in 
the future
 h Strategic and leading early entry position built offshore 
Greenland. Five exploration wells and further seismic 
during 2011 has confirmed our belief that it has the 
necessary geological ingredients for oil and gas 
exploration success
 h Regular, open and transparent communications with  
all stakeholders to ensure there is a clear understanding  
of the Group, strategy, and its risks and potential 
rewards  
In our 2010 Annual Report and Accounts we presented the strategic, financial, operational and external risks which we believed could adversely 
impact our business at the time. During 2011 we regularly reviewed these risks and the following table updates these key risks, their potential 
impacts, the systems that we have in place, the mitigation measures, the KPIs that we use to monitor them and the progress in 2011. The list is  
not exhaustive and are not set out in any order or priority, and are likely to change at any time. Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  39    
Business Review
Risk: 
inability to fund  
exploration and 
development work 
programmes
Potential Impact: 
 h Asset financial performance and access  
to funding may not be matched, leading  
to an inability to meet the Group’s financial 
obligations 
 h In the extreme case this could impact 
Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan
 h Financial Strategy
 h Cash flow forecasting
Mitigation:
 h Prudent approach applied in budgeting 
and business planning to ensure sufficient 
equity capital is available to meet 
commitments on exploration drilling, 
whilst maintaining appropriate leverage  
to enhance returns from development  
and production assets
KPIs:
 h Cash flow forecast
 h Capital expenditure 
targets
Progress in 2011:
 h Completion of the sale of the 10% tranche of Cairn India  
to Vedanta in July 2011. Part of the proceeds were used  
to fund the 2011 Greenland Drilling Project and to repay 
outstanding amounts from stand-by secured revolving  
debt facility of US$900 million, which was entered into  
at the end of 2010
 h ~$1.2 billion from the sale of the 30% tranche of Cairn 
India to Vedanta in December 2011 has been retained to 
provide funding for future exploration and development 
opportunities
 h The remaining 22% interest in Cairn India provides  
a source of additional future cash for investing in 
opportunities     
Risk: 
inadequate portfolio 
management or  
ineffective capital  
allocation
Potential Impact: 
 h Non optimum realisation of value  
to shareholders
 h Inappropriate level of risk investment
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan
 h Investment Procedures
 h Project Delivery Process
 h Business Risk Management System
Mitigation:
 h Regular reviews are undertaken of the 
existing portfolio and new opportunities 
with the potential to add to shareholder 
value
KPIs:
 h Quarterly Valuation 
Reports (QVRs)
 h Number of asset 
opportunities in portfolio
 h Prospect Inventory
 h Level of Resources/ 
Reserves
Progress in 2011:
 h Completion of sale of 40% of Cairn India to Vedanta  
in December 2011
 h New investment opportunities evaluated, but not 
implemented due to different view of values
 h New offshore exploration blocks awarded in Spain
 h Farm-out to Statoil of interest in Pitu Block in Greenland
Risk: 
inadequate resource  
and succession  
planning
Potential Impact: 
 h Inability to recruit and retain staff with the 
right skills, and to implement succession 
plans for senior positions resulting in 
disruption to the business 
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan
 h Annual Work Programme  
and Budgeting Process 
 h Succession Plan Framework
Mitigation:
 h Resource planning annual work 
programme and budgeting exercise 
 h Staff supplemented by consultants and/or 
contractors during periods of high activity 
or where additional specialists are 
required
 h Regular reviews to ensure Cairn retains 
competitive remuneration and 
incentivisation policies
 h Staff appraisal, training and development 
programmes, along with executive and 
senior management succession plans 
KPIs:
 h Staff Turnover 
 h Proportion of Staff/ 
Consultants
 h Training spend/hours
Progress in 2011:
 h Staff recruitment led to 22% increase to support  
business growth 
 h Succession plan framework developed
 h Total rewards statements detailing full compensation  
and benefits issued to all staff
 h Annual development reviews, tailored training 
programmes
 h Introduction of mentoring and coaching programme
Risk: 
strategy fails to create 
shareholder value or meet 
shareholder expectations
Potential Impact: 
 h Loss of investor confidence and reduction 
in the share price, which reduces the 
ability to access finance and increases 
vulnerability to hostile takeover
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan 
 h Investor Relations Strategy
 h Relationship Agreement with  
Cairn India
Mitigation:
 h Strategy is to pursue material growth 
opportunities with the aim of creating  
and realising value through a balanced 
portfolio and strong balance sheet
 h Strategic alignment with listed subsidiary, 
Cairn India, managed (up to 8 December 
2011) through controlling shareholding 
and representation on the Cairn India 
Board, which is underpinned by a formal 
Relationship Agreement 
 h Effective engagement with investors and 
other stakeholders
KPIs:
 h TSR Performance
Progress in 2011:
 h Completion of the sale of 40% of Cairn India to Vedanta  
in December 2011 allowed for the return of $3.5 billion  
to shareholder and retention of ~$1.2 billion to pursue 
other material growth opportunities with the aim of 
creating and realising further value to shareholders in 
the future
 h Strategic and leading early entry position built offshore 
Greenland. Five exploration wells and further seismic 
during 2011 has confirmed our belief that it has the 
necessary geological ingredients for oil and gas 
exploration success
 h Regular, open and transparent communications with  
all stakeholders to ensure there is a clear understanding  
of the Group, strategy, and its risks and potential 
rewards   40  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Operational Risks  
Risk: 
h ealth, safety, security  
and environmental 
incidents 
Potential Impact: 
 h Major incident on seismic, drilling, 
construction or production operations 
impacting staff, contractors, communities 
or the environment, leading to loss of 
reputation and/or revenue, increased 
capital expenditure, project delay and 
possible fines
Policies and Systems:
 h CR Policies and Management System
 h Drilling Management System
 h Project Delivery Process
 h Operating Procedures
 h HSE Leadership Team 
 h Emergency Response Plan
 h Crisis Response Plan
 h Oil Spill Prevention and  
Contingency Plan
Mitigation:
 h Implementation of management systems, 
processes and procedures 
 h Health, safety, security and environmental 
risks evaluated during project screening 
processes and protective measures 
regularly tested 
 h Internal and independent external 
assurance and review processes covering 
the design and operation of facilities, 
pipelines and well drilling operations
 h Maintenance and regular testing of 
emergency organisation, procedures and 
equipment in order to be able to respond 
appropriately to an emergency
 h Participation in industry initiatives to 
ensure capture of lessons learnt from 
elsewhere in the industry
KPIs:
 h Health, safety, security 
and environmental 
indicators
 h Environmental and safety 
targets
 h HSE Leading 
Performance Indicators
Progress in 2011:
 h No major incidents in 2011 in Greenland drilling or  
Cairn India drilling, construction and production activities
 h One third party contractor fatality in road traffic accident  
in Rajasthan
 h Safety target Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 
achieved in Cairn India, but exceeded in Cairn’s assets 
outside of Cairn India
 h Effective ice management operations implemented 
during Greenland drilling operations
 h Updated Corporate Responsibility Management System 
(CRMS) developed – to be rolled out in early 2012 
 h HSE Leadership Team established to lead initiatives 
aimed at enhancing the way HSE is managed
 h Emergency response facilities and equipment (including  
oil spills procedures) regularly tested
 h Active participation in international industry and 
Greenland operators initiatives aimed at enhancing 
management of HSE risks
Risk: 
maintaining regulatory 
approval for projects/
operations  
Potential Impact: 
 h Actions by regulators, leading to 
reputational damage, possible additional 
cost and schedule impact and fines
Policies and Systems:
 h Project Delivery Process 
 h Compliance Matrices
Mitigation:
 h Compliance matrices established in each 
asset/project covering legal and regulatory 
requirements. Regular monitoring of 
compliance measures
 h Regular engagement with government 
and regulators to maintain understanding  
of requirements of existing or potential 
new laws and/or regulations 
KPIs:
 h Actions Register
 h Fines/sanctions
Progress in 2011:
 h Compliance matrices and action tracking register  
maintained on all projects across the Group in 2011 
 h No fines or sanctions for non compliance with regulations  
in 2011     
Risk: 
inadequate systems  
to prevent bribery  
and corruption 
Potential Impact: 
 h Criminal case against Cairn and/or our 
employees leading to reputational damage, 
possible imprisonment and fines
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Principles
 h Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Management System
 h Investment Procedures
 h Supply Chain procedures
Mitigation:
 h Consistent application of the anti-bribery 
and corruption procedures in all business 
activities and throughout supply chain and 
new venture due diligence processes
KPIs:
 h Anti-bribery and 
corruption training
 h Fines/sanctions
Progress in 2011:
 h Anti-bribery and corruption processes updated in line  
with guidance issued by the Ministry of Justice to meet  
the requirements of the UK Bribery Act, rolled out and 
implemented on existing and new venture opportunities
 h No fines or sanctions in 2011 
Business Review
Principal Risks  
and uncertainties 
Continued
Financial Risks (continued) 
Risk: 
Cost and capital  
discipline
Potential Impact: 
 h Ineffective cost control leads to reduced 
margins and profitability, reduced cash 
flow and ability to fund its business
 h Non cost recovery of expenditures  
due to non-compliance with JV and/or 
Government agreements
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan
 h Annual Work Programme  
and Budgeting Process
 h DOA and approval process
 h Investment Procedures
 h Project Delivery Process 
 h Compliance Matrices
Mitigation:
 h Comprehensive business planning  
and annual work programme and 
budgeting process
 h Rigorous application of Project Delivery 
Process and Investment Procedures
 h Accounting procedures that comply  
with JOA and/or PSC requirements
KPIs:
 h Capital expenditure 
targets
 h Cost recovery and audit 
exception targets
Progress in 2011:
 h Total capital expenditure in 2011 of $835 million,  
principally focused on Greenland exploration activities 
 
Risk: 
delays in government/
regulatory approvals  
and/or legal or regulatory 
disputes
Potential Impact: 
 h Disputes resulting from different 
interpretations of fiscal legal agreements 
or regulations leading to additional costs, 
increased taxation and failure to achieve 
cost recovery
Policies and Systems:
 h Project Delivery Process
 h Financial Procedures
 h Legal Procedures
 h Stakeholder Management Plans
 h Compliance Matrices
Mitigation:
 h Compliance matrices and legal, financial, 
supply chain and operational due diligence 
reviews to ensure that our understanding 
of our contractual rights and obligations is 
clear and robustly defended; and to 
minimise the potential for inadequate 
processes or interpretations that could 
lead to disputes
KPIs:
 h N/A
Progress in 2011:
 h Cairn India shareholder acceptance of the GoI conditions 
on the sale by Cairn Energy PLC of a majority 
shareholding in Cairn India to Vedanta, removed several 
areas of dispute with the Rajasthan Partners and 
Government of India  Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  41    
Business Review
Risk: 
h ealth, safety, security  
and environmental 
incidents 
Potential Impact: 
 h Major incident on seismic, drilling, 
construction or production operations 
impacting staff, contractors, communities 
or the environment, leading to loss of 
reputation and/or revenue, increased 
capital expenditure, project delay and 
possible fines
Policies and Systems:
 h CR Policies and Management System
 h Drilling Management System
 h Project Delivery Process
 h Operating Procedures
 h HSE Leadership Team 
 h Emergency Response Plan
 h Crisis Response Plan
 h Oil Spill Prevention and  
Contingency Plan
Mitigation:
 h Implementation of management systems, 
processes and procedures 
 h Health, safety, security and environmental 
risks evaluated during project screening 
processes and protective measures 
regularly tested 
 h Internal and independent external 
assurance and review processes covering 
the design and operation of facilities, 
pipelines and well drilling operations
 h Maintenance and regular testing of 
emergency organisation, procedures and 
equipment in order to be able to respond 
appropriately to an emergency
 h Participation in industry initiatives to 
ensure capture of lessons learnt from 
elsewhere in the industry
KPIs:
 h Health, safety, security 
and environmental 
indicators
 h Environmental and safety 
targets
 h HSE Leading 
Performance Indicators
Progress in 2011:
 h No major incidents in 2011 in Greenland drilling or  
Cairn India drilling, construction and production activities
 h One third party contractor fatality in road traffic accident  
in Rajasthan
 h Safety target Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 
achieved in Cairn India, but exceeded in Cairn’s assets 
outside of Cairn India
 h Effective ice management operations implemented 
during Greenland drilling operations
 h Updated Corporate Responsibility Management System 
(CRMS) developed – to be rolled out in early 2012 
 h HSE Leadership Team established to lead initiatives 
aimed at enhancing the way HSE is managed
 h Emergency response facilities and equipment (including  
oil spills procedures) regularly tested
 h Active participation in international industry and 
Greenland operators initiatives aimed at enhancing 
management of HSE risks
Risk: 
maintaining regulatory 
approval for projects/
operations  
Potential Impact: 
 h Actions by regulators, leading to 
reputational damage, possible additional 
cost and schedule impact and fines
Policies and Systems:
 h Project Delivery Process 
 h Compliance Matrices
Mitigation:
 h Compliance matrices established in each 
asset/project covering legal and regulatory 
requirements. Regular monitoring of 
compliance measures
 h Regular engagement with government 
and regulators to maintain understanding  
of requirements of existing or potential 
new laws and/or regulations 
KPIs:
 h Actions Register
 h Fines/sanctions
Progress in 2011:
 h Compliance matrices and action tracking register  
maintained on all projects across the Group in 2011 
 h No fines or sanctions for non compliance with regulations  
in 2011     
Risk: 
inadequate systems  
to prevent bribery  
and corruption 
Potential Impact: 
 h Criminal case against Cairn and/or our 
employees leading to reputational damage, 
possible imprisonment and fines
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Principles
 h Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Management System
 h Investment Procedures
 h Supply Chain procedures
Mitigation:
 h Consistent application of the anti-bribery 
and corruption procedures in all business 
activities and throughout supply chain and 
new venture due diligence processes
KPIs:
 h Anti-bribery and 
corruption training
 h Fines/sanctions
Progress in 2011:
 h Anti-bribery and corruption processes updated in line  
with guidance issued by the Ministry of Justice to meet  
the requirements of the UK Bribery Act, rolled out and 
implemented on existing and new venture opportunities
 h No fines or sanctions in 2011 
Risk: 
Cost and capital  
discipline
Potential Impact: 
 h Ineffective cost control leads to reduced 
margins and profitability, reduced cash 
flow and ability to fund its business
 h Non cost recovery of expenditures  
due to non-compliance with JV and/or 
Government agreements
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Plan
 h Annual Work Programme  
and Budgeting Process
 h DOA and approval process
 h Investment Procedures
 h Project Delivery Process 
 h Compliance Matrices
Mitigation:
 h Comprehensive business planning  
and annual work programme and 
budgeting process
 h Rigorous application of Project Delivery 
Process and Investment Procedures
 h Accounting procedures that comply  
with JOA and/or PSC requirements
KPIs:
 h Capital expenditure 
targets
 h Cost recovery and audit 
exception targets
Progress in 2011:
 h Total capital expenditure in 2011 of $835 million,  
principally focused on Greenland exploration activities 
 
Risk: 
delays in government/
regulatory approvals  
and/or legal or regulatory 
disputes
Potential Impact: 
 h Disputes resulting from different 
interpretations of fiscal legal agreements 
or regulations leading to additional costs, 
increased taxation and failure to achieve 
cost recovery
Policies and Systems:
 h Project Delivery Process
 h Financial Procedures
 h Legal Procedures
 h Stakeholder Management Plans
 h Compliance Matrices
Mitigation:
 h Compliance matrices and legal, financial, 
supply chain and operational due diligence 
reviews to ensure that our understanding 
of our contractual rights and obligations is 
clear and robustly defended; and to 
minimise the potential for inadequate 
processes or interpretations that could 
lead to disputes
KPIs:
 h N/A
Progress in 2011:
 h Cairn India shareholder acceptance of the GoI conditions 
on the sale by Cairn Energy PLC of a majority 
shareholding in Cairn India to Vedanta, removed several 
areas of dispute with the Rajasthan Partners and 
Government of India  42  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
External Risks   
Risk: 
Changes in regulatory  
and fiscal environment  
affecting delivery  
of strategy or value 
Potential Impact: 
 h Delivery of strategy affected by changes  
in political, regulatory or market conditions
Policies and Systems:
 h Stakeholder Management Procedures
 h Compliance Matrices
Mitigation:
 h While the Group cannot predict the 
impact of future changes in fiscal policy  
in the countries and markets in which it 
operates, building successful relationships 
with governments, regulators, local 
community representatives and industry 
associations allows the Company to keep 
abreast of potential changes and allows 
appropriate lobbying 
 h Robust response procedures for 
addressing complaints or grievances
KPIs:
 h TSR performance
Progress in 2011:
 h Regular engagement with regulators in Cairn India  
and Greenland and any changes to regulations managed 
through Compliance matrices and action tracking 
registers    
Risk: 
inadequate response  
to natural disasters 
affecting g roup assets  
or staff
Potential Impact: 
 h Impact on staff, contractors or assets, 
leading to loss of revenue, increased 
capital expenditure, and/or project delay
Policies and Systems:
 h CR Policies & Management System
 h Project Delivery Process
 h Emergency Response Plan
 h Crisis Response Plan
 h Disaster Recovery and Business 
Continuity Plans
Mitigation:
 h Risks evaluated during project screening 
processes and appropriate precautionary 
steps identified 
 h Insurance in place for assets 
 h Emergency and crisis response 
organisation and procedures in place and 
regularly tested 
 h Disaster recovery facility in place and 
regularly tested 
KPIs:
 h TSR performance
Progress in 2011:
 h Emergency and crisis response organisation and 
procedures maintained and regularly tested  
Risk: 
Corporate o il and g as 
price volatility
Potential Impact: 
 h Impact on revenue and project profitability
Policies and Systems:
 h Investment Procedures
Mitigation:
 h Scenarios for oil price and production 
volumes are rigorously prepared and 
monitored on a regular basis 
KPIs:
 h Realised prices
Progress in 2011:
 h CIL mitigated risk through regular scenario planning  
for changes in oil price and production levels   
Risk: 
a cquisition of Company  
at a discount
Potential Impact: 
 h Losing independence
 h Shareholders not receiving the appropriate 
return on their investment
Policies and Systems:
 h Defence Strategy 
 h Investor Relations Strategy
Mitigation:
 h Maintaining robust defence strategy 
against hostile acquisitions
 h Effective engagement with investors  
and other stakeholders
KPIs:
 h Remaining independent
Progress in 2011:
 h Regular engagement with existing and potential investors
 h Defence strategy reviewed with key advisors
 h Independent review of reserves/resources ongoing  
  
Business Review
Principal Risks  
and uncertainties 
Continued
Risk: 
Corporate  
r esponsibility 
Potential Impact: 
 h Changes in political, industry and market 
expectations negatively impacting ability  
to deliver the strategy
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Principles
 h CR Policies and Management System
 h Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Management System
 h Project Delivery Process
Mitigation:
 h Regular review of Business Principles, 
with input provided through engagement 
with key stakeholders to understand 
expectations
 h Consistent application of management 
systems and project delivery process
 h Regular review of compliance 
requirements in countries in which  
we operate
KPIs:
 h TSR Performance
Progress in 2011:
 h Business Principles updated (to be issued in early 2012)
 h Updated Stakeholder Management and Human Rights 
procedures prepared
 h Regular engagement with regulators in countries in 
which we operate    
Risk: 
ineffective  
management  
of stakeholder  
relationships
Potential Impact: 
 h Ineffective cost control leads to reduced 
margins and profitability, reduced cash 
flow and ability to fund its business
 h Non cost recovery of expenditures  
due to non-compliance with JV and/or 
Government agreements
Policies and Systems:
 h Actions by third parties or organisations 
(including NGOs) potentially impacting 
business activities and reputation
Mitigation:
 h Corporate and asset level stakeholder 
management and communication plans
 h Robust response procedures for 
addressing complaints or grievances
 h Cairn respects the rights of individuals 
and organisations to express their views 
in a safe and peaceful manner but would 
be concerned with any action that 
represents a breach of security and that 
may pose a risk to the safety of people 
and/or equipment. When this position has 
been compromised legal remedies have 
been or will be sought
KPIs:
 h N/A
Progress in 2011:
 h Environmental and Social Impact Assessment process 
completed as part of the Greenland Drilling Project  
approval process
 h Corporate and Greenland stakeholder management  
and communications plans implemented
 h Legal injunctions in place to minimise the potential  
for further direct action by an NGO Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  43    
Business Review
Risk: 
Changes in regulatory  
and fiscal environment  
affecting delivery  
of strategy or value 
Potential Impact: 
 h Delivery of strategy affected by changes  
in political, regulatory or market conditions
Policies and Systems:
 h Stakeholder Management Procedures
 h Compliance Matrices
Mitigation:
 h While the Group cannot predict the 
impact of future changes in fiscal policy  
in the countries and markets in which it 
operates, building successful relationships 
with governments, regulators, local 
community representatives and industry 
associations allows the Company to keep 
abreast of potential changes and allows 
appropriate lobbying 
 h Robust response procedures for 
addressing complaints or grievances
KPIs:
 h TSR performance
Progress in 2011:
 h Regular engagement with regulators in Cairn India  
and Greenland and any changes to regulations managed 
through Compliance matrices and action tracking 
registers    
Risk: 
inadequate response  
to natural disasters 
affecting g roup assets  
or staff
Potential Impact: 
 h Impact on staff, contractors or assets, 
leading to loss of revenue, increased 
capital expenditure, and/or project delay
Policies and Systems:
 h CR Policies & Management System
 h Project Delivery Process
 h Emergency Response Plan
 h Crisis Response Plan
 h Disaster Recovery and Business 
Continuity Plans
Mitigation:
 h Risks evaluated during project screening 
processes and appropriate precautionary 
steps identified 
 h Insurance in place for assets 
 h Emergency and crisis response 
organisation and procedures in place and 
regularly tested 
 h Disaster recovery facility in place and 
regularly tested 
KPIs:
 h TSR performance
Progress in 2011:
 h Emergency and crisis response organisation and 
procedures maintained and regularly tested  
Risk: 
Corporate o il and g as 
price volatility
Potential Impact: 
 h Impact on revenue and project profitability
Policies and Systems:
 h Investment Procedures
Mitigation:
 h Scenarios for oil price and production 
volumes are rigorously prepared and 
monitored on a regular basis 
KPIs:
 h Realised prices
Progress in 2011:
 h CIL mitigated risk through regular scenario planning  
for changes in oil price and production levels   
Risk: 
a cquisition of Company  
at a discount
Potential Impact: 
 h Losing independence
 h Shareholders not receiving the appropriate 
return on their investment
Policies and Systems:
 h Defence Strategy 
 h Investor Relations Strategy
Mitigation:
 h Maintaining robust defence strategy 
against hostile acquisitions
 h Effective engagement with investors  
and other stakeholders
KPIs:
 h Remaining independent
Progress in 2011:
 h Regular engagement with existing and potential investors
 h Defence strategy reviewed with key advisors
 h Independent review of reserves/resources ongoing  
  
Risk: 
Corporate  
r esponsibility 
Potential Impact: 
 h Changes in political, industry and market 
expectations negatively impacting ability  
to deliver the strategy
Policies and Systems:
 h Business Principles
 h CR Policies and Management System
 h Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Management System
 h Project Delivery Process
Mitigation:
 h Regular review of Business Principles, 
with input provided through engagement 
with key stakeholders to understand 
expectations
 h Consistent application of management 
systems and project delivery process
 h Regular review of compliance 
requirements in countries in which  
we operate
KPIs:
 h TSR Performance
Progress in 2011:
 h Business Principles updated (to be issued in early 2012)
 h Updated Stakeholder Management and Human Rights 
procedures prepared
 h Regular engagement with regulators in countries in 
which we operate    
Risk: 
ineffective  
management  
of stakeholder  
relationships
Potential Impact: 
 h Ineffective cost control leads to reduced 
margins and profitability, reduced cash 
flow and ability to fund its business
 h Non cost recovery of expenditures  
due to non-compliance with JV and/or 
Government agreements
Policies and Systems:
 h Actions by third parties or organisations 
(including NGOs) potentially impacting 
business activities and reputation
Mitigation:
 h Corporate and asset level stakeholder 
management and communication plans
 h Robust response procedures for 
addressing complaints or grievances
 h Cairn respects the rights of individuals 
and organisations to express their views 
in a safe and peaceful manner but would 
be concerned with any action that 
represents a breach of security and that 
may pose a risk to the safety of people 
and/or equipment. When this position has 
been compromised legal remedies have 
been or will be sought
KPIs:
 h N/A
Progress in 2011:
 h Environmental and Social Impact Assessment process 
completed as part of the Greenland Drilling Project  
approval process
 h Corporate and Greenland stakeholder management  
and communications plans implemented
 h Legal injunctions in place to minimise the potential  
for further direct action by an NGO 44  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
2011 CR Overview
 h Permission to drill a further five wells 
offshore Greenland (after three in  
2010). The application was supported  
by detailed environmental and social  
impact assessments (ESIAs) during which 
40 stakeholder groups were consulted over 
eight towns and settlements. The results  
of the ESIAs were presented through 
a public hearing process including four  
public meetings.
 h A second IBA was signed in 2011 providing 
employment and business participation in 
Cairn’s activities; development of education 
initiatives towards skills required by the oil 
and gas industry and support for cultural 
activities and the development of young 
people though sport in Greenland. Awards 
totaling $0.575 million are to be distributed 
to 21 projects.
 h Community development projects in 
Rajasthan run by CIL in 2011 included the 
Enterprise Centre which trained more than 
6,000 youths, 80% of whom have already 
found employment; the dairy development 
programme which has generated revenue 
of more than $800,000 for farmers; and 
mobile health vans that have provided 
diagnostic and preventative healthcare  
to more than 100,000 people in remote 
communities in the Barmer and Bhogat 
regions of Rajasthan and Gujarat.
Overview
Cairn always aims to manage the potential 
health and safety, environmental and social 
impacts of our activities in a clear and 
transparent way. Corporate Responsibility (CR) 
is important to Cairn because it contributes 
significantly to the sustainability of our business 
and how we maintain our ‘licence to operate’.
Our approach to CR and 2011 performance is 
described below. More detailed information and 
performance data is available as a downloadable 
pdf from our website www.cairnenergy.com/
CRR2011. The independent sustainability 
consultant and assurance firm Environmental 
Resources Management (ERM) has provided 
limited assurance on selected information 
within the 2011 CR Report and delivered their 
work in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance 
Standard (AA1000 AS – 2008). Full details  
of their assurance work can be viewed in  
the 2011 CR report.
Business Review
Corporate 
Responsibility
Cairn has a longstanding commitment to identifying, 
understanding and responding to sustainability issues; 
and supports this process through active engagement 
with stakeholders. 
0
Number of lost time injuries on drilling rigs during 2011 
Greenland drilling project
0.18
Cairn India’s 2011 lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), 
lower than industry average
$800,000
Revenue raised from dairy development programme  
in Rajasthan
$575,000
Funds to be distributed to education and cultural 
programmes in Greenland Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  45    
Business Review
OVERARCHING PRINCIPLE
WE SEEK TO CONTINUALLY IMPROVE OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
Core 
Principle
We behave 
honestly, fairly and 
with integrity
Behaving
Responsibly
to People
We develop the
potential of our people
We foster a
workplace that
respects personal
dignity, is non-
discriminatory and
provides fair rewards
We provide a healthy,
safe and secure
working environment
Behaving
Responsibly
Towards the
Environment
Behaving Responsibly
to Society
We seek to make a positive social
impact in every area in which we work
We respect the rights and acknowledge 
the aspirations and concerns of the
communities in which we work
We avoid, wherever 
possible, negative impacts 
on the environment 
and biodiversity
We will prevent, 
or where that is not 
practicable, minimise 
emissions to air, 
water and land
We will operate to 
minimise our carbon 
and water footprint
 h Regrettably there was one fatality of a 
contractor working in CIL as a result of a 
motor vehicle accident. This tragic accident 
was fully investigated and corrective steps 
taken to minimise the likelihood of a similar 
accident happening again.
 h CIL’s LTIFR reduced by 57% to 0.18 per 
million years (2010: 0.40). Cairn’s (excluding 
Cairn India) LTIFR was 3.67 (2010: 0.6).  
This was due to seven lost time incidents 
occurring on support services during our 
exploration activities offshore Greenland.
 h There were no lost time injuries on the 
drilling rigs and the Leiv Eiriksson achieved 
two years of lost time injury free operations 
during the drilling operations in Greenland.
 h Cairn’s CR Policies, Business Principles  
and CRMS were reviewed and updated, 
along with the anti-bribery and corruption 
procedures to reflect legislation, such as 
the UK Bribery Act 2010 which came into 
effect in July 2011.
 h The Stakeholder Management and  
Human Rights Guidelines were updated  
to incorporate new guidance from the  
IFC and UN’s ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ 
Framework on Business and Human 
Rights.
 h External reviews were undertaken  
of Cairn’s approach to climate change, 
including the potential impact of the 
outcome of the Durban Conference  
in December 2011.
 h More than 52,800 hours of training and 
development were delivered across  
the Group.
Our Responsible Approach
At Cairn, our approach to CR involves carefully 
managing the interaction between economic 
growth, the environment and the communities 
where we operate. This is guided by the 
expectations of our shareholders and  
other stakeholders regarding our financial 
performance, as well as risk management and 
relevant environmental and societal issues.
We seek to create value and provide an essential 
source of energy while improving the lives  
of the societies where we work by integrating 
economic prosperity, social development and 
environmental protection.
Improving our CR management means reducing 
potential negative impacts while generating  
and sustaining value. Cairn’s Business Principles 
outline our fundamental values and approach  
to managing the business in line with the 
Company’s policies. They identify the 
international standards we aspire to meet; set  
out goals for our behaviour, and govern our work 
as well as relationships with contractors and  
other business partners. 
These Business Principles are based on  
our three core values, the 3Rs:
 h Respect: for people, communities,  
the environment, the rule of law and  
human rights;
 h Relationships: we believe that building 
strong, open and lasting relationships with 
our stakeholders is not merely a social 
responsibility but is vital to achieving  
our business goals; and
 h Responsibility: we recognise our 
responsibility to ensure our actions do not 
harm people, the environment or society.
These values inform our day-to-day business 
activities and are promoted to staff, partners  
and contractors. We set annual performance 
objectives and targets, and measure and  
report our performance against them. The  
CRMS is aligned with the ISO 26000 Guidelines 
for Social Responsibility and ensures that our 
objectives are consistently delivered.
Full details of our approach to CR can be found 
in the 2011 CR report.
2011 Performance 
As part of our commitment to continual 
improvement, CR objectives and KPIs are  
set annually and progress against these is 
measured and reported.
Group KPIs
Cairn assesses business performance and 
measures progress towards its corporate goals 
by using KPIs. Selected KPIs are ‘high graded’ 
to monitor business progress and contribute  
to the annual cash bonus scheme.
The Company’s overall performance in 2011 
was reported using a weighting system, which 
balances corporate strategic goals, CIL and 
Cairn (excluding Cairn India) KPIs, and individual 
performance.
Our annual performance relating to targeted, 
organisational-level CR KPIs is summarised  
on page 53. 46  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Business Review
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Continued
Materiality
We regularly conduct materiality assessments  
to determine the CR issues of most relevance to 
our business and stakeholders. The materiality 
process involves input from internal and external 
stakeholders relating to the key economic, 
environmental and social issues that arise in our 
activities; and supports our strategic approach  
to CR.
At the end of 2011, our senior managers held a 
materiality workshop, led by a third party, which 
highlighted and ranked the most significant 
issues for both stakeholders and the Company, 
as follows:
 h Arctic operations
 h Major accidents
 h Business ethics
 h Occupational health and safety
 h Local communities
 h Emissions and waste
 h Operational integrity
 h Supply chain
 h Governance and transparency
 h Biodiversity
Management of these CR priorities is guided by 
our business practices, principles and policies.
Further details are provided in the 2011 CR report.
Our Objectives
Our 2012 CR Objectives are based on the 
combined outcome of the 2011 materiality 
process, our CR Road Maps, evaluations of 
lessons learnt from 2011, potential CR issues 
arising in 2012 and a review of changes to key 
external international standards.
Our 2012 CR objectives focus on strengthening 
our HSE management, leadership and culture; 
and improving our recruitment and induction 
processes. In addition, they include a renewed 
emphasis on security, as well as developing 
and implementing Public Consultation and 
Disclosure Plans (PCDPs) for existing and  
new assets.
2012 Objectives
Approach to Managing HSE 
 h Complete roll out and training in use  
of updated CRMS and implement on  
new projects.
 h Review Business Principles and CR  
Policies in light of changing stakeholder 
expectations.
 h Finalise and implement ongoing process  
for CR Management review.
 h Strengthen HSE leadership and culture  
in the company.
Behaving Responsibly in  
all our Business Relationships
 h Complete review of anti bribery and 
corruption procedures in early 2012. 
Update, roll out and provide further  
training as appropriate.
 h Adopt AA1000 Assurance Standard 
(AA1000 AS – 2008), for 2011 CR report.
 h Update CR Contractor Management 
Procedure and Guidance.
 h Incorporate updated CR Contractor 
Management Procedure and Guidance into 
the Company’s Project Delivery Process. Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  47    
Business Review
Identify  
and assess 
stakeholder 
objectives
Engage  
with stakeholders 
and develop 
engagement 
plans
Implement 
engagement 
plans
Monitor  
and review
Stakeholder Engagement
Behaving Responsibly  
Towards our People
 h Strengthen Cairn’s recruitment  
and induction processes. 
 h Continue with measures aimed at 
enhancing leadership capabilities.
 h Review and update Edinburgh Office 
security systems and procedures. 
 h Enhance the travel security risk 
management process.
Behaving Responsibly  
Towards Society and Communities
 h Roll out new Human Rights Guidelines  
and provide training in applying procedure 
for assessing and managing human rights 
in our business. 
 h Develop and implement PCDPs for existing 
and new assets in 2012.
Behaving Responsibly  
Towards the Environment
 h Incorporate detailed guidance for climate 
change management into current 
procedures; align with Project Delivery 
Process and integrate within the CRMS.
 h Issue biodiversity guidance. Align with 
Project Delivery Process and integrate 
within the CRMS.
Stakeholder Engagement
Stakeholder engagement is essential to  
delivery of our CR strategy and is embedded  
in our Business Principles and our core values. 
Through ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, 
we demonstrate responsible business 
behaviour while achieving our business goals.
Comprehensive stakeholder engagement 
strategies enable us to manage a wide range  
of interests and expectations successfully, 
guided by the CR Policy, CRMS and  
Stakeholder Engagement Guidance.
Cairn engages with a wide range of stakeholders. 
In 2011, we engaged with communities, 
governments, NGOs, shareholders, suppliers, 
customers, employees, and others. Cairn 
respects the rights of individuals and 
organisations to express their views in a safe 
and peaceful manner, but is concerned with  
any action that represents a breach of security 
and that may pose a risk to the safety of people 
and/or equipment. Such incidents occurred in 
2011 with the actions of the NGO Greenpeace 
both offshore Greenland and at Cairn’s 
Edinburgh office and legal remedies  
were taken.
The Company-wide CRMS sets out guidelines 
for determining significant stakeholders both  
at the Corporate level and for individual 
projects. The Corporate stakeholder matrix  
is reviewed and updated regularly by the 
Corporate Team. 
We have revised in 2011 the Stakeholder 
Engagement Guidance, used by all country, 
asset and project managers to shape their  
own engagement strategies.
Every project starts with a PCDP, which includes 
specific engagement strategies. These cover 
those stakeholders affected by the Company’s 
activities and others who influence or have  
an interest in our operations at an asset or 
company level.
All PCDPs follow a Group Public Consultation 
and Disclosure Plan Framework that is aligned 
with International Finance Corporation (IFC) 
guidance. Clear stakeholder grievance 
procedures form an essential part of each PCDP.
In 2011, we updated the PCDP for our activities 
in Greenland using the experience gained  
during operations in 2010. Another PCDP  
was completed to anticipate potential future 
activities offshore Spain.  48  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Sustainability
Cairn employs an annual process for strategic 
and business planning, which defines our 
mission and objectives while prioritising the 
actions needed to accomplish them. The 
business plan uses a five year planning horizon 
and is accompanied by a financial plan that  
sets out our projected expenditure and income 
under multiple scenarios. This is used to assess 
whether sufficient resources are available in the 
short to medium term to meet our strategic 
objectives.
Progress against the business and financial 
plans is monitored throughout the year. Both 
plans are updated regularly, usually every  
three months.
In 2011, we completed the sale of a 40% stake  
in CIL to Vedanta. This allowed Cairn to return 
$3.5 billion to shareholders and, we believe, 
retain financial resources sufficient to meet  
our short and medium term objectives.
Remuneration
The Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 69 
of this report, outlines how we meet all relevant 
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority and consistently apply the 
Principles of Good Governance relating to 
directors’ remuneration. The Report also 
describes Cairn’s policy on executive directors’ 
remuneration and the responsibilities of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Governance
Overall responsibility for defining the Group CR 
Policies and Business Principles rests with the 
Board. The Board consists of the Chairman, the 
Chief Executive, two Executive Directors and 
five independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board oversees the implementation of 
effective CR management systems to manage 
any CR risks effectively. Jann Brown (Managing 
Director and Chief Financial Officer (CFO)) 
provides assurance to the Board on HSE 
(including climate change), community,  
human rights, employee and security issues.
In 2011, Cairn established two new non-Board 
committees:
 h The Management Team (MT), which 
delivers the Company’s strategic objectives 
and ensures an effective risk management 
system is implemented.
 h The Corporate Team (CT), which focuses  
on external communications, CR, investor 
relations strategy, security and internal 
control and assurance.
Further information relating to Corporate 
Governance is available on page 59.
Business Review
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Continued Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  49    
Business Review
Environment
We recognise that our exploration and 
production activities have an impact on the 
environment, so we aim, wherever possible,  
to avoid, mitigate or manage any adverse 
impacts arising from our operations.
In 2011 we completed EIAs and an SIA for  
the drilling programme and approval was  
given for the 2011 drilling programme offshore 
Greenland. EIAs and Preliminary Environmental 
Impact Assessments (PEIAs) were also carried 
out for seismic surveys and site surveys.
We manage our environmental impacts by:
 h understanding environmental impacts and 
managing potential biodiversity risks across 
our activities;
 h complying with all applicable legal, 
regulatory and licence requirements; 
 h designing our wells and facilities to a high 
standard and putting strong emphasis on 
preventing risks from occurring;
 h avoiding and minimising our air emissions, 
effluents and wastes, energy use and water 
consumption; 
 h developing and regularly reviewing robust 
oil spill contingency plans for our production 
and drilling activities; and
 h monitoring and reviewing our performance 
and any incidents and implementing 
improvements.
Climate change is a complex issue and the 
relative contributions of human activities and 
natural causes to global warming are still 
debated. However, there is a broad international 
consensus that efforts should be made to limit 
global temperature rise to less than 2°C, which 
will involve fundamental changes in the way 
society sources and uses energy.
Cairn’s Climate Change strategy, described  
in our Business Principles, consists of four 
elements:
 h Greenhouse Gas (GHG) measurement, 
verification and reporting;
 h maintaining energy and emissions 
efficiency;
 h demonstrating informed and transparent 
action on climate change; and
 h contributing to programmes that address 
the environmental and social impacts of 
climate change.
In 2011 our environmental performance  
is summarised as follows:
 h The intensity of GHG emissions from the 
production operations in CIL was lower 
compared to 2010 (2011: 84.5 tonnes CO
2
E 
per million tones of hydrocarbon produced), 
(2010: 90.6 tonnes CO
2
E per million tonnes  
of hydrocarbon produced).
 h Following the sale of assets in Bangladesh 
at the end of 2010, Cairn (excluding CIL) 
had no production operations in 2011, 
hence the GHG intensity from producing 
fields was zero.
 h Three spills to the environment were 
recorded in our Greenland operations 
totaling ten litres of diesel oil and 
approximately nine barrels of hydraulic oil.
 h Five spills were recorded by CIL from its 
production, pipeline and drilling operations 
totaling 100 barrels of oil and 63 barrels of 
oil-based drilling mud. The spills were fully 
investigated and all of the spills sites were 
cleaned up.
Read more on our environmental performance  
in 2011 at www.cairnernergy.com/CRR2011. 50  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
We achieved Investors in People reaccreditation 
in 2010. This award recognises our commitment 
to developing our employees’ skills, which in 
turn advances our business goals.
We are committed to eliminating all work-
related injuries and illnesses and protecting  
our employees and contractors through a 
comprehensive and proactive approach to 
health and safety. 
However, despite these efforts, 2011 saw  
a fatality in CIL of one of our contractors in a 
motor vehicle accident. This tragic accident was 
fully investigated and corrective steps taken to 
minimise the likelihood of a similar accident 
happening again.
Within Cairn’s (excluding CIL) operations  
we had seven lost time injuries in our 2011 
exploration activities in Greenland. Five of these 
were on seismic and support vessels and two 
were in the supply base. Lessons learned from 
these incidents and our 2011 operations have 
been recorded and are being addressed in the 
planning for future operations.
For more information relating to our 
performance in this area, visit  
www.cairnernergy.com/CRR2011.
People
In total, Cairn and CIL employed 1,320 staff  
in six different countries in 2011 and their 
efforts drive our success. As a responsible 
employer, we seek to provide a safe and 
healthy workplace and an environment in  
which our employees are motivated and able  
to develop their full potential.
Cairn promotes a supportive culture that values 
diversity and equality and offers our staff every 
opportunity to progress their careers. We are 
committed to safeguarding our people’s health, 
safety and security, while keeping them 
informed and engaged in company activities.
We work hard to maintain positive employee 
relations at all levels of the Company. In 2011 
we rewarded staff with a competitive benefits 
package including childcare vouchers, a share 
incentive plan and a new gym allowance. We 
continued to offer training and development 
opportunities to enhance the skills of 
employees, and across the Group, delivered 
over 52,800 hours of training.
Business Review
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Continued Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  51    
Business Review
Supply Chain
The nature of oil and gas exploration and 
production means that Cairn outsources many  
of its activities to contractors, suppliers, vendors 
and other stakeholders, collectively referred to 
as ‘contractors’, who make up the supply chain. 
As a result, we place a very high priority on 
selecting and managing our relationships with 
contractors. We use local contractors where 
practical, working with them to ensure that they 
understand our standards and comply with  
our Group CR Policies, Business Principles  
and Code of Business Ethics before being 
awarded contracts.
Our Business Principles apply to all stages  
of our supply chain and we aim to behave 
honestly, fairly and with integrity at all times. 
Our operations are subject to risk assessments 
to ensure adherence to international and local 
laws and standards, and to avoid complicity  
in any wrongful behaviour. We work to ensure 
fair and transparent tendering of supplies and 
services and contractors may be subject to 
specific audits of their capabilities, equipment 
and CR performance.
We conduct a risk-based due diligence process 
on contractors regarding their anti-corruption  
and bribery process and in 2011, our zero 
tolerance approach towards bribery and 
corruption included requesting all contractors  
to provide copies of their own anti-corruption  
and bribery policies.
For further details of our performance in this 
area, please see www.cairnernergy.com/
CRR2011.
Communities
We are committed to maximising the many 
benefits that our work can bring to local 
communities. These can be economic, in terms 
of creating new jobs or engaging with local 
suppliers, both of which boost the local economy, 
or they can be societal, such as developing new 
infrastructure and community facilities.
Before setting up community initiatives,  
we carry out detailed consultations with  
local and national authorities, NGOs and other 
organisations. This ensures that we provide 
focused social investment and community 
development programmes that have a  
real impact.
Consultations are informed both by Group  
and project-specific PCDPs, which outline 
engagement programmes and measures  
for recording grievances as well as  
providing feedback.
We conduct SIAs and social baseline studies  
to assess potential social impacts associated 
with a specific project; respect and protect the 
human rights of local communities; and develop 
mutually beneficial relationships with all our 
stakeholders.
Community development projects in Rajasthan 
run by CIL in 2011 included the Enterprise 
Centre which trained more than 6,000 youths, 
80% of whom have already found employment; 
the dairy development programme which has 
generated revenue of more than $800,000 for 
farmers; and mobile health vans that have 
provided diagnostic and preventative healthcare 
to more than 100,000 people in remote 
communities in the Barmer and Bhogat regions 
of Rajasthan and Gujarat. 52  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Over the last eight years, our operations in 
Rajasthan, India, have increased local employment 
opportunities and improved access to healthcare 
for local people.
More information regarding our performance  
in this area is available at www.cairnernergy.
com/CRR2011.
Operational Integrity
For Cairn, operational integrity is a core practice 
and represents the highest standards guiding  
our actions and operations, as well as our 
interactions with employees, contractors, 
communities, local authorities and other 
stakeholders.
Maintaining the integrity of our operations is 
fundamental to the prevention and mitigation  
of potential major accidents.
Our CRMS identifies the potential risks and 
impacts of a proposed activity and aims to 
prevent these by adopting appropriate measures. 
Together with our Risk Management System, 
this plays a vital role in assessing and managing 
potential major accident hazards. We work to 
reduce the risks and impacts of a proposed 
programme in line with the As Low as 
Reasonably Practicable (ALARP) principle.  
In the unlikely event of an incident occurring,  
we have established emergency response 
procedures in place to manage this effectively.
In 2011, we completed a second dedicated  
SIA for our drilling activities offshore Greenland 
and signed a second IBA with the national and 
municipal authorities, covering areas affected 
by our operations in Greenland.
Following the success of the 2010 IBA, our 
second IBA set out commitments in five areas:
 h Employment Practices – including targets 
for increasing Greenlandic involvement in 
Cairn’s project workforce.
 h Human Resources Development including 
funding projects to increase Greenlanders’s 
access to education so they can gain the 
expertise required to participate in the oil 
and gas industry
 h Business Development – including actions 
to promote opportunities for local 
companies in the Greenlandic oil and gas 
industry; and to promote mentorship and 
joint ventures between local and 
international businesses.
 h Social well-being – including measures  
to prevent strain on local services such  
as health care.
 h Cultural well-being – including funding local 
community development initiatives. 
Under the 2011 IBA, a total of $0.575 million 
will be distributed to a total of 21 projects.
Business Review
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Continued Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  53    
Business Review
All major projects, such as drilling programmes, 
are managed through the Project Delivery 
Process so that risks are re-evaluated at 
different stages, from concept through to 
execution and close-out.
Protecting the integrity of our assets means 
designing our facilities to ensure they work 
effectively throughout a project, while protecting 
the health and safety of our staff and 
safeguarding the environment. This ensures that 
valuable time is not lost during routine operations 
and also plays a significant part in preventing 
major accidents.
Cairn’s Risk Management System plays a crucial 
role in maintaining asset integrity throughout the 
design operation of our activities.
During 2011 drilling operations in Greenland,  
we undertook several risk-prevention 
measures:
 h Conducted a major accident hazard (MAH) 
workshop facilitated by independent 
specialist Det Norske Veritas (DNV), during 
planning and well in advance of starting 
operations;
 h Carried out HAZID and control studies  
and a ‘Drill the Well on Paper’ (DWOP) 
workshop to ensure thorough project 
planning; and
 h Held a winterisation workshop again 
facilitated by DNV to assure that the rigs 
selected for the programme could operate  
in cold and extreme climatic conditions  
if required.
The drilling programme risk assessments and 
mitigations were subject to an external peer 
review; and a certified UK well examiner 
reviewed and verified the well designs and 
programmes before and during the drilling 
operations.
In light of the sale of our controlling stake  
in CIL in December 2011 (retaining a 22% 
interest), the fundamental nature of our 
business is changing. In response, we have 
implemented a due diligence process to shape 
any new investment proposals. CR issues are 
covered within the process and this mirrors  
the topic areas of our Standard Operating 
Procedures and assists in assessing risks and 
outstanding issues relating to health, safety, 
environment and security.
Read more about our approach to Operational 
Integrity at www.cairnernergy.com/CRR2011.
GRI Index
Cairn’s 2011 CR report is delivered in line with 
AA1000 assurance standard (AA1000 AS-2008) 
and is aligned with the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines. Further details are provided at 
www.cairnenergy.com/CRR2011
 Cairn (excluding Cairn India)
 Cairn India
 OGP benchmark*
 
* OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2011
N/A
84.5
2011
66.4
90.6
158.0
2010
13.1
58.7
163.0
2009
23.1
40.8
162.0
2008
23.0
37.7
162.0
2007
14.0
48.4
163.0
2006
Greenhouse Gas Intensity 
Tonnes of CO
2
E per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon production
 Cairn (excluding Cairn India)
 Cairn India
 OGP benchmark*
 
* OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2011
3.67
0.18
2011
0.60
0.40
0.42
2010
0.64
0.26
0.45
2009
0.00
0.27
0.55
2008
0.36
0.76
0.39
0.6
0.66
0.99
2007 2006
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)
Number per million hours
 Cairn (excluding Cairn India)
 Cairn India
 OGP benchmark*
 
* OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2011
7.34
0.88
2011
1.81
1.55
1.68
2010
0.64
0.64
1.75
2009
0.00
0.73
2.08
2008
0.71
1.64
2.68
2007
1.50
2.75
2.9
2006
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 
Number per million hours
* * * 54  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
l eadership and Governance
Board of Directors
Simon  
Thomson
Chief Executive  
(47)
Dr Mike  
Watts
Deputy Chief Executive 
(56)
Jann  
Brown
Managing Director and 
Chief Financial Officer (56)
Sir Bill  
Gammell 
Non-Executive Chairman 
(59)
Name and Title
Biography
Term of Office
Independent
External 
Appointments
Committee 
Membership
Sir Bill Gammell holds  
a BA in Economics and 
Accountancy from Stirling 
University and was awarded 
a knighthood in 2006 for 
services to industry in 
Scotland. Sir Bill has more 
than 30 years’ experience  
in the international oil and  
gas industry.
Jann Brown holds an MA 
from Edinburgh University 
and a diploma in accounting 
from Heriot Watt University. 
Jann joined Cairn in 1998 
after a career in the 
accountancy profession, 
mainly with KPMG. Jann  
is Vice President Elect of  
the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland 
(ICAS) until mid-April 2012, 
at which point she will 
become Vice President  
of ICAS. She is also a 
member of the Chartered 
Institute of Taxation. 
Sir Bill founded Cairn and 
was appointed to the Board 
as Chief Executive on its 
initial listing in 1988. In July 
2011 he stood down from 
that role and took over as 
Non-Executive Chairman.
Jann was appointed to the 
Board in November 2006  
as Finance Director and 
became Managing Director 
and Chief Financial Officer 
in July 2011.
No Not applicable
Sir Bill is a member of the 
Asia Task Force and the UK 
India Business Council. Sir 
Bill, who is an ex-Scotland 
rugby internationalist, is also 
a director of the Winning 
Scotland Foundation, a 
director of Glasgow 2014 
Limited and a member of 
the British Olympic Advisory 
Board. On 1 March 2012, Sir 
Bill was also appointed the 
Non-Executive Chairman of 
Genius Foods Limited.
Jann was the Senior 
Independent Director of 
Hansen Transmissions 
International NV until the 
company was taken over  
in December 2011.
Sir Bill has been a member 
of the Corporate Governance 
and Nomination Committee
1
 
since February 2003.
Jann is a member of the 
Group Risk Management 
Committee and of the 
Corporate Governance and 
Nomination Committee
1
. 
Simon Thomson joined 
Cairn in 1995 as a lawyer. 
He was appointed as Chief 
Executive in July 2011 
having been Legal and 
Commercial Director since 
2006. Simon holds an LLB 
(Hons) from Aberdeen 
University and a Diploma  
in Legal Practice from 
Glasgow University.
Simon was originally 
appointed to the Board in 
November 2006 as Legal 
and Commercial Director 
before becoming Chief 
Executive in July 2011.
Not applicable
Simon is a Non-Executive 
Director of Graham’s The 
Family Dairy Limited and is 
a Director of the Winning 
Scotland Foundation.
Simon chairs the Group  
Risk Management 
Committee and attends  
the Remuneration 
Committee and Corporate 
Governance and Nomination 
Committee
1
 by invitation.
Dr Mike Watts is Deputy 
Chief Executive and has 
more than 32 years’ 
experience in the oil industry. 
He was formerly CEO and 
Managing Director of the 
Amsterdam listed Holland 
Sea Search, which was 
acquired by Cairn in 1995, 
and where he was  
the architect of the South 
Asia strategy. Mike has  
held senior technical and 
management roles with 
Premier, Burmah and Shell.
Mike was appointed to the 
Board in 1999 and became 
Deputy Chief Executive in 
March 2009.
Not applicable
Mike is a Non-Executive 
Director of SOCO 
International PLC.
Mike is a member of the 
Group Risk Management 
Committee.
1   As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 68, the Nomination Committee has been expanded to include  
a corporate governance function and has now been renamed the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee. Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  55    
Leadership and Governance
Iain  
McLaren
Non-Executive Director 
(61)
Todd  
Hunt
Non-Executive Director 
(59)
Dr James  
Buckee
Non-Executive Director 
(66) 
M. Jacqueline 
Sheppard q C 
Non-Executive Director 
(56)
Alexander  
Berger
Non-Executive Director 
(46)
l eadership and Governance
Board of Directors 
Continued
Todd Hunt is President  
and joint owner of Atropos 
Exploration Company  
and Atropos Production 
Company based in Dallas, 
Texas. He has more than  
30 years’ experience in  
the oil and gas industry.
Todd was appointed as an 
independent Non-Executive 
Director in May 2003.
Yes
President and joint owner  
of Atropos Exploration 
Company and Atropos 
Production Company.
Todd has been a member  
of the Remuneration 
Committee since June  
2005 and the Corporate 
Governance and Nomination 
Committee
1
 since May 
2009.
Iain McLaren was formerly 
Senior Partner for KPMG in 
Scotland and has significant 
experience in the oil and  
gas sector.
Iain was appointed as an 
independent Non-Executive 
Director in July 2008.
Yes
Iain is Chairman of Investors 
Capital Trust and a Director 
of Baillie Gifford Shin 
Nippon Trust and Scottish 
Enterprise. He is also the 
President of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants  
of Scotland.
Iain is the Chairman of  
the Audit Committee and  
a member of the Corporate 
Governance and Nomination 
Committee
1
. He has also 
been a member of the 
Remuneration Committee 
since May 2010 and is a 
member of the Group Risk 
Management Committee.
Dr James Buckee has more 
than 40 years’ experience  
in the oil and gas industry 
having gained extensive 
international experience 
with Shell, Burmah Oil  
and BP. Dr Buckee was 
appointed President of 
Talisman Energy Inc in  
1991 and CEO in 1993 and 
held both posts until retiring 
from Talisman in 2007. 
Dr Buckee was appointed 
as an independent 
Non-Executive Director  
in January 2009.
Yes
Dr Buckee is Non-Executive 
Chairman of EnQuest PLC 
and a Non-Executive 
Director of Rodinia Oil Corp. 
and PetroFrontier Corp.
Dr Buckee is a member  
of the Remuneration 
Committee and has been  
a member of the Audit 
Committee since January 
2009.
Alexander Berger is  
Chief Executive Officer of 
Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., 
a private Dutch exploration 
and production company 
based in Amsterdam. 
Alexander holds a Masters 
degree in Petroleum 
Engineering from Delft 
University and an MBA  
from Rotterdam School  
of Management.
Alexander was appointed  
as an independent 
Non-Executive Director  
in May 2010.
Yes
Alexander is Chief Executive 
Officer of Oranje-Nassau 
Energie B.V.
Alexander has been a 
member of the Corporate 
Governance and Nomination 
Committee
1
 since October 
2011 and a member of the 
Audit Committee since 
March 2012.
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 
was previously Executive 
Vice President, Corporate 
and Legal at Talisman Energy 
Inc., a post she held for 15 
years from 1993 to 2008. 
Ms Sheppard holds a BA 
from the Memorial University 
of Newfoundland, BA and 
MA in Jurisprudence from 
Oxford University and LLB 
from McGill University. She 
was admitted to the Law 
Society of Alberta, Canada  
in 1982 and was appointed 
Queen’s Counsel for the 
Province of Alberta in 2008.
Ms Sheppard was appointed 
as an independent Non-
Executive Director in May 
2010.
Yes
Ms Sheppard is a Director  
of Emera Inc. and NWest 
Energy Inc., both public 
corporations and she is 
Chairperson of the Research 
and Development 
Corporation of Newfoundland 
and Labrador, a crown 
corporation.
Ms Sheppard is chair of  
both the Remuneration 
Committee and the 
Corporate Governance and 
Nomination Committee
1
.
1    As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 68, the Nomination Committee has been expanded to include  
a corporate governance function and has now been renamed the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee. 56  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Report
The Directors of Cairn Energy PLC (registered in Scotland with  
Company No. SC226712) present their Annual Report for the year ended 
31 December 2011 together with the financial statements of the Group  
and Company for the year. These will be laid before the shareholders  
at the AGM to be held on Thursday 17 May 2012.
Results and Dividend
The Group made a profit after tax and exceptional items of $4,565.2 
million (2010: $1.1 billion).
Subsequent events that have occurred after the Balance Sheet date  
as at 31 December 2011 are included in Notes 7.1 and 7.2 of the Notes  
to the Financial Statements. 
Principal Activities and Business Review
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings  
is the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas. 
Details of the development of the Group’s business during the year and 
the information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can 
be found in the Discover Cairn and Business Review sections on pages  
1 to 53 of this document, which are deemed to form part of this report 
by reference. 
Details of Cairn’s offices are given on page 136 of this report and details 
of Cairn’s advisers are given on page 133. 
Change of Control
All of the Company’s share incentive plans contain provisions relating  
to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in  
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87. Generally, 
outstanding options and awards will vest and become exercisable  
on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance 
conditions, if applicable, at that time. 
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination  
of a director’s employment, each of the Executive Directors is also 
entitled, pursuant to their service contracts, to compensation of a  
sum equal to their annual basic salary as at the date of termination  
of employment. There are no agreements providing for compensation  
to employees on a change of control. 
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party 
that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control  
of the Company. 
Corporate Governance
The Company’s Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages  
59 to 68 and is deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Directors
The names and biographical details of the current directors of the 
Company are given in the Board of Directors section on pages 54 and 55. 
The beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the 
Company are shown below:
 As at As at As at  
 31 December 2010 31 December 201 1 23 March 2012*
Sir Bill Gammell 2,766,935 3,317,473 1,247,004
Dr Mike Watts 2,444,424 2,864,926 1,141,973
Jann Brown 398,030 665,873 281,409
Simon Thomson 599,963 900,841 364,424
Todd Hunt 182,800 182,800 72,012
Iain McLaren 20,000 20,000 7,878
Dr James Buckee 43,306 58,314 24,462
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC  0  0 0
Alexander Berger  0  0 0
 
Former directors
Malcolm Thoms**  502,185  – –
Phil Tracy** 469,938 – –
Norman Murray** 200,000 – –
*  The shareholding figures set out above as at 23 March 2012 take account of the 
share capital consolidation of 13 for 33 ordinary shares which took place on 6 
February 2012.
**  As set out in the Company’s Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 68, 
Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy stood down as directors of the Company on 30 June 
2011 and Norman Murray stood down as chairman of the Board and as a 
Non-Executive Director of the Company on the same date.
Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company  
held by the directors (or any members of their families) are set out  
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87.
None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a 
service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings. 
Details of the directors’ service contracts are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87. 
Share Capital
The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Note 6.1 of the 
Notes to the Financial Statements. As at 23 March 2012, 554,668,897 
ordinary shares of 
231
/169 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up 
and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange. The rights attaching to 
the ordinary shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. 
There are no special control rights in relation to the Company’s shares 
and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities  
or on voting rights.
Voting Rights
The following paragraph details the position in relation to voting rights  
set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. However, the Company 
recognises that best practice is now to hold a poll on all shareholder 
resolutions. Therefore, it is the Company’s current practice to hold  
a poll and it is committed to doing so going forward. Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  57    
Leadership and Governance
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Report
Continued
Voting Rights Continued
Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of 
shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every 
member present in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to 
vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person  
or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held 
by him/her. In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior 
member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be 
accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for 
this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the 
names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding. 
Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a 
proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any 
of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general 
meeting or class meeting. A member may appoint more than one proxy 
in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy 
is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares 
held by that member. A corporation which is a member of the Company 
may authorise one or more individuals to act as its representative or 
representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any separate 
meeting of the holders of any class of shares. A person so authorised 
shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such 
corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual 
member of the Company.
Restrictions on Voting
No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise 
determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him/her to attend  
or vote at a general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy  
if any call or other sum presently payable by him/her to the Company in 
respect of shares in the Company remains unpaid. Further, if a member 
has been served with a notice by the Company under the Companies  
Act 2006 requesting information concerning interests in shares and has 
failed in relation to any shares to provide the Company, within 14 days  
of the notice, with such information, the directors of the Company may 
determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such 
shares to attend or vote (either in person or by proxy) at any general 
meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that 
class of shares. Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours (or 
such shorter time as the Board may determine) (excluding, at the Board’s 
discretion, any part of any day that is not a working day) before the time 
appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the 
case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, not less 
than 24 hours (or such shorter time as the Board may determine) before 
the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Variation of Rights
Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different 
classes of shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class 
may, subject to statute and unless otherwise expressly provided by the 
rights attached to the shares of that class, be varied or abrogated either 
with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths  
in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of 
a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders 
of the shares of that class. At every such separate general meeting,  
the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy  
at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class. 
These provisions also apply to the variation or abrogation of the special 
rights attached to some only of the shares of any class as if the shares 
concerned and the remaining shares of such class formed separate 
classes. The rights attached to any class of shares shall, unless 
otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares  
or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be 
deemed not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further 
shares ranking pari passu with, or subsequent to, the first mentioned 
shares or by the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
Transfer of Shares
Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with  
the Articles of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by 
instrument in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form 
acceptable to the directors of the Company. The instrument of transfer 
shall be executed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and (except in  
the case of fully paid shares) by, or on behalf of, the transferee. The 
transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the shares concerned 
until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members  
of the Company. 
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any 
reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not  
a fully paid share unless such share is listed on the Official List of the  
UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchange’s main 
market for listed securities. The directors may also refuse to register a 
transfer of a share in uncertificated form where the Company is entitled 
to refuse (or is excepted from the requirement) under the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer and they may refuse 
any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees. The directors 
may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the Company 
has a lien. 
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any 
reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated 
form unless the relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one 
class of share, is duly stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable 
to stamp duty, is lodged at the transfer office or at such other place as 
the directors may determine, is accompanied by the relevant share 
certificate(s) and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably 
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and is in 
favour of not more than four transferees jointly. If the directors refuse  
to register a transfer, they shall, as soon as practicable and in any event 
within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with 
the Company (in the case of a share in certificated form) or the date on 
which the operator-instruction (as defined in the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001) was received by the Company (in the case of a share 
in uncertificated form) (or in either case such longer or shorter period (if 
any) as the Listing Rules may from time to time permit or require), send 
to the transferee notice of the refusal. 58  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Report
Continued
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, UK legislation and  
any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company 
is managed by the Board. The directors currently have powers both in 
relation to the issuing and buying back of the Company’s shares and  
are seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming AGM.
Articles of Association
Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Company’s 
Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of  
the Company’s shareholders. The Company adopted new Articles of 
Association following approval of these by shareholders at the General 
Meeting of the Company held on 30 January 2012. There is a resolution 
contained in the Notice of AGM which forms part of the Circular which 
has been posted to shareholders together with this Annual Report, which 
proposes certain amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association, 
a full explanation of which is contained in the Circular. 
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2011 
confirm that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware. In making  
this confirmation, the directors have taken appropriate steps to make 
themselves aware of the relevant audit information and that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of this information.
AGM 2012
The AGM of the Company will be held in the Sir Walter Scott Suite  
of the Balmoral Hotel, 1 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2EQ at 12 noon  
(UK time) on Thursday, 17 May 2012. The resolutions to be proposed  
at the AGM are set out and fully explained in the Circular containing  
the Notice of AGM which has been posted to shareholders together  
with this Annual Report.
Recommendation
The Board considers that all of the resolutions to be considered at  
the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders  
as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of  
all of the proposed resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their 
own beneficial shareholdings.
By order of the Board
Duncan Wood 
Company Secretary
23 March 2012
Charitable and Political Donations
The Company has a Charities Committee which is responsible for 
distributing the Company’s charitable donations to selected charities 
within an overall annual budget. There are currently ten members of  
the Charities Committee (with alternates) comprising a broad range  
of employees from across the organisation. The Chief Executive is  
not a member of the Charities Committee. 
During the year, the Company made various charitable contributions  
in the UK totalling $756,148 (2010: $698,864). Contributions in the  
UK are made to a variety of charitable organisations whose areas of 
operation and activities are aligned with Cairn’s. In addition, the Group 
provides funding to various charitable initiatives outwith the UK. Further 
details of these can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report, 
which is available on the Company’s website.
No political donations were made and no political expenditure was 
incurred during the year.
Creditor Payment Policy and Practice
It is Cairn’s payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers’ services  
in accordance with the terms of the applicable contracts. In most 
circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking 
place. Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2011 were 
equivalent to 5.75 days’ purchases, based on the average daily  
amount invoiced by suppliers to the Company during the year.
Financial Instruments
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company 
are detailed in Appendix 2 of the Financial Statements.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that directors can  
be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution, or by the  
Board. The Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee
1
 makes 
recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement  
of directors. Further details of the rules governing the appointment  
and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance 
Statement on pages 59 to 68 and in the Company’s Articles  
of Association.
Major Interests in Share Capital
As at 31 December 2011 and 23 March 2012, the Company had received 
notification that shareholdings of 3% and over were as set out in the 
table below.
    
 As at  As at  
 31 December 201 1 % Share Capital 23 March 2012* % Share Capital*
BlackRock Investment Management 131,858,007 9.37 39,804,509 7.18
HSBC Global Asset Management 125,153,674 8.89 54,196,318 9.77
MFS Investment Management 74,367,246 5.28 32,524,901 5.86
Capital Group International** 69,517,058 4.94 14,751,661 2.66
Legal & General Investment Management 68,540,241 4.87 24,306,177 4.38
Walter Scott & Partners** 64,169,216 4.56 0 0
Scottish Widows 57,403,108 4.08 18,408,462 3.32
    
*  The shareholding figures set out above as at 23 March 2012 take account of the share capital consolidation of 13 for 33 ordinary shares which took place on 6 February 2012.
** As at 23 March 2012, these shareholders no longer hold a notifiable interest in the Company.
Major Interests in Share Capital
1   As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 68, the Nomination Committee has been expanded to include  
a corporate governance function and has now been renamed the Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee. Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  59    
Leadership and Governance
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Appointment of the Chairman  
and Chief Executive
The Company acknowledges that the appointment of Sir Bill Gammell 
from the role of Chief Executive to Non-Executive Chairman of the  
Board is an exception to the UK Corporate Governance Code. However  
in making the appointment the Board agreed unanimously that looking 
forward this move was in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders. The Board believes that, in making this appointment,  
the Nomination Committee undertook a robust process. As part of  
this process, the Company consulted with its major shareholders  
who indicated their approval of the Board changes.
The key considerations made when the Board and the nomination 
committee were considering the appointments were as follows:
 h After 12 years on the Cairn Board and nine years as Chairman, 
Norman Murray had decided to accept new challenges outwith  
the Company and had been recently appointed as a director and 
chairman designate of Petrofac Limited.
 h The Board viewed Sir Bill Gammell as the best choice to replace 
Norman Murray as Non-Executive Chairman – his knowledge of  
the Company and experience gained over 30 years in the industry 
were a very important resource for the Board which could continue 
to be called upon in his new role.
 h Given the Company’s significant presence in South Asia, and at the 
time, the ongoing transaction with Vedanta, the Board considered 
experience in this area of the industry to be important to any new 
appointment. Given Sir Bill’s strong relationship with the GoI,  
his profound understanding of India and his extensive experience  
and networks in the region, the Board believed that his continuing 
management of the Vedanta negotiations would be of unique and 
vital importance in securing the successful completion of the 
transaction. As a result, Sir Bill continued to oversee the discussions 
with Vedanta, which ultimately led to the successful completion of 
the transaction in December 2011.
 h Sir Bill was relinquishing his executive responsibilities with a view to 
providing succession opportunities for other members of the senior 
executive team, in particular Simon Thomson who succeeded Sir Bill 
as Chief Executive of the Company. The Board is confident that Sir 
Bill will work to support Simon in his new role as Chief Executive.
 h The Board believes that, although Sir Bill does not meet the 
independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
he nevertheless possesses all of the skills and qualities the Board 
would look for in a new Chairman including his experience in the oil 
and gas industry and his experience gained as Chairman of Cairn India 
(a publicly listed company in India). The Board also in 2010 appointed 
two new Non-Executive Directors, Ms M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 
and Alexander Berger. The Board recognises the importance of these 
appointments in demonstrating its commitment to ensure there is  
a sufficient number of independent Non-Executive Directors on the 
Board. Furthermore, the Board is satisfied that any issues which may 
arise as a result of Sir Bill not meeting the independence criteria are 
mitigated by the presence of a robust Senior Independent Director.
 h As the new Chairman of the Company, Sir Bill Gammell is fully aware 
of the change in his responsibilities, in a non-executive capacity,  
to lead the Board and ensure its effectiveness on all aspects of its 
role. He is committed to continuing the Board’s existing culture of 
openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of the 
Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Cairn’s Commitment to Corporate Governance
Cairn is committed to achieving compliance with the principles  
and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and to 
ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.  
In 2011 the Board has reviewed the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and where they have considered it appropriate have 
enhanced the Company’s principles and policies to ensure the Company 
complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code (otherwise than as 
detailed in this statement).
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the  
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended  
31 December 2011. 
The Cairn Board
Cairn’s business is international in scope and carries political,  
commercial and technical risks. Accordingly, particular attention is paid  
to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide 
experience of the sector and regulatory environment in which Cairn 
operates, and appropriate financial and risk management skills. In each 
Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, the Board 
considers that objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, 
ability and diversity that will assist the Board in its key functions,  
are prerequisites for appointment. 
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive,  
two Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The directors’ biographies are on pages 54 and 55. As part of Cairn’s 
succession policy over the past four years the Board has undergone  
an extensive refreshment process evidenced by the appointment of  
four Non-Executive Directors during this time. The Company considers 
periodic refreshment of the Board to be positive as it brings new ideas  
to the Company as well as ensuring that the Board appoints directors 
with the right experience to meet its business needs. The Board is also 
mindful that an appropriate balance between directors who can bring  
a new perspective and those who provide continuity is essential for  
a business like Cairn.
Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed on 
gender, nationality and experience. The Board demonstrates balance 
across all these elements with 22% female representation on the Board 
and directors from the Netherlands, the USA and Canada, as well as the 
UK, all bringing their international experience to the Board.
During the past year, there have been a number of changes on the 
Board. Following Norman Murray’s decision to stand down as Non-
Executive Chairman of the Company, Sir Bill Gammell stepped down  
as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Board with effect from 1 July 2011. Simon Thomson 
was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 July 2011. Jann Brown was 
appointed Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer on 1 July 2011. 
Philip Tracy, Group Engineering and Operations Director and Malcolm 
Thoms, Chief Operating Officer served on the Board during the year but 
also stepped down from their positions on the Board at the time of the 
reorganisation. The Nomination Committee report on pages 64 and 65 
further explains the appointment process undertaken by the committee 
and the selection criteria used for the appointment of the Chairman and 
Chief Executive.  60  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
In relation to the succession for the Chief Executive, the Nomination 
Committee and the Board considered that Simon Thomson was the 
natural and best candidate for the role having worked for the Company 
for 15 years and having worked together with Sir Bill and the other 
executive team members on the Board since 2006. He has also played 
an instrumental role in the Company’s development, in particular in 
accessing the opportunities that Greenland offers and in the delivery  
of value from the Vedanta transaction, as well as other corporate and 
asset transactions undertaken by the Company in recent years. The 
Board is confident that Simon is best placed to lead the Company and 
the Executive Team to develop the business and the Company’s portfolio  
of assets.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief 
Executive in particular have been scrutinised by the Board at the time  
of the reorganisation and a clear division of responsibilities is set out  
in writing. The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the 
Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the 
determination and development of the Group’s strategy and acting as 
guardian and facilitator of the Board’s decision making process and 
ensuring effective implementation of the Board’s decisions. The 
Chairman is also responsible for ensuring effective communications with 
shareholders and understanding their issues and concerns. The Chief 
Executive is responsible for managing the Group’s business, proposing 
and developing the Group’s strategy and overall commercial objectives  
in consultation with the Board. As leader of the Executive Team he is 
also responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board and its 
committees and ensuring successful and efficient achievement  
of the Group’s objectives. Together with the Chairman, he provides 
coherent leadership of the Company, including representing the Group  
to shareholders, financial institutions, employees, governments, the 
media, the wider community and the general public.
Senior Independent Director
Iain McLaren continues to be Cairn’s Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director committing a substantial amount of time and effort to carrying 
out this role effectively and efficiently. The main responsibilities of the 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are as follows:
 h to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an 
intermediary with other directors when necessary;
 h to be available to shareholders if they have concerns through which 
contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive  
or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which such 
contact is inappropriate; and
 h to meet with the other Non-Executive Directors without the 
Chairman present at least annually in order to appraise the 
Chairman’s performance.
Re-Election of Directors
In terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, all of the 
directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after 
their appointment to the Board and to re-election by shareholders at  
least once every three years. Furthermore they are subject to re-election 
annually if they have held office with the Company, other than 
employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years  
or more at the date of the relevant AGM. In accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, all of the Company’s directors will however 
be subject to annual re-election by shareholders with effect from the 
AGM to be held on 17 May 2012. 
The Company acknowledges that Todd Hunt has been a member  
of the Board for ten years; however in view of the number of new 
Non-Executive Directors on the Board the Company considers it 
appropriate to retain Todd Hunt to provide continuity and stability  
to the Board. His continued contribution to the Board is considered  
to be invaluable and therefore he is being proposed for re-election.
Performance Evaluation 
The Board has in place a formal rigorous process for annual performance 
evaluation for the Board, Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees and individual directors. In 2011 the performance evaluation 
process was carried out internally. In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the Board will implement the new requirement that 
the performance evaluation of the Board will be externally facilitated 
every three years. It is proposed that this external review will be carried 
out in 2012. 
The process during 2011, which was led by the current Chairman, 
focused on conducting a thorough review of the commitment, skills  
and experience of each member of the Board and of the strengths and 
weaknesses of the Board as a whole. The performance evaluation was 
primarily based upon answers to a questionnaire which focused on the 
performance of the Board. The questionnaire was prepared internally by 
the Deputy Company Secretary and the Chairman and was distributed  
to all Board members. The areas covered by the questionnaire included 
the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees, strategy setting, 
performance against key objectives set for the Board and each of the 
directors and the level and quality of information available to the Board. 
Once a questionnaire had been completed by each member of the 
Board, the Chairman held a meeting with each director, as appropriate,  
to discuss their responses. 
The Executive Directors also have their performance individually 
reviewed by the Remuneration Committee against objectives which  
are set annually. The bonuses payable to the Executive Directors under 
the Company’s cash bonus scheme (described further in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87) are linked directly to the results 
of these reviews.
Following the performance evaluation process conducted in 2011,  
the Board and its committees are satisfied that they are operating 
effectively and that each director has performed well in respect of their 
individual roles on the Board. Following the results of the individual 
performance evaluations, the Board believes that all of the directors’ 
performance (all of whom are proposed for re-election at the AGM) 
continues to be effective and that they each demonstrate commitment 
to the role.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Board evaluation and review process also covered the independence 
of each of the Non-Executive Directors, taking into account their integrity, 
objectivity and contribution to the Board and its committees. The Board 
believes that the following behaviours are essential in order for a director 
to be considered independent:
 h provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the 
assumptions, beliefs and views of senior management and the  
other directors;
 h questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges 
rigorously and dispassionately;
 h acts at all times in the best interests of the organisation and its 
shareholders;
 h has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Group’s business,  
the industry and the market as a whole which provides a solid 
background in which the Non-Executive Directors can consider  
the Group’s strategy objectively and help the Executive Directors 
develop proposals on strategy; and
 h has no close ties or material relationships with the Company,  
either directly or indirectly.
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Continued
Appointment of the Chairman  
and Chief Executive Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  61    
Leadership and Governance
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Continued
Information and Support
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to  
enable it to perform its duties. The Company Secretary and Deputy 
Company Secretary are responsible for advising the Board, through the 
Chairman, on all corporate governance matters. In addition, each director 
has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and 
Deputy Company Secretary. There is also a procedure agreed by the 
Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent 
professional advice if necessary, at the Company’s expense, up to a 
pre-determined limit. 
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance
The Company has directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in place. 
Conflicts of Interest
The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and 
authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Company’s 
interests. All directors are aware of the requirement to submit details  
to the Company Secretary of any current situations (appointments or 
otherwise) which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of 
interest. Notifications have been received from all of the current directors 
and there are no conflict matters which require to be authorised. The 
Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest 
on a regular basis.
Matters Reserved to the Board  
and Delegation of Authority
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it  
for decision. These reserved matters include determination of the overall 
strategy of the Group and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts  
and any other financial statements, the Group’s annual budget and 
amendments to that budget over a particular amount, borrowing and 
security, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure over a specified 
amount, amendments to the organisational structure of the Group and the 
Board, approval of significant changes to accounting policies and approval 
of management incentive schemes and Group policy on pensions. 
The Company has during 2011 constituted two new non-Board 
committees – the Management Team and the Corporate Team  
– to support the Board and the Executive Directors in the day to  
day operational management of the Company.
The Management Team is comprised of six members of the senior 
management team and its objective is to lead the delivery of the 
Company’s strategic objectives, including generating and updating  
the business plan to be recommended to the Board, ensuring that all 
work programmes are executed, managed and reported, and being 
responsible for the risk management process for all assets, functions  
and new venture proposals. 
The Corporate Team comprises members of the senior management 
team and is responsible for enabling and maintaining the Company’s 
access to the capital markets and new opportunities in line with the 
Company’s strategic objectives and is charged with promoting and 
protecting the Company’s reputation as a well run business. In 2011,  
the Corporate Team has focused on the following key areas; external 
communications, corporate responsibility, investor relations strategy, 
security and internal control and assurance.
Having reviewed the independence of each of the Non-Executive 
Directors against this criteria and the characteristics of independence  
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board concluded that 
all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company (with the exception  
of the Chairman) demonstrated each of the required competences to a 
high level and are therefore each considered independent. The Board 
acknowledge that the Chairman has previously held the position of  
Chief Executive and so is not to be considered as independent.  
The appointment of M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC and Alexander  
Berger in 2010 emphasised the Board’s commitment to ensuring  
the independence of the Company’s Non-Executive Directors and the 
valuable contribution and perspective they each bring to the Board.
The Company acknowledges that Todd Hunt will have entered his tenth 
year as a member of the Board following the 2012 AGM. The Company 
has taken account of the UK Corporate Governance Code’s criteria of 
independence, as well as its own test, and has concluded that Todd  
Hunt continues to remain robustly independent. In making its decision,  
the Board took account of his contribution to Board and committee 
discussions, in which he demonstrates independent judgement and robust 
scrutiny, the results of the Board evaluation process, which did not identify 
any concern relating to his independent behaviour, and the fact that Todd 
Hunt will have entered into his tenth year on the Board following the 
upcoming AGM. The Board is satisfied that no long-standing personal  
or professional relationships exist between Todd Hunt and any of the 
Executive Directors. During the past year the composition of the directors 
on the Board has changed extensively – Todd Hunt provided an element  
of continuity and stability to the Board during this period.
Induction and Development
New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the 
Board. This involves meetings with other Board members (in particular 
the Chairman), senior management and the Company’s principal 
advisers. In addition, a new director is provided with an induction pack 
which contains background materials and general information on the 
Company, the Company’s policies and procedures, financial information, 
an operational review and a briefing on directors’ legal and regulatory 
responsibilities. 
The Company provides on an on-going basis the necessary resources  
for developing and updating its directors’ knowledge and capabilities.  
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing 
professional development training to its directors and in 2011 held a 
number of seminars for Board members, which are regularly presented 
by the Company’s external advisers and guest speakers, on subjects 
appropriate to the Company’s business, including changes to legislation, 
regulation and market practice. These seminars were held at the end  
of Board meetings and were attended by all directors present at such 
meetings. This process is continuing in 2012. Any director may request 
that a particular subject is covered in a seminar. In addition, all media 
articles relating to the Company and all brokers’ and analysts’ reports  
on the Company are distributed to all directors. 
Independence of Non-Executive Directors Continued 62  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Both the Corporate Team and the Management Team formally meet 
fortnightly and regularly report direct to the Executive Directors.
The other non-Board committees previously constituted in 2010 – the 
strategy review group and the technical advisory board – continue to 
support the Company’s operational management and strategic decision 
making process. 
The strategy review group meets on an ad hoc basis and comprises five 
members of the senior management team (including the three Executive 
Directors) and two Non-Executive Directors. It provides advice to the 
Board on strategic options open to Cairn to fulfil its next phase of growth. 
The technical advisory board meets at least three times per year and 
currently comprises three Executive Directors and two independent 
technical experts. It provides an independent forum for expert technical 
advice and peer group review of technical programmes, including new 
ventures proposals, in the context of the agreed exploration strategy.  
The technical advisory board also provides advice on technical excellence 
and appropriate new technology to assist in developing the Company’s 
growth strategy.
In October 2011, a HSE leadership team was also established, chaired  
by the Managing Director and comprising key managers across the 
business. The aim of the HSE leadership team is to provide leadership  
on HSE issues and drive initiatives to improve HSE performance across 
the group.
Board Meetings
During 2011, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, all of  
which were held at the Company’s registered office in Edinburgh.  
Details of attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings  
of Board committees, are set out in the table on the right. 
During the year, a significant number of other meetings took place to  
deal with specific matters that required to be considered at short notice. 
When a specific matter requires consideration at short notice, there is  
a procedure that sets out when those matters must be considered at  
a short notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a 
committee of the Board (comprising at least two Non-Executive 
Directors, one of whom must be the Chairman or the Senior  
Independent Non-Executive Director, and two Executive Directors). 
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board or committee 
meetings is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in 
advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing. Video and telephone 
conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not able to attend 
meetings in person.
The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly 
includes presentations from senior operational management, is set by 
the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company 
Secretary. In particular, the agenda for each Board meeting in 2011 
included a detailed update on matters in respect of the Group’s Indian 
business from those directors of the Company who sat in a non-
executive capacity on the board of Cairn India (Sir Bill Gammell, Jann 
Brown and Malcolm Thoms). The Chief Executive Officer of Cairn India, 
Rahul Dhir, also attended part of each meeting to ensure that the Board 
was kept fully briefed on matters relating to Cairn India. Formal minutes 
of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior  
to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board 
meeting. In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact 
between meetings to progress the Group’s business. The Non-Executive 
Directors also meet informally, without any executives present, on a 
regular basis to discuss matters in respect of the business.
Directors’ Attendance at Board  
and Board Committee Meetings 
The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at 
scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2011:
     
  Audit Remuneration Nomination  
 Board Committee Committee Committee
Meetings held during 2011 6 4 5 2
 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings 
 attended attended attended attended
Executive Directors
Simon Thomson
(7)
 6 n/a n/a n/a
Dr Mike Watts 5 n/a n/a n/a
Jann Brown 5 n/a n/a n/a
Malcolm Thoms
(3)
 3 n/a n/a n/a
Phil Tracy
(4)
 3 n/a n/a n/a
   
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Bill Gammell 6 n/a n/a 2
Iain McLaren 6 4 4 1
Norman Murray
(5)
 3 n/a n/a 1
Todd Hunt 6 n/a 5 2
Dr James Buckee 6 4 5 n/a
Alexander Berger 6  n/a n/a 1
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC
(6)
 6 4 1 n/a
Notes:
n/a  not applicable (where a director is not a member of the committee)
(1)  During 2011, certain directors who were not committee members attended 
meetings of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination 
Committee by invitation. These details have not been included in the table.
(2)  Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board 
committees, he reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided his 
comments to the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
(3)  Malcolm Thoms retired as a member of the Board on 30 June 2011.  
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date.
(4)  Phil Tracy retired as a member of the Board on 30 June 2011. The number of 
meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date.
(5)  Norman Murray retired as a member of the Board and the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees on 30 June 2011. The number of meetings he attended  
is stated up to and including that date.
(6)  M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on  
13 October 2011. The number of committee meetings she attended is stated from 
that date.
(7)  Simon Thomson was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 13 October 2011. 
No meetings of the Nomination Committee have taken place since this date.
Board Committees
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration 
Committee and a Nomination Committee, each of which has formal 
terms of reference approved by the Board. The terms of reference for 
each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by  
the Board. Copies of the terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website. 
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable 
them to undertake their duties in an effective manner. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the committees and the minutes of all 
committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Set out below are reports from the Audit Committee, Remuneration 
Committee and Nomination Committee.
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Continued
Matters Reserved to the Board  
and Delegation of Authority Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  63    
Leadership and Governance
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Continued
The Audit Committee has established a policy in relation to the supply  
of non-audit services by the external auditors and other third parties.  
The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit 
services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, 
where benefit will be derived as a result of the third party’s knowledge  
of the Company, and cost. These advisers may include the Company’s 
external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, 
before the engagement commences, the Company must be satisfied 
that the auditor’s objectivity and independence would not be 
compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those 
services. If the cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the 
provision of non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may 
be engaged in accordance with the Company’s financial delegations  
of authority after a quotation has been received. If the fees payable are 
expected to exceed that level on a cumulative basis, the engagement 
must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance after following  
a tender process. The Audit Committee must also be satisfied that the 
engagement is the most effective and efficient means of procuring such 
non-audit services.
KPMG LLP has been appointed by the Audit Committee to supervise  
and co-ordinate the Company’s internal audit function. At the beginning 
of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in 
consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome 
of the previous year’s internal audit, the significant risks in the Group Risk 
Matrix and identified mitigation measures. The internal auditor also 
participates in meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee to 
maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks 
and to update the committee on the internal audit work plan. The Audit 
Committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an 
ongoing basis. The external auditors do not place any reliance on the 
work undertaken by the Company’s internal audit function due to the 
nature of the scope and the timing of their work. The external auditors 
do, however, attend all Audit Committee meetings where internal audit 
updates are given.
The Company monitors its auditor’s performance on an ongoing basis, 
including an annual assessment carried out by the Audit Committee  
with input from the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer  
and other key members of the Finance Department. Following such 
assessment, the Audit Committee meets to discuss what actions,  
if any, require to be taken. In addition to this, the Ernst & Young LLP 
senior audit partner working with Cairn is subject to rotation. The current 
audit partner has worked with the Company on the 2008, 2009, 2010 
and 2011 year-end process.
The Company updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2009 and the 
new policy was subsequently rolled out across the organisation and 
reviewed by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee is satisfied  
that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent 
investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting 
and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Since the year end 31 December 2011, the Board agreed that  
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC would stand down as a member of the  
Audit Committee and be replaced by Alexander Berger with effect from 
close of business of the Audit Committee meeting held on 12 March 
2012. This change allows M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC to fulfil her duties 
as newly appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the 
reconstituted Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee  
(as detailed on pages 64 and 65).
1. Audit Committee Report
The Audit Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive 
Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent. 
The Board is satisfied that all members of the committee have recent 
and relevant financial experience. 
The members of the committee during the year were as follows:
 h Iain McLaren (Chairman);
 h Dr James Buckee; and
 h M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC.
The Audit Committee met four times in 2011. At the request of the  
Audit Committee, the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer  
and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these 
meetings. In addition, all four meetings were attended by the external 
auditors and by the internal auditors. 
The external auditors receive copies of all Audit Committee papers 
(including papers to be considered at meetings when they are not in 
attendance) and minutes of all committee meetings. In addition, the 
Chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit 
partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company. 
The role of the committee includes:
 h monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company 
and formal announcements relating to the Company’s financial 
performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting 
judgements contained in them; 
 h reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures 
in financial reports; 
 h reviewing the Company’s internal financial controls and internal 
control and risk management systems;
 h monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function; 
 h overseeing the Company’s relationship with the external auditors, 
including making recommendations to the Board as to the 
appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing 
their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors’ 
independence, objectivity and effectiveness; and 
 h reviewing the Company’s whistleblowing procedures and ensuring 
that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent 
investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial 
reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Of the four Audit Committee meetings held during 2011, the first two 
meetings were in respect of the 2010 year-end process (the second two 
meetings were in respect of the 2011 interim accounts and planning for 
the 2011 year-end process). At the first of these meetings, issues which 
may impact on the financial statements are raised by both the senior 
management and the external auditors. The auditors also present their 
audit plan. Audit Committee guidance is sought on accounting policies 
and assumptions to be adopted in preparing the financial statements. 
After discussing and challenging the issues raised, the Audit Committee 
recommends the policies to be adopted or directs senior management to 
produce further information if deemed necessary. 
At the second meeting in respect of the year-end process, the external 
auditors report their audit results to the Audit Committee, including  
a summary of any significant accounting and auditing issues, internal 
control findings and a summary of audit differences identified. The  
Audit Committee considers any disagreements in accounting treatment 
between management and the auditors, should any arise.
The Audit Committee also considers disclosures made in the Financial 
Statements, challenging the materiality of both those items included in 
the Financial Statements and those excluded.
Board Committees Continued 64  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
2. Remuneration Committee Report
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises four Non-Executive 
Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent. 
The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were  
as follows:
 h Dr James Buckee (Chairman);
 h Todd Hunt;
 h Iain McLaren;
 h Norman Murray (stepped down as a Non-Executive Director  
and member of the committee on 30 June 2011); and
 h M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC (joined the committee on  
13 October 2011).
The Remuneration Committee met five times during 2011. The Chief 
Executive, at the request of the committee, attends its meetings. In 
addition, he is consulted by the committee on its proposals. Certain  
other of the Executive Directors attended meetings of the committee  
as observers on being invited to do so by the committee. None of the 
members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, 
participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own 
remuneration.
The role of the committee includes:
 h determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for 
all the Executive Directors, the Chairman, and the Company’s PDMRs;
 h within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual 
remuneration package for each Executive Director;
 h determining the level of awards made under the Company’s share 
option plans and long-term incentive plans and the performance 
conditions which are to apply;
 h determining bonuses payable under the Company’s annual cash 
bonus scheme;
 h determining the vesting of awards under the Company’s long-term 
incentive plans and exercise of share options; and
 h determining the policy for pension arrangements, service 
agreements and termination payments for Executive Directors.
Details of the Company’s policies on remuneration, service contracts and 
compensation payments are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on pages 69 to 87. 
Since the year end 31 December 2011, the Board agreed that after a 
three year term as chairman of the Remuneration Committee it was 
appropriate for Dr James Buckee to stand down from this position and  
to be replaced by M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC, albeit that he remains a 
member of the Remuneration Committee. This change took effect from  
5 March 2012.
3. Nomination Committee Report
The Nomination Committee currently comprises the Chairman, three 
independent Non-Executive Directors and (to ensure input from the 
executive team) the Chief Executive. 
The members of the Nomination Committee during the year were  
as follows:
 h Iain McLaren (Chairman with effect from 13 October 2011; member 
prior to that);
 h Todd Hunt;
 h Sir Bill Gammell; 
 h Alexander Berger (joined the committee on 13 October 2011);
 h Simon Thomson (joined the committee on 13 October 2011); and
 h Norman Murray (stepped down as a Non-Executive Director and 
member of the committee on 30 June 2011).
The Nomination Committee met twice in 2011. In addition to the 
members listed above, certain other Non-Executive Directors attended 
meetings on being invited to do so by the committee. 
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires there to be a formal, 
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, 
which should be meritocratic and made against objective criteria. For this 
purpose, the Board has established the Nomination Committee, whose 
role includes considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board 
and making recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the 
appointment of new directors and on the reappointment and orderly 
succession of existing directors. The Nomination Committee also takes 
into account the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender. 
Cairn currently has two exceptionally well-qualified women on its Board, 
one executive and one non-executive. The Board is also diverse in terms 
of the range of experience and nationality of its members.
In order to ensure a continuing focus on good governance within the 
Company and reflect emerging market practice, it was agreed at the 
Board meeting held on 6 March 2012 that the remit of the Nomination 
Committee should be expanded to include a corporate governance 
function, thereby forming a Corporate Governance and Nomination 
Committee. The members of this committee are M. Jacqueline 
Sheppard QC (chair), Iain McLaren, Todd Hunt, Alexander Berger,  
Sir Bill Gammell and Jann Brown, with Simon Thomson attending  
by invitation. This new committee will meet at least twice annually. 
Board Changes
As mentioned previously, a number of changes to the composition  
of the Board were announced in June 2011 which became effective on  
1 July 2011. The key change was the resignation of Norman Murray as 
Chairman of the Board and as a Non-Executive Director of the Company 
and the appointment of Sir Bill Gammell as his successor as Non-
Executive Chairman of the Board. Prior to implementing these changes 
the Board discussed the various options and proposals extensively, 
taking into account the best interests of the Board in the context of the 
skills and experience of all Board members and the future plans of the 
Company. The Company also announced that:
 h Simon Thomson, previously the Legal and Commercial Director,  
has been appointed as Chief Executive;
 h Jann Brown, previously Finance Director, has been appointed  
as Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer;
 h Malcolm Thoms, Chief Operating Officer, had stepped down as  
an Executive Director; and
 h Phil Tracy, Engineering and Operations Director, had stepped down  
as an Executive Director.
All of the changes were thoroughly considered and approved by the 
Nomination Committee led by Iain McLaren as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and were considered to be in the best interests  
of the Company and its shareholders. Norman Murray did not participate 
in any discussions regarding the appointment of his successor as 
Chairman. All appointments received the unanimous support of the 
Board. Prior to the Company’s announcement of the appointment  
of Sir Bill Gammell as Non-Executive Chairman the Company also 
consulted with its major shareholders who indicated their approval of  
the Company’s decision to appoint Sir Bill Gammell as Non-Executive 
Chairman and the other Board changes.
Succession Planning
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and 
composition (including the skills, knowledge and experience) required  
of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board, as appropriate. 
The Board has satisfied itself that the Nomination Committee has in  
place appropriate plans for orderly succession to the Board and senior 
management positions as well as procedures to ensure an appropriate 
balance of skills within the Company and on the Board and its committees. 
The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the individuals 
currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation 
have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Continued
Board Committees Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  65    
Leadership and Governance
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Continued
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an 
understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular 
dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the 
announcement of the year-end and half-yearly results. The Chairman  
is available to attend a number of these meetings. At the Board meeting 
immediately following these meetings, a detailed report is given to all 
directors who were not in attendance at those meetings. In addition,  
the Company maintains an external relations database which details  
all meetings attended by the directors with third party stakeholders.  
All analysts’ and brokers’ reports on the Company are also distributed  
to all directors. Cairn responds to all correspondence from shareholders 
and its website contains a wide range of information on the Company, 
including a dedicated investor relations section. 
A list of the Company’s major shareholders can be found in the Directors’ 
Report on page 58.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to 
shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal 
channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Managing Director and 
Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve, or for which such contact  
is inappropriate.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is available to attend meetings  
with major shareholders (without the Executive Directors present),  
if requested by such major shareholders.
AGM 
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional 
investors and welcomes their participation. It is policy for all directors to 
attend the AGM if at all possible. Whilst this may not always be possible 
for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances the Chairmen 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will attend the 
AGM and be available to answer questions.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company  
and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about  
the Company’s activities and prospects. 
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 17 May 2012 can  
be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is contained in 
the Circular posted with this report. Further explanation of the resolutions 
can also be found in the Circular.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, 
will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available  
at the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution on  
a poll. The Form of Proxy for the AGM includes a ‘vote withheld’ option 
in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any 
particular resolution. It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a ‘vote 
withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation  
of the proportion of the votes ‘for’ or ‘against’ a resolution.
Organisational Planning 
2011 was an exceptionally busy year, with drilling operations in 
Greenland. Resourcing remained a key focus area in this respect: over 
the course of the year the organisation grew its staff headcount by 22% 
and further engaged with a large number of specialist consultants to 
ensure that the organisation was fit-for-purpose and ably equipped to 
manage operations. 
As in 2010, the Edinburgh office was the base for an Emergency 
Response Group (ERG) for Edinburgh-directed operations (in addition to 
the Crisis Response Team (CRT)) and dedicated fully-equipped response 
rooms were set up from which to manage any emergencies or crises 
that may arise. The ERG/CRT teams undertook a number of emergency 
training exercises throughout the year (including with the participation  
of the Greenland emergency services) to ensure they were fully trained 
and equipped to deal with a live emergency.
In addition to operations, the Company continued to focus on employee 
engagement and conducted a pulse check staff survey in January 2010. 
The response rate from staff increased from the initial 2008 survey from 
74% to 80% which was in itself an indication of enhanced levels of 
engagement. We were delighted that the results across seven of the 
eight engagement factors showed increased engagement levels; 
however, lower levels of engagement were reported in the area of 
well-being. Continued efforts across all the engagement factors have 
continued in 2011. These have included the introduction of a gym  
and fitness allowance for employees, the provision of total reward 
statements for staff and giving six staff (not involved in the Greenland 
assets) the opportunity of a trip to Greenland. This was in addition to  
the continuation of our ‘free fruit Fridays’,’lunch and learn’ programme, 
six-month joiner surveys with new staff and other successful 
engagement initiatives implemented since the original survey  
was conducted in 2008. 
Following our 2010 Investors in People re-accreditation, in 2011 we 
introduced succession planning, mentoring and coaching to our talent  
and people development activities and continued with our performance 
management, people development and leadership development 
interventions which form the fulcrum of our people management  
activities at Cairn and upon which the Investors in People Award is based.
Equality and diversity continues to be an important factor in all that  
we do. A comprehensive suite of diversity policies were implemented  
in 2009 and further training to all staff and contractors on equality and 
diversity in the workplace is scheduled for 2012. Over the past year, while 
our headcount comprises marginally more women than men (53%:47%), 
the number of women in managerial roles has increased from 26.83%  
to 27.27%. Our workforce also comprises a diverse range of ethnicities 
(currently 2.86%) and employees with a disability total 2.14%.
Relations with Shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the  
Board. Cairn sends both its Annual Report and Financial Statements  
and Half-yearly Report to all shareholders. This year the Company has 
also implemented the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding 
electronic communications with its shareholders, in order to give 
shareholders more choice and flexibility in how they receive information 
from the Company. The initial consultation took place with shareholders 
in February 2012 and it is intended to implement this with shareholders 
who have elected to receive information electronically in 2012.
Board Committees Continued
3. Nomination Committee Report c ontinued 66  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable 
United Kingdom law and those IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. 
Under Company Law the directors must not approve the Group and 
Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present 
fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the 
Group and Company for that period. In preparing those financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
 h select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: 
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors 
and then apply them consistently;
 h present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
 h provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on 
the Group’s financial position and financial performance;
 h state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and
 h make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure 
that the Group and Company’s financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities. 
Directors’ Statement Pursuant to the Disclosure  
and Transparency Rules
Each of the directors, whose names are listed in the Board of Directors 
section on pages 54 and 55 confirms to the best of his knowledge that:
 h the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and 
Company; and
 h the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and 
Company, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
The beneficial interests of each of the directors in the ordinary shares  
of the Company are set out on page 56. 
Information Pursuant to the Takeovers Directive
The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 
7.2.7 (directors’ interests in shares; appointment and replacement of 
directors; powers of the directors; restrictions on voting rights and rights 
regarding control of the Company) in the Directors’ Report.
Going Concern
The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a 
statement on going concern. They have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to use 
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control 
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Company has in place  
an Integrated Internal Control and Assurance Framework, which plays a 
critical role in managing the risks towards the achievement of corporate 
vision, strategy and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding 
shareholders’ interests and Company assets. This system of internal 
control is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee and 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2011 
accounting period and up to the date of approval of the report and 
accounts. The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the 
system of internal controls during 2011 and will ensure that such reviews 
are performed in 2012. In so doing, the Board has taken into account the 
assurance provided by the Chief Executive in respect of the effectiveness 
of the system of internal control within the Company. The Board is 
accordingly satisfied that effective controls are in place and that risks 
have been mitigated to an acceptable level. 
The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature 
of the oil and gas exploration and production business and relate to the 
countries in which it conducts its activities. The directors believe that 
Cairn derives its competitive edge by focusing activities in areas where 
they believe they have a technical and commercial advantage and the 
experience gained over many years enables the Company to manage 
these risks effectively. 
Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared,  
and the directors believe that the Group’s values of integrity, social  
and environmental responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, 
creativity, risk management and alliances with key partners are all 
ingredients that are central to the Company’s success. The ability to 
recognise the value of working as a partnership with host governments, 
both nationally and regionally, has also been a critical ingredient in this 
approach and success.
2011 was another year of change. The Company focused on conducting 
an exploration drilling programme in Greenland and supporting its 
subsidiary company Cairn India in progressing the Mangala Field and 
other discoveries in Rajasthan. There were also changes in the leadership 
of the Company with a number of Board changes mid-year including the 
appointment of a new Chairman and Chief Executive. Particular attention 
has been placed by Group management on ensuring that a robust 
system of internal control has been maintained during 2011 in relation  
to the significant risks in the Group’s business activities. 
CIL is subject to the rules, regulations and guidelines of the Securities 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and to its listing agreement with the 
Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited (NSE). Under the terms of a relationship agreement between  
the Company and Cairn India entered into at the time of the IPO (the 
Relationship Agreement), both companies have also agreed to use 
reasonable endeavours to ensure that they can comply with their 
respective obligations to SEBI, the Financial Services Authority (FSA),  
the BSE, the London Stock Exchange (LSE) and the NSE and under the 
SEBI Insider Trading Regulations and UK regulation and legislation relating 
to the disclosure of information or dealing in respect of listed securities  
or corporate governance. This has included adopting and following  
the principles and policies of corporate governance, including risk 
management, which enable each company to comply with these 
obligations. The Relationship Agreement ceased to be in effect from the 
date of the completion of the Vedanta transaction on 8 December 2011,  
at which time the Company became a minority shareholder in Cairn India.
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  67    
Leadership and Governance
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Continued
It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, 
assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is ‘fit for 
purpose’ and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place  
in relation to these risks. 
The Group Business Risk Management System (GBRMS) defines  
the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, 
analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group. 
The GBRMS also identifies the risk management organisational structure 
through which business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at 
operating, asset, country and group levels. 
In 2011 the GRMC was chaired by Simon Thomson, the Legal and 
Commercial Director during the first half of 2011 and subsequently  
the Chief Executive. The GRMC comprises Executive Directors and  
senior functional management. The Non-Executive Chairman of the  
Audit Committee is a member of the GRMC and the internal auditor  
also attends meetings, in order to ensure internal audit’s integration  
with the risk management process. As part of the reorganisation in  
July 2011, the corporate and functional risk management sub committee 
was replaced by regular joint Management Team and Corporate Team 
meetings which managed the assessment and treatment of business risks 
outside of CIL that may affect the Company’s ability to deliver its strategy. 
Subsequent to its listing, CIL operates its own Risk Management 
Committee (RMC) in line with its Business Risk Management System 
(BRMS) under the chairmanship of the Chief Operating Officer and 
reporting to the Cairn India Board. Risk management sub committees 
have also been set up reporting to the Cairn India (RMC) to consider  
the specific risks associated with operations, finance, exploration, 
commercial, and the Rajasthan upstream and midstream projects. The 
Cairn India BRMS is substantially similar to that of the Company and, 
under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, copies of the CIL risk 
report and RMC minutes are routinely submitted for review at the 
Company’s GRMC, at which a senior representative from Cairn India is 
present to provide explanation and take questions. As the Relationship 
Agreement ceased to be in effect from the date of the completion of the 
Vedanta transaction on 8 December 2011, Cairn India no longer provides 
the Company with risk information.
Business risks, together with the identified mitigating measures  
and responsibilities, are recorded in asset, country and departmental  
risk registers and then consolidated into the Group risk register,  
which is regularly reviewed by the GRMC to ensure that the business 
understands the key risks it faces and that there is an embedded  
risk management approach in place across the Group. 
The GRMC reports on the Group’s risk profile to both the Audit 
Committee and the Board. Additionally, the Audit Committee and Board 
receive internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal control relative to 
the key risks. The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 
2011 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are effective.
4. Assurance 
The internal control framework adopted by the Board provides for  
three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Group: first of all  
at the operational level; secondly through overview by Group functional 
management and the GRMC; and thirdly through internal, external or  
JV audits.
The integrated internal control and assurance framework was updated 
and distributed throughout the Company in October 2010. Following the 
conclusion of the Vedanta transaction in December 2011, a new version 
reflecting the changes made to the risk organisation will be issued in 
early 2012. The framework document includes a description of the 
Company’s business and assurance models, organisation and 
Committee structure and defines responsibilities.
The following describes the key elements of the framework and the 
processes used by the Board during 2011 to review the effectiveness  
of the internal control system. It also describes the approach to be taken 
in 2012.
1. Strategic Direction
The Group business model is conventional in that strategy and  
business plan are set by the directors and approved by the Board and  
its implementation is delegated to the Executive Team. Since its listing 
on the BSE and NSE in January 2007, CIL has been a subsidiary of the 
Company with its own Board of Directors. The Company has previously 
had three Non-Executive Directors on the Board of Cairn India (including 
Sir Bill Gammell as Chairman) and, therefore, had input to Cairn India’s 
strategy. Following the completion of the Vedanta transaction on  
8 December 2011, the Company’s three Non-Executive Directors 
appointed to the board of Cairn India resigned and the Company  
has no further input into Cairn India’s strategy other than through  
its residual shareholding.
2. Operating Management
Outside of CIL, the Group, through its unlisted wholly-owned subsidiary 
Capricorn, operates several business units in different countries and with 
various partners. Capricorn has a matrix organisation where the assets 
are the principal focus tasked with delivering objectives for their 
particular asset, with functional departments providing support to the 
assets in delivering their objectives.
In July 2011, the Company announced a reorganisation through which 
the Chief Executive’s Committee was disbanded and three bodies were 
established to manage the business in the future. The Executive Team, 
which comprises the three Executive Directors, has the primary role of 
devising strategy, sanctioning the business plan and work programmes 
and budget, and overall responsibility for investor relations, corporate 
governance matters and implementing the communications strategy. 
Reporting to the Executive Team are two teams; the Management Team 
who are primarily responsible for day to day management of the delivery 
of the approved business plan and work programmes; and the Corporate 
Team who are responsible for maintaining market reporting and 
communications and ensuring corporate governance processes are 
effectively implemented. Further information on the Management Team 
and the Corporate Team can be found earlier in this statement on page 
61. The directors have also appointed Group Functional Department 
Heads whose roles include providing input and ‘challenge’ to the work 
programmes, budgets and business plans, and supplying the relevant 
director with full and accurate information and to make statements on  
the adequacy of internal control.
A business plan with a five year outlook and annual work programmes 
and budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, starting  
at asset level before being consolidated at Group level. A detailed 
business plan is also prepared to meet the agreed annual work 
programme and budget. This sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for 
each asset and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated 
into the Company’s annual business plan. After an iterative process,  
the business plan and budget are presented to the Executive Team  
and the Board for approval.
The asset management teams then have the required authority  
to implement the business plan and to deliver the agreed work 
programmes within the approved budget and delegations of  
authority, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
3. Risk Management 
The Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC), established by  
the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the development  
of risk management strategy and processes within the Company and  
for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.  
Internal Control Continued 68  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Internal Control Continued
4. Assurance c ontinued
The framework also defines the key policies/procedures which govern 
the way in which Cairn conducts its business and are therefore a core 
part of its system of internal control. 
A separate Group HSE, Risk and Compliance Department was 
established in January 2010 reporting to the Managing Director and  
Chief Financial Officer and continued to provide independent verification 
of the corporate responsibility, business risk and compliance activities 
during 2011. During 2011, the Company also maintained two advisory 
committees, the technical advisory board and the strategic planning 
group (both described earlier in this statement on page 62) to facilitate 
independent advice on strategic and technical issues.
During 2011, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and 
compliance controls, risk management and the Group’s high level internal 
control arrangements. The directors derive assurance from the following 
internal and external controls during 2011 (or until 8 December 2011  
in the case of CIL) through:
 h a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for  
a decision by the Board;
 h implementation of policies and procedures for key business 
activities;
 h an appropriate organisational structure;
 h control over non-operated JV activities through delegated 
representatives;
 h specific delegations of authority for all financial and other 
transactions;
 h segregation of duties where appropriate and cost effective;
 h business and financial reporting, including KPIs;
 h functional management reviews;
 h nomination of various directors of the Company to the Cairn India 
board (in a non-executive capacity) and to certain of its committees. 
The Board also receives copies of minutes of meetings of the Cairn 
India Board of Directors;
 h a Relationship Agreement with Cairn India, which, inter alia, contains 
provisions for the supply by Cairn India to the Company of such 
information and confirmations as the Company may require to 
comply with legal, regulatory and reporting obligations;
 h an annual ‘letter of assurance’ process, through which asset and 
functional managers confirm the adequacy of internal financial and 
non-financial controls and their compliance with Group policies and 
report any control weaknesses identified in the past;
 h a ‘letter of assurance’ from the Chief Executive confirming the 
adequacy of internal controls within the Company in line with its policy, 
and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the past year;
 h a ‘letter of assurance’ from Cairn India’s Chief Executive Officer 
confirming the adequacy of internal controls within CIL in line with  
its policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the 
past year;
 h Group internal audits to assess compliance – the internal auditor 
implements a number of audits during the year in line with the annual 
internal audit plan approved by the Audit Committee and Board;
 h reports from the Group Audit Committee and GRMC, (including 
reports from the Cairn India RMC and Cairn India Audit Committee);
 h reports from the new advisory committees on technical and strategic 
options;
 h reports from the Group external auditor on matters identified during 
its statutory audit;
 h reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers; and
 h independent third party reviews.
 
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Throughout 2011 the Company complied with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, except in the following area:
Provision of the UK  
Corporate Governance Code Company position Explanation
A.3.1 –  
the chief executive  
officer should not  
go on to be the  
chairman of the  
same company.
Sir Bill Gammell,  
previously Chief  
Executive, was  
appointed Non-
Executive  
Chairman with effect  
from 1 July 2011  
following consultation  
with the Company’s  
major shareholders.
The Board firmly  
believes that Sir Bill  
Gammell is the best  
candidate for the role  
of Chairman and the  
appointment received  
the unanimous support  
of the Board. Prior to  
the appointment the  
Company also 
consulted with its  
major shareholders.
Further detailed  
explanation of this  
appointment is given  
on pages 59 and 60  
of this statement.
  
 
l eadership and Governance
Corporate Governance Statement 
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  69    
Leadership and Governance
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
1. Unaudited Information 
Overview of the Remuneration Committee and its Policies 
Purpose and Role of the Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee determines and agrees with the  
Board the overall remuneration policy for the Executive Directors  
and the Company’s PDMRs (persons discharging managerial 
responsibilities). Within the terms of the agreed policy, the committee  
is also responsible for:
 h determining the total individual remuneration package for each 
Executive Director and PDMR; 
 h determining the level of awards made under the Company’s LTIPs 
and share option plans and the performance conditions which are  
to apply;
 h determining bonuses payable under the Company’s annual cash 
bonus scheme;
 h determining the vesting of awards under the Company’s LTIPs and 
exercise of share options; and
 h determining the policy for pension arrangements, service 
agreements and termination payments for Executive Directors  
and PDMRs. 
In designing the remuneration structures of the Executive Directors and 
PDMRs, the committee takes into account pay policies within the Group 
as a whole. Increases to basic salary across the Group take account of 
general and industry specific compensation trends and also economic 
factors such as inflation.
The committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration 
levels of employees below senior management level, but does not 
review individual remuneration amounts for such employees. In 2011,  
the median increase to basic salaries across the Group below senior 
management level was 4% (increases ranged from 4% to 30.5%).  
Cairn operates a number of share schemes available to all employees, 
the details of which are provided on page 77.
Cairn’s Remuneration Committee operates within written terms of 
reference agreed by the Board. These are reviewed periodically to ensure 
that the committee remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate  
to Cairn, its strategy and the business environment in which it operates. 
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available  
on the Company’s website. 
Members of the Remuneration Committee 
The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were  
as follows: 
 h Dr James Buckee (Chairman);
 h To d d H u n t;
 h I ai n M c L ar e n ;
 h Norman Murray (stepped down as a Non-Executive Director  
and member of the committee on 30 June 2011); and
 h M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC (joined the committee on  
13 October 2011). 
All of the current members of the committee are independent  
Non-Executive Directors. The Chief Executive is not a member of the 
Remuneration Committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and  
is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals. He is not consulted  
or involved in any discussions in respect of his own remuneration.  
The Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer is not a member  
of the committee but may occasionally be invited to attend parts of  
its meetings to address specific matters (although not in respect of  
her own remuneration).
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with Regulation 11 
and Schedule 8 of the Large and 
Medium-Sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 (the Regulations). The report  
also meets the relevant requirements 
of the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority and describes how 
the Board has applied the principles 
and complied with the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 
relating to directors’ remuneration 
throughout the financial year.  
As required by the Regulations,  
a resolution to approve the report will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
In preparing this report, the Company has also taken into account 
the Principles of Remuneration issued by the Association of British 
Insurers and the voting guidelines issued by the National 
Association of Pension Funds, as well as individual voting 
guidelines published by the Company’s institutional investors. 
The Company’s auditors are required to report to Cairn’s 
shareholders on the ‘auditable parts’ of this report and to state 
whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006. 
In light of this requirement, and in order to present the information 
in a form that is as accessible as possible to shareholders, the 
report has been split into two main sections – the first containing 
information which is unaudited and the second containing 
information which is audited. 
DR Jame S BuCKee
r emuneration Committee Chairman  
during 2011 
23 marC h 2012 70  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee 
As and when the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources.  
The committee periodically consults with Hewitt New Bridge Street (an independent executive compensation consultancy appointed by the 
committee) on various aspects of the directors’ remuneration packages. In addition, the Company’s legal advisers (Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP) 
and auditors (Ernst & Young LLP) provide ongoing assistance to the committee in respect of the Company’s LTIPs and share option schemes.  
Advice obtained from Ernst & Young LLP is purely in relation to their independent verification of the Company’s achievement against performance 
conditions applicable to the Company’s LTIPs and share option schemes. 
 
Overview of Remuneration Policy and Package
Cairn’s policy on Executive Directors’ remuneration for the current year and subsequent financial years is to ensure that it appropriately incentivises 
individuals to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives in order to enhance value for its shareholders, whilst being seen to offer a competitive package 
against the market. 
The Executive Directors’ remuneration package currently consists of basic salary, benefits, annual performance related bonuses, an LTIP, a defined 
contribution pension (or alternatively a contribution to an individual personal pension plan) and life assurance of four times basic annual salary. There 
have been no changes to the Company’s remuneration policy during 2011.
 
The overall remuneration package should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high-quality 
individuals capable of achieving the Group’s objectives and thereby enhancing shareholder value. 
Supports the Group’s business strategy and provides an appropriate incentive to maximise individual and corporate 
performance, whilst ensuring that overall rewards are market competitive.
Long-term incentive Annual bonus
Drive and reward the annual 
performance of the Company 
and individuals against 
corporate objectives and 
KPIs.
Achievement of challenging 
and strategically-aligned 
corporate, operational and 
individual KPIs.
Recognise market value of the role and of 
the individual’s skills, experience and 
performance and provide a competitive 
package.
Provide market-competitive level of 
remuneration, benchmarked against a 
comparator group of similar companies 
within the sector and companies with a 
similar market capitalisation.
Drive and reward the delivery 
of a sustained long-term 
Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) performance aligned to 
the interests of shareholders.
Focus on increasing the 
Company’s share price over 
the medium to long–term.
Basic 
salary
Pension Benefits
Remuneration 
Policy
Objective
Remuneration 
Package Design
Component  
of Package
Application
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
1. Unaudited Information Continued
Overview of the Remuneration Committee and its Policies c ontinued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  71    
Leadership and Governance
Fixed Short-term variable Long-term variable
100%
80%
40%
60%
20%
0% Simon 
Thomson
Dr Mike  
Watts
Jann  
Brown
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
Structure of Total Remuneration Package
The overall package is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, in relation to the variable pay element, the package is weighted more 
towards long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives. 
In the chart below we show the make-up of remuneration of the current Executive Directors in 2011. 
 
 
 h Fixed remuneration is comprised of basic salary, benefits, and pension contributions. Values used reflect what was paid in respect of basic salary 
and pension contributions and the taxable value of benefits provided in the year.
 h Short-term variable remuneration is comprised of annual bonus alone and reflects the amount paid in 2011. 
 h Long-term variable remuneration is comprised of LTIP awards granted in 2011 based on the fair value in a manner consistent with IFRS2.
Components of Executive Remuneration
Basic Salary and Benefits
Basic salary is reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee (with any changes taking effect from 1 January of that year) and/or when an 
individual changes position or responsibility. In deciding appropriate levels, the committee periodically utilises objective benchmarking, which gives 
up-to-date information on remuneration practice within a comparator group of similar companies within the oil and gas sector and companies with a 
similar market capitalisation. 
2011 Basic Salary (Executive Directors) 
Executive directors
(during the year) Executive job title as at 1 j anuary 201 1 1 j anuary 201 1 Executive job title as at 1 j uly 201 1 1 j uly 201 1 1 j anuary 2012***
Sir Bill Gammell* Chief Executive  £625,000 – – –
Simon Thomson** Legal and Commercial Director £375,000 Chief Executive £475,000  £494,000
Jann Brown** Finance Director £375,000 Managing Director and CFO £400,000 £416,000
Dr Mike Watts Deputy Chief Executive £435,000 Deputy Chief Executive £435,000 £452,000
Malcolm Thoms**** Chief Operating Officer £375,000 – – –
Phil Tracy**** Engineering and Operations Director £375,000 – – –
     
*  Sir Bill Gammell stepped down from his position as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and took over as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1 July 2011. His fees for acting 
as Chairman were £213,000 per annum, with effect from 1 July 2011. His fees were increased to £230,000 per annum with effect from 6 March 2012.
** On 1 July 2011, the salaries of Simon Thomson and Jann Brown were increased to £475,000 and £400,000 respectively in order to reflect their new roles of Chief Executive 
and Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer respectively, which became effective on that date.
***  The current Executive Directors’ salary increases for 2012 for Simon Thomson, Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown were in line with the level of standard increase awarded to 
other employees (4%, compared to the level of Consumer Price Index of 5%).
****  As a result of a Board reorganisation, the positions of Chief Operating Officer and Engineering and Operations Director ceased to exist. Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy  
(who occupied these positions) stood down from the Board and ceased to be employees, both with effect from 30 June 2011.
 
1. Unaudited Information Continued 72  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Annual Cash Bonus Scheme 
Cairn’s annual cash bonus scheme applies to all employees and Executive Directors. 
For all participants, as in prior years, bonuses under the scheme are based on individual and Company performance measures. Individual 
performance is measured through the Company’s performance management system. Company performance measures are based on annually 
defined KPIs. The KPIs for 2011 are commercially sensitive and have not therefore been disclosed in detail. However, the KPI categories and  
ascribed weightings are set out below. The categories and weightings for the 2012 KPIs will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report.
The maximum level of bonus award for the Executive Directors and certain PDMRs for 2011 was up to 100% of annual salary (as at date of award). 
The bonus cap for all other employees for 2011 was between 25% and 40%. For 2012, this has been increased to between 30% and 50% in order  
to more closely align the bonus cap with current industry reward practice, in light of recent reward benchmarking findings. 
2011 Annual Cash Bonus (Executive Directors)
performance  performance 
measures  metrics Weighting
Operational and Operational h Portfolio growth 25%
corporate performance  h Project delivery
  h HSE/Risk management
 Cairn India h Operational excellence 25%
  h Project execution
  h Crude oil sales
  h Exploration
  h Business planning
 Strategic h Strategic measures relating to Cairn’s business plan 25%
  h Strategic HSE/risk issues
Individual Performance h Each individual sets a number of personal objectives at the start of each year. 25% 
 Management  At the end of the year, performance against those objectives is assessed  
 System  alongside overall performance for the year. 
Vesting  Performance against each particular KPI is assessed by the Remuneration Committee in December each year
Clawback  No claw back provisions in place during 2011 . The Remuneration Committee intends to introduce a clawback provision 
in the annual cash bonus scheme for 2012. The details of this are currently being considered and will be disclosed in 
next year’s Annual Report.
Remuneration Committee Following the determination of performance against the above metrics, the committee reviews bonus outcome and  
discretion   considers whether it represents a fair and reasonable reflection of individual performance during the year. Where 
necessary, appropriate adjustments may be made to the final quantum of the amounts. In 2011, the committee 
exercised this discretion in respect of Jann Brown. See page 80 for details of bonus awarded.
The actual bonuses awarded to the Executive Directors for performance in 2011 are shown in the remuneration table on page 80. These bonuses 
were approved by the committee in accordance with both how the Company and the individual performed in 2011. 
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award bonuses in addition to those payable under the annual cash bonus scheme in recognition  
of particular efforts or achievements by employees, including Executive Directors. No additional cash bonuses of this kind were made in 2011.
Benefits available to the Executive Directors comprise a company car, permanent health insurance, private health insurance and death in service 
benefit of up to four times annual basic salary. Further details of the salary and benefits of each of the executive directors are also set out in the 
remuneration table on page 80.
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
1. Unaudited Information Continued
Components of Executive Remuneration c ontinued  Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  73    
Leadership and Governance
In order to encourage executive directors (and other selected senior employees) to deliver superior levels of long-term performance for the benefit  
of shareholders, the Company’s policy since 1999 has been to provide these individuals with share incentives under an LTIP. 
The current arrangement is the Cairn Energy PLC Long Term Incentive Plan (2009) (2009 LTIP), which was approved by shareholders at the AGM 
held on 19 May 2009. As of 1 February 2012 there are no awards outstanding under any other LTIPs.
In 2011, the three-year performance period applicable to certain awards granted under the 2006 LTIP and Replacement LTIP (as defined below) came 
to an end – 59% of the Cairn India Awards granted in May 2008 under the 2006 LTIP vested, while full vesting (133%) of the Awards granted in May 
2008 under the Replacement LTIP occurred. The extent to which the relevant performance conditions had been met is explained in full on page 83.
2009 LTIP 
The 2009 LTIP enables Executive Directors and selected senior employees to be granted conditional awards over ordinary shares, the vesting of 
which is normally dependent on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are 
met over a specified period of three years. The scheme is intended to incentivise the participants to create shareholder value whilst retaining due 
focus on the underlying financial performance of the Group and to align their interests more closely with those of shareholders. 
The value of ordinary shares awarded to a participant under the 2009 LTIP in any financial year is subject to a limit of 300% of his/her basic salary 
(although a 400% of salary limit can be applied to an individual by the Remuneration Committee in exceptional circumstances). Details of the 
outstanding awards granted to the Executive Directors under the 2009 LTIP are set out on page 81. 
On the vesting of an award under the 2009 LTIP, only 50% of the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled are released to him/her 
immediately, with the remaining 50% normally being released after a further period of one year. No amounts due under the 2009 LTIP are recognised 
as remuneration until the award has vested and the ordinary shares released. 
The extent to which awards vest will be determined by comparing the growth in TSR of the Company over a three year performance period, with  
the TSR of a comparator group, currently comprising 17 international oil and gas companies. In order to encourage exceptional performance at upper 
decile levels a ‘multiplier’ is applied which is subject to the achievement of stretching absolute TSR growth targets.
The vesting of awards will then take place as follows: 
r anking of company against the comparator group percentage of ordinary shares comprised in Award that vest
Below median 0%
Median 20%
Upper decile (i.e. top 10%) 100%
Between median and upper decile 20% – 100% on a straight line basis
Should the Company achieve upper decile performance against the comparator group the following multiplier is applied: 
 
Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest tsr of the company over the performance period
1 50% or less
1 .33 100% or more
1 – 1 .33 on a straight line basis Between 50% and 100%
However, notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any award will vest unless the Remuneration 
Committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over  
the performance period. 
2009 LTIP awards granted in 2012 and later years will also be subject to a clawback provision. The details of this are currently being considered by  
the Remuneration Committee and will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report.
Page 84 contains a detailed description of the LTIP comparator group and the performance conditions that will determine the extent to which these 
awards vest at the end of the applicable performance period. 
For awards made in future years, the Remuneration Committee will review, and may amend, the performance conditions used for this arrangement 
in order to ensure they remain appropriate, challenging and in line with best practice/investor guidelines. The committee has not made any changes 
to the performance conditions attaching to the LTIP awards granted in 2012 save in respect of adjustments to the members of the comparator group.
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
1. Unaudited Information Continued
Long-Term Incentives – Introduction 74  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Other LTIPs Formerly Used
During the year, Executive Directors also held outstanding awards under the following historic share incentive arrangements operated by the Company: 
 h The Cairn Energy PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2006 (2006 LTIP).
 h The Cairn Energy PLC Replacement Long Term Incentive Plan (Replacement LTIP). 
Summaries of the 2006 LTIP and Replacement LTIP are provided below. As of 1 February 2012, there are no outstanding awards or shares due to  
be released under these LTIPs.
2006 LTIP
The 2006 LTIP was approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) held on 17 November 2006, conditional on the flotation  
of Cairn India becoming effective, which occurred on 9 January 2007. Following the adoption of the 2009 LTIP, no further awards have been or will  
be granted under the 2006 LTIP. The date of grant of the last award under the 2006 LTIP was 7 July 2008. 
The 2006 LTIP enabled Executive Directors and selected senior employees to be granted conditional awards over two separate pools of notional 
‘units’, the first relating to Cairn India (Cairn India Units) and the second relating to the Capricorn Group (Capricorn Units) (together, Units). 
As explained in the previous year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, all participants in this arrangement who held awards over Capricorn Units 
(Capricorn Awards) surrendered those rights in exchange for the grant of ‘Converted Awards’ over ordinary shares in the Company pursuant to the 
Replacement LTIP (further details of which are provided below), with the number of ordinary shares subject to each such Converted Award being 
calculated by reference to an implied valuation of the Capricorn Group derived from the 2009 ‘farm-in’ to its Greenland assets by PETRONAS. 
The above conversion process did not, however, apply to outstanding awards over Cairn India Units (Cairn India Awards). As a result, these awards 
(held by the Executive Directors and a number of senior managers) continued to subsist on their original terms. 
The extent to which a Cairn India Award vests is normally dependent on continued employment within the Group and the extent to which pre-
determined performance conditions relating to CIL are met over a specified period. 
Following the vesting of a Cairn India Award, the participant becomes entitled to such number of ordinary shares in the Company as have a market 
value equal to the aggregate price of the vested Units. (For the purposes of the 2006 LTIP, the price of a Cairn India Unit on any day is equal to the 
price of a Cairn India share, as quoted on the BSE and the NSE of India.) Only 50% of these ordinary shares are transferred to the participant 
immediately, with the remaining 50% normally being subject to a further holding period. 
Information in relation to the Cairn India Awards held by the Executive Directors, together with details of those awards that vested during 2011,  
are set out on pages 81 to 83. A summary of the applicable performance conditions is provided on page 85.
As highlighted on page 75, the holding period applicable to the Cairn India Awards that vested during 2011 (which was originally intended to last  
one year) was subsequently terminated with effect from 30 January 2012.
Replacement LTIP
The Replacement LTIP was approved by shareholders at an EGM on 21 December 2009 and, as explained above, was used to grant Converted 
Awards over ordinary shares to those participants in the 2006 LTIP who accepted an invitation to surrender their Capricorn Awards. These Converted 
Awards were granted on 22 December 2009. No awards were granted under the Replacement LTIP during 2011 and no further awards will be 
granted pursuant to this arrangement in the future.
Converted Awards comprise conditional rights to acquire ordinary shares, the vesting of which is normally dependent both on continued employment 
with the Group and on the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period of three years. The form of these 
performance conditions, and the period over which they are measured, mirrors those that applied to the replaced Capricorn Awards. 
On the vesting of a Converted Award, any ordinary shares to which the holder becomes entitled are subject to an extended ‘holding period’ during 
which they cannot be sold (save to meet tax liabilities arising on vesting). 
Where a participant ceases employment with the Group during the above holding period his/her unreleased ordinary shares are normally forfeited  
for no consideration. (Exceptions to this general forfeiture principle are at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion but are usually limited to ‘good 
leaver’ circumstances.) In addition, if prior to the end of the holding period, events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that 
the implied value of the Capricorn Group used as part of the conversion process (see above) was materially overstated as at the date on which the 
conversion took place, then a proportion of a participant’s unreleased ordinary shares may be forfeited for no consideration. In these circumstances, 
the number of ordinary shares to be forfeited would be decided by the Remuneration Committee on such fair and equitable basis as it may determine 
at the relevant time. 
Information in relation to the Converted Awards held by Executive Directors, together with details of those awards that vested during 2011, are set 
out on pages 82 to 84. A summary of the applicable performance conditions is provided on page 86. 
As explained on page 75 of this report, the holding period applicable to all Converted Awards that had vested under the Replacement LTIP in 2011 
and earlier years (which was originally intended to last until 9 January 2013) was subsequently terminated with effect from 30 January 2012.
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
1. Unaudited Information Continued
Long-Term Incentives – Introduction c ontinued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  75    
Leadership and Governance
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
Long-Term Incentives – Events Occurring After the End of the Financial year to 31 December 2011
Impact of 2012 Return of Cash
At a general meeting held on 30 January 2012, shareholders approved a US$3.5 billion return of cash by means of a ‘B share structure’ with  
a connected share capital consolidation.
As explained in the Circular dated 10 January 2012 that was sent to shareholders convening the general meeting, the impact of this return of cash  
on outstanding awards granted under the Company’s LTIPs was as follows:
2006 LTIP and Replacement LTIP
As at 30 January 2012, all awards under the 2006 LTIP and the Replacement LTIP had already vested in accordance with the terms of the applicable 
performance conditions. As a result, any outstanding entitlements of participants in these plans related to shares that were subject to a post-vesting 
holding period. In the case of the 2006 LTIP, the vested shares were due to be released in December 2012 (one year after the date of vesting) and  
in the case of the Replacement LTIP, in January 2013.
The Remuneration Committee sought legal advice on the impact of the return of cash on these outstanding entitlements and was advised that the 
rules of the 2006 LTIP and Replacement LTIP contained a discretionary power that it could consider invoking in these circumstances to terminate  
the applicable holding periods. 
After careful consideration, the Remuneration Committee concluded that it would be appropriate for the above discretionary power to be exercised 
with effect from (and conditionally upon) the passing of the appropriate resolution at the shareholder meeting approving the return of cash. In 
reaching this decision, the committee took into account the following matters:
 h Change in the nature of the business – The Remuneration Committee concluded that it would be inappropriate for the relevant participants to 
continue to have the value of their awards locked into a business that, as a consequence of the Vedanta transaction/return of cash, was radically 
different to the one that had existed at the time the original holding period requirement was imposed.
 h Alignment with treatment of shareholders – The termination of the holding periods allowed the relevant individuals to participate fully in the return 
of cash in respect of their award shares and also gave them the freedom to decide on the ongoing level of holding they wished to maintain in the 
‘post transaction’ Company. This ensured that, in respect of their shares that had already been ‘earned’ on the vesting of awards, participants in 
the 2006 LTIP and Replacement LTIP were able to receive the same benefit, and enjoy the same investment flexibility, as all other shareholders. 
 h Decreasing relevance of the clawback mechanism – The clawback mechanism in the rules of the Replacement LTIP provided for forfeiture to be 
applied where the committee subsequently became aware of any event or circumstance that (i) had occurred or existed at the time the awards 
over Capricorn Units were originally converted into awards over Cairn shares; and (ii) led the committee to conclude that the Capricorn valuation 
used for the purpose of the conversion process was materially overstated at that time. The committee agreed that no events or circumstances  
of this kind had been identified as at January 2012 and it was now highly unlikely that any additional matters would come to light in the period to 
January 2013. It was therefore concluded that there was a very remote possibility of the clawback provisions actually being applied in practice.
2009 LTIP
Participants in the 2009 LTIP, all of whom held unvested awards, were not eligible to participate in the return of cash. In addition, and as a 
consequence of the share capital consolidation, no adjustment was made to the terms of these entitlements with the result that they continue to 
subsist over the same number of shares and subject to the same performance conditions.
Grant of Share Award to Sir Bill Gammell 
In the Circular to shareholders convening the general meeting for 30 January 2012 the Company proposed a resolution seeking shareholder approval 
for a share award to Sir Bill Gammell to recognise his leadership of the deal negotiations with Vedanta and his delivery of the disposal of 40% of Cairn 
India to Vedanta prior to the longstop date. The share award was to take the form of an option to acquire 940,321 ordinary shares at nominal value 
with the award vesting in full on the third anniversary of its date of grant. Following consultation with several institutional shareholders and their 
representative bodies in connection with the proposed award, the Board withdrew the resolution from consideration at the general meeting and has 
now determined not to pursue the proposed award. Meetings with shareholders will be held in April 2012 to close out this matter and to discuss the 
Remuneration Report.
Pension Arrangements 
The Company operates a defined contribution group personal pension plan in the UK. The scheme is non-contributory and all UK permanent 
employees are eligible to participate. The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary (15% in respect of senior executives) on behalf of all 
qualifying employees. The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the 
Company’s pension arrangements. 
Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown are members of the Company plan and, during the year, both received a contribution equal to 15% of their respective 
annual basic salaries. 
Simon Thomson has an individual personal pension plan and, during the year, received a contribution from the Company equal to 15% of his annual 
basic salary. 
The pension arrangements for those individuals who ceased to be Executive Directors during the year were as follows:
 h Malcolm Thoms had an individual personal pension plan and, for the period to 30 June 2011, received a contribution to the plan equal to 15%  
of his annual basic salary for that period; and
 h Sir Bill Gammell and Phil Tracy both received an amount equivalent to 15% of their respective annual basic salaries for the period to 30 June 2011 
in the form of additional salary, as their pension arrangements were fully funded.
Further details of the contributions made by the Company in respect of each Executive Director are set out in the remuneration table on page 80. 
The Company is also the principal employer for a Small Self-Administered Scheme. Sir Bill Gammell is the sole member of this scheme. The 
Company is not contractually obliged to make any contributions into this scheme on behalf of Sir Bill Gammell and did not do so during the year.
1. Unaudited Information Continued 76  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
During the year, and in anticipation of the Company’s future requirements following completion of the part sale of its shareholding in Cairn India to 
Vedanta, it was decided to reduce the size of the Board with the result that the positions of Chief Operating Officer and Engineering and Operations 
Director became redundant. As a consequence, Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy stood down from the Board and left the Company’s employment on 
30 June 2011.
Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive and following consultation with the Company’s major shareholders, took over as Non-Executive 
Chairman from Norman Murray. Sir Bill also agreed to continue as Chairman of Cairn India and retained overall responsibility for the Vedanta 
transaction. All of these changes took effect on 1 July 2011. Sir Bill subsequently resigned as Chairman and a Non-Executive Director of Cairn  
India following completion of the sale by the Company of 40% of the fully diluted share capital of Cairn India to Vedanta in December 2011.
Details of the payments made in connection with the above cessations of employment, all of which were made following detailed legal advice 
obtained by the Company, are set out below:
Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy
Both Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy received on termination of their employment and in settlement of their contractual entitlements, a payment  
of salary and benefits in lieu of their contractual notice period of one year (Malcolm Thoms: £466,000; and Phil Tracy: £468,000) and a cash bonus 
under the Company’s Annual Cash Bonus Scheme (Malcolm Thoms: £200,000; and Phil Tracy: £200,000). They also received enhanced redundancy 
payments in line with the Company’s established custom and practice i.e. four weeks pay for each year of service, pro-rated for part-years (Malcolm 
Thoms: £633,000; and Phil Tracy: £254,000). These payments reflected periods of continuous employment of 22 years in the case of Malcolm 
Thoms and nine years in the case of Phil Tracy. The settlements with each of them were recorded in compromise agreements. 
Sir Bill Gammell
Sir Bill Gammell received on termination of his employment and in settlement of his contractual entitlements, a payment of salary and benefits  
in lieu of his contractual notice period of one year (£770,000) and a cash bonus under the Company’s Annual Cash Bonus Scheme of £625,000. 
Redundancy compensation was not paid as the position of Chief Executive was not redundant. The settlement with Sir Bill was recorded in a 
compromise agreement.
In addition to the above, each of Malcolm Thoms, Phil Tracy and Sir Bill Gammell were considered to be ‘good leavers’ for the purposes of the 
Company’s various share incentive plans in which they participated. 
All Employee Share Schemes 
Share Incentive Plan 2010 
In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM 
Revenue and Customs approved share incentive plan (SIP) in April 2010. The SIP provides eligible employees, including the Executive Directors,  
with the following benefits: 
 h ‘Partnership shares’ – employees can authorise deductions of up to £1,500 per tax year from pre-tax salary, which are then used to acquire 
ordinary shares on their behalf.
 h ‘Matching shares’ – the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two 
matching shares for every one partnership share purchased. For the tax year 2011/2012, the Company awarded two matching shares for every 
one partnership share purchased and intends to continue using this award ratio for the tax year 2012/2013.
 h ‘Free shares’ – employees can be given up to £3,000 worth of ordinary shares free in each tax year. On 20 June 2011, an award of free shares 
was made to employees, including the Executive Directors. 
As the SIP is an ‘all-employee’ arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to 
its terms.
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
1. Unaudited Information Continued
Payments in Connection with Cessation of Executive Directors’ Employment During 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  77    
Leadership and Governance
Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows:
   partnership Matching  t otal sip
  Free shares shares awarded shares awarded shares held at 
 t otal sip shares  awarded during during the year during the year 31 december 201 1 
 held at 1 j anuary the year at a price at prices between at prices between or date of 
  201 1 of £4.00 per share £2.901 and £4.221 £2.901 and £4.2215 cessation of office
Current directors     
Sir Bill Gammell
(1)
 1,834 0 355 710 0
Simon Thomson 1,834 750 356 712 3,652
Dr Mike Watts 1,834 750 356 712 3,652
Jann Brown 1,834 750 356 712 3,652
 
Former directors     
Malcolm Thoms
(2)
 1,834 0 355 710 2,899
Phil Tracy
(2)
 1,834 0 355 710 2,899
Notes: 
(1) Sir Bill Gammell was granted awards of both free and matching shares and purchased partnership shares while he was an Executive Director of the Company. Pursuant to the SIP 
rules, these shares were removed from the SIP and transferred to Sir Bill following the cessation of his employment as Chief Executive of the Company on 1 July 2011. 
(2) Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy ceased employment on 30 June 2011 following which the outstanding balances of shares held by them in the SIP were released. 
The total number of shares held by each of the current executive directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the 
directors’ report on page 56. The Company does not have a policy regarding executive shareholding requirements. 
Share Option Schemes for Other Employees 
Introduction 
The Company currently operates the following share option schemes for employees below senior management level.
 h 2009 Approved Share Option Plan (‘2009 Approved Option Plan’) 
 h 2009 Unapproved Share Option Plan (‘2009 Unapproved Option Plan’)
 h Replacement Share Option Plan (‘Replacement Option Plan’)
 h 2003 Approved Share Option Plan (‘2003 Option Plan’)
 h 2002 Unapproved Share Option Plan (‘2002 Option Plan’)
 h 1996 Second Share Option Scheme (‘1996 Option Scheme’) 
Brief summaries of these arrangements are set out below. It should, however, be noted that none of the Company’s Executive Directors participate 
in any of the above schemes and it is not intended that options will be granted to them under these arrangements in the future. 
2009 Approved Option Plan and 2009 Unapproved Option Plan 
The 2009 Approved Option Plan and the 2009 Unapproved Option Plan, both of which were approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 
2009, are used to grant market value options to less senior employees of the Group. The principal difference between these two arrangements is that 
the approval of HM Revenue and Customs was sought and obtained for the 2009 Approved Option Plan, whereas no such approval was sought in 
relation to the 2009 Unapproved Option Plan. Options granted under the 2009 Unapproved Option Plan and 2009 Approved Option Plan are normally 
exercisable between three and ten years following their grant but only if and to the extent that specified performance conditions have been satisfied. 
The value of ordinary shares over which options may be granted to a participant under the 2009 Unapproved Option Plan and 2009 Approved Option 
Plan in any financial year is subject to a limit of 200% of his/her basic salary (although a 300% of salary limit can be applied to an individual by the 
Remuneration Committee in exceptional circumstances). 
The first options under the 2009 Unapproved Option Plan and 2009 Approved Option Plan were granted on 29 May 2009, with further awards being 
made to selected employees during 2010 and 2011. A summary of the performance conditions that will determine the extent to which these options 
vest at the end of the applicable performance period is provided on page 87. 
Replacement Option Plan 
The Replacement Option Plan, which was approved by shareholders at an EGM on 21 December 2009, was introduced to facilitate the conversion  
of certain options that had previously been granted by the Company under the Cairn Energy PLC Share Option Plan 2006 (‘2006 Plan’). 
Converted options granted under the Replacement Option Plan comprise conditional rights to acquire ordinary shares for a specified price, the 
vesting of which is normally dependent on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance 
conditions are met over a specified period of three years. 
A summary of the performance conditions that determine the extent to which converted options vest at the end of the applicable performance period 
is provided on page 87. 
No options were granted under the Replacement Option Plan during 2011 and no further awards will be granted pursuant to this arrangement  
in the future. 
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
1. Unaudited Information Continued
All Employee Share Schemes c ontinued
Share Incentive Plan 2010 c ontinued 78  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
1996 Option Scheme, 2002 Option Plan and 2003 Option Plan 
The 1996 Option Scheme, 2002 Option Plan and 2003 Option Plan (all of which have subsequently been superseded) were formerly used by the 
Company to grant options to a broad selection of employees in the Group. Although a number of options granted under these plans currently subsist, 
no further awards will be granted pursuant to their terms. 
A summary of the performance conditions that must be satisfied before awards under these plans can be exercised is provided on page 87. 
Dilution of Share Capital Pursuant to Share Plans 
In any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Company’s discretionary share plans cannot 
exceed 5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. 
In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all the Company’s employee share 
schemes (whether discretionary or otherwise) cannot exceed 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. 
It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market.  
As a result, the SIP does not involve the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares. 
Non-Executive Directors 
The remuneration of each of the Non-Executive Directors (other than the Chairman) is determined by the executive members of the Board and the 
Chairman within limits set out in the Articles of Association and having taken independent advice on appropriate levels. The remuneration of the 
Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee, again based on independent advice. In all cases, the fees are designed to attract 
experienced individuals and reflect the increased responsibilities of the role of the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors. 
With the exception of Sir Bill Gammell’s residual ‘good leaver’ interests in various LTIPs, no Non-Executive Directors participate in any of the 
Company’s share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions. 
The Non-Executive Directors’ fees for 2011 are set out in full in the remuneration table on page 80. On appointment as Chairman, the annual rate of 
fees payable to Sir Bill Gammell was set at £213,000. His fees were increased to £230,000 per annum with effect from 6 March 2012. The annual 
fees for 2011 for the other Non-Executive Directors’ were £66,000, increased to £70,000 for 2012 (representing a 4% increase). In addition to this,  
an annual fee of £10,000 was payable to each of Iain McLaren and Dr James Buckee for their roles as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committee respectively. 
Service Contracts/Letters of Appointment 
The Company’s policy is for all Executive Directors to have contracts of service which can be terminated either by the director concerned or by  
the Company on giving 12 months’ notice of termination. In the event of termination by the Company (other than as a result of a change of control), 
the Executive Directors would be entitled to loss of salary, bonus, benefits and pension contributions for the notice periods. Depending on the 
circumstances of termination, the Executive Directors may be entitled, or the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to allow the 
Executive Director to retain a proportion of his or her outstanding awards under long-term incentive arrangements (but only to the extent that any 
applicable performance conditions have been met). 
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of appointment in terms of which he or she is appointed for a fixed three-year period, subject to  
the Company’s Articles of Association, which provide for retirement by rotation at least once every three years. The letters of appointment set out 
the time commitment expected by the Company and can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company.  
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient time to fulfil his/her duties as a director of the Company. None  
of the Non-Executive Directors has any conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association. The Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection on request 
and will be available for inspection before and during the AGM to be held on 17 May 2012.
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
1. Unaudited Information Continued
Share Option Schemes for Other Employees c ontinued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  79    
Leadership and Governance
Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment of the current directors of the Company are given in the table below.
 Effective date notice period
Executive service contracts 
Simon Thomson  01 .07 .11  12 months
Dr Mike Watts  19.02.03  12 months
Jann Brown  17 .11 .06  12 months
 
Non-Executive letters of appointment  
Sir Bill Gammell 01 .07 .11 None
Todd Hunt 14.05.09 None
Iain McLaren 01 .07 .11 None
Dr James Buckee 15.01 .12 None
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 20.05.10 None
Alexander Berger 20.05.10 None
As stated in the Corporate Governance Statement, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Company’s directors will be 
subject to annual re-election by shareholders with effect from the AGM to be held on 17 May 2012.
Certain of the Company’s Executive Directors serve as Non-Executive Directors on the Boards of other companies and are permitted to retain the 
fees relating to those positions. Details of the positions held and the fees receivable are set out in the table below.
 position held Fees (201 1)
Executive Director  
Dr Mike Watts Non-executive director, SOCO International plc £40,000
Simon Thomson Non-executive director, Graham’s The Family Dairy Limited £27,500
Sir Bill Gammell served as Chairman of Cairn India under a letter of appointment from 1 July 2011 to 8 December 2011 (the date on which the 
Company completed the sale of part of its shareholding in Cairn India to Vedanta Resources plc), for which he received fees of $125,000.
The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of Executive Directors accepting positions as Non-Executive Directors of other companies in order to 
widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous. 
The appointment of any Executive Director to a Non-Executive Position with another company must be approved by the Board. In the case of a 
proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only be given if the two companies do not compete in the same 
geographical area. 
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
1. Unaudited Information Continued
Service Contracts/Letters of Appointment c ontinued 80  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
250
200
150
100
50
0 Dec 2006 Dec 2009 Dec 2007 Dec 2010 Dec 2008 Dec 2011
FTSE 100 FTSE 250 Cairn
Both the FTSE 100 Index and FTSE 250 Index were selected as appropriate comparator indices for the two performance graphs shown below.  
Cairn is not currently a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index but was a member of the FTSE 100 for the entirety of 2011 and has also 
previously been a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index.
The graph compares Cairn’s TSR with that of the chosen indices. 
Performance Graph – Comparison of Five-year Cumulative TSR on an Investment of £100
The market value of one Cairn share on 30 December 2011 was £2.653. During 2011, the range of high and low share market values was from 
£2.578 to £4.697.
2. Audited Information 
Details of Directors’ Remuneration for the year 
Directors’ Remuneration 
The remuneration of the directors for the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: 
    compensation 
   Annual for loss of   T otal total Pension pension
  salary Benefits
(1)
 bonus office Fees 2011 2010 2011 2010 
 £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive 
Simon Thomson 425,000 28,311 350,000 – – 803,311 631,286 63,750 54,000
Dr Mike Watts 435,000 12,152 300,000 – – 747,152 780,297 65,250 63,000
Jann Brown  387,500 11,746 400,000
(2)
 – – 799,246 619,903 58,125 54,000
 
Non-Executive         
Sir Bill Gammell
 (3)
 312,500 14,294 – 1,395,126 106,500 1,828,420 978,544 46,875
(4)
 90,000
(4)
Todd Hunt – – – – 66,000 66,000 63,000 – –
Iain McLaren – – – – 76,000 76,000 73,000 – –
Dr James Buckee – – – – 76,000 76,000 73,000 – –
Alexander Berger – – – – 66,000 66,000 38,688 – –
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC – – – – 66,000 66,000 38,688 – –
 
Former directors         
Malcolm Thoms
 (5)
 187,500 11,589 – 1,299,589 – 1,498,678 633,230 28,125 54,000
Phil Tracy
 (6)
 187,500 7,591 – 923,294 – 1,118,385 624,892 28,125
(4)
 54,000
(4)
Norman Murray
 (7)
 – – – – 106,500 106,500 205,000 – –
 1,935,000 85,683 1,050,000 3,618,009 563,000 7,251,692 4,759,528 290,250 369,000
Notes: 
(1) Benefits comprise a company car, permanent health insurance, private health insurance and death in service benefit. 
(2) The annual bonus paid to Jann Brown was calculated with reference to her salary as at the date of award (£400,000). 
(3)  Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive and an Executive Director on 30 June 2011 and was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 1 July 2011. Sir Bill’s salary, benefits, 
pension and annual bonus reflect the period from 1 January 2011 to the date of cessation of his employment and his fees reflect the period from the date of his appointment as a 
Non-Executive Director to the year end.
(4)  As explained on page 75, Sir Bill Gammell and Phil Tracy were both paid an additional amount equivalent to 15% of their respective basic salaries in lieu of pension contributions, 
as their pension arrangements were fully funded. In order to allow a valid comparison to be made with the basic salary and pension payment figures paid in prior years, the 
amount of these additional payments has been included in the pension columns above, rather than in the salary column.
(5) Malcolm Thoms stepped down as an Executive Director on 30 June 2011 and his salary, benefits, annual bonus and pension reflect the period from 1 January 2011 to that date.
(6) Phil Tracy stepped down as an Executive Director on 30 June 2011 and his salary, benefits, annual bonus and pension reflect the period from 1 January 2011 to that date.
(7) Norman Murray stood down as Non-Executive Chairman on 30 June 2011 and his fees reflect the period from 1 January 2011 to that date.
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
1. Unaudited Information Continued
Performance Graphs  Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  81    
Leadership and Governance
2009 LTIP – Total Interest 
The total number of ordinary shares subject to awards held by the current and former Executive Directors pursuant to the 2009 LTIP during the year 
was as follows: 
 
Ordinary shares         At 31.12.1 1 
        lapsed/  or date 
      Awarded vested surrendered of cessation  
     At 01 .01 .1 1 in year in year in year of office
Current Executive Directors     
Simon Thomson     702,000 325,440 0 0 1,027,440
Dr Mike Watts     852,000 377,510 0 0 1,229,510
Jann Brown     744,100 325,440 0 0 1,069,540
 
Former Executive Directors     
Sir Bill Gammell
(1)
     1,095,800 0 0 0 1,095,800
Malcolm Thoms
(1)
     589,700 0 0 0 589,700
Phil Tracy
(1)
     589,700 0 0 0 589,700
Note: 
(1)  Pursuant to the rules of the 2009 LTIP, the awards held by Sir Bill Gammell, Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy did not lapse on their cessation of employment, but will vest at the 
same time and in substantially the same manner as those awards held by current employees. In particular, they will only vest if, and to the extent that, the applicable 
performance conditions have been satisfied.
2009 LTIP – Analysis of Awards
An analysis of the individual awards held by current and former Executive Directors pursuant to the 2009 LTIP during the year is as follows: 
2009 LTIP Awards 
 current Executive directors Former Executive directors
 
   simon dr Mike j ann sir Bill Malcolm phil 
date of grant performance period Market value* thomson Watts Brown Gammell thoms t racy
29.05.09 29.05.09 – 28.05.12 £2.456 491,000 655,000 491,000 674,000 421,000 421,000
26.03.10 26.03.10 – 25.03.13 £4.267 211,000 197,000 253,100 421,800 168,700 168,700
17.06.11 17.06.11 – 16.06.14 £4.033 325,440 377,510 325,440 0 0 0
*  The price shown in this table represents the market value of a Cairn share on the date of grant of award. 
Each of the above awards will ordinarily vest on or shortly after the expiry of the applicable performance period, but only to the extent that the 
performance conditions described on page 84 of this report are satisfied. 
No variations to the terms and conditions of any 2009 LTIP awards were made during the year. 
2006 LTIP – Total Interest 
The total number of Cairn India Units subject to Cairn India Awards held by the current and former Executive Directors pursuant to the 2006 LTIP 
during the year was as follows: 
cairn india Units          lapsed/ 
        Awarded vested surrendered 
       At 01 .01 .1 1 in year in year in year At 31.12.1 1
Current Executive Directors     
Simon Thomson       58,230 0 34,573 23,657 0
Dr Mike Watts       81,520 0 48,401 33,119 0
Jann Brown       116,460 0 69,146 47,314 0
 
Former Executive Directors     
Sir Bill Gammell       223,600 0 132,760 90,840 0
Malcolm Thoms       139,750 0 82,975 56,775 0
Phil Tracy       139,750 0 82,975 56,775 0
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
2. Audited Information Continued
Directors’ Interests in Shares Under the Company’s Various LTIPs 82  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
2006 LTIP – Analysis of Cairn India Awards
An analysis of the individual Cairn India Awards held by current and former Executive Directors pursuant to the 2006 LTIP during the year is as follows: 
 
cairn india Units current Executive directors Former Executive directors
 
     Unit simon dr Mike j ann sir Bill Malcolm phil 
performance period     value* thomson Watts Brown Gammell thoms tracy
07.05.08 – 06.05.11     £3.22 58,230 81,520 116,460 223,600 139,750 139,750
 
*  The ‘unit value’ shown in the table above represents the notional value of a Cairn India Unit on the date of commencement of the performance period as calculated in accordance 
with the provisions of the 2006 LTIP. 
Cairn India Awards ordinarily vest on or shortly after the expiry of the applicable performance period, but only to the extent that the performance 
conditions described on page 85 of this report are satisfied. The value of a participant’s vested Cairn India Units is then settled in the form of ordinary 
shares in the Company. 
No variations to the terms and conditions of any Cairn India Awards were made during the year. 
Replacement LTIP – Total Interest 
The total number of Converted Awards held by current and former Executive Directors pursuant to the Replacement LTIP during the year was as follows: 
Ordinary shares           lapsed/ 
        Awarded vested surrendered 
       At 01 .01 .1 1 in year in year in year At 31.12.1 1
Current Executive Directors     
Simon Thomson       426,790 0 567,630 0 0
Dr Mike Watts       597,507 0 794,684 0 0
Jann Brown       284,527 0 378,420 0 0
 
Former Executive Directors     
Sir Bill Gammell       546,291 0 726,567 0 0
Malcolm Thoms       341,432 0 454,104 0 0
Phil Tracy       341,432 0 454,104 0 0
* An explanation of the methodology used to determine the number of ordinary shares that vested during the year under the Replacement LTIP is set out on page 83. 
Replacement LTIP – Analysis of Converted Awards 
An analysis of the individual Converted Awards held by current and former Executive Directors pursuant to the Replacement LTIP during the year  
is as follows: 
converted Awards current Executive directors Former Executive directors
 
   simon dr Mike j ann sir Bill Malcolm phil 
date of grant performance period Market value* thomson Watts Brown Gammell thoms t racy
22.12.09 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 £3.188 426,790 597,507 284,527 546,291 341,432 341,432
* The price shown in this table represents the market value of a Cairn share on the date of grant of the Converted Award.  
As explained on page 74, the above Converted Awards were granted to the Executive Directors in consideration for the surrender of their outstanding 
Capricorn Awards granted under the 2006 LTIP. Converted Awards vest on or shortly after the expiry of the applicable performance period, but only 
to the extent that the performance condition described on page 86 of this report are satisfied. 
No variations to the terms and conditions of any Converted Awards were made during the year. 
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
2. Audited Information Continued
Directors’ Interests in Shares Under the Company’s Various LTIPs c ontinued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  83    
Leadership and Governance
Awards Vesting During the year – Overview 
On 6 May 2011, the three-year performance period applicable to certain awards granted under the 2006 LTIP and Replacement LTIP came to an end. 
Thereafter, the Remuneration Committee determined that the relevant performance conditions (see pages 85 and 86 for full details) had been met to 
the following extent: 
 h in the case of the Cairn India Awards granted under the 2006 LTIP, Cairn India’s TSR performance over the period was ranked between median 
and upper decile in the applicable comparator group resulting in a vesting of approximately 59% of the Cairn India Units over which the awards 
subsisted; and
 h in the case of the Converted Awards granted under the Replacement LTIP, the Company’s TSR performance over the period was (i) ranked above 
upper decile in the applicable comparator group; and (ii) in excess of 150%. The 1.33 ‘multiplier’ contained within the rules of the Replacement 
LTIP was therefore applied in full, resulting in a vesting of 133% of the ordinary shares over which the awards subsisted.  
The calculations used to determine these vesting percentages were carried out by Cairn and independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.  
Details of LTIP awards which vested during 2011 pursuant to the 2006 LTIP and Replacement LTIP are given in the tables below. 
Awards Vesting During 2011 – Cairn India Awards (2006 LTIP) 
   no. of Units     
   originally    Ordinary Market 
   subject to Unit value   shares value on 
director date of Award performance period award at grant vesting date Units vesting vesting
(1)
 vesting
Current Executive Directors        
Simon Thomson 07.05.08 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 58,230 £3.22 16.12.11 34,573 48,475 £2.65
Dr Mike Watts 07.05.08 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 81,520 £3.22 16.12.11 48,401 67,863 £2.65
Jann Brown 07.05.08 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 116,460 £3.22 16.12.11 69,146 96,950 £2.65
 
Former Executive Directors       
Sir Bill Gammell
(2)
 07.05.08 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 223,600 £3.22 16.12.11 132,760 186,144 £2.65
Malcolm Thoms
(2)
 07.05.08 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 139,750 £3.22 16.12.11 82,975 116,340 £2.65
Phil Tracy
(2)
 07.05.08 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 139,750 £3.22 16.12.11 82,975 116,340 £2.65
Notes: 
(1)  The number of ordinary shares to which a participant became entitled on the vesting of the above Cairn India Awards was calculated by reference to (i) a fair market value per 
Cairn India Limited share of INR 300.95 (being the closing price of such share on the day preceding the vesting date); and (ii) a market value per ordinary share of £2.646 (being 
the closing middle market quotation of an ordinary share on the day preceding the vesting date).
(2)  As explained on page 81 of this report, the awards that were held by Sir Bill Gammell, Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy did not lapse on their cessation of employment with the 
Company, but instead vested at the same time and in the same manner as the current employees of the Company save that, on such vesting, all of the ordinary shares to which 
these former employees became entitled were released immediately. 
In accordance with the rules of the 2006 LTIP, 50% of the ordinary shares in respect of which the current Executive Directors’ Cairn India Awards 
vested were released to them immediately. The remaining 50% of these ordinary shares became subject to a withholding period during which they 
were withheld by the trustee. However, as explained on page 75 of this report, this holding period terminated with effect from the passing of the 
return of cash resolution at the general meeting held on 30 January 2012 and the relevant ordinary shares were released to the individuals in question 
immediately thereafter.
Awards Vesting During 2011 – Converted Awards (Replacement LTIP)
   no. of ordinary shares   Ordinary Market 
   originally subject to Market value  shares value on 
director date of Award performance period award at grant vesting date vesting
(1)
 vesting
Current Executive Directors       
Simon Thomson 22.12.09 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 426,790 £3.188 06.06.11 567,630 £4.2355
Dr Mike Watts 22.12.09 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 597,507 £3.188 06.06.11 794,684 £4.2355
Jann Brown 22.12.09 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 284,527 £3.188 06.06.11 378,420 £4.2355
 
Former Executive Directors       
Sir Bill Gammell 22.12.09 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 546,291 £3.188 06.06.11 726,567 £4.2355
Malcolm Thoms 22.12.09 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 341,432 £3.188 06.06.11 454,104 £4.2355
Phil Tracy 22.12.09 07.05.08 – 06.05.11 341,432 £3.188 06.06.11 454,104 £4.2355
(1)  As explained above, these Converted Awards vested in respect of 133% of the ordinary shares over which they were originally granted as a result of the application of the 1.33 
‘multiplier’ contained within the rules of the Replacement LTIP. 
Following the above vesting, a total of 1,741,229 ordinary shares acquired by the current and former Executive Directors were sold on their behalf to 
fund the tax and national insurance liabilities arising on vesting. The balance of the ordinary shares acquired became subject to an extended holding 
period during which they were held by the trustee as nominee for each of the individuals. However, as explained on page 75 of this report, this 
holding period terminated with effect from the passing of the return of cash resolution at the general meeting held on 30 January 2012 and the 
relevant ordinary shares were released to the individuals in question immediately thereafter.
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
2. Audited Information Continued
Directors’ Interests in Shares Under the Company’s Various LTIPs c ontinued 84  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Overview of SIP Performance Conditions 
Introduction 
The vesting of each award and option granted under the Company’s various SIPs is conditional on the achievement of performance conditions 
determined by the Remuneration Committee at the relevant date of grant. Set out below is a summary of the conditions applicable to awards and 
options that were outstanding during the year. 
In the case of the Company’s LTIPs (being the arrangements in which the Executive Directors participate), the conditions principally relate to the TSR 
performance of the Company. These TSR measures were selected by the Remuneration Committee on the basis that they improve shareholder 
alignment and are consistent with the Company’s objective of delivering long-term value to shareholders. 
On the expiry of the performance period applicable to an award or option, the calculations necessary to determine the extent to which the relevant 
conditions have been satisfied are subject to independent verification by Ernst & Young LLP. 
2009 LTIP 
In the case of all outstanding awards granted under the 2009 LTIP, the extent to which they vest will be determined by comparing the TSR of the 
Company over a three year performance period with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group. The tables below show the 
comparator groups for each tranche of awards granted under the 2009 LTIP to executive directors.
2009 ltip awards granted on 29 May 2009 2009 l tip awards granted on 26 March 2010 2009 l tip awards granted on 17 j une 201 1
Addax Petroleum, Inc* BG Group PLC Afren PLC
BG Group PLC Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited  BG Group PLC
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited Chesapeake Energy Corporation Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited
Chesapeake Energy Corporation CNOOC Limited DNO ASA
CNOOC Limited Dana Petroleum PLC* EnQuest PLC
Dana Petroleum PLC EOG Resources, Inc EOG Resources, Inc
EOG Resources, Inc Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited JKX Oil & Gas PLC
Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited Indian Oil Corporation Limited Melrose Resources PLC
Indian Oil Corporation Limited Newfield Exploration Company Newfield Exploration Company
Newfield Exploration Company Noble Energy, Inc Noble Energy, Inc
Noble Energy, Inc Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited
Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited PTT Exploration & Production PLC Premier Oil PLC
PTT Exploration & Production PLC Premier Oil PLC Salamander Energy PLC
Premier Oil PLC Santos Limited Santos Limited
Santos Limited SOCO International PLC Talisman Energy, Inc
SOCO International PLC Talisman Energy, Inc Tullow Oil PLC
Talisman Energy, Inc Tullow Oil PLC Woodside Petroleum Limited
Tullow Oil PLC Woodside Petroleum Limited 
Woodside Petroleum Limited  
 
* Denotes companies that have delisted during the applicable performance period.
At the end of the performance period, each company in the comparator group will be listed in order of TSR performance to produce a ‘ranking table’. 
The vesting of awards will then take place as follows: 
r anking of c ompany against the comparator group percentage of ordinary shares comprised in Award that vest
Below median 0%
Median 20%
Upper decile (i.e. top 10%) 100%
Between median and upper decile 20% – 100% on a straight line basis
 
In order to make sure that the 2009 LTIP encourages and rewards exceptional performance, the performance conditions attaching to awards also 
provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator group, a participant 
will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his/her award that vests through the application of a ‘multiplier’ that is linked to the 
TSR actually achieved over the performance period. The way in which this multiplier will operate is as follows: 
 
Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest tsr of the c ompany over the performance period
1 50% or less
1.33 100% or more
1 – 1.33 on a straight line basis Between 50% and 100%
However, notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any award will vest unless the Remuneration 
Committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over  
the performance period. 
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
2. Audited Information Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  85    
Leadership and Governance
In the case of the Cairn India Awards that were granted under the 2006 LTIP and which vested on 16 December 2011, the extent of vesting was 
determined by comparing the TSR of a Cairn India share over a three year performance period with the TSR of a share in each company in the 
following comparator group:
c airn india Awards with performance period commencing on 7 May 2008
Addax Petroleum, Inc*
BG Group PLC
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited 
Chesapeake Energy Corporation
CNOOC Limited
EOG Resources, Inc
Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited 
Indian Oil Corporation Limited
Newfield Exploration Company
Noble Energy, Inc
Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited 
PTT Exploration & Production PLC
Santos Limited
Talisman Energy, Inc
Tullow Oil PLC
Venture Production PLC*
Woodside Petroleum Limited
* Denotes companies that have delisted during the applicable performance period.
At the end of the performance period, each company in the comparator group was listed in order of TSR performance to produce a ‘ranking table’. 
The vesting of Cairn India Awards was then calculated as follows:
r anking of c airn india share against the comparator group percentage of c airn india Units comprised in Award that vest
Below median 0%
Median 20%
Upper decile (i.e. top 10%) 100%
Between median and upper decile 20% – 100% on a straight line basis
 
For the same reasons as noted above in relation to the 2009 LTIP, where the TSR of a Cairn India share produced a ranking at or above the upper 
decile level in the above comparator group, the percentage of the relevant Cairn India Award that vested could be increased through the application of 
the following ‘multiplier’ linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period: 
Multiplier applied to determine the number of c airn india Units that actually vest tsr of c airn india over the performance period
1 40% or less
1.33 80% or more
1 – 1.33 on a straight line basis Between 40% and 80%
 
However, no multiplier was applied in relation to the Cairn India Awards that vested on 16 December 2011.
Notwithstanding the performance of a Cairn India share against the above targets, no part of any Cairn India Award would have vested unless the 
Remuneration Committee was satisfied that there had been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company 
as a whole over the performance period.
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
2. Audited Information Continued
Overview of SIP Performance Conditions c ontinued
2006 LTIP (Cairn India Awards) 86  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
The vesting of the Converted Awards on 6 June 2011 was determined by the extent to which specified performance conditions were satisfied over 
the original three year performance period that applied to the 2006 LTIP Capricorn Award that it has replaced pursuant to the conversion mechanism 
described on page 74. 
The terms of these conditions that applied to each Converted Award were the same as those that applied to the Capricorn Award that it replaced. In 
particular, the extent to which a Converted Award vested was determined by comparing the TSR of the Company over the applicable performance 
period with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group (see below) with vesting taking place as follows: 
r anking of the c ompany against the comparator group percentage of ordinary shares comprised in converted Award that vest
Below median 0%
Median 20%
Upper decile (i.e. top 10%) 100%
Between median and upper decile 20% – 100% on a straight line basis
For the same reasons as noted above in relation to the 2009 LTIP, where the TSR of the Company produced a ranking at or above the upper decile 
level in the appropriate comparator group, the percentage of the relevant Converted Award that vested could be increased through the application of 
the following ‘multiplier’ linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period: 
Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest tsr of the c ompany over the performance period
1 75% or less
1.33 150% or more
1 – 1.33 on a straight line basis Between 75% and 150%
A multiplier of 1.33 applied to the Converted Awards that vested on 6 June 2011.
For the purposes of the above conditions, the TSR performance of the Company over the performance period was calculated by aggregating (i) the 
growth in the TSR of a Capricorn Unit achieved between the start of the period and the ‘conversion date’ (being the date on which the conversion 
mechanism described on page 74 became effective); and (ii) the growth in the TSR of a Cairn share between the conversion date and the end of  
the period. 
Notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any Converted Award would have vested unless the 
Remuneration Committee was satisfied that there had been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company 
as a whole over the performance period. 
The comparator group applicable to each Converted Award was identical to the group that applied to the Capricorn Award it replaced. The table 
below shows the comparator group for the Converted Awards that vested on 6 June 2011. 
c onverted Awards with performance period commencing on 7 May 2008
Dana Petroleum PLC*
DNO ASA
Egdon Resources PLC
Hardy Oil & Gas PLC
Imperial Energy Corporation PLC*
JKX Oil & Gas PLC
Melrose Resources PLC
Premier Oil PLC
Regal Petroleum PLC
Salamander Energy PLC
Sibir Energy PLC*
SOCO International PLC
Sterling Energy PLC
Tullow Oil PLC
Venture Production PLC*
 
* Denotes companies that have delisted during the applicable performance period. 
2. Audited Information Continued
Overview of SIP Performance Conditions c ontinued
Replacement LTIP 
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  87    
Leadership and Governance
2. Audited Information Continued
Overview of SIP Performance Conditions c ontinued
l eadership and Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Continued
2009 Approved Option Plan and 2009 Unapproved Option Plan 
All options granted under the above arrangements are subject to a TSR growth target measured over a three year performance period. Under this 
target, vesting will occur as follows: 
Average annual compound growth in tsr of the c ompany over the performance period percentage of ordinary shares comprised in option that vests
Less than 5% 0%
5% 50%
10% or more 100%
More than 5% but less than 10% 50% – 100% on a straight line basis
Notwithstanding the above condition, no part of an option granted under the 2009 Approved Option Plan or 2009 Unapproved Option Plan will vest 
unless the TSR of the Company over the performance period is sufficient to place it at or above the median level in the same comparator group of 
companies that is used for the purposes of the 2009 LTIP (see table on page 84). 
Replacement Option Plan 
The vesting of a Converted Option is determined by the extent to which specified performance conditions are satisfied over the original three year 
performance period that applied to the 2006 Plan Capricorn Unit option that it replaced pursuant to the exchange mechanism described on page 77. 
The terms of these conditions that apply to each Converted Option are the same as those applied to the Capricorn Unit option that it has replaced. In 
particular, the extent to which a Converted Option vests is determined by reference to the Company’s achievement against a share price growth 
target measured over the applicable performance period. Under this target, vesting occurs as follows: 
Average annual compound growth in the price percentage of ordinary shares comprised 
of a cairn share over the performance period in c onverted Option that vests
Less than 5% 0%
5% 50%
10% or more 100%
More than 5% but less than 10% 50% – 100% on a straight line basis
Notwithstanding the above condition, no part of a Converted Option can vest unless the TSR of the Company over the performance period is 
sufficient to place it at or above the median level in the same comparator group of companies that is used for the purposes of the Converted Awards 
granted under the Replacement LTIP (see the table above).
1996 Scheme, 2002 Option Plan and 2003 Option Plan
In the case of all outstanding options under the 1996 Scheme, 2002 Option Plan and 2003 Option Plan, the option holder may only exercise his/her 
award if Cairn’s share price has increased by 5% on a compound basis over the period from the date of grant to the date of exercise; and the percentage 
increase in Cairn’s share price over the same period is at least equal to or greater than the percentage movement in the FTSE Oil and Gas Index.
I have now completed my three year tenure as Chairman of the committee and therefore with effect from 5 March 2012 stood down from the role.  
I will however continue as a member of the committee. M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC took over as Chairwoman of the committee with effect from the 
same date.
By Order of the Board 
Dr James Buckee 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee during 2011
23 March 2012 88  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
independent a uditor’s Report to 
the members o f Cairn energy PlC 
We have audited the financial statements of Cairn Energy PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Group Income Statement, 
the Group and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent 
Company Statements of Cash Flows, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1.1 to 7.2 and 
Appendices 1 to 3. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit 
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we 
read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion:
 h the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of 
the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 h the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
 h the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 h the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 h the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 h the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements. 
Matters on which we are Required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 h adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
 h the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
 h certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 h we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 h the directors’ statement, set out on page 35, in relation to going concern;
 h the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code specified for our review; and
 h certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
James Douglas Nisbet (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor  
Glasgow
23 March 2012
Notes:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Cairn Energy PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these 
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  89    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
90 Group Income Statement
91 Statements of Comprehensive Income
92 Balance Sheets
93 Statements of Cash Flows
94 Statements of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Financial Statements
96 Section 1 – Basis of Preparation
96 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies
 Assets and Investments 
98 Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets
98 2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets
100 2.2 Capital Commitments
101 2.3 Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets
102 Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital
102 3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets
103 3.2 Net Funds
104 3.3 Trade and Other Receivables
105 3.4 Trade and Other Payables
106 3.5 Financial Instruments 
108 Section 4 – Other Assets and Liabilities
108 4.1 Intangible Assets – Other
110 4.2 Investments in Subsidiaries
111 4.3 Assets and Liabilities Held-for-Sale
112 Section 5 – Results for the Year
112 5.1 Segmental Analysis
115 5.2 Operating Loss
115 5.3 Exceptional Items
116 5.4 Staff Costs
116 5.5 Directors’ Emoluments
116 5.6 Finance Income
116 5.7 Finance Costs
117 5.8 Taxation on Loss
119 5.9 Discontinued Operations
121 5.10 Earnings per Ordinary Share
122 Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
122 Capital Structure
122 6.1 Issued Capital and Reserves
123 6.2 Capital Management
124 6.3 Share-based Payments 
126 Other Disclosures
126 6.4 Related Party Transactions
126 6.5 Guarantees
127 Section 7 – Events After the Balance Sheet Date
127 7.1 Farm Down Agreement with Statoil ASA
127 7.2 Return of Cash to Shareholders
Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements
128 Appendix 1 – Principal Subsidiary Undertakings
129 Appendix 2 – Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies
131 Appendix 3 – Share-based Payments 90  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Group Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
      Y ear ended Y ear ended
      31 December 201 1 31 December 2010 
     Section $m $m
Continuing operations
 
Production costs     5.2 2.7 (1.1)
Pre-award costs      (16.7) (12.7)
Unsuccessful exploration costs     2.1 (941 .8) (211.9)
Other operating income      – 0.8
Administrative expenses      (32.8) (35.0)
Exceptional administrative expenses     5.3 (6.7) (35.6)
Impairment     5.2 (141 .0) (16.0)
Gain on sale of intangible exploration/appraisal assets    5.2 – 12.6
 
Operating loss      (1,136.3) (298.9)
Finance income     5.6 2.2 2.5
Finance costs     5.7 (55.2) (7.2)
 
Loss before taxation from continuing operations     (1,189.3) (303.6)
 
Taxation 
Tax (charge)/credit     5.8 (0.1) 0.3
 
Loss after taxation from continuing operations     (1,189.4) (303.3)
 
Profit for the year from discontinued operations    5.9 5,754.6 1,386.5
 
Profit for the year      4,565.2 1,083.2
 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent      4,101 .1 794.3
Non-controlling interests      464.1 288.9
 
Earnings per ordinary share – basic (cents)     5.10 330.93 64.41
Earnings per ordinary share – diluted (cents)     5.10 330.58 64.41
 
Loss per ordinary share – basic from continuing operations (cents)   5.10 (95.98) (24.59)
Loss per ordinary share – diluted from continuing operations (cents)   5.10 (95.98) (24.59) Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  91    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Statements of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
    Group Group Company Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010 
   Section $m $m $m $m
Profit for the year    4,565.2 1,083.2 4,172.7 150.2
 
Other comprehensive income 
Deficit on valuation of financial assets   3.1 (127 .7) – – –
Deferred tax credit on valuation of financial assets    19.8 – – –
Currency translation differences    (33.9) 0.5 28.1 (25.6)
Currency translation differences recycled on disposal of subsidiary  5.9 84.5 – – –
 
Other comprehensive income for the year     (57 .3) 0.5 28.1 (25.6)
 
Total comprehensive income for the year    4,507 .9 1,083.7 4,200.8 124.6
 
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of the parent    4,057 .4 793.6 4,200.8 124.6
Non-controlling interests     450.5 290.1 – –
 
     4,507 .9 1,083.7 4,200.8 124.6 92  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Balance Sheets
As at 31 December 201 1
    Group Group Company Company
     2011 2010 2011 2010 
    Section $m $m $m $m
Non-current assets
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets   2.1 80.8 262.8 – –
Property, plant & equipment – other    1.5 1.1 0.1 0.2
Intangible assets – other   4.1 1.2 64.9 – –
Available-for-sale financial assets   3.1 2,463.3 – – –
Investments in subsidiaries   4.2 – – 536.3 918.4
 
     2,546.8 328.8 536.4 918.6
 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables   3.3 93.1 39.4 679.7 93.3
Cash and cash equivalents   3.2 4,730.7 187.0 4,055.8 45.6
 
      4,823.8 226.4 4,735.5 138.9
 
Assets held-for-sale   4.3 – 4,725.6 – –
 
Total assets    7 ,370.6 5,280.8 5,271 .9 1,057.5
 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables   3.4 209.1 77.0 79.5 82.4
Provisions    14.0 2.8 – –
Income tax liabilities     0.1 0.1 – –
 
     223.2 79.9 79.5 82.4
 
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities   5.8 254.1 – – –
 
    254.1 – – –
 
Liabilities related to disposal units held-for-sale  4.3 – 1,362.5 – –
 
Total liabilities     477 .3 1,442.4 79.5 82.4
 
Net assets     6,893.3 3,838.4 5,192.4 975.1
 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Called-up share capital   6.1 13.9 16.7 13.9 16.7
Share premium   6.1 483.7 484.7 483.7 484.7
Shares held by ESOP Trust    – (8.2) – (8.2)
Shares held by SIP Trust    (1 .7) (0.8) (1 .7) (0.8)
Foreign currency translation    (7 .0) (39.5) – (91.7)
Capital reserves – non distributable    40.2 40.2 0.1 0.1
Available-for-sale reserve    (107 .9) – – –
Retained earnings    6,472.1 2,317.6 4,696.4 574.3
 
     6,893.3 2,810.7 5,192.4 975.1
Non-controlling interests    – 1,027.7 – –
 
Total equity     6,893.3 3,838.4 5,192.4 975.1
Jann Brown   Simon Thomson
Managing Director and  Chief Executive
Chief Financial Officer  23 March 2012
23 March 2012     Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  93    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Statements of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
    Group Group Company Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010 
   Section $m $m $m $m
Cash flows from operating activities 
(Loss)/profit before taxation from continuing activities   (1,189.3) (303.6) 4,172.7 150.2
Profit before taxation from discontinued activities    1,951 .2 1,045.2 – –
 
Profit before taxation    761 .9 741.6 4,172.7 150.2
 
Revenue provision release    (64.0) – – –
Unsuccessful exploration costs    946.2 235.0 – –
Depletion, depreciation, decommissioning and amortisation   3.7 151.0 0.1 –
Share-based payments charge    28.3 68.8 8.9 27.8
Impairment    141 .0 16.0 501 .7 –
Gain on sale of oil and gas assets    – (12.6) – –
Finance income    (56.8) (26.8) (5,431 .5) (9.3)
Finance costs    147 .3 84.6 56.4 6.9
Net interest paid    (72.1) (73.9) (12.7) (6.9)
Income tax paid    (370.5) (221.5) – –
Foreign exchange differences    (20.9) (3.4) (1 .1) (0.1)
Movement on inventory of oil and condensate    (7 .2) (0.1) – –
Trade and other receivables movement    (116.0) (210.6) (588.1) 0.6
Trade and other payables movement    (34.7) 62.8 (1 .1) (18.9)
Movement in other provisions    627 .2 26.2 – –
 
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities   1,913.4 837.1 (1,294.7) 150.3
 
Cash flows from investing activities 
Proceeds on disposal of Cairn India group   5.9c 4,721 .5 – – –
Expenses incurred on disposal of Cairn India group    (15.0) – – –
Expenditure on intangible exploration/appraisal assets   (963.2) (533.7) – –
Expenditure on property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets  (406.7) (526.6) – –
Purchase of property, plant & equipment – other    (3.5) (3.6) – –
Purchase of intangible assets – software    (5.3) (5.9) – –
Investment in subsidiaries    – – (87 .7) (265.0)
Proceeds on disposal of intangible exploration/appraisal assets   1.5 78.5 – –
Dividend received    – – 5,430.0 –
Movement in funds on bank deposits    (715.3) (439.9) – –
Interest received    56.8 43.5 1.5 0.3
 
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities    2,670.8 (1,387.7) 5,343.8 (264.7)
 
Cash flows from financing activities 
Proceeds from increase in non-controlling interest    5.8 11.9 – –
Arrangement and facility fees    (7 .1) (28.5) – –
Proceeds from issue of debentures    – 304.6 – –
Repayment of debentures    (20.5) – – –
Cost of shares purchased    (0.9) (9.8) (0.9) (9.8)
Proceeds from exercise of share options    3.3 11.3 3.3 11.3
Payment of finance lease liabilities    (1 .1) (1.5) – –
Proceeds of borrowings    200.0 (307.2) – –
Return of cash to shareholders    (0.6) – (0.6) –
Repayment of borrowings    (573.0) – – –
 
Net cash flows (used in)/from financing activities   (394.1) (19.2) 1.8 1.5
 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   4,190.1 (569.8) 4,050.9 (112.9)
Opening cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year   625.5 1,176.5 45.6 158.4
Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents    (84.9) 18.8 (40.7) 0.1
 
Closing cash and cash equivalents   3.2 4,730.7 625.5 4,055.8 45.6 94  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Statements of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
  Shares held 
  by ESOP Foreign  Available- 
 Equity T rust and currency Capital for -sale Retained Non-controlling 
 share capital SIP T rust translation reserves reserve earnings interests T otal equity
Group $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m 
At 1 January 2010 490.1 (27 .2) (38.8) 40.2 – 1,488.8 723.9 2,677 .0
Profit for the year – – – – – 794.3 288.9 1,083.2
Currency translation differences – – (0.7) – – – 1.2 0.5
 
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (0.7) – – 794.3 290.1 1,083.7
Exercise of employee share options 11.3 – – – – – – 11.3
Share-based payments – – – – – 58.5 5.8 64.3
Increase in non-controlling interest  
 through the exercise of share options – – – – – 4.0 7 .9 11.9
Cost of shares purchased – (9.8) – – – – – (9.8)
Cost of shares vesting – 28.0 – – – (28.0) – –
 
At 31 December 2010 501 .4 (9.0) (39.5) 40.2 – 2,317 .6 1,027 .7 3,838.4
Profit for the year – – – – – 4,101.1 464.1 4,565.2
Deficit on valuation of financial assets – – – – (127 .7) – – (127.7)
Deferred tax credit on  
 valuation of financial assets – – – – 19.8 – – 19.8
Currency translation differences – – (20.3) – – – (13.6) (33.9)
Currency translation differences  
 recycled on disposal of subsidiary – – 84.5 – – – – 84.5
 
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 64.2 – (107.9) 4,101.1 450.5 4,507.9
Foreign exchange on  
 functional currency change (7 .2) – (31 .7) – – 38.9 – –
Exercise of employee share options 3.3 – – – – – – 3.3
Share-based payments – – – – – 22.2 4.7 26.9
Shares issued for cash 0.1 (0.1) – – – – – –
Costs incurred on return  
 of cash to shareholders – – – – – (0.7) – (0.7)
Cost of shares purchased – (0.9) – – – – – (0.9)
Cost of shares vesting – 8.3 – – – (8.3) – –
Increase in non-controlling interest  
 through the exercise of share options – – – – – 1 .3 4.5 5.8
Disposal of non-controlling interest  
 on sale of subsidiary – – – – – – (1,487.4) (1,487.4)
 
At 31 December 2011 497 .6 (1 .7) (7 .0) 40.2 (107 .9) 6,472.1 – 6,893.3 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  95    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Statements of Changes in Equity Continued
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
   Shares held by 
  Equity share ESOP  T rust and Foreign currency Capital Retained 
  capital SIP T rust translation reserves earnings T otal equity
Company  $m $m $m $m $m $m
At 1 January 2010  490.1 (27 .2) (66.1) 0.1 405.6 802.5
Profit for the year  – – – – 150.2 150.2
Currency translation differences  – – (25.6) – – (25.6)
 
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – (25.6) – 150.2 124.6
Exercise of employee share options  11 .3 – – – – 11.3
Share-based payments  – – – – 46.5 46.5
Cost of shares purchased  – (9.8) – – – (9.8)
Cost of shares vesting  – 28.0 – – (28.0) –
 
At 31 December 2010  501 .4 (9.0) (91 .7) 0.1 57 4.3 975.1
 
Profit for the year  – – – – 4,172.7 4,172.7
Currency translation differences  – – 28.1 – – 28.1
 
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – 28.1 – 4,172.7 4,200.8
Foreign exchange on functional currency change  (7 .2) – 63.6 – (56.4) –
Exercise of employee share options  3.3 – – – – 3.3
Share-based payments  – – – – 14.8 14.8
Shares issued for cash  0.1 (0.1) – – – –
Costs incurred on return of cash to shareholders  – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Cost of shares purchased  – (0.9) – – – (0.9)
Cost of shares vesting  – 8.3 – – (8.3) –
 
At 31 December 2011  497 .6 (1 .7) – 0.1 4,696.4 5,192.4 96  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation
This section contains the Group’s significant accounting policies that relate to the 
financial statements as a whole. Significant accounting policies specific to one note 
have been included in that note. Accounting policies determined non-significant are 
not included in these financial statements. There have been no changes to the Group’s 
accounting policies that are no longer disclosed in the financial statements.
This section also includes new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and
interpretations and their expected impact, if any, on the performance of the Group.
 
1.1 Significant Accounting Policies 
a) Basis of Preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Cairn Energy PLC (‘Cairn’ or ‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue in 
accordance with a resolution of the directors on 23 March 2012. The Group is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom 
whose shares are publicly traded. The registered office is located at 50 Lothian Road, Edinburgh, Scotland.
Cairn prepares its accounts on a historical cost basis. Where there are assets and liabilities calculated on a different basis, this fact is disclosed in the 
relevant accounting policy. 
b) Presentation of Discontinued Operations
In the 2010 consolidated financial statements, the results of discontinued operations were disclosed in a separate column on the face of the Income 
Statement. This information is now given in Section 5.9.
c) Accounting Standards
Cairn prepares its accounts in accordance with applicable IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Group’s financial statements are also consistent with IFRS 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as they apply to accounting periods ended 31 December 2011. 
For the year ending 31 December 2011, Cairn has adopted the following standards and interpretations:
Title Change to Accounting Treatment Impact on Initial Application
IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ 
(amendment)
Presentational changes to the financial 
statements. 
Additional disclosures given in the  
Statement of Changes in Equity for individual 
components of total comprehensive income.
IAS 24 ‘Related Party Transactions’ 
(amendment)
Clarity on the definition of a related party 
and exemption from general related party 
disclosure requirements for transactions 
with Governments.
No impact on the financial position or 
performance of the Group.
IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Presentation‘ (amendment)
Enables entities to classify rights issues  
and certain options or warrants as equity 
instruments.
No impact on the financial position or 
performance of the Group.
For the year ending 31 December 2011, Cairn has adopted the following amendments to standards which resulted through the IASB’s annual 
‘Improvements to IFRS’. There was no impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group as a result of these changes:
 h IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’;
 h IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’; and
 h IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and separate Financial Statements’
The following interpretations and amendments to interpretations which were issued by the IASB have no impact on the accounting policies, financial 
position or performance of the Group:
 h IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’;
 h IFRIC 14 ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement (amendment)’;
 h IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners’; and
 h IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishment of Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  97    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation 
Continued
1.1 Significant Accounting Policies Continued
c) Accounting Standards Continued
The following new standards and interpretations, which are not yet effective and which are not expected to impact on the Group’s financial position 
or performance, have been issued by the IASB:
 h IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement’;
 h IFRS 10 ’Consolidated Financial Statements’;
 h IFRS 11 ‘Joint Ventures’;
 h IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities’;
 h IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’; 
 h IAS 1 ‘Presentation of items in Other Comprehensive Income’; 
 h IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes (amendment) – Deferred Taxes: Recovery of underlying assets’; and
 h IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits (Revised)’
d) Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated accounts include the results of Cairn Energy PLC and its subsidiary undertakings to the Balance Sheet date. The results of 
subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows from the effective date  
of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Cairn allocates the purchase consideration of any acquisition to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess  
of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill. Any goodwill arising is recognised as an asset and  
is subject to annual review for impairment. Goodwill is written off where circumstances indicate that the value of the underlying cash generating unit 
including the asset may no longer support the carrying value of goodwill. Any such impairment loss arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the 
year. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods. Negative goodwill is credited immediately to the Income Statement.
Cairn has used the exemption granted under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 that allows for the non-disclosure of the Income Statement of the 
parent company. The profit attributable to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 was $4,172.7m (2010: profit of $150.2m).
e) Joint Ventures
Cairn participates in several unincorporated Joint Ventures which involve the joint control of assets used in the Group’s oil and gas exploration and 
producing activities. Cairn accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of Joint Ventures in which the Group holds an interest, 
classified in the appropriate Balance Sheet and Income Statement headings. Cairn’s principal licence interests are jointly controlled assets.
A list of Cairn’s interests in unincorporated Joint Ventures is given on page 8.
f) Foreign Currencies 
These accounts continue to be presented in US dollars ($), the functional currency of most companies in the Group. In light of the completion of the 
sale of the 40% interest in Cairn India to Vedanta, the Directors have reviewed the functional currency of Cairn Energy PLC (Company only). The sale 
realised substantial $ income with a significant portion to be retained by the Company to finance future growth of the Cairn Group. With an increasing 
proportion of cash flows of the parent company being denominated in $, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate for the functional currency 
of the Company to change from Sterling to $ from 1 July 2011. 
In the accounts of individual Group companies, Cairn translates foreign currency transactions into the functional currency at the rate of exchange 
prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the 
rate of exchange prevailing at the Balance Sheet date. Exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement except for those incurred  
on borrowings specifically allocable to development projects, which are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
The Group maintains the accounts of the parent and subsidiary undertakings in their functional currency. Where applicable, the Group translates 
parent and subsidiary accounts into the presentation currency, $, using the closing rate method for assets and liabilities which are translated at the 
rate of exchange prevailing at the Balance Sheet date and rates at the date of transactions for Income Statement accounts. Cairn takes exchange 
differences arising on the translation of net assets of Group companies whose functional currency is non $ directly to reserves. 
Rates of exchange to $1 were as follows:
    31 December Average 31 December Average
    2011 2011 2010 2010
 
Sterling    0.644 0.623 0.641 0.647
Indian Rupee    53.015 46.489 44.712 45.662 98  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets
This section focuses on the oil and gas assets which form the core of our business, 
including details of exploration costs incurred in the year, those written off or 
impaired and capital commitments existing at the year end.
Significant Accounting Judgements in this Section:
Indicators of Impairment for Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets
Cairn has reviewed intangible exploration/appraisal assets for indicators of impairment in accordance with IFRS 6 and concluded that such indicators 
did exist on certain of the Group’s assets. Impairment tests were therefore conducted on those assets where indicators of impairments were 
identified. See Section 2.1.
Key Estimates and Assumptions in this Section:
Impairment Testing of Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets
Where indicators of impairment have been identified on certain licences in Greenland and Nepal, there are no development or producing assets 
within the same operating segment to support the carrying value of the exploration costs incurred. All such costs have therefore been impaired in full. 
2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets
Accounting Policies (Summarised)
Cairn follows a successful efforts-based accounting policy for oil and gas assets. 
Costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately to the Income Statement. 
Expenditure incurred on the acquisition of a licence interest is initially capitalised on a licence-by-licence basis. Costs are held, un-depleted,  
within intangible exploration/appraisal assets until such time as the exploration phase on the licence area is complete or commercial reserves have 
been discovered. Exploration expenditure incurred in the process of determining oil and gas exploration targets is capitalised initially within intangible 
exploration/appraisal assets and subsequently allocated to drilling activities. Exploration/appraisal drilling costs are initially capitalised on a well-by-well 
basis until the success or otherwise of the well has been established. The success or failure of each exploration/appraisal effort is judged on a 
well-by-well basis. Drilling costs are written off on completion of a well unless the results indicate that hydrocarbon reserves exist and there is  
a reasonable prospect that these reserves are commercial. 
Following appraisal of successful exploration wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction demonstrated,  
then the related capitalised intangible exploration/appraisal costs are transferred into a single field cost centre within property, plant & equipment 
– development/producing assets after testing for impairment (see below). Where results of exploration drilling indicate the presence of hydrocarbons 
which are ultimately not considered commercially viable, all related costs are written off to the Income Statement. 
Impairment
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets are reviewed regularly for indicators of impairment following the guidance in IFRS 6 ‘Exploration for and 
Evaluation of Mineral Resources’ and tested for impairment where such indicators exist. In such circumstances the exploration/appraisal asset  
is allocated to property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets within the same operating segment and tested for impairment.  
Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year. Where there are no development/producing assets within an  
operating segment, the exploration/appraisal costs are charged immediately to the Income Statement.
At the year end or prior to the intangible exploration/appraisal assets being transferred to assets held-for-sale, the Group reviews intangible/
exploration assets for indicators of impairment. Where an indicator is identified, the asset is tested for impairment.  Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  99    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets
Continued
2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets Continued
    Cairn India  Mediterranean 
    Group Greenland and South Asia Total
Group    $m $m $m $m
Cost
At 1 January 2010    340.6 14.5 232.0 587 .1
Exchange differences arising    (1 .8) – – (1 .8)
Additions    60.8 432.5 28.0 521 .3
Disposals    – – (74.1) (74.1)
Unsuccessful exploration costs    (23.1) (186.7) (94.4) (304.2)
Transfers to assets held-for-sale    (376.5) – (77 .2) (453.7)
 
At 1 January 2011    – 260.3 14.3 274.6
Additions    – 835.9 2.1 838.0
Unsuccessful exploration costs    – (941 .8) – (941.8)
 
At 31 December 2011    – 154.4 16.4 170.8
Impairment
At 1 January 2010    – – 210.9 210.9
Impairment    – – 11.6 11.6
Disposals    – – (65.8) (65.8)
Unsuccessful exploration costs    – – (69.2) (69.2)
Transfers to assets held-for-sale    – – (75.7) (75.7)
 
At 1 January 2011    – – 11 .8 11.8
Impairment    – 74.9 3.3 78.2
 
At 31 December 2011    – 74.9 15.1 90.0
 
Net book value at 31 December 2011    – 79.5 1 .3 80.8
 
Net book value at 31 December 2010    – 260.3 2.5 262.8
 
Net book value at 1 January 2010    340.6 14.5 21 .1 376.2
Assets reclassified as held-for-sale in 2010 include the assets of Cairn India of $376.5m which were being held-for-sale pending completion of the 
Vedanta transaction and $1.5m costs, net of impairment, relating to Tunisian assets; see Section 4.3 for further details. 
Expenditure incurred by Cairn India on exploration/appraisal activities while the assets are classified as held-for-sale is included with expenditure  
on exploration/appraisal assets disclosed in the Cash Flow Statement. 
Unsuccessful Exploration Costs
Total unsuccessful exploration cost write-offs for the year were $941.8m, all relating to Greenland assets. During 2011, the Group drilled five exploration 
wells offshore West Greenland. Three wells, the AT7-1 and the AT2-1 wells on the Attamik Block and the L57-1 well on the Lady Franklin Block, were 
drilled in the South Ungava Area. The other two wells, the Gamma-1 Well on the Eqqua Block and the Delta-1 Well on the Napariaq block, were drilled  
in the West Disko Area. None of the wells drilled encountered commercial volumes of hydrocarbons and consequently all drilling costs incurred in the 
year relating to these wells have been written off as unsuccessful exploration costs. 
Following the results of the Delta-1 well on the Napariaq block, it is now considered unlikely that the Group will re-enter the Alpha-1 well on the 
neighbouring Sigguk block drilled and suspended in 2010. Costs of $210.3m are included in the 2011 unsuccessful exploration costs relating to  
the Alpha-1 well. 
2010 unsuccessful exploration costs of $304.2m include costs of two exploration wells in Greenland and an exploration well in Tunisia. In Greenland 
the T8-1 and the T4-1 wells were drilled on the Sigguk block in the Disko West Area offshore West Greenland. Neither well resulted in commercial 
discoveries and as a result all associated well costs were charged to the Income Statement as unsuccessful exploration costs. 
In April 2010, Cairn completed an exploration well offshore Tunisia in the Louza block. Although minor evidence of light oil was observed, the 
expected target reservoir was not developed in the well. The well therefore was plugged and abandoned without testing and the block subsequently 
relinquished. All related costs were charged to the Income Statement. As $69.2m of these costs were previously impaired, the impairments were 
released on relinquishment of the block. 100  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets
Continued
2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets Continued
Impairment
Following completion of the 2011 Greenland drilling campaign, Cairn has reviewed the remaining costs capitalised as intangible exploration/appraisal 
assets for indicators of impairment. Though none of the wells drilled in 2010 and 2011 have resulted in commercial discoveries, Cairn remains 
encouraged that all ingredients for commercial success are in evidence and exploration/appraisal activities are continuing to evaluate and interpret the 
results of the wells drilled with a view to identifying future exploration targets on these blocks. At this time however, the Group has no firm plans in 
place to drill further on those blocks and Cairn has concluded that indicators of impairment do exist on non-well specific exploration costs associated 
with these blocks. As there are no development or producing assets in the Greenland operating segment, these costs have been impaired in full and 
$74.9m charged to the Income Statement.
In 2011 a further $3.3m of impairment has been charged in relation to the Group’s Nepal assets. The ongoing political instability in the country 
prevents further exploration activities.
Intangible exploration/appraisal costs remaining at the year end include costs incurred on Cairn’s Greenland licences where no drilling has yet taken 
place. The majority of these costs were incurred on the Pitu Block in the Baffin Bay area, offshore Northern Greenland and on the Group’s blocks in 
Southern Greenland where 3D seismic was acquired during 2011 and is currently undergoing interpretation. No adjustments have been made for the 
Statoil farm-down on the Pitu block in January 2012 noted in Section 7.1.
2.2 Capital Commitments
      31 December 31 December
      2011 2010 
Group      $m $m
Oil and gas expenditure:
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets      27 .6 327.0
 
Contracted for      27 .6 327.0
The above capital commitments represent Cairn’s share of obligations in relation to its interests in Joint Ventures. As all Cairn Joint Ventures are 
jointly controlled assets, these commitments represent Cairn’s share of the capital commitment of the Joint Ventures themselves.
The Company had no capital commitments at the Balance Sheet date or at 31 December 2010.
Neither the Group or Company has further material capital expenditure committed at the Balance Sheet date. Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  101    
Financial Statements
2.3 Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets 
     Cairn India Capricorn  
     Group Group Total
Group     $m $m $m
Cost
At 1 January 2010     2,170.0 84.4 2,254.4
Additions     716.6 1.5 718.1
Disposals     – (85.9) (85.9)
Transfers to assets held-for-sale     (2,886.6) – (2,886.6)
 
At 1 January and 31 December 2011     – – –
 
Depletion and decommissioning
At 1 January 2010     341 .7 84.1 425.8
Charge for the year     142.7 0.9 143.6
Disposals     – (85.0) (85.0)
Transfers to assets held-for-sale     (484.4) – (484.4)
 
At 1 January and 31 December 2011     – – –
 
Net book value at 31 December 2011     – – –
 
Net book value at 31 December 2010     – – –
 
Net book value at 1 January 2010     1,828.3 0.3 1,828.6
Assets reclassified as held-for-sale of $2,402.2m in 2010 were the assets of Cairn India which were being held-for-sale pending completion of the 
Vedanta transaction; see Section 4.3 for further details. This included $135.3m of assets under construction which were not yet subject to depletion. 
Included within additions in 2010 was an amount of $28.5m of directly attributable borrowing costs.
In December 2010 Cairn disposed of its interests in Sangu, the Capricorn Group’s sole development/producing asset, to Santos.
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets
Continued 102  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital
This section focuses on the funding available to the Group to pursue new business
opportunities and the working capital position of the Group and Company at the 
year end.
Significant Accounting Judgements in this Section:
Classification of Available-for-sale Financial Assets
Following completion of the transaction with Vedanta, Cairn holds a residual 21.8% investment in the Cairn India Group. As the Group has no 
significant influence in the financial and operating policy decisions of Cairn India following completion of this transaction, given the predominance  
of the majority shareholder and no representation on the Board of Cairn India, the remaining investment has been classified as an available-for-sale 
financial asset rather than accounted for as an investment in an associated undertaking.
Key Estimates and Assumptions in this Section:
There were no key estimations or assumptions in this section.
3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets
Accounting Policy
The Group’s available-for-sale financial assets represent listed equity shares which are held at fair value (the quoted market price). Movements in the 
fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The cumulative gain or loss 
that arises on subsequent disposal of available-for-sale assets will be recycled through the Income Statement.
       Listed equity 
       shares
Group      Section $m
Fair value of the residual available-for-sale financial asset recognised at date of sale    5.9 2,591 .0
Deficit on valuation for period to 31 December 2011      (127 .7)
 
As at 31 December 2011       2,463.3
Available-for-sale financial assets represent the Group’s remaining strategic investment in the fully-diluted share capital of Cairn India, listed in India, 
which by its nature has no fixed maturity or coupon rate. These listed equity securities present the Group with opportunity for return through dividend 
income and trading gains. 
The Group disposed of its majority shareholding in Cairn India in 2011, as disclosed in Section 5.9. The remaining minority holding of 21.8% is not  
held for trading and accordingly is classified as available-for-sale. The fair value of $2,463.3m is based on the closing market value of INR 314.25  
at 31 December 2011. Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  103    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital
Continued
3.2 Net Funds
Accounting Policies
Bank Deposits 
Bank deposits with an original maturity of over three months are held as a separate category of current asset and presented on the face of the 
Balance Sheet.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
    Group Group Company Company 
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    $m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents    4,730.7 187.0 4,055.8 45.6
    4,730.7 187.0 4,055.8 45.6
Bank deposits held in discontinued operations    – 452.6 – –
Cash and cash equivalents held in discontinued operations   – 438.5 – –
Loans and borrowings held in discontinued operations   – (673.7) – –
 
Net cash    4,730.7 404.4 4,055.8 45.6
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods from overnight 
deposits to three months depending on the cash requirements of the Group and Company.
Subsequent to the year end, Cairn announced a return of cash to shareholders. Approximately $3.5 billion of cash was returned to shareholders  
in February 2012. See Section 7.2 for further details.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprises the following:
    Group Group Company Company 
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    $m $m $m $m
Cash and cash equivalents    4,730.7 187.0 4,055.8 45.6
Cash and cash equivalents held in discontinued operations   – 438.5 – –
 
    4,730.7 625.5 4,055.8 45.6 104  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital
Continued
3.3 Trade and Other Receivables
Accounting Policies
Trade and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market are measured at amortised cost  
using the effective interest method less any impairment. Trade and other receivables are recognised when invoiced. Interest income is recognised  
by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables where the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are tested at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective material evidence  
of impairment, for example overdue trade debt. Any impairment losses are recognised through the use of an allowance account. When a trade 
receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited 
against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement or Balance Sheet 
in accordance with where the original receivable was recognised.
    Group Group Company Company 
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    $m $m $m $m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings    – – 677 .3 92.8
Other debtors    25.6 26.1 2.3 0.4
Joint Venture debtors    66.2 12.3 – –
 
    91 .8 38.4 679.6 93.2
 
Prepayments    1.3 1.0 0.1 0.1
 
    93.1 39.4 679.7 93.3
Group
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of Group trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments, is set out below:
  Total < 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days >120 days
  $m $m $m $m $m $m
As at 31 December 2011
Neither past due nor impaired  91.8 91.8 – – – –
 
As at 31 December 2010
Neither past due nor impaired  38.4 38.4 – – – –
There was no Group allowance for doubtful debts made in 2011. The 2010 movement in the Group allowance for doubtful debts individually or 
collectively impaired is set out below:
    Trade  Joint Venture  
    receivables Other debtors debtors Total
    $m $m $m $m
As at 1 January 2010    5.8 – 79.6 85.4
Amounts written off during year*    (0.1) – – (0.1)
(Release of)/increase in allowance recognised in the Balance Sheet*  (5.7) – 4.1 (1 .6)
Transferred to assets held-for-sale    – – (83.7) (83.7)
 
As at 31 December 2010    – – – –
*  The movements in 2010 related to amounts with corresponding balances in trade receivables, deferred income or other creditors in the Balance Sheet, therefore did not affect 
the Income Statement.
In determining the recoverability of a trade or other receivables, the Group carries out a risk analysis based on the type and age of the  
outstanding receivable.  Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  105    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital
Continued
3.3 Trade and Other Receivables Continued
Company
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of the Company’s trade and other receivables is set out below:
  T otal < 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days >120 days
  $m $m $m $m $m $m
As at 31 December 2011
Neither past due nor impaired  4.1 4.1 – – – –
Past due but not impaired  675.5 – – 0.7 0.2 674.6
Past due and impaired  689.2 – – – – 689.2
Allowance for doubtful debts  (689.2) – – – – (689.2)
 
  679.6 4.1 – 0.7 0.2 674.6
As at 31 December 2010
Neither past due nor impaired  3.6 3.6 – – – –
Past due but not impaired  89.6 – 0.2 1 .6 1 .2 86.6
 
  93.2 3.6 0.2 1.6 1.2 86.6
The movement in the Company allowance for doubtful debts individually or collectively impaired is set out below:
      Amounts owed  
      by subsidiaries T otal
      $m $m
As at 1 January 2010 and 1 January 2011      – –
Amounts provided during year      (689.2) (689.2)
 
As at 31 December 2011      (689.2) (689.2)
The allowance for doubtful debts provided during 2011 are individually impaired amounts owed from subsidiary undertakings. 
The allowance for impaired amounts owed from subsidiary undertakings is recognised in the Income Statement of the Company.
3.4 Trade and Other Payables
    Group Group Company Company 
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    $m $m $m $m
Trade payables    2.4 1.5 0.2 0.1
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings    – – 76.1 78.1
Other taxation and social security    5.9 3.8 2.4 2.0
Other creditors    4.5 13.7 – 0.8
Joint Venture creditors    52.5 2.6 – –
Accruals    54.7 15.9 0.8 1.4
Joint Venture accruals    89.1 39.5 – –
 
    209.1 77.0 79.5 82.4 106  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
3.5 Financial Instruments
Accounting Policies
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
Financial assets are categorised as financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables  
and available-for-sale financial assets. The Group holds financial assets which are classified as either available-for-sale financial assets or loans  
and receivables, with the exception of derivative financial instruments which are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities generally substantiate claims for repayment in cash or another financial asset. Financial liabilities are categorised as either fair  
value through profit or loss or held at amortised cost. All of the Group’s financial liabilities are held at amortised cost, with the exception of derivative 
financial instruments which are held at fair value through profit or loss. 
Financial instruments are generally recognised as soon as the Group becomes party to the contractual regulations of the financial instrument.
Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements.
Financial Assets
    Group Group Company Company 
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
    2011 2010 2011 2010
Carrying amount and fair value    $m $m $m $m
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalents    4,730.7 187.0 4,055.8 45.6
Joint Venture debtors    66.2 12.3 – –
Other debtors    25.6 26.1 2.3 0.4
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings    – – 677 .3 92.8
 
Available-for-sale financial assets
Listed equity shares    2,463.3 – – –
 
    7 ,285.8 225.4 4,735.4 138.8
All of the above financial assets are current and unimpaired with the exception of amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings to the Company.  
An analysis of the ageing of trade and other receivables is provided in Section 3.3.
Financial Liabilities 
    Group Group Company Company 
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
    2011 2010 2011 2010
Carrying amount and fair value    $m $m $m $m
Amortised cost
Trade payables    2.4 1.5 0.2 0.1
Joint Venture creditors    52.5 2.6 – –
Other provision    14.0 – – –
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings    – – 76.1 78.1
 
    68.9 4.1 76.3 78.2
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  107    
Financial Statements
3.5 Financial Instruments Continued
Maturity Analysis
All of the Group and Company’s financial liabilities have a maturity of less than one year (2010: less than one year).
Fair Value Hierarchy
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data
At 31 December 2011 the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value:
    2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Assets measured at fair value    $m $m $m $m
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Equity shares – listed    2,463.3 2,463.3 – –
 
    2,463.3 2,463.3 – –
At 31 December 2010 the Group held no financial instruments in level 1, 2 or 3. The Group has no financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital
Continued 108  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
This section details our other non-current assets and liabilities, most notably the 
Group’s other intangible assets, including goodwill, and the Company’s investments 
in subsidiaries.
Significant Accounting Judgements in this Section:
There are no significant accounting judgements in this section.
Key Estimates and Assumptions in this Section:
Impairment Testing of Goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to the Greenland operating segment and has been tested for impairment at the year end against the estimated fair value of the 
exploration assets contained in that segment at that time.
Impairment Testing of Investments in Subsidiaries 
The Company’s investments in subsidiaries have been tested for impairment by comparison against the underlying value of the subsidiaries’ exploration/
appraisal assets based on either fair value or estimated value-in-use using estimated cash flow projections risk weighted for future exploration success. 
4.1 Intangible Assets – Other 
Accounting Policies
Goodwill
Goodwill is tested for impairment on the cash-generating unit, equating to individual operating segments before they are combined into the reported 
segment. Goodwill has therefore been allocated to two cash-generating units which are also operating segments combined within the Other Cairn 
Energy Group reported segment; the Greenland assets operating segment and the Mediterranean assets operating segment.
The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is determined by taking the higher of fair value less costs to sell or its value-in-use, using estimated cash 
flow projections over the licence period of the exploration assets risk-weighted for future exploration success. The key assumptions are sensitive to market 
fluctuations and the success of future exploration drilling programmes. The most likely factor which will result in a material change to the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit is the results of future exploration drilling, which will determine the licence area’s future economic potential. 
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 4 – Other Assets and Liabilities Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  109    
Financial Statements
4.1 Intangible Assets – Other Continued
      Software  
     Goodwill costs T otal
Group     $m $m $m
Cost
At 1 January 2010     67 .2 21 .5 88.7
Exchange differences arising     – (0.2) (0.2)
Additions     – 5.9 5.9
Disposals     – (1.8) (1 .8)
Transfer to assets held-for-sale     – (16.5) (16.5)
 
At 1 January 2011     67 .2 8.9 76.1
Exchange differences arising     – (0.1) (0.1)
Additions     – 1.8 1.8
 
At 31 December 2011     67.2 10.6 77.8
Amortisation and impairment 
At 1 January 2010     – 15.8 15.8
Exchange differences arising     – (0.2) (0.2)
Charge for the year     – 4.7 4.7
Impairment     4.4 – 4.4
Disposals     – (1.8) (1 .8)
Transfer to assets held-for-sale     – (11 .7) (11 .7)
 
At 1 January 2011     4.4 6.8 11.2
Exchange differences arising     – (0.1) (0.1)
Charge for the year     – 2.7 2.7
Impairment     62.8 – 62.8
 
At 31 December 2011     67.2 9.4 76.6
 
Net book value at 31 December 2011     – 1.2 1.2
 
Net book value at 31 December 2010     62.8 2.1 64.9
 
Net book value at 1 January 2010     67 .2 5.7 72.9
For impairment testing, goodwill was previously allocated to two cash-generating units which are also operating segments; the Greenland operating 
segment and the Mediterranean operating segment. During 2010, $4.4m of goodwill relating to the Mediterranean operating segment was fully 
impaired following the unsuccessful exploration drilling offshore Tunisia. 
The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is determined by taking the higher of its fair value less costs to sell or its value-in-use, using 
estimated cash flow projections over the licence period of the exploration assets risk-weighted for future exploration success. At the year end  
the recoverable amount was determined using the fair value of Greenland assets implied through third-party discussions on proposed farm down 
agreements. Given that the 2010 and 2011 drilling campaign offshore Greenland has not resulted in the discovery of commercial hydrocarbon 
reserves, the fair value of Greenland assets no longer supports the carrying value of the $62.8m of goodwill allocated to the operating segment. 
Consequently, the remaining goodwill allocated to the Greenland operating segment is fully impaired in the current year.
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 4 – Other Assets and Liabilities 
Continued 110  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
4.2 Investments in Subsidiaries
Accounting Policy
The Company’s investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provisions resulting from impairment. The recoverable value of investments is the 
higher of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Value in use is based on the discounted future net cash flows of development or producing oil 
and gas assets held by the subsidiary, or by using estimated cash flow projections over the licence period of the exploration assets of the subsidiary, 
risk-weighted for future exploration success where no development/producing assets exist.
Discounted future net cash flows for IAS 36 purposes are calculated using an estimated short and long-term oil price of $85/bbl (2010: short and 
long-term oil price of $75/bbl) or the appropriate gas price as dictated by the relevant gas sales contract, escalation for prices and costs of 3%,  
and a discount rate of 7% (2010: 3% and 7% respectively). 
      Subsidiary  
      undertakings Total
Company      $m $m
Cost 
At 1 January 2010      650.0 650.0 
Exchange differences arising      (14.8) (14.8)
Additions      283.2 283.2 
 
At 1 January 2011      918.4 918.4 
Exchange differences arising      26.3 26.3
Additions      93.4 93.4 
 
At 31 December 2011      1,038.1 1,038.1
 
Impairment 
At 1 January 2010 and 1 January 2011      – –
Charge during the year      501.8 501.8
 
At 31 December 2011      501.8 501.8
 
Net book value at 31 December 2011      536.3 536.3
 
Net book Value at 31 December 2010      918.4 918.4
 
Net book Value at 1 January 2010      650.0 650.0
Details of the Company’s principal subsidiaries at the Balance Sheet date have been included at Appendix 1. A full list of subsidiaries can be found  
on the Annual Return. 
Additions during the year include $87.7m for the issue of 56,400,000 shares of £1 each at par by Capricorn Oil Limited which reduced the amounts 
owed to the Company by Capricorn Oil Limited. A further $5.7m (2010: $18.2m) was recognised as additions relating to Capricorn Oil Group for the 
award of share options of the Company to the employees of Capricorn Energy (a principal subsidiary of Capricorn Oil Limited). 
Additions in 2010 included the issue of 174,514,323 shares of £1 each at par by Capricorn Oil Limited. Consideration of $265.0m was settled in cash. 
At the year end, investments in subsidiaries were reviewed for indicators of impairment and impairment tests conducted where indicators found. The 
Company’s investment in Capricorn Oil Limited has been impaired to reflect the fair value or value in use of the underlying assets of the Capricorn Oil 
Group. A charge of $501.8m has been made to the Company’s Income Statement.
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 4 – Other Assets and Liabilities 
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  111    
Financial Statements
4.3 Assets and Liabilities Held-for-Sale
Accounting Policy
Non-current assets and disposal groups and related liabilities are classified as held-for-sale where it is highly probable that their carrying amount will 
be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. Where a disposal group classified as held-for-sale represents  
a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation, it is presented as a discontinued operation in the Income Statement. A sale is 
considered highly probable where buyers have been identified and the sale transaction is expected to be complete within one year from the date  
of classification. 
Assets held-for-sale are measured at the lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell. Any depletion, depreciation or amortisation charges against the 
asset cease at the date of classification.
No assets and liabilities have been classified as held for sale at 31 December 2011. The major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held-for-
sale at 31 December 2010 were as follows:
      Cairn   
     India  2010 
     Limited Other Total
      $m $m $m
Assets     
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets     376.5 1.5 378.0
Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets    2,402.2 – 2,402.2
Property, plant & equipment – other     6.6 – 6.6
Intangible assets – other     4.8 – 4.8
Deferred tax asset     524.8 – 524.8
Inventory     10.8 – 10.8
Trade and other receivables     504.4 – 504.4
Bank deposits     452.6 – 452.6
Financial instruments     2.9 – 2.9
Cash and cash equivalents     438.5 – 438.5
 
Assets held-for-sale     4,724.1 1.5 4,725.6
 
Liabilities 
Trade and other payables     408.2 – 408.2
Obligations under finance leases     2.0 – 2.0
Provisions     242.8 – 242.8
Income tax liabilities     35.8 – 35.8
Loans and borrowings     673.7 – 673.7
 
Liabilities related to disposal unit held-for-sale     1,362.5 – 1,362.5
 
Net assets directly associated with disposal unit and assets held-for-sale   3,361 .6 1 .5 3,363.1
Foreign currency translation reserves of $95.5m related to discontinued operations. Other assets held-for-sale represented intangible exploration/
appraisal assets of $1.5m on the proposed sale of the Group’s Nabeul permit in Tunisia.
Included in loans and borrowings of $673.7m were debenture and loan balances. In October 2010 Cairn India raised $500m through INR Unsecured 
Non-convertible Debentures, at competitive commercial terms. $301.9m was drawn at 31 December 2010 and the balance was available to 
drawdown subject to certain conditions. 
The USD Facility of $750m was provided by a consortium of overseas commercial banks led by Standard Chartered Bank and the International 
Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank Group. Of the full $750m facility $371.8m was drawn at 31 December 2010. Cairn India could 
cancel and repay the facility at any time. Under the terms of the facility agreement, security in terms of share pledge over the shares in Cairn Energy 
Hydrocarbons Limited (a 100% indirect subsidiary of Cairn India Limited which holds 50% of the Group’s interest in Rajasthan) was provided. 
Financial Statements
Assets and Investments: 
Section 4 – Other Assets and Liabilities 
Continued 112  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Greenland 
2011 2010
$79.7m $261.3m
UK
2011 2010
$2,465.5m $64.9m 
Mediterranean 
2011 2010
$1.6m –
South Asia
2011 2010
– $2.6m
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year
This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group, with disclosures 
including segmental information, components of the operating loss, results from 
discontinued operations, taxation and earnings per share.
Significant Accounting Judgements in this Section:
Details of the impairment of intangible exploration/appraisal assets can be found in section 2.1. 
There are no other significant accounting judgements in this section.
Key Estimates and Assumptions in this Section:
Deferred Taxation
Deferred taxation is provided on the Group’s available-for-sale financial asset which is held at a fair value which exceeds its tax base cost.  
It is assumed that the listed equity shares shall be disposed of in a manner which is subject to taxation in India.
Details of impairment of goodwill and details of share-based payments can be found in sections 4.1 and 6.3 respectively.
5.1 Segmental Analysis
Operating Segments
For management purposes, the continuing operations of the Cairn Group are organised into business units based on a geographical basis.  
The discontinued operations of the Cairn India Group were a separate business unit up to the point of disposal. 
The Cairn Group’s continuing operations focus on new exploration activities in Greenland and the Mediterranean. The Group’s South Asia business 
unit holds the Group’s interests in Nepal and a share in certain North Indian assets operated by Cairn India Limited. During 2010 this segment also 
included the results of the Group’s Sangu asset, operating in Bangladesh, which was sold during that year. The Mediterranean and South Asia 
operating segments have been combined into the ‘Other Cairn Energy Group’ reportable segment. Operating segments based on the geographical 
locations of the Capricorn Group’s Greenland, Mediterranean and South Asia were aggregated to form the Capricorn reportable segment in 2010; 
prior year comparative information has been restated to reflect current reporting. 
Management monitors the results of its business units separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource allocation and performance 
assessment. 
Throughout the year, the Board monitored the performance of the Group by reference to the results of its Cairn India operating segment separate 
from its other operating segments. The Cairn India operating segment followed accounting policies which did not reflect the classification of assets 
and liabilities of Cairn India as held-for-sale. A summary of the adjustments made to reconcile this segment’s results to those reported under the 
Group’s accounting policies are included within the segmental information provided. 
These adjustments include the reversal of the depletion, depreciation and amortisation charges for the period after the date the transaction was 
announced and a deferred tax position prepared on the basis that Cairn India was held-for-sale. The combined impact of these adjustments is to 
increase profit after tax by $133.7m to the date of sale (2010: $637.8m).
Geographic Information: Non-current Assets
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of intangible exploration/appraisal assets; property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets; 
property, plant & equipment – other; and intangible assets – other.  Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  113    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
Continued
5.1 Segmental Analysis Continued
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2011 are as follows:
     T otal 
    Other continuing   
    Cairn Energy Cairn Energy Cairn India T otal 
   Greenland Group Group Group 2011
    $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue from external customers   – – – 2,307.8 2,307 .8
 
Reversal of revenue provision   – – – 64.0 64.0
Production costs   – 2.7 2.7 (351.7) (349.0)
Pre-award costs   (1 .6) (15.1) (16.7) (3.2) (19.9)
Unsuccessful exploration costs   (941 .8) – (941 .8) (4.4) (946.2)
Depletion and decommissioning charge   – – – (377.7) (377 .7)
 
Gross (loss)/profit   (943.4) (12.4) (955.8) 1,634.8 679.0
 
Depreciation   (0.1) (0.9) (1 .0) (3.5) (4.5)
Amortisation   – (2.7) (2.7) (3.4) (6.1)
Other income and administrative expenses   (0.4) (28.7) (29.1) (39.5) (68.6)
Exceptional administrative expenses   – (6.7) (6.7) – (6.7)
Impairment   (137.7) (3.3) (141 .0) – (141 .0)
 
Operating (loss)/profit   (1,081.6) (54.7) (1,136.3) 1,588.4 452.1
 
Interest income   – 2.2 2.2 54.6 56.8
Interest expense   – (1 .1) (1 .1) (20.9) (22.0)
Other finance income and costs   0.9 (55.0) (54.1) (62.7) (116.8)
 
(Loss)/profit before taxation   (1,080.7) (108.6) (1,189.3) 1,559.4 370.1
 
Taxation (charge)/credit   – (0.1) (0.1) (330.7) (330.8)
 
(Loss)/profit after taxation   (1,080.7) (108.7) (1,189.4) 1,228.7 39.3
 
Adjustments to reconcile to the financial statements 
Inventory   – – – 7.2 7.2
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation   – – – 384.6 384.6
Deferred taxation   – – – (258.1) (258.1)
 
(Loss)/profit after taxation   (1,080.7) (108.7) (1,189.4) 1,362.4 173.0
 
Gain on sale of subsidiary   – – – 4,982.5 4,982.5
Tax on gain on sale of subsidiary   – – – (590.3) (590.3)
 
Reported profit/(loss) for the year   (1,080.7) (108.7) (1,189.4) 5,754.6 4,565.2
 
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of the parent   (1,080.7) (108.7) (1,189.4) 5,290.5 4,101 .1
Non-controlling interests   – – – 464.1 464.1
 
Capital expenditure   836.2 4.9 841.1 563.4 1,404.5
Revenue for the year 2011 arose from seven (2010: seven) customers who were all domestic customers. 114  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
Continued
5.1 Segmental Analysis Continued
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2010 were as follows:
  
     Total   
    Other continuing   
    Cairn Energy Cairn Energy Cairn India T otal 
   Greenland Group Group Group 2010
    $m $m $m $m $m
Revenue from external customers   – 7 .1 7 .1 1,594.2 1,601 .3
 
Production costs   – (6.3) (6.3) (252.5) (258.8)
Pre-award costs   (6.4) (6.3) (12.7) (1.9) (14.6)
Unsuccessful exploration costs   (186.8) (25.1) (211 .9) (23.1) (235.0)
Depletion and decommissioning charge   (0.9) – (0.9) (351 .4) (352.3)
 
Gross (loss)/profit   (194.1) (30.6) (224.7) 965.3 7 40.6
 
Depreciation   (0.1) (0.4) (0.5) (3.4) (3.9)
Amortisation   – (2.1) (2.1) (3.7) (5.8)
Other income and administrative expenses   – (34.4) (34.4) (48.9) (83.3)
Exceptional administrative expenses   – (37 .9) (37 .9) – (37 .9)
Impairment   – (16.0) (16.0) – (16.0)
Gain on sale of oil and gas assets   – 3.3 3.3 – 3.3
 
Operating (loss)/profit   (194.2) (118.1) (312.3) 909.3 597 .0
 
Interest income   – 1.7 1.7 24.3 26.0
Interest expense   – – – (46.8) (46.8)
Other finance income and costs   (1 .6) (4.7) (6.3) (30.7) (37 .0)
 
(Loss)/profit before taxation   (195.8) (121 .1) (316.9) 856.1 539.2
 
Taxation credit/(charge)   – 0.3 0.3 (94.1) (93.8)
 
(Loss)/profit after taxation   (195.8) (120.8) (316.6) 762.0 445.4
 
Adjustments to reconcile to the financial statements 
Inventory   – – – (17.9) (17.9)
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation   – – – 211 .0 211 .0
Deferred taxation   – – – 444.7 444.7
 
Reported (loss)/profit after taxation   (195.8) (120.8) (316.6) 1,399.8 1,083.2
 
Attributable to: 
Equity holders of the parent   (195.8) (120.8) (316.6) 1,110.9 794.3
Non-controlling interests   – – – 288.9 288.9
 
Capital expenditure   432.5 31.9 464.4 784.5 1,248.9 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  115    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
Continued
5.2 Operating Loss
a) Operating Loss from Continuing Operations is Stated After Charging/(Crediting):
       2011 2010
       $m $m
Included in impairment
Impairment of goodwill (Section 4.1)      62.8 4.4
Impairment of intangible exploration/appraisal assets (Section 2.1)     78.2 11.6
 
Included in production costs
(Release)/increase of provision for onerous contracts     (2.7) 0.5
 
Included in administrative expenses
Depreciation      1.0 0.4
Amortisation      2.7 2.1
Operating lease costs – land and buildings      1.9 1.9
 
Gain on sale of intangible exploration/appraisal assets
Gain on sale of Papua New Guinea asset      – (12.6)
b) Auditor’s Remuneration
      $’000 $’000
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the Group’s annual accounts    224 308
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts   26 25
 
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
 – for the audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation     734 935
 – other services pursuant to legislation      102 568
 – other services relating to taxation      74 70
 – services relating to corporate finance transactions     – –
 – all other services      64 54
Fees in respect of the Cairn Energy PLC pension scheme:
 – audit      – 2
Other advisors’ fees in respect of taxation work      – 307
Other advisors’ fees in respect of other work      27 304
The Group has a policy in place for the award of non-audit work to the auditors which, in certain circumstances, requires Audit Committee approval. 
Other advisors comprise accountancy firms other than the Group’s auditor. 
5.3 Exceptional Items
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Administrative expenses – share-based payments      6.7 35.6
At an EGM held on 21 December 2009, Cairn’s shareholders approved the conversion of ‘phantom options’ awarded in 2007 and 2008 based  
on notional ‘Units’ in the Group into Cairn Energy PLC Share options and LTIPs, the ‘Replacement Options’ and ‘Replacement LTIPs’ respectively.  
In accordance with IFRS 2, the incremental fair value of the modified awards, calculated at the date of modification, is charged over the remaining 
vesting period. 
A net charge of $6.7m is recognised in the Income Statement as a result of this modification and, in order to be comparable and consistent with 
2010, this has been presented as an exceptional charge. A charge of $35.6m was generated in 2010. Further details can be found in Section 6.3. 116  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
Continued
5.4 Staff Costs
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Wages and salaries      118.8 117.9
Social security costs and other taxes      3.7 2.2
Redundancy costs      4.4 –
Pension costs      8.8 8.1
Share-based payments charge      20.2 29.4
Exceptional share-based payments charge (Section 5.3)     6.7 45.1
 
      162.6 202.7
Staff costs are shown gross before amounts recharged to Joint Ventures and include the costs of share-based payments. The share-based payments 
charge includes amounts in respect of both equity and cash-settled phantom options and associated National Insurance Contributions. 
Staff costs include costs of discontinued operations to the date of disposal.
The average number of full time equivalent employees, including Executive Directors and individuals employed by the Group working on Joint 
Venture operations, was:
    Number of employees
      2011 2010
UK      135 105
India      1,029 1,079
Bangladesh      – 65
Spain      1 –
Greenland      10 6
Nepal      3 3
Tunisia      – 4
 
Group      1,178 1,262
The average number of full time equivalent employees includes staff employed by discontinued operations during the year. 
The Group and Company have no pension commitments as at the Balance Sheet date (2010: $nil).
5.5 Directors’ Emoluments
Details of each director’s remuneration, pension entitlements, share options and awards pursuant to the LTIP are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 69 to 87. Directors’ emoluments are also included in the remuneration of key management personnel disclosures in Section 6.4.
5.6 Finance Income
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Bank interest      2.2 1.5
Other interest      – 0.2
Exchange gain      – 0.8
 
      2.2 2.5
5.7 Finance Costs
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Bank loan and overdraft interest      1.1 –
Other finance charges      12.8 7.2
Exchange loss      41 .3 –
 
      55.2 7.2 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  117    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
Continued
5.8 Taxation on Loss
Accounting Policies (Summarised)
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. The current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from 
net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted  
or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in Joint 
Ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future. A deferred income tax liability is not recognised if a temporary difference arises on initial recognition of an asset or liability  
in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
a) Analysis of Tax Charge/(Credit) in Year
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Current tax:
 
UK corporation tax
Tax on profits at 26.49% (2010: 28.00%)      2.1 2.9
 
Foreign Tax
Indian Corporate Income Tax on profits for the year at 42.08% (2010: 42.23%)    10.9 28.5
Indian Regular Tax on profits for the year at 32.65% (2010: 33.99%)     2.5 (1.3)
Indian Minimum Alternate Tax on profits for the year at 19.32% (2010: 18.27%)    279.9 208.8
Indian tax on capital gains at 21.01% (2010: 21.12%)     590.3 –
Adjustments in respect of prior periods      – 14.4
Withholding taxes deducted at source      – 0.1
 
      883.6 250.5
 
Total current tax      885.7 253.4
 
Deferred tax:
 
United Kingdom
Temporary differences in respect of non-current assets     – (0.4)
 
India
Temporary differences in respect of non-current assets     798.7 (603.9)
 
Total deferred tax      798.7 (604.3)
 
Tax charge/(credit) on profit/(loss)      1,684.4 (350.9)
The tax charge/(credit) to the Income Statement is disclosed as follows:
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Tax charge/(credit) on continuing operations      0.1 (0.3)
Tax charge/(credit) on discontinued operations      1,684.3 (350.6)
 
      1,684.4 (350.9) 118  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
5.8 Taxation on Loss Continued
b) Factors Affecting Tax Charge/(Credit) for Year
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before income tax at the applicable tax rate to income tax expense at the Group’s effective 
income tax rate is as follows:
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Loss from continuing operations before tax      (1,189.3) (303.6)
Profit from discontinued operations before tax      7 ,438.8 1,035.9
 
Profit before taxation      6,249.5 732.3
 
Tax at the weighted average rate of corporation tax of 33.61% (2010: 48.90%)    2,100.5 358.1
 
Effects of:
Temporary differences not recognised      308.0 (1.4)
Minimum Alternate Tax payable      117.8 56.8
Foreign exchange movements      0.2 (17.4)
Non-deductible expenses and non-taxable income      (1 .4) 3.3
Share-based payments      (10.1) 15.5
Disposal of subsidiary charged at Capital Gains Tax rate     (345.6) 1.7
Indian tax holiday      (485.0) (205.4)
Adjustments in respect of prior years – current tax      – 14.4
Change of rate applied to assets classified as held-for-sale     – (444.7)
Utilisation of brought forward losses      – (131.9)
 
Total tax charge/(credit)      1,684.4 (350.9)
The applicable tax rate was the weighted average rate for the year of the UK, Netherlands, Australian, Indian, Jersey, Swiss, Bangladeshi, Tunisian, 
Sri Lankan, Singaporean and Mauritian tax rates. There were no major changes in the statutory tax rates applying in each of these jurisdictions, 
however, the weighted average rate is subject to fluctuations from year to year based on the level of profits and losses which arise to the Group  
in each jurisdiction. 
c) Factors that May Affect Future Corporation Tax Charges
At 31 December 2011, Cairn had no losses (2010: $237.1m) available for offset against future trading profits chargeable to UK Corporation Tax. In addition 
there are surplus management expenses of $324.1m (2010: $192.3m) and non-trade deficits of $66.5m (2010: $19.6m) available for offset against future 
investment income. None of the trading losses, surplus management expenses or non-trade deficits has been recognised for deferred tax as it is not 
considered sufficiently probable that they will be used. Under UK tax law, tax losses may generally be carried forward indefinitely. 
d) Reconciliation to Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
     Assets Liabilities Group
     $m $m $m
At 1 January 2010     – (79.5) (79.5)
Credit to Income Statement     524.8 79.5 604.3
Transferred to assets held-for-sale     (524.8) – (524.8)
 
At 1 January 2011     – – –
Initial recognition of deferred tax provision on available-for-sale financial asset   – (273.9) (273.9)
Deferred tax credit on movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 
recognised in other comprehensive income     – 19.8 19.8
 
At 31 December 2011     – (254.1) (254.1)
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had a deferred tax asset of $0.3m (2010: $11.9m) in respect of future United Kingdom corporation tax deductions 
for equity-based remuneration. This asset has not been recognised as it is not considered probable that there will be sufficient profits to utilise these tax 
deductions. 
As at the Balance Sheet date, a deferred tax asset was not recognised in respect of Group losses of $390.6m (2010: $449.0m) (Company: $217.4m; 
2010: $157.6m) where it is not probable that they can be utilised in future periods.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010 in respect of trading or other losses, as it is not considered  
to be probable that these losses will be utilised against future trading or other profits arising to the Group.
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  119    
Financial Statements
5.9 Discontinued Operations
During 2011, Cairn completed the sale of a 40% shareholding in Cairn India to Vedanta. The transaction completed in two tranches; the first tranche 
of 10% completed on 11 July 2011 and the second tranche of 30% completed on 7 December 2011. Total consideration received for the transaction 
was $6.0bn (post-tax $5.4bn). Assets and liabilities of the Cairn India Group were previously classified as held-for-sale; see Section 4.3.
Following completion of this transaction, Cairn holds a residual interest of 21.8% of the fully-diluted share capital of Cairn India, with Vedanta holding a 
controlling interest of 58.5%. Cairn India’s results for the period to completion have been presented as discontinued operations in these financial statements.
Cairn announced the conditional agreement for sale to Vedanta on 16 August 2010. Shareholder approval from both parties was obtained and, 
although regulatory approval and joint venture partner approval were required to complete the proposed transaction, as at 31 December 2010 Cairn 
believed the necessary approvals would be received and classified the assets and liabilities of the Cairn India Group as a disposal group held-for-sale.
On 20 December 2010, Santos International Holdings Pty Limited agreed to purchase the entire share capital of Cairn Energy Sangu Field Limited, which 
held a 37.5% interest in the producing Sangu gas field, offshore Bangladesh, and a 50% interest in Block 16 exploration acreage for a consideration of 
$0.8m. As a result of this transaction Cairn no longer has operations in Bangladesh. The Sangu Field’s results for the period to completion are therefore 
presented as discontinued operations in the 2010 comparatives for these financial statements.
The results of the Cairn India Group are reported as an Operating Segment in Section 5.1. The results of Cairn Energy Sangu Field Limited are 
included within the ‘Other Cairn Energy Group’ reportable segment comparative disclosures for 2010.
a) Discontinued Operations Results for the Year
    Cairn Cairn Cairn Energy
    India India Sangu Field 
    Limited Limited Limited Total 
    2011 2010 2010 2010 
    $m $m $m $m
Revenue    2,371 .8 1,594.2 7.1 1,601.3
Cost of sales    (352.1) (438.1) (6.1) (444.2)
 
Gross profit    2,019.7 1,156.1 1.0 1,157.1
Other operating income and expenses    (39.5) (53.6) (5.2) (58.8)
 
Operating profit/(loss)    1,980.2 1,102.5 (4.2) 1,098.3
Net finance costs    (29.0) (53.1) – (53.1)
 
Profit/(loss) before taxation    1,951 .2 1,049.4 (4.2) 1,045.2
Taxation    (588.8) 350.6 – 350.6
 
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities for the year    1,362.4 1,400.0 (4.2) 1,395.8
Gain/(loss) on disposal    4,392.2 – (9.3) (9.3)
 
Profit/(loss) for the year    5,754.6 1,400.0 (13.5) 1,386.5
 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent    5,290.5 1,111.1 (13.5) 1,097.6
Non-controlling interests    464.1 288.9 – 288.9
 
    5,754.6 1,400.0 (13.5) 1,386.5
 
Earnings per share:
Basic (cents)    426.91   89.00
Diluted (cents)    426.45   88.65
The earnings per share has been calculated on profit available to equity holders of the parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares for both basic and diluted amounts as disclosed in Section 5.10.
b) Discontinued Operations Cashflows 
The cash flows attributable to discontinued operations were as follows:
    Cairn Cairn Cairn Energy
    India India Sangu Field 
    Limited Limited Limited Total 
    2011 2010 2010 2010 
    $m $m $m $m
Cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities    1,922.1 874.7 (1.6) 873.1
Cash outflow from investing activities    (1,204.1) (1,013.9) – (1,013.9)
Cash outflow from financing activities    (396.2) (20.7) – (20.7)
 
Net cash inflow/(outflow)    321 .8 (159.9) (1.6) (161.5)
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
Continued 120  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
5.9 Discontinued Operations Continued
c) Gain on Disposal Arising from Sale of 40% Interest in Cairn India Limited 
       7 December 201 1 
       $m
Net Proceeds
Consideration received recognised in Income Statement      6,023.4
Less: Expenses attributable directly to the sale       (56.9)
 
       5,966.5
 
Derecognition of CIL Group
Net assets of the CIL group (per table below, excluding deferred tax assets)     (4,472.7)
Non-controlling interests eliminated       1,487 .4
Currency translation differences recycled       (84.5)
Fair value of the residual available-for-sale financial asset recognised at date of sale     2,591.0
 
Gain on disposal       5,487 .7
 
Tax 
Withholding tax       (590.3)
Deferred tax asset derecognised on sale of the CIL Group      (231.3)
Deferred tax provision recognised on fair value of the residual available-for-sale financial asset    (273.9)
 
Tax charge on gain on disposal       (1,095.5)
 
Net gain on disposal       4,392.2
The following table sets out the net assets of Cairn India Limited at the date of disposal.
       7 December 201 1
       $m
Assets
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets       514.0
Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets      2,763.1
Property, plant & equipment – other       8.4
Intangible assets – other       8.4
Deferred tax asset       231 .3
Inventory       18.0
Trade and other receivables       797 .6
Bank deposits       1,104.4
Cash and cash equivalents       711 .6
 
Liabilities
Trade and other payables       (444.0)
Obligations under finance leases       (0.5)
Provisions       (710.0)
Income tax liabilities       (57 .8)
Loans and borrowings       (240.5)
 
       4,704.0
 
Net cash inflow arising on disposal:
Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents      5,433.1
Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of       (711 .6)
 
       4,721 .5
The total consideration was received in cash, net of withholding tax. There was no deferred consideration.
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  121    
Financial Statements
5.10 Earnings per Ordinary Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated using the following measures of (loss)/profit: 
      2011 2010
     Section $m $m
Loss for the year – continuing operations      (1,189.4) (303.3)
Profit for the year – discontinued operations attributable to the equity holders of the parent  5.9 5,290.5 1,097.6
 
Profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent     4,101 .1 794.3
Less potential increase in non-controlling interest – discontinued operations    – (2.4)
 
Diluted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent     4,101 .1 791.9
 
Analysed as: 
Diluted loss attributable to equity holders of the parent – continuing operations    (1,189.4) (303.3)
Diluted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent – discontinued operations    5,290.5 1,095.2
 
      4,101 .1 791.9
The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 
       
      2011 2010 
      ‘000 ’000
Weighted average number of shares      1,240,092 1,235,533
Less weighted average shares held by ESOP and SIP Trusts     (829) (2,127)
 
Basic weighted average number of shares      1,239,263 1,233,406
 
Dilutive potential ordinary shares: 
Employee share options      1,329 2,151
 
Diluted weighted average number of shares      1,240,592 1,235,557
The weighted average number of shares used in the calculations of earnings per share for 2011 and 2010 has been adjusted to reflect the 
consolidation of shares which took place on 6 February 2012. Further details of the consolidation are provided in Section 7.2.
Financial Statements
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
Continued 122  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
The disclosures in this section focus on the issued share capital, the share schemes in 
operation and the associated share-based payment charge to profit. Other mandatory 
disclosures, such as details of related party transactions, can also be found here.
Significant Accounting Judgements in this Section:
There are no significant accounting judgements in this section.
Key Estimates and Assumptions in this Section:
Share-based Payments
Charges for share-based payments are based on the fair value at the date of the award. The shares are valued using appropriate modelling techniques 
and inputs to the models include assumptions on leaver rates, trigger points, discount rates and volatility. See Section 6.3 and Appendix 3.
Capital Structure
6.1 Issued Capital and Reserves
Called-up Share Capital
Group and Company
      Number
      
8
/ 13p 
8
/ 13p 
      Ordinary Ordinary 
      ’000 $m
Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares
At 1 January 2010      1,396,246 16.6
Issued and allotted for employee share options      3,801 0.1
 
At 1 January 2011      1,400,047 16.7
Foreign exchange on functional currency change      – (2.9)
Issued and allotted for employee share options      1,097 –
Issued and allotted to ESOP trust      6,457 0.1
 
At 31 December 2011      1,407,601 13.9
Share Premium
Group and Company
      2011 2010
      $m $m
At 1 January      484.7 473.5
Foreign exchange on functional currency change      (4.3) –
Arising on shares issued for employee share options     3.3 11.2
 
At 31 December      483.7 484.7
Other Reserves
All other reserves are stated in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Shares Held by ESOP Trust
Shares held by the ESOP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Trust at 31 December 2011. The number 
of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Trust at 31 December 2011 was 419,191 (2010: 1,497,163) and the market value of these 
shares was £1.1m (2010: £6.3m).
Shares Held by SIP trust
Shares held by the SIP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2011. 
The number of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2011 was 240,183 (2010: 135,489) and the market 
value of these shares was £0.6m (2010: £0.6m).
Available-for-sale Reserve
The available-for-sale reserve represents fair value movements on the available-for-sale financial assets disclosed in Section 3.1.
Capital Reserves – Non Distributable
Capital reserves – non distributable include non distributable amounts arising on various Group acquisitions. 
Financial Statements
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  123    
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
Continued
6.1 Issued Capital and Reserves Continued
Foreign Currency Translation
Group
Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses arising on consolidation of subsidiary undertakings are taken directly to reserves in accordance with 
IAS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’. In accordance with IAS 21, foreign exchange differences arising on intra-group loans  
are not eliminated on consolidation; this reflects the exposure to currency fluctuations where the subsidiaries involved have differing functional 
currencies. These intra-group loans are not considered to be an investment in a foreign operation.
Company
Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses arose during 2010 on the translation of the Company’s £ functional results into $ presentation currency 
in accordance with IAS 21. During the year the functional currency of the Company changed from £ to $ (refer to Section 1f) and accordingly the 
Company’s foreign currency translation reserves were transferred to retained earnings during 2011. 
6.2 Capital Management
The objective of the Group’s capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Group to carry out committed 
work programme requirements. The Group monitors the long-term cash flow requirements of the business in order to assess the requirement for 
changes to the capital structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility.
The Board manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes to economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital 
structure, the Board may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for cash, repay debt, put in place new debt 
facilities or other such restructuring activities as appropriate. No significant changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the 
year ended 31 December 2011.
Capital and net debt were made up as follows:
    Group Group Company Company
    31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
    2011 2010 2011 2010 
    $m $m $m $m
Continuing operations
Trade and other payables    209.1 77.0 79.5 82.4
Less cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits    (4,730.7) (187.0) (4,055.8) (45.6)
 
Discontinued operations
Loans and borrowings    – 673.7 – –
Trade and other payables    – 408.2 – –
Less cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits    – (891.1) – –
 
Net (funds)/debt    (4,521 .6) 80.8 (3,976.3) 36.8
Equity    6,893.3 3,838.4 5,180.1 975.1
 
Capital and net debt    2,371 .7 3,919.2 1,203.8 1,011.9
 
Gearing ratio    0% 2.1% 0% 3.6% 124  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
6.3 Share-based Payments
Accounting Policies
The cost of awards to employees under Cairn’s LTIP and share option plans are recognised over the three year period to which the performance 
relates. The amount recognised is based on the fair value of the shares as measured at the date of the award. The shares are valued using the 
binomial model.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance  
and/or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (‘the vesting date’).  
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The Income Statement 
charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense as recognised at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which  
are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
The Group operates a number of share-based schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The following awards over shares in the Company were made during the year:
   2011   2010
  2011 WAGP/ 2011 2010 WAGP/ 2010 
  WAFV WAEP Number WAFV WAEP Number 
  £ £ of shares £ £ of shares
2010 SIP – free shares  3.42 4.00 70,769 3.25 3.79 57,778
2010 SIP – matching shares  3.42 3.79 81,568 3.25 4.31 38,494
2009 Approved Plan  1.84 4.03 233,010 2.00 4.29 182,583
2009 Unapproved Plan  1.84 4.03 544,498 2.10 4.27 321,613
2009 LTIP  1.67 4.03 2,309,531 1.58 4.28 2,381,493
 
    3,239,376   2,981,961
Analysis of charge to Income Statement:
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Included within administrative expenses:
2010 SIP      0.2 0.1
2009 Approved Plan      0.6 0.3
2009 Unapproved Plan      0.8 0.4
2009 LTIP      4.3 6.4
Cairn India award      0.2 0.7
2006 LTIP      0.4 1.2
2006 Capricorn options      – 0.1
 
      6.5 9.2
 
Included within exceptional administrative expenses:
Replacement LTIP (Section 5.3)      6.7 33.4
Replacement Option (Section 5.3)      – 2.2
 
      6.7 35.6
 
      13.2 44.8
Financial Statements
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  125    
Financial Statements
6.3 Share-based Payments Continued
Details of those awards with a significant impact on the results for the current and prior years are given below together with a summary of the 
remaining awards. Further details on assumptions and inputs applying to all share awards can be found in Appendix 3.
LTIP
The fair value of the 2009 LTIP scheme awards has been calculated using a binomial model, as described at Appendix 3. The main inputs to the 
model have been laid out in the appendix, though vesting percentages for LTIPs can be above 100%. For details on the vesting conditions attached  
to the LTIPs refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87.
2009 LTIP
The awards existing under the 2009 LTIP are detailed in the table below together with the weighted average grant price (WAGP) at 31 December:
    2011  2010
    Number WAGP (£) Number WAGP (£)
Outstanding as at 1 January    6,752,533 3.10 4,371,040 2.46
Granted during the year    2,309,531 4.03 2,381,493 4.28
Lapsed during the year    (74,460) 4.03 – –
 
Outstanding at 31 December    8,987,604 3.33 6,752,533 3.10
 
Weighted average fair value of awards granted in year    £1 .67  £1.58
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards    1 .1 years  1 .7 years
Replacement LTIP 
The awards existing under the Replacement LTIP are detailed in the table below together with the WAGP at 31 December:
    2011  2010
    Number WAGP (£) Number WAGP (£)
Outstanding at 1 January    4,267,872 3.07 11,402,710 3.07
Vested during the year    (4,267,872) 3.07 (7,134,838) 3.07
 
Outstanding at 31 December    – – 4,267,872 3.07
 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards    –  0.3 years
Summary of all Other LTIPs and Share Schemes
The awards existing under the Cairn India LTIP and all share schemes including the SIP are detailed in the table below together with the weighted 
average of the grant price, exercise price and notional exercise prices (WAGP/WAEP) at 31 December:
    2011  2010
    Number WAGP/WAEP (£) Number WAGP/WAEP (£)
Outstanding at 1 January    5,727,903 2.42 11,697,683 2.04
Granted during the year    929,845 4.01 600,468 4.21
Vested/exercised during the year    (1,669,320) 2.31 (5,885,590) 1.88
Lapsed during the year    (482,253) 3.31 (684,658) 2.13
 
Outstanding at 31 December    4,506,175 2.69 5,727,903 2.42
 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards    6.2 years  5.2 years
Financial Statements
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
Continued 126  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Other Disclosures
6.4 Related Party Transactions 
The Company’s principal subsidiaries are listed in Appendix 1. The following table provides the Company’s balances which are outstanding with 
subsidiary companies at the Balance Sheet date:
      31 December 31 December 
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Amounts owed from subsidiary undertakings      677 .3 92.8
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings      (76.1) (78.1)
      601 .2 14.7
The amounts outstanding are unsecured, repayable on demand and will be settled in cash. Interest, where charged, is at market rates. No guarantees 
have been given. 
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company has made a provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties  
(2010: nil). See Section 3.3 for further details. 
The following table provides the Company’s transactions with subsidiary companies recorded in the profit (2010: profit) for the year, all of which were 
carried out on an arm’s length basis:
      2011 2010
      $m $m
Amounts invoiced to subsidiaries      21 .5 21.6
Amounts invoiced by subsidiaries      6.6 18.7
Remuneration of Key Management Personnel
The remuneration of the directors of the Company and of the members of the Management and Corporate teams who are the key management 
personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 87.
      2011 2010
Company      $m $m
Short-term employee benefits      10.3 7.5
Termination benefits      5.8 –
Pension contributions      0.6 0.6
Share-based payments      11.3 26.3
 
      28.0 34.4
In addition, employer’s national insurance contributions for key management personnel in respect of short-term employee benefits were $2.2m  
(2010: $1.1m).
Other Transactions 
During the year the Group did not make any purchases in the ordinary course of business from an entity under common control (2010: $nil).  
There were no amounts owed to the party at the year end (2010: $nil). 
6.5 Guarantees
It is normal practice for the Group to issue guarantees in respect of obligations during the normal course of business. At 31 December 2011 the Group 
had provided Parent company guarantees for the Group’s obligations under Production Sharing Contract (PSC), sales and other contracts of $2.2m.
At 31 December 2010 the Group had also provided various guarantees under the Group’s bank facilities for the Group’s share of minimum work 
programme commitments for the year of $34.3m.
Financial Statements
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  127    
Financial Statements
7.1 Farm Down Agreement with Statoil ASA
On 23 January 2012, Cairn announced that it has entered into a farm down agreement with Statoil ASA for the Pitu block in the Baffin Bay Basin  
west of Greenland. 
Under the terms of the agreement Statoil will, subject to the approval of the Greenland Government, acquire a working interest of 30.625% in  
the Pitu licence. Cairn will retain operatorship (56.875% interest in the block) of the exploration and Statoil will operate any future development. 
Nunaoil has an ongoing 12.5% interest in the block. 
Statoil will pay a signature bonus and back costs on the Block of $27.5m and promoted terms of future exploration expenditure. Under the Group’s 
accounting policies, proceeds received for the bonus and back costs will be credited against the Group’s intangible exploration/appraisal costs;  
no adjustment is made for promoted terms of future exploration expenditure. 
7.2 Return of Cash to Shareholders
On 30 January 2012 Cairn received shareholder approval for the return of cash to shareholders totalling approximately $3.5 billion. Shareholders  
are entitled to receive £1.60 for each existing ordinary share implemented through a B share scheme. Settlement of the Initial Purchase Offer  
and Single B Share Dividend for Shareholders was made on 21 February 2012.
In conjunction with the cash return, shareholders also approved a 13 for 33 share consolidation to seek to maintain share price comparability.  
The share consolidation completed on 6 February 2012 where the existing ordinary shares of 1,407,669,087 ordinary shares of 
8
/13 pence each  
were replaced with 554,536,307 ordinary shares of 
231
/169 pence each. 
As a result of this consolidation, the weighted average number of shares used in both basic and diluted earnings per share calculations, disclosed on 
the Income Statement and in Sections 5.9a and 5.10, has been retrospectively adjusted for the current and prior year. The extent of the adjustment 
has been limited to the change in the number of ordinary shares outstanding without a corresponding change in the resources of the business.
Financial Statements
Section 7 – Events after the Balance Sheet Date 128  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Appendix 1 – Principal Subsidiary Undertakings
The Company’s principal subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet date are set out below. A full list of subsidiaries can be found on the Annual Return.  
The Company holds 100% of the voting rights and ordinary shares of the following Companies:
   Principal Country of Country of
     activity incorporation operation
 
Direct holdings 
Capricorn Oil Limited     Holding company Scotland Scotland
Cairn UK Holdings Limited     Holding company Scotland Scotland
 
Indirect holdings – Capricorn Oil Limited Group 
Capricorn Energy Limited     Holding company Scotland Scotland
Cairn Energy Dhangari Limited    Exploration Scotland Nepal
Cairn Energy Karnali Limited    Exploration Scotland Nepal
Cairn Energy Lumbini Limited    Exploration Scotland Nepal
Cairn Energy Malangawa Limited    Exploration Scotland Nepal
Cairn Energy Birganj Limited    Exploration Scotland Nepal
medOil plc    Exploration England Tunisia  
     and Wales
Capricorn Albania Limited    Exploration Scotland Albania
Capricorn Spain Limited    Exploration Scotland Scotland
Capricorn Oil and Gas Tunisia GmbH    Exploration Switzerland Tunisia
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 1 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 2 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 3 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 4 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 5 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 6 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 7 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 8 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 9 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Greenland Exploration 10 Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Atammik Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Capricorn Lady Franklin Limited    Exploration Scotland Greenland
Financial Statements
Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  129    
Financial Statements
Appendix 2 – Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies
Group and Company
The main risks arising from the Company’s and the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk 
and market risk arising from equity price fluctuations. The Board of Cairn Energy PLC reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks 
and these are summarised below.
The Group’s treasury functions are responsible for managing these risks, in accordance with the policies set by the Board. Management of these 
risks is carried out by monitoring of cash flows, investment and funding requirements using a variety of techniques. These potential exposures are 
managed whilst ensuring that the Company and the Group have adequate liquidity at all times in order to meet their immediate cash requirements. 
There are no significant concentrations of risks unless otherwise stated. 
The primary financial instruments comprise bank loans, cash, short and medium-term deposits, certificates of deposit, money market liquidity, listed 
equity shares, intra-group loans, forward contracts, currency and interest rate swaps, options, and other receivables and financial liabilities held at 
amortised cost. The Group’s strategy has been to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. Other alternatives 
such as equity and other forms of non investment-grade debt finance are reviewed by the Board, when appropriate.
Liquidity Risk
On 15 December 2010 Cairn Energy PLC entered into a stand-by secured revolving credit facility of $900m to extend the working capital available,  
to enable commitments to be made for the 2011 Greenland drilling campaign and for other general corporate purposes. The facility was provided by 
Standard Chartered Bank, Bank of Scotland PLC, Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, HSBC Bank PLC and Société Générale. Security 
was in the form of a pledge over a number of shares in Cairn UK Holdings Limited. Interest was charged at floating rates determined by LIBOR plus 
an applicable margin. The facility was cancelled and repaid in full on 1 August 2011. 
At December 2011 Cairn Energy PLC Group had $35m of facilities in place to cover the issue of performance guarantees. Fixed rates of bank 
commission and charges applied to these. $2.6m was utilised as at 31 December 2011.
The Group currently has surplus cash which it has placed in a combination of money market liquidity funds and term deposits with a number  
of international financial institutions, ensuring sufficient liquidity to enable the Group to meet its short/medium-term expenditure requirements.  
The Group is conscious of the current environment and constantly monitors counterparty risk. Policies are in place to limit counterparty exposure  
and maturity. The Group monitors counterparties using published ratings and other measures. Repayment of principal is the overriding priority  
and this is achieved by diversification and shorter maturities to provide flexibility.
Interest Rate Risk
Surplus funds are placed on short/medium-term deposits at floating rates. It is Cairn’s policy to invest with banks or other financial institutions that, 
first, offer what is perceived as the greatest security and, second, offer the most competitive interest rate. Managing counterparty risk is considered 
the priority.
Short/medium-term borrowing arrangements are generally entered into at floating rates. From time to time the Group may opt to manage a 
proportion of the interest costs by using derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps. At this time, however, there are no such 
instruments (2010: none).
Foreign Currency Risk
Cairn manages exposures that arise from non-functional currency receipts and payments by matching receipts and payments in the same currency 
and actively managing the residual net position. Generally the exposure has been limited given that receipts and payments have mostly been in  
US Dollars and the functional currency of most companies in the Group is US Dollars. 
The Group also aims where possible to hold surplus cash, debt and working capital balances in functional currency which in most cases is US Dollars, 
thereby matching the reporting currency and functional currency of most companies in the Group. This minimises the impact of foreign exchange 
movements on the Group’s Balance Sheet. 
Where residual net exposures do exist and they are considered significant the Company and Group may from time to time opt to use derivative 
financial instruments to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. 
Financial Statements
Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued 130  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Appendix 2 – Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies Continued
Foreign Currency Risk Continued
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to movements in the $:GBP and $:INR exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, on the 
Group’s and the Company’s monetary assets and liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other 
currencies is not material.
    2011  2010
    Effect on  Effect on 
    profit before Effect on profit before Effect on 
    tax Equity tax Equity 
Group    $m $m $m $m
Continuing operations
10% increase in Sterling to $    424.0 345.1 (6.9) (0.1)
10% decrease in Sterling to $    (424.0) (345.1) 6.9 0.1
10% increase in Indian Rupee to $    – – (6.9) –
10% decrease in Indian Rupee to $    – – 6.9 –
    2011  2010
    Effect on  Effect on 
    profit before Effect on profit before Effect on 
    tax Equity tax Equity 
Company    $m $m $m $m
Continuing operations
10% increase in Sterling to $    350.1 350.1 (2.6) 95.0
10% decrease in Sterling to $    (350.1) (350.1) 2.6 (95.0)
During the year, the Company changed its functional currency from Sterling to $, as noted in Section 1.1f, with effect from 1 July 2011. At the year end 
the Company held approximately £2.25 billion of cash in anticipation of the cash return to shareholders noted in Section 7.2. Following the completion  
of this return both the Group’s and Company’s exposure to movements in the Sterling to $ exchange rate reduces significantly. The Group realised an 
exchange loss of $39.2m on the Sterling cash balances held at the year end.
Credit Risk
Investment credit risk for investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the Group Treasury function in accordance with the 
Board-approved policies of Cairn Energy PLC. Investments of surplus funds are only made with approved counterparties who meet the appropriate 
rating and/or other criteria, and are only made within approved limits. The Board continually re-assesses the Group’s policy and updates as required. 
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty failure. 
Cairn Energy PLC Group limits the placing of deposits, certificates of deposit and other investments to banks or financial institutions that have at  
least two A- or above ratings from Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s or Fitch unless a Sovereign Guarantee is available from an AAA-rated Government.  
The counterparty limits vary between $50m and $200m depending on the ratings of the counterparty. During the period, following the receipt of  
the proceeds of the 30% tranche of the 40% sale of Cairn India Limited, until the completion of the return of cash to shareholders, these limits were 
increased to $100m/$400m per counterparty. No investments are placed with any counterparty with a five year CDS exceeding 250 bps. Investments  
in money market liquidity funds are only made with AAA-rated liquidity funds and the maximum holding in any single fund is 5% of total investments. 
At the year end the Group does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk other than that disclosed in Section 3.3. As at 31 December 
2011 the Group had investments with 32 counterparties (2010: ten) to ensure no concentration of counterparty investment risk.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date.
Market Risk: Equity Price Risk
The Group is now exposed to equity price risks arising from the listed equity investments it holds in Cairn India following the completion of the 
disposal of the 40% interest during the year. Equity investments are held for strategic rather than trading purposes and the Group does not actively 
trade these investments, which are classified as available-for-sale.
Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.  
The cumulative gain or loss that arises on subsequent disposal of available-for-sale financial assets will be recycled through the Income Statement.
This financial asset is held at a fair value of $2,463.3m, based on the closing market value of INR 314.25 at 31 December 2011. The sensitivity analyses 
below have been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date, assuming all other variables are held constant.
       2011
      Effect on profit Effect on 
      before tax Equity 
      $m $m
Increase to closing price of 400 INR      – 530.9
Increase to closing price of 350 INR      – 221.4
Decrease to closing price of 300 INR      – (82.2)
Net profit for the year ended 31 December 2011 would have been unaffected as no investments were disposed of post recognition. 
Financial Statements
Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  131    
Financial Statements
Appendix 3 – Share-based Payments
The following assumptions and inputs apply to the share plans described in Section 6.3:
       Lapse due
      Risk-free rate to withdrawals 
Scheme name    Vesting Volatility per annum per annum
2010 Share Incentive Plan    86% 52% n/a 5% 
2009 Plan    45.28% – 47 .00% 52% 4.3% – 4.4% 5% 
2009 LTIP    35.09% – 46.64% 52% n/a –
2009 Replacement Option Plan    5% – 86.77% 52% 4% 5% 
2009 Replacement LTIP    118.49% – 124.90% 52% n/a –
2006 Plan    28.01% – 33.43% 63% – 7 4% 4.7% – 5.1% 5% 
2003 Plan    85.7 4% – 88.34% 40.24% 4.0% – 4.8% 5% 
2002 Plan    85.7 4% – 89.48% 40.24% 4.0% – 4.8% 5% 
Capricorn Units    36.83% – 37 .14% 63% – 7 4% 4.7% – 4.9% –
Cairn India Units    31 .94% – 32.97% 41% – 42% 4.7% – 4.9% –
The following assumptions on employee exercise trigger points are applicable to all share option plans described in this note:
  25% 50% 75% 100% 125% 
  profit profit profit profit profit No trigger
Percentage of employees exercising options  15% 25% 25% 15% 10% 10%
For details on the vesting conditions attached to the LTIPs refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87.
Cairn Energy PLC Group and Company
No difference in the schemes in Section 6.3 apply for Group and Company other than charges for these schemes that are made to Cairn India 
companies where their staff are members of these schemes. 
Cairn Energy PLC share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year, subject to the normal employee dealing bans imposed  
at certain times by the Company. The weighted average share price during the year was £3.679 (2010: £4.073). 
The Cairn Energy PLC share options have been valued using a binomial model. The main inputs to the model include the number of options,  
share price, leaver rate, trigger points, discount rate and volatility. 
 h Leaver rate assumptions are based on past history of employees leaving the Company prior to options vesting and are revised to equal the 
number of options that ultimately vest.
 h Trigger points are the profit points at which the relevant percentage of employees are assumed to exercise their options. 
 h The risk-free rate is based on the yield on a zero coupon Government bond with a term equal to the expected term on the option being valued.
 h Volatility was determined as the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the shares of a peer group of 
similar companies selected from the FTSE, as disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87, over a ten year period to the 
date of award.
Financial Statements
Appendices to the Notes to the Financial Statements 
Continued 132  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Notes Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  133    
Additional Information
Financial Advisers 
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
New Court
St Swithin’s Lane
London 
EC4P 4DU
Secretary
Duncan Wood LLB
Solicitors 
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
1 Exchange Crescent
Conference Square
Edinburgh  
EH3 8UL
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
George House
50 George Square
Glasgow
G2 1RR
Stockbrokers
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street
London  
EC1A 1HQ
Morgan Stanley
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London
E14 4QA
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex  
BN99 6DA
T 0871 384 2660
Overseas shareholder helpline number 
T +44 1214 157047
www.shareview.co.uk
Additional Information 
Company Information 134  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Additional Information 
Glossary of Terms 
The following are the main terms and abbreviations used in this annual report.
Corporate
AGM Annual General Meeting
Bn Billion
Board the Board of Directors of Cairn Energy PLC
BRMS Business Risk Management System
BSE Bombay Stock Exchange
Cairn/ Cairn Energy PLC and/or its subsidiaries as 
Cairn Energy/PLC appropriate
Cairn India/ Cairn India Limited and/or its subsidiaries 
CIL as appropriate
Cairn India Cairn India and/or its previously named 
Group subsidiaries as appropriate
Capricorn/ Capricorn Oil Limited (previously named  
Group  Capricorn Energy Limited) and/or its subsidiaries  
as appropriate
Companies Act  the Companies Act 2006 (as amended)
Company Cairn Energy PLC
CRT Crisis Response Team
CT Corporate Team
EGM Extraordinary General Meeting
ERG Emergency Response Group
EU European Union
FSA Financial Services Authority
GoI Government of India
Group the Company and its subsidiaries 
GBRMS Group Business Risk Management System
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GRMC Group Risk Management Committee
 
IFC International Finance Corporation
IPO  initial public offering of shares in Cairn India Limited
JV Joint Venture
KPIs key performance indicators
Listing Rules  the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom  
Listing Authority
LSE London Stock Exchange
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan
M&A merger and acquisition
MBA Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya
MT Management Team
NOC national oil company
NSE National Stock Exchange of India Limited
OECD  Organisation for Economic Cooperation  
and Development
ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd 
OPEC  Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PDMR Person discharging managerial responsibilities
PETRONAS PETRONAS International Corporation Ltd
PSC production sharing contract
QVRs Quarterly Valuation Reports 
RMC Risk Management Committee
Santos Santos International Holdings Pty Limited
SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India
Statoil Statoil ASA
UN United Nations
Vedanta Vedanta Resources plc Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  135    
Additional Information
Additional Information 
Glossary of Terms
Continued 
Technical
3D 3 dimensional
bbl barrel
boe barrels of oil equivalent
boepd barrels of oil equivalent per day
bopd barrels of oil per day
EOR enhanced oil recovery
FDP field development plan
LNG liquefied natural gas
mmboe million barrels of oil equivalent
mmbopd million barrels of oil per day
MPT Mangala Processing Terminal
Accounting
~ approximately
$ United States Dollars
bn billion
ESOP Employee Share Ownership Plan 
IAS International Accounting Standard
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards 
INR Indian Rupee
LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
m million
SIP share incentive plan
TSR total shareholder return
WAEP weighted average exercise price
WAGP weighted average grant price
WAFV weighted average fair value
Corporate Responsibility
ALARP As low as reasonably practicable
CO 2 E carbon dioxide equivalent
CR Corporate Responsibility
CRMS  Corporate Responsibility Management System
DNV Det Norske Veritas
EIA Environmental Impact Assessment
ESIAs Environmental and Social Impact Assessments
ERM Environmental Resource Management
GHG greenhouse gas
GRI Global Reporting Initiative
HAZID hazard identification
HSE Health, Safety and Environment
IBA Impact Benefit Agreement
LTIFR lost time injury frequency rate
NGO non-governmental organisations
OGP The International Association of Oil  
 and Gas Producers
PCDP Public Consultation and Disclosure Plans
PEIA Preliminary environmental impact assessment
RFSU Ready for Start Up
SIA Social Impact Assessment
TRIR total recordable incident frequency rate 136  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
These materials contain forward-looking statements regarding Cairn, our corporate plans, future financial condition, 
future results of operations, future business plans and strategies. All such forward-looking statements are based on our 
management’s assumptions and beliefs in the light of information available to them at this time. These forward-looking 
statements are, by their nature, subject to significant risks and uncertainties and actual results, performance and 
achievements may be materially different from those expressed in such statements. Factors that may cause actual 
results, performance or achievements to differ from expectations include, but are not limited to, regulatory changes, 
future levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing, weather and weather-related impacts, wars and acts of 
terrorism, development and use of technology, acts of competitors and other changes to business conditions. Cairn 
undertakes no obligation to revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in Cairn’s expectations 
with regard thereto or any change in circumstances or events after the date hereof.
Additional Information 
Corporate Offices
Head Office
50 Lothian Road
Edinburgh 
EH3 9BY
T +44 131 475 3000
F +44 131 475 3030
E pr@cairnenergy.com
www.cairnenergy.com
Greenland
Floor 5
Imaneq 33
3900 Nuuk
Nepal
House No.66
Hitaisi Marg 
Ward No.4 
Baluwater 
Kathmandu
Spain
Paseo de la Castellana 42
6th Floor
28046
Madrid
T +34 91 781 4982
F +34 91 576 9250 Printed on Hello Silk (300gsm cover, 1 70gsm pages 1-20,  
150gsm pages 21-88 and 115gsm pages 89-136). Hello Silk is an 
FSC-recognised paper, produced from sustainably managed forests. 
This publication was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an 
FSC-recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 accreditation. D I SCOVER m OR E www.C a IRnE nER gy .COm Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
