 Delivering value from  
discovery and development
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Delivering value  
from discovery  
and development 
Introduction
View more content online:
www.cairnenergy.com/ar2014
Cairn Energy PLC is an 
independent oil and gas 
exploration and development 
company listed on the  
London Stock Exchange. 
Cairn has its headquarters in Edinburgh,  
Scotland with additional offices in London, 
Norway and Senegal. 
Cairn has discovered oil and gas in a variety  
of locations throughout the world. Today the 
business holds a balanced portfolio of exploration 
and development assets and is focused on  
three geological regions: the Atlantic Margin, 
North West Europe and the Mediterranean. 01 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Senegal 
Basin opening 
exploration success
Cairn has discovered oil in the first and second wells of its 
Senegal exploration programme, opening a new basin on  
the Atlantic Margin. 
2014 key story – Read more on page 13
North Sea 
Developing a  
sustainable business
Kraken and Catcher, two major North Sea fields, are the 
Group’s core development projects and will provide free  
cash flow from 2017.
2014 key story – Read more on page 17
Cairn’s exploration and appraisal assets in the Atlantic 
Margin, North West Europe and the Mediterranean  
are underpinned by its core development assets  
in the North Sea.
Strategic report 01
Overview of 2014 02
Strategy and business model 04
Highlights of 2014 06
Chairman’s statement 07
CEO’s review 08
Industry overview 10
In discussion with Simon Thomson, CEO  
and James Smith, CFO 14
2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)  18
2015 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)  20
Operational review 22
Financial review 30
How we manage risk 34
Working responsibly 42
 – CEO’s introduction 42
 – How we operate responsibly 44
 –People 46
 – Mapping CR priorities 48
Leadership and governance 58
Board of Directors 58
Directors’ report 60
Corporate Governance statement 63
Audit Committee report  73
Directors’ Remuneration report 76
Financial statements 98
Independent Auditors’ Report  98
Group Income Statement 104
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 104
Group Balance Sheet 105
Group Statement of Cash Flows 106
Group Statement of Changes in Equity 107
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation 108
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets  
and Related Goodwill 110
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital 116
Section 4 – Results for the Year 120
Section 5 – Capital Structure  
and Other Disclosures 127
Section 6 – Post Balance Sheet Events 131
Company Balance Sheet 132
Company Statement of Cash Flows 133
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 134
Section 7 – Notes to the  
Company Financial Statements 135
Appendices to the Group and  
Company Financial Statements 138
Additional information 1 43
Group booked reserves and resources 143
Licence list  144
Glossary 147
Notes 148
Company information Inside back cover
Corporate offices Back cover 02 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Overview of 2014
Our strategy 
Deliver value from 
discovery and 
development
Working  
responsibly
Corporate  
Governance
Our business  
model
To create, add and 
realise value
How we did  
in 2014
Key Performance 
Indicators
 – Exploration and 
appraisal success
 – Mature exploration 
prospects
 – Complete 2014  
work programmes
 – Focus on safety  
of people and 
environment
 – Enhance Health,  
Safety and 
Environment  
(HSE) culture
 – Retain balance  
sheet strength
Our objectives  
for 2015
Key Performance 
Indicators
 – Exploration and 
appraisal success
 – Mature exploration 
prospects
 – Portfolio optimisation 
and acreage protection
 – Complete 2015  
work programme
 – Focus on safety  
of people and 
environment
 – Continue to enhance 
HSE culture
 – Retain balance  
sheet strength
Core Values
Building Respect
Nurturing Relationships
Acting Responsibly
Corporate Responsibility priorities
Supply chain and contractors
Preventing major accidents
Preventing major spills
Operational environmental footprint
T ax transparency
Complying with our Business  
Principles in Cap Boujdour
Read more: Strategy and  
business model on P04-05
04
Discover more: Working responsibly
on P42-57
42
Discover more: Leadership and 
governance on P58-97
58
Read more: Strategy and  
business model on P04-05
04
Read more: 2014 Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) on P18-19
18
Read more: 2015 Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) on P20-21
20
Board of Directors
Audit committee
Remuneration committee
Nomination committee
Governance committee
Risk management committee 03 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Working  
responsibly
Corporate  
Governance
The principal risks  
we are managing
 – Lack of exploration 
success
 – Execution of North  
Sea developments
 – Restriction on sale of 
Cairn India Limited 
shareholding
 – Operational and  
project performance
Read more: How we manage risk  
on P34-41
34
 “Cairn enters 2015 in a strong position with further 
drilling planned in Senegal to evaluate the scale  
of this world class asset. We are preparing, along 
with our joint venture partners, for a multi-well 
exploration and appraisal programme that has the 
ability to add substantial value for the company 
and all stakeholders.
In the last twelve months, we have actively 
managed the portfolio and streamlined the 
business to provide the Group with continued 
financial flexibility to deliver our active exploration, 
appraisal and development programmes.” 
 
Simon Thomson
Chief Executive 04 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Sustainable  
business
Operational 
excellence
Balanced  
portfolio
Business 
model
How we delivered in 2014
 – Secured a seven-year debt facility  
of up to US$575m to part fund core  
North Sea developments
 – Reduced capital expenditure prior to  
delivering free cash flow by ~US$380m  
by selling a 10% interest in Catcher  
development (completed 2015)
 – Reduced ongoing cost base through  
group reorganisation 
 – Continued to pursue release of restriction  
on Cairn India Limited shareholding
How we delivered in 2014
 – Discovered oil offshore Senegal in both wells 
drilled in Senegal exploration programme
 – Initiated non-operated well offshore  
Western Sahara
 – Progressed the North Sea developments which 
remain on budget and on track for first oil in 2017
 – Booked 2P reserves on Catcher development 
and 2C resources in Senegal
 – Matured prospects in Senegal, Morocco and 
Norway to drill-ready status in 2015/2016
 – Participated in UK 28th Licensing Round and 
Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round 
How we delivered in 2014
 – Operated drilling programme with two  
wells offshore Senegal and one well  
offshore Morocco
 – Two operated seismic campaigns offshore 
Malta and Republic of Ireland
 – No spills to the environment
 – Despite focus on safety, one Lost Time Incident 
(LTI) occurred; incident was thoroughly 
investigated and measures taken to avoid 
similar incidents happening again
Strategy and business model
What were our objectives in 2014  
and what will they be in 2015?
Maintain a self funding business plan.
What were our objectives in 2014  
and what will they be in 2015?
Grow the reserves and resources base to provide  
a basis for future growth.
 
What were our objectives in 2014  
and what will they be in 2015?
Deliver operational excellence in all activities  
and maintain licence to operate.
Delivering value in 201 4
Our strategy
Cairn’s strategy is to deliver  
value from discovery  
and development.
Discover more: 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
P18-19
18
Discover more: 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
P18-19
18
Discover more: 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
P18-19
18
Cairn has the following  
Key Performance Indicators 
in place to monitor delivery  
of strategy.
Seeking operational  
excellence
Delivering a  
sustainable business
Maintaining a  
balanced portfolio 05 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Return and 
reinvest
Produce
Develop
Appraise
Explore
Identify
2. Add value
3. Realise value
1
2
3
1. Create value
How we delivered in 2014
 – Made two significant oil 
discoveries offshore Senegal
 – Applied for and awarded 
interests in both the UK and 
Norwegian licensing rounds
 – Farmed-in to Group’s first  
licence in the Barents Sea,  
an emerging region
 – Applied for Norwegian 
operatorship
How we delivered in 2014
 – Received approval for the Field 
Development Plan (FDP) of the 
Catcher development, a major 
UK North Sea field, from the UK 
Department of Energy and 
Climate Change (DECC)
 – Catcher and Kraken 
developments remain on track 
for first oil in 2017
 – Booked 2P reserves on Catcher 
development and 2C resources  
in Senegal
How we delivered in 2014
 – Sold a 10% interest in the 
Catcher development project, 
reducing capital expenditure by 
~US$380m, whilst importantly 
continuing to benefit from the 
remaining 20% stake in the 
development (completed 2015)
 – Continued to pursue release  
of restriction on Cairn India 
Limited shares
1. Create value
Cairn looks to add value through 
optimising existing assets, seeing 
hidden value in assets that others  
may have overlooked, and through 
asset swaps and exchanges. 
Cairn has a proven track record of 
realising value for shareholders and 
then reinvesting in the business as  
well as returning cash to shareholders. 
Cairn is careful to maintain a strong 
balance sheet which can fund the 
Group’s exploration programmes 
which offer growth opportunities. 
The success of Cairn’s exploration  
and investment in India allowed  
the company to return a total of 
US$4.5 billion to shareholders  
in the last six years.
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Our business model
Cairn’s business model  
is to create, add and 
realise value throughout 
the oil and gas life-cycle 
within a sustainable,  
self funding business. 
Throughout this process 
the portfolio is closely 
managed to ensure  
assets are delivering 
optimum value.
Cairn seeks to create value through the 
discovery of hydrocarbon resources. 
Opportunities are accessed from the 
existing portfolio, from government 
licensing rounds and through acquisition.
2. Add value 3. Realise value 06 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Highlights of 2014
Financial
 – Group net cash at 31 December 2014 of US$869m 
 – Seven year Reserve Based Lending bank facility of  
up to US$575m remains undrawn 
 – Cairn is currently unable to access the value of its ~ 10% 
residual shareholding in Cairn India Limited (CIL) valued  
at US$703m at 31 December 2014 
 – Completion of a farm out agreement to Dyas  
UK Limited for the sale of 10% interest in the  
Catcher development in the UK North Sea
 – A total of 56.1 mmboe booked as 2P reserves at 
31 December 2014 and 171.6 mmboe booked as 2C 
Contingent Resources on a net working interest basis
Exploration
Atlantic Margin – Senegal
 – FAN-1 discovered high quality, light oil in multiple stacked 
deepwater fans, SNE-1 discovered high quality oil in the 
upper clastic target of the Shelf Edge prospect; Senegal 
evaluation plan to be submitted by Joint Venture (JV),  
Cairn Operator 40% Working Interest (WI), Q2 2015 
 – Preliminary estimates of the gross Contingent Resource for 
SNE-1: P50, 330 mmbbls recoverable. Initial gross STOIIP 
estimates for the FAN-1 well: P50, 950 mmbbls. Resource 
estimates confirmed by ERC Equipoise Ltd audit
 – Based on early evaluation, a programme of three firm and 
three optional exploration and appraisal wells is envisaged  
to begin in 2015
 – Capital Markets Day on Senegal on 11 May 2015 
Atlantic Margin – Western Sahara
 – Exploration well in Cap Boujdour contract area completed  
in March 2015 (Kosmos Operator , Cairn 20% WI). Well 
encountered hydrocarbons but the discovery was non-
commercial and the well has been plugged and abandoned
North West Europe 
 – Catcher and Kraken developments in the UK North Sea on 
track for first oil from 2017; targeted peak net production  
to Cairn of ~ 22,500 boepd 
 – Catcher
 – Field Development Plan approved Q2 2014 now in 
execution phase
 – Development drilling scheduled to commence in the 
middle of 2015
 – Construction of the FPSO hull started in Q1 2015 
 – Kraken 
 – Development drilling scheduled to commence in the 
middle of 2015
 – FPSO construction continues in Singapore and 
fabrication of main process modules has started
 – Programme of non-operated wells in North Sea:
 – Three wells completed in 2014, Ensis and Atlas in  
Norway and Aragon in the UK – all three wells were 
plugged and abandoned
 – West of Kraken, UK North Sea (EnQuest Operator ,  
Cairn 25% WI) operations are close to completion
 – Crossbill, Norwegian North Sea (Wintershall Operator , 
Cairn 20% WI), operations to commence in Q2 2015
 – Additional non-operated wells for 2015 remain subject to 
final investment decision within the different partnerships
 – UK 28th Licensing Round awards: Cairn was awarded four 
licences in Q4 2014
 – Norwegian 2014 Licensing Round: Cairn was awarded five 
licences in Q1 2015 
 – Process to pre-qualify as Operator in Norway under way
 – Pursuing recent entry into Barents Sea with possible 
applications in 23rd Licence Round in late 2015 07 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Chairman’s statement
Ian T yler
Cairn is well positioned
2014 was a challenging 
year both for Cairn and  
for the wider E&P industry. 
In January, Cairn was 
notified of the previous 
Indian Government’s 
decision to freeze our  
10% holding in Cairn  
India Limited, following  
the introduction  
of retrospective  
tax legislation. 
Ian T yler
Chairman
9 March 2015
During the second half of the year and continuing 
into 2015, oil prices have fallen sharply, causing all 
players in the sector to reassess capital plans and 
focus on cost efficiency. On a more positive front,  
the Senegal discoveries in Cairn’s significant acreage 
position offshore West Africa provide a material 
opportunity for the company to create substantial 
shareholder value from a potentially world  
class asset. 
During the year , we reconfirmed our strategy to 
deliver value from discovery and development within 
a sustainable, self-funding business model. Cairn is 
well positioned with a strong balance sheet and is 
well funded through to cash flow sustainability from 
our North Sea assets. Furthermore, management’s 
early action, which included a fundamental 
rationalisation of the business whilst retaining our 
core geological and exploration skills, has ensured 
that the company can operate effectively in the 
current low oil price environment. 
Senegal presents an exciting opportunity which we 
continue to evaluate. As a result of the reduction in 
oil prices, Cairn is able to benefit from substantially 
lower industry costs as we prepare for the 2015 
appraisal and exploration programme. 
In India, we note the comments made by the new 
BJP Government about the impact of retrospective 
tax legislation and the negative signal it sends to the 
international investment community. Our approach 
to date has been to focus on engagement with the 
Government of India and resolving this matter 
clearly continues to be a high priority. 
Following the 2014 AGM, as part of our long term 
succession planning, a number of significant changes 
to the Board took effect: Sir Bill Gammell retired as 
non-executive Chairman and I succeeded him in this 
role. Dr Mike Watts, Deputy Chief Executive and 
Jann Brown, Managing Director and Chief Financial 
Officer stepped down as Executive Directors. James 
Smith was appointed as Chief Financial Officer . 
James joined in March 2014 from Rothschild where 
he had been a longstanding adviser to Cairn. Finally, 
Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director . 
After standing down as Executive Directors, Mike 
and Jann continued in senior roles for six months 
focused entirely on seeking to resolve the tax 
situation in India. 
I would like to recognise and thank both our 
employees and our contractors for all their hard 
work and diligence in getting Cairn through a difficult 
year in 2014 and into a position of strength as we 
look forward to 2015. 08 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
T wo significant discoveries  
offshore Senegal
The combination of balance sheet strength, 
development stage assets with a clear path to cash 
flow generation and a balanced exploration and 
appraisal portfolio allows the Company to fund 
future exploration activity and to repeat the cycle of 
creating, adding and realising shareholder value. In 
2014, we positioned the Group for future growth by: 
i. Discovering oil offshore Senegal in both wells 
drilled in the exploration programme.
ii. Participating successfully in the UK 28th 
Licensing Round and Norwegian 2014 APA 
Licensing Round.
iii. Selective farm-ins and farm-downs, including  
the sale of a 10% interest in the Catcher 
development in the North Sea.
iv. Accelerating the financing of our development 
projects.
v. Progressing the Catcher and Kraken 
developments, which remain on track with free 
cash flow generation anticipated from 2017 .
vi. Maturing prospects across our portfolio to drill 
ready status for 2015/16.
vii. Booking 2P Reserves on the Catcher 
development and 2C Resources in Senegal.
2014 was marked by two significant discoveries 
offshore Senegal, successfully opening a new 
hydrocarbon basin, with the SNE-1 discovery 
recognised as potentially the largest global oil 
discovery in 2014. The discoveries occur in two 
separate plays and have significant follow on 
potential within our acreage.
The Cairn team planned and executed a safe and 
successful two well exploration campaign in less than 
20 months following the initial announcement of  
the farm-in to Senegal in early 2013. The strong JV 
partnership comprising Petrosen, ConocoPhillips 
and FAR Limited with Cairn as the Operator , has a 
shared vision of the prospectivity and potential of 
our large acreage position.
CEO’s review
Simon Thomson
Cairn’s strategy is to create and deliver value from 
the discovery and development of hydrocarbon 
resources. We achieve this from a balanced 
portfolio and a sustainable, self-funding  
business model. 
Simon Thomson
Chief Executive
9 March 2015 09 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
 “We start 2015 in a strong position to deliver an exciting programme 
across the portfolio, especially in Senegal, which has the potential  
to add substantial value beyond the discoveries made to date.” 
Simon Thomson, CEO and Macky Sall, 
President of Senegal.
We have established an office in Dakar with a local 
and international team who are working closely with 
the Government, suppliers and local communities.  
I was delighted to lead a country visit in November 
2014 along with executive management from 
ConocoPhillips to meet with President Macky Sall. 
We were encouraged by the support of the 
Senegalese authorities, and we all recognise that 
these discoveries, in the longer term, are potentially 
transformational for Senegal as a country, as well  
as for Cairn. 
Cairn’s exploration and appraisal assets in the Atlantic 
Margin, North West Europe and the Mediterranean 
are underpinned by Kraken and Catcher , two major 
North Sea development projects. The future cash 
flows from these projects will support a self-funding, 
sustainable business model over the medium and 
long term. From 2017 , we anticipate free cash flow 
from these assets with a production estimate of 
around 22,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net  
to Cairn. We keep a disciplined focus on projects right 
across our portfolio to ensure they deliver strong 
returns even in a lower oil price environment and 
our North Sea development investments are in line 
with that strategy. 
In early 2014, Cairn received notice from the Income 
T ax Department of India citing 2012 retrospective 
legislation and requesting information relating to  
a group reorganisation in 2006. At the same time, 
the Income T ax Department restricted Cairn  
from accessing the value of its remaining ~ 10% 
shareholding in Cairn India Limited (CIL), then  
valued at ~US$1billion. 
The freezing of our asset in India was an unexpected 
event and measures were swiftly introduced to 
ensure that the Company remained able to deliver  
its work programme and long-term strategy in the 
absence of access to these funds. 
First of all, the timetable for bringing in debt 
financing for our North Sea development activities 
was accelerated. A Reserve Based Lending bank 
facility of US$575m was put in place in July and  
this currently remains undrawn. 
Secondly, the business was re-organised to ensure 
we had the right size of company for the work 
programme ahead. The priority was to retain and 
protect the core technical, commercial and financial 
competencies which form the foundation of Cairn 
whilst outsourcing non-core capabilities and 
reducing costs. The resulting new organisational 
structure was completed in early 2015 with a  
40% reduction in the number of employees and 
contractors in the business. 
Thirdly, we looked to re-balance our portfolio.  
In September , we announced a farm out agreement 
to Dyas UK Limited for the sale of a 10% interest in 
the Catcher development and adjacent acreage in 
the UK North Sea for a carry of Cairn’s exploration  
and development costs up to a cap of US$182m, 
effective from 1 January 2014. As a result of this 
transaction, which was successfully completed  
in January 2015, Cairn reduced forward capital 
expenditure to the end of 2017 by ~US$380m  
and also retained a 20% working interest in the 
Catcher licence with first oil expected from 2017 .
The above measures strengthened our financial 
position and our ability to create and deliver value 
through a sustainable, repeatable and self-funding 
business model. 
Outlook
We start 2015 in a strong position to deliver an 
exciting programme across the portfolio, especially 
in Senegal, which has the potential to add substantial 
value beyond the discoveries made to date. We have 
built a diverse and balanced portfolio and created 
the financial flexibility to progress our exploration, 
appraisal and development programmes and ensure 
ongoing strategic delivery.  10 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Heriot-Watt University is one of the UK’s 
leading universities for business and 
industry and has a reputation for innovative 
education, enterprise, and leading edge 
research. Energy research is a core activity 
within Heriot-Watt University, and the 
Centre for Energy Economics Research  
and Policy (CEERP) is the latest evidence  
of the University’s commitment to research 
in energy, economics, and policy. CEERP  
is based within the Institute of Petroleum 
Engineering at Heriot-Watt University,  
but forms a key point of support and 
collaboration among the University’s 
Schools with affiliates from the School  
of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure,  
and Society; School of Management and 
Languages; School of Life Sciences; and  
the Energy Academy as well as honorary 
academics outwith the University.
This industry overview provides an 
independent view of the industry 
background against which Cairn operates.
How industry context  
drives Cairn’s strategy
The main contributor to this supply expansion was 
the US as its oil production, particularly of LTO
3
, 
grew by 1.5 Mb/d overall. However , the key story  
of the oil markets for 2014 was the decision by 
OPEC to maintain supply instead of reducing  
their quota of 30 Mb/d crude oil production on 
27 November 2014 despite the tumbling oil price 
and continued expectations of excess supply to  
the market into 2015. Whilst creating significant 
short-term pressure within OPEC countries reliant 
on oil revenues, the longer-term strategy behind this 
decision is widely held to be one of “survival of  
the cheapest”, to pressurise capital investment  
in higher-cost production such as US shale or 
deep-water so that this supply does not reach  
the market and erode the OPEC market share
4
.
 
Strategies and margins under pressure
The shorter-term effect of the falling crude price, 
evident through 2014, is the squeezing of margins 
and pressure on cash flows in the sector . The largest 
of private sector actors, the supermajors, are, with a 
few exceptions, under pressure to reimpose budget 
discipline due to very large development projects 
absorbing available capital. As a result, and as a 
means to generate cash to return to shareholders, 
their exploration expenditure is being trimmed back 
and assets divested allowing them to concentrate on 
a core set of projects already in the pipeline.
Overall, the exploration spend followed a lower-risk 
strategy, away from the more speculative frontier
5
 
activity of recent years to exploration in mature 
areas, opening new areas of already proven basins. 
Activity has softened in the vibrant offshore areas  
in Brazil and East Africa as these plays move into an 
evaluation and development phase, but elsewhere  
in Africa significant exploration success was booked 
in 2014. 
Industry overview
Dr Julian Fennema and Erkal Ersoy, CEERP , Heriot-Watt University
 “ Globally the largest oil discovery 
was in Senegal by Cairn Energy.”
Uneven fragile growth
Global economic recovery, however slow, persisted 
throughout 2014, but downside risk also left its  
mark in the overall economic environment. 
Amongst the advanced economies, the United 
States, the United Kingdom and Canada have all 
experienced growth rates in excess of 2% year on 
year , but were the select few to buck the trend: the 
Eurozone and Japan have grown at less than 1%, 
pulling the OECD average growth rate down to  
a lacklustre 1.8%
1
. 
Within non-OECD countries, China’s economic 
structural transformation led to a moderation  
in growth, slowing to 7 .4% year on year through 
2014, thereby also slowing oil consumption growth. 
Despite this, China’s imports of oil continued to 
increase, and the country remained the second-
largest consumer of oil after the US. Elsewhere, 
slower than expected economic growth in, amongst 
others, Brazil and Russia have restrained oil demand 
growth, limiting the previous upwards pressure  
from the emerging economies. Overall, therefore, 
global demand remained approximately constant  
as upward movements counteracted downward 
ones elsewhere – aggregate demand for oil products 
rose by 0.7 Mb/d to 92.4 Mb/d
2
.
Oil supply outstrips demand
In the presence of this stable demand, the supply  
side played the pivotal role in price determination 
within the crude oil market, and both OPEC  
and non-OPEC sources contributed to a supply 
expansion of 2.1 Mb/d compared to 2013. The 
resulting supply-demand imbalance drove the  
Brent price below $60 per barrel in December 2014, 
from over $100 per barrel at the start of the year . 11 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Operating cost
100
Capital costs
2000 2002 2004 2006 2010 2008 2014 2012
250
200
150
7.34
5.04
IHS CERA Cost Indices Relative Price Performance
FTSE UK Oil and Gas Producer Index
FTSE World Oil and Gas Producer Index
FTSE 100
4/2/2012
7/2/2012
10/2/2012
1/2/2013
4/2/2013
7/2/2013
10/2/2013
1/2/2014
4/2/2014
7/2/2014
10/2/2014
1/2/2015
1.4
0.9
1
1.1
1.2
1.3
0.8
0.7
Source: IHS CERA.
The price dip
once again, an outcome of supply and demand 
interaction: in the market for deepwater drilling rigs, 
for example, new supply has arrived at the same time 
as collapsing demand such that the daily rental rate 
has halved over 2014 and is expected to remain low 
through 2015.
There remains considerable uncertainty about  
how long such a price dip may last, how long it  
will take for the “cheapest” to remain, but as oil 
demand strengthens and supply tightens, firms with 
significant developmental portfolios in 2015 could 
reap a windfall. They can benefit from reduced costs 
during the appraisal and development phase, but sell 
the end product at improved prices as they move 
into a production standing.
1. IMF World Economic Outlook (Update), January 2015.
2. IEA Oil Market Report, January 2015.
3. Light Tight Oil, oil extracted from impermeable reservoirs, now available for extraction principally due to the developments 
in the hydraulic fracturing, “fracking”, of reservoirs.
4. MEES interview with Ali Naimi, 21 December 2014, www.mees.com.
5. Whilst the meaning, and position, of this frontier is continually changing due to technological and commercial evolution in  
the sector, this kind of activity is likely to be in remote, and often extreme, geographical locations or in deepwater, or from 
unconventional sources such as tar sands or shale deposits.
6. EY Global Oil and Gas Transactions Review 2014.
7 . Notably absent after recent years are the National Oil Companies (NOCs), in particular those from China, who have entered 
a phase of developing their newly-acquired portfolio.
8. Consolidation did not occur only in the upstream sector: in the oilfield services sector, the acquisition of Baker Hughes by 
Halliburton for $38bn created a new giant from two top-five companies.
 “This fall in exploration and appraisal costs is an 
outcome of supply and demand interaction.”
Whilst, globally, the largest single find was the 
Pobeda gas discovery in Russia’s Kara Sea, the 
largest oil discovery was in Senegal by Cairn Energy, 
with also significant discoveries in West Africa,  
in Côte d’Ivoire and Gabon. As a result, Sub- 
Saharan Africa accounted for three-quarters  
of all commercial reserves discovered in 2014.
Return of the megadeal
The sector as a whole is adjusting portfolios to 
weather the price dip, creating an active but diverse 
market for corporate and asset deals. The overall 
M&A market grew 21% from 2013, with $185 billion 
of deals announced
6
 through 2014 in the upstream 
sector . This was driven by two trends, the return of 
the megadeal, for those with available capital
7
, and 
the return to North America. Deals worth in excess 
of $1 billion accounted for 65% of total upstream 
value and culminated in the announced acquisition  
of T alisman Energy (Canada) by Repsol (Spain) for 
$13bn in what may be the first of a new round of 
sectorial consolidation driven by a falling oil price
8
. 
The North American sector dominated by sheer 
volume of deals which, whilst generally smaller , 
accounted for 68% of all deals. Here the US and 
Canadian actors were retrenching in the buoyant 
domestic unconventional arena, constructing 
portfolios of exploration and production assets using 
the secondary market and, where internationally 
active, reducing their overseas exposure. 
 
Over the last few years the oil and gas sector as a 
whole underperformed against the stock market,  
as demonstrated by the graph above. In the short- 
term, this trend will persist as the current low  
oil price will benefit oil consumers relative to oil 
producers, whose output value fell significantly 
through 2014. Falling crude prices do not spell 
disaster for all, however: as the significant upward 
pressure on costs driven by high crude prices 
recedes, service sector clients with little or no  
crude production are enjoying lower costs and 
greater input availability. 
The beginnings of this can be observed in the graph 
above, where the upstream capital cost index is 
flattening off into the third and fourth quarters  
of 2014. Upstream operating cost index is likely to 
follow, but with a lag due to cost frictions and legacy 
effects. This fall in exploration and appraisal costs is,  12 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12
Cajun Express drilling rig, 
offshore Senegal. 13 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
RUFISQUE
FAN-1
Well
SNE-1
Well
SANGOMAR SANGOMAR
DEEP
ATLANTIC OCEAN
SENEGAL
SENEGAL
GAMBIA
Dakar
Ziguinchor
Mbour
Thiès
Kaolack
Diourbel
Toubakouta
Sokone
Passi
Foundiougne
In 2014 Cairn and its Joint Venture (JV) partners drilled 
two wells offshore Senegal discovering oil in both and 
opening a new basin on the Atlantic Margin. These were 
the first wells drilled offshore Senegal in 20 years and the 
first ever deepwater wells. 
2014 key story
The well, drilled on the palaeo-shelf edge, discovered 
high quality oil in 36 net metres of high quality  
shelfal reservoirs of similar age to the oil-bearing 
sands found in FAN-1. Preliminary P90-P50-P10 
contingent resource estimates range from  
150 - 330 - 670 mmbbls.
In November 2014 Cairn issued Notices of 
Discovery for both wells to the Government of 
Senegal on behalf of the JV. Cairn is currently 
preparing plans for follow-up activity, which are 
anticipated to include appraisal drilling starting  
in 2015, to determine the scale and extent of  
the discoveries.
Wherever Cairn operates it looks to employ local 
people and services where possible and where it  
is safe to do so. Cairn set up an office in the capital, 
Dakar , and a supply base in its international port  
and works with local service providers.
Cairn looks to work responsibly with the authorities 
and other stakeholders to ensure it understands the 
environment and communities where it operates and 
to provide assurance that it will operate safely. Prior 
to commencing operations, a Public Consultation 
and Disclosure Plan identified stakeholders and 
guided the way in which they were engaged. An 
Environment and Social Impact Assessment plan  
was approved by the regulatory authorities and was 
successfully implemented. Cairn is pleased to report 
that all operations to date have been conducted 
safely, including the drilling of the two wells and  
the completion of site and environmental surveys.
Cairn looks forward to working closely with the 
Government of Senegal and its JV partners to  
realise the full potential from this large acreage 
position offshore Senegal. 
Cairn entered the area in March 2013, farming-in  
to three blocks offshore Senegal held by JV partners 
FAR Limited and Petrosen (the Senegal national oil 
company). ConocoPhillips subsequently farmed-in  
to the blocks three months later . 
Cairn, with a 40% interest, operates the licence 
which covers more than 7 ,000km
2
 and contains a 
variety of plays, straddling the continental shelf and 
into the deeper water . Hydrocarbon systems had 
previously been demonstrated on the Senegal shelf, 
as in many of the shallow water areas adjacent to 
Cairn’s acreage around the North West Africa 
Margin. However , these were the first wells drilled in 
the deeper water off Senegal where Cairn believed 
there to be extensive source rocks and Cretaceous 
reservoir systems.
The FAN- 1 exploration well, drilled in 1,427 m water 
depth and approximately 100km offshore, encountered 
high quality light oil in 29 net metres of multiple stacked 
deepwater fan reservoirs within an extensive oil column, 
confirming a working hydrocarbon system. Preliminary 
STOIIP estimates range from 250 to 2,500 mmbbls.
SNE-1, the second exploration well to be drilled,  
was located approximately 24km south east of 
FAN-1 in 1,100m water depth. 
Opening a new  
Atlantic Margin basin  
– finding oil in Senegal 14 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Operated exploration programme
James Smith: 2013/2014 saw us embark upon  
a focused drilling exploration programme with a 
series of operated exploration wells. Importantly, 
these wells were delivered at appropriate equity 
levels and therefore the right financial exposure  
for this business. 
Simon Thomson: This exploration programme was 
all about play opening wells, in acreage we believe in, 
and that is exactly what we have achieved in opening 
a new basin offshore Senegal. 
We are delighted with the success to date offshore 
Senegal. As part of our strategy we have been building 
and shaping a balanced portfolio with our North Sea 
development and ultimately production assets on the 
one side, and exploration on the other side. As you 
would expect exploration activity in new basins is 
higher risk and not every well is going to be successful; 
however , this delivery of exploration success in 
Senegal is evidence of our strategy working. 
India
Simon Thomson: We have a great relationship with 
India. This is a country where we have spent many 
years working, where we have discovered, developed 
and produced oil, delivering significant value both  
for Cairn shareholders and for India. We are now 
working closely with the authorities in India to seek  
a resolution to the tax issue. Our approach has  
been to focus on continued engagement with  
the Government of India and to that end we are 
continuing our programme of targeted, regular 
meetings with many stakeholders in India. Resolving 
this issue will continue to be a high priority for us. 
James Smith: The freezing of our asset in India  
was an unexpected event and we moved quickly  
to ensure we remained able to deliver our work 
programme and longer-term strategy in the absence 
of those funds. This was principally achieved by 
accelerating the timetable for bringing in debt 
financing for our North Sea development activities. 
We are of course hoping for a resolution in India 
but the important thing is that the business remains 
funded through to the point of delivering free cash 
flow from our North Sea projects.
Success in Senegal
Simon Thomson: Senegal is a great example of 
Cairn’s business model delivering for shareholders. 
We had a strong technical belief in the potential of 
the acreage and this belief has been realised with 
success in both wells drilled to date. 
James Smith: We have made discoveries in two 
separate plays, which have the potential to be 
transformational for Cairn and Senegal. Right now 
we are focused on working on appraisal and further 
exploration programmes to fully establish the value 
in our large acreage position. 
Simon Thomson: James and I were recently in 
Senegal and we met with our Joint Venture partners 
including Petrosen (the national oil company), the 
Minister of Energy and the President Macky Sall,  
who is also a geologist. They are incredibly supportive 
and we all recognise that these discoveries, in the 
longer term, are potentially transformational for 
Senegal as a country.
In discussion with
Simon Thomson, CEO and James Smith, CFO
Discover more: Opening a new Atlantic margin basin
P13
13
Discover more: Cairn in India
P29
29
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22 15 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
 “ Right now, maximum value for the business and  
our shareholders is in Senegal, because it has the 
potential to add substantial value beyond what  
we have already discovered.” 
Shaping the organisation
Simon Thomson: We pride ourselves on being  
an established, proficient, safe and fast operator .  
We have proven ourselves time and time again to be 
technically, commercially and financially skilled and we 
are focused on protecting those core competencies. 
At the beginning of this year we recognised that we 
needed to reorganise the business to ensure that 
Cairn was the right size of company for the work 
programmes ahead. We were absolutely clear that 
our priority would be to retain and protect all of 
those core competencies which means our technical, 
commercial and financial skills; skills which are the 
foundation of this business and which have enabled 
us to achieve success in previous years. 
James Smith: We have a great technical team, but we 
also have a great commercial and financial team. It is 
that combination of high quality competencies and 
teams which delivers value by marrying technical 
beliefs with a clear strategy and business model.  
In addressing the organisational structure we have 
retained those core technical skills as well as a strong 
leadership team, whilst delivering a reduction in the 
central cost base. Following a staff consultation 
process the reorganisation was completed at  
the end of 2014, with staff and contractor 
headcount reduced by approximately 40%.
Developments
Simon Thomson: Our development activities which 
form the core of a North Sea portfolio of more than 
30 licences are a core element of our long-term 
sustainable business model. They balance our 
portfolio with exploration on the one side and cash 
and development activity on the other . From 2017 
we anticipate production and free cash flow from 
these assets with production estimates of around 
22,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net to Cairn. 
James Smith: The cash flows from this production 
will be critical to supporting a self funding business 
model over the medium and long-term. We keep  
a disciplined focus on projects right across the 
portfolio which deliver strong returns even in  
a lower oil price environment and this includes 
making sure our North Sea development 
investments are in line with that strategy. 
Outlook
James Smith: As we have said before, discipline in 
the optimal allocation of capital is critical, even more 
so in the current weaker oil price environment.  
We will continue to focus on this and on ensuring 
that we have the right equity exposure across our 
portfolio. We have demonstrated our abilities as 
prudent managers of our portfolio throughout  
the year , including our ability to trade and swap 
assets particularly within our North Sea portfolio.  
As a result we start 2015 in a strong position  
to deliver an exciting programme across the 
portfolio, especially in Senegal.
Simon Thomson: Right now, maximum value for the 
business and our shareholders is in Senegal, because 
it has the potential to add substantial value beyond 
what we have already discovered. So this is where  
we will be focusing our efforts and we do expect this 
opportunity to keep us busy for a considerable time 
to come. However , we have built a diverse, balanced 
and solid portfolio and we will continue to progress 
our programmes elsewhere, with particular focus  
on our core North Sea developments, and to work  
on our other assets to ensure the entire portfolio 
remains balanced and in good shape. 
Discover more: Working responsibly, People
P46-47
46
Discover more: North Sea development
P17
17
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22 16 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16
Kraken FPSO is under 
construction in the  
Keppel boat yard, 
Singapore. 17 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway,  
as part of its North West Europe portfolio, by acquiring  
exploration, appraisal, development and production assets  
and participating in licence rounds. 
2014 key story
Kraken and Catcher , two of the largest new projects in 
the UK North Sea, are the Group’s core development 
projects. They are both under development and will 
provide free cash flow from 2017 with peak net 
production to Cairn of ~ 22,500 boepd. At the peak of 
production in 2017 /2018 it is anticipated that Kraken 
and Catcher combined could account for around 7%  
of UK total daily boe production
1
. 
Cairn has an experienced team dedicated to the UK 
and Norway with offices in London and Stavanger . 
More recently Cairn has entered the Barents Sea 
and is in the process of applying for operatorship  
in Norway, both of which leverage Cairn’s Arctic 
operational experience and Norwegian presence. 
The UK and Norway region represents a critical  
part of the Group’s strategy of having a balanced  
and sustainable portfolio. The mature basins  
of the North Sea provide balance to the broader 
exploration portfolio and will deliver the free cash 
flow to sustain future exploration. The North Sea  
is an active market for asset transactions enabling 
Cairn to continually optimise its portfolio within the 
region as well as its wider capital allocation. 
North Sea 
development
Estimated peak net production
~22,500 boepd
Catcher
Premier (operator , 50%)  
Cairn 20%, MOL 20%, Dyas 10%
The Catcher field was discovered in 2010 in block 
28/9a of the central UK North Sea. Follow-up  
wells in the block then discovered the Varadero, 
Burgman, Carnaby and Bonneville fields. There are 
four adjacent licences to the Catcher licence and, 
combined, these make up what is known as the 
Greater Catcher area. 
In 2014 a Field Development Plan (FDP) for  
the development of the Catcher , Varadero and 
Burgman fields was approved by DECC and 2P 
reserves were booked. The development will 
comprise a Floating Production Storage and 
Offloading (FPSO) facility which is currently  
under construction in Singapore and will be 
capable of processing 60,000 bopd. 
The development will be located 170km south  
east of Aberdeen in water depths of ~90m. 
Development drilling will start in 2015 with more 
than 20 wells expected to be drilled over a period 
of more than four years. 
First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak 
production to Cairn of ~ 10,000 boepd. 
Kraken
EnQuest (operator , 60%)  
Cairn 25%, First Oil 15% 
The Kraken field was discovered in 1985 in block 
9/2b of the UK North Sea, followed by the Kraken 
North field in 2013. Combined, these two fields 
make up the Kraken development. The Joint 
Venture is continuing to evaluate additional 
opportunities in the block.
The FDP for the Kraken development was 
approved by DECC in 2013 and the FPSO vessel, 
which will be capable of processing 80,000 bopd,  
is currently under construction in Singapore. 
The Kraken field is located ~350km north east of 
Aberdeen and ~ 125km east of the Shetland islands 
in water depths of ~ 115m.
Development drilling will start in 2015 with 25 
wells expected to be drilled over a period of more 
than four years. 
First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak 
production to Cairn of ~ 12,500 boepd. 
1.  Based on Oil and Gas UK Activity Survey 2014. 18 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
Cairn has in place both financial and non-financial  
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which are used to 
monitor progress in delivering the Group’s strategy. 
Maintaining a balanced portfolio
Purpose
Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth
2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance
KPI Remuneration 
Committee decision
Achieve exploration and appraisal 
success through the discovery of 
commercial hydrocarbons 
Mature Basin:
Invest in exploration and appraisal 
activities in the UK and Norway sectors 
of the North Sea which will add net  
2C resources in excess of 10 mmboe 
Frontier Basin:
Invest in exploration and appraisal 
activities in Morocco, Senegal and 
Republic of Ireland which will add  
net 2C resources in excess of  
40 mmboe
The Group successfully discovered potentially commercial 
hydrocarbons in Senegal through the drilling of the shelf 
edge well (SNE-1) and the North fan well (FAN1).  
The SNE-1 well added 120 mmbbls of 2C resources.  
Further technical evaluation is required to determine  
the commerciality of the FAN-1 well. 
Elsewhere, the Foum Draa and Cap Juby wells in Morocco 
and the Ensis and Aragon wells in Norway and the UK  
were unsuccessful at the primary exploration target. 
It was predetermined that a significant discovery  
in either of the mature or frontier basins would  
result in the KPI being achieved.
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Achieved
Mature high impact exploration 
prospects ready for drilling in  
2015 or 2016
Mature a minimum of six new 
independent “drill-ready” prospects in 
each category (mature /frontier basin) 
which meets the Group’s investment 
criteria and which could be considered 
for drilling in 2015 or 2016 
A number of prospects in Senegal, Morocco and Norway 
were matured to “drill-ready” status for 2015 or 2016. 
Prospectivity in Mauritania and the Republic of Ireland 
continues to be assessed. The Group participated in the 
UK 28th licensing round in 2014, when a “drill-ready” 
prospect was identified and a firm well commitment bid 
was made. 
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Partially  
achieved
The 2014 KPIs, which were set out on  
page 28 of the Annual Report and Accounts  
2013, related to delivering a sustainable business, 
maintaining a balanced portfolio and achieving 
operational excellence. 
The Group’s 2014 KPIs were reflective of the early 
stage in the value creation cycle, unlike the more 
traditional KPIs for oil and gas exploration and 
production companies (such as production or 
operating cost targets), which the Board currently 
considers are not relevant as a measure of the 
Group’s performance. 
Good progress has been made across the 2014  
KPIs and a brief update on progress is presented  
in the table below. 
The final decision on the overall achievement of the 
KPIs was made at the Remuneration Committee 
meeting in December 2014. 19 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Purpose
Deliver operational excellence in all 2014 activities and maintain licence to operate
2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance
KPI Remuneration 
Committee decision
Successfully complete  
operated and non-operated  
2014 work programmes
Deliver all operated and non- 
operated asset projects (technical 
studies, surveys, seismic and drilling 
programmes) on schedule and budget 
(including manpower costs), with full  
data recovery
Cairn, as Operator , acquired 2D seismic offshore Malta and 
3D seismic offshore Republic of Ireland and participated  
as non-operator in the acquisition of 3D seismic offshore 
Western Sahara, all of which was successfully completed on 
time and budget. T wo exploration wells were executed on  
or below budget (Foum Draa offshore Morocco and Ensis  
in the North Sea). Due to some unscheduled maintenance 
requirements on the Cajun Express rig, the FAN-1 well 
offshore Senegal and the Cap Juby well offshore Morocco 
were over budget and schedule. The Aragon well in the 
North sea was also over budget.
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Partially  
achieved
Progress North Sea development 
projects, remaining within 10% of 
capital guidance and first oil dates 
scheduled within six months of project 
sanctioned base case estimates
The Catcher and Kraken development projects are 
progressing well and remain within 10% of capital guidance. 
The Catcher project remains on track for first oil in 2017 
and the Kraken project remains on track for first oil in 2017 
subject to the timely delivery of the FPSO.
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Achieved
Deliver our activities with a strong 
focus on not harming people or 
damaging the environment
Minimise injuries and environmental 
incidents in 2014 operated activities: 
 – Total Recordable Injury Rate  
(TRIR) target of less than  
2.0 TRI/million hours
 – No oil spills to the environment
The T otal Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of 3.88 per million 
hours remains higher than the target of 2.0 per million hours. 
This compares well with 5.04 in 2013 and the overall trend 
of improvement year on year continues.
There has been no oil spill to the environment in 2014.
Discover more: Working responsibly
P42-57
42
Partially  
achieved
Continue to enhance the Group’s HSE 
culture, behaviours and approach 
Achieve targets for ten HSE leading 
performance indicators (LPIs) across  
the areas of:
 – Knowledge of HSE procedures
 – Engagement with contractors 
regarding safety standards
 – Communication of HSE approach 
and performance
 – HSE risk assessment and 
management
The 2014 LPIs progressed well. An extensive engagement 
programme with contractors was completed to raise 
awareness of the Group’s HSE procedures and to deliver key 
HSE messages through senior management briefings. The 
HSE risk assessment and management LPI was achieved 
through enhancements to the travel risk assessment and 
project risk management processes. A programme to raise 
awareness and knowledge of the Group’s HSE procedures 
was completed with the delivery of workshops on topics 
such as corporate responsibility and human rights. HSE 
communications improved with HSE now a standing agenda 
item at staff meetings and HSE papers presented at all Board 
meetings. Some further work is required in embedding and 
enhancing the HSE cultural framework. 
Discover more: Working responsibly
P42-57
42
Partially  
achieved
Seeking operational excellence
Delivering a sustainable business
Purpose
Maintain a self funding business plan 
2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance
KPI Remuneration 
Committee decision
Retain balance sheet strength Maintain liquid reserves including 
undrawn committed banking facilities  
to meet planned funding commitments 
plus a cushion at all times 
The Group remains funded to deliver its firm exploration 
and the development programme through to free cash flow 
from 2017.
Discover more: Financial review
P30-33
30
Achieved 20 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2015 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
The 2015 Group KPIs in the table below were set by the Board in 
December 2014 and are based on the Group’s current portfolio, 
prospects and objectives set out in the 2015 Business Plan.
Maintaining a balanced portfolio
Purpose
Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth
Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI
Achieve exploration and appraisal 
success through discovery or addition  
of commercial hydrocarbons in 2015
Invest in exploration and appraisal activities which will add net  
2C resources in excess of 20 mmboe
 – Lack of exploration success
 – Reliance on Joint Venture (JV) operators  
for asset performance
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Mature high impact exploration 
prospects ready for drilling in  
2016 or 2017 
Mature a minimum of four new independent “drill-ready” prospects 
which meet investment criteria and which could be considered for 
drilling in 2016 or 2017 
 – Inability to identify or secure prospective 
acreage at prices which can generate  
reasonable returns
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Active portfolio optimisation  
and acreage protection 
Declaration of Commerciality for Sangomar , Sangomar Deep  
and Rufisque blocks in acceptable timeframe to maximise  
acreage retention
 – Failure to maximise Senegal acreage position
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
On board the Cajun 
Express drilling rig, 
offshore Senegal.  21 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Purpose
Deliver operational excellence in all 2015 activities and maintain licence to operate
Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI
Successfully complete operated and 
non-operated 2015 work programmes
Deliver all operated and non-operated asset projects (technical 
studies, surveys, seismic and drilling programmes) on schedule  
and budget (including manpower costs), with full data recovery
 – Operational and project performance
 – Reliance on JV operators for asset performance
 – Staff recruitment and retention
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Progress North Sea development projects, remaining within 10%  
of capital guidance and first oil dates scheduled within six months  
of Final Investment Decision (FID) base case estimates
 – Kraken and Catcher development projects not 
executed on schedule and budget
 – Reliance on JV operators for asset performance
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Secure a suitable rig for further exploration and appraisal  
in Senegal
 – Operational and project performance
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Deliver activities with a focus on the 
safety of people and the environment
Minimise injuries and environmental incidents in 2015  
operated activities: 
 – TRIR target of less than 2.0 TRIR/million hours
 – No oil spills to the environment
 – Health, safety, environmental and security 
incidents
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Continue to enhance the Group’s HSE 
culture, behaviours and approach
Achieve targets for HSE LPIs linked to elements of the  
HSE culture framework 
 – Health, safety, environmental and security 
incidents
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Seeking operational excellence
Delivering a sustainable business
Purpose
Maintain a self funding business plan 
Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI
Retain balance sheet strength Maintain liquid reserves including undrawn committed banking 
facilities to meet planned funding commitments plus a cushion  
at all times  
Make tangible progress on Cairn India Limited (CIL) shares freeze
 – Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding
 – Potential tax liabilities relating to Indian Income 
T ax Department enquiry
 – Uncertainty in fiscal regimes
 – Operational and project performance
 – Kraken and Catcher development projects not 
executed on schedule and budget
 – Inability to access internal or external funding
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34 22 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Africa
S. America
N. America
Eurasia
Balanced portfolio 
of opportunities
Cairn has built a balanced portfolio of opportunities in  
a mixture of frontier, emerging and mature basins which 
offer the opportunity for sustained organic growth and 
value delivery.
Across the portfolio Cairn seeks to acquire significant 
acreage positions, at appropriate equity levels, in areas  
we believe have high technical and commercial potential 
and where, in the case of initial success, we have financial 
capability to leverage our knowledge and create value.  
We continually evaluate the entire portfolio to ensure  
that our equity is at appropriate levels to offer potential 
growth opportunities.
Operational review
Richard Heaton, Exploration Director
Where we are focused
The Atlantic Margin, formed together with  
associated rift basins in the break-up of the Pangaea 
supercontinent millions of years ago, provides a range 
of underexplored and mature hydrocarbon basins of 
Mesozoic and T ertiary age with common geologic 
themes and promising opportunities for organic 
growth. Focusing on this area enables the creation  
of a balanced portfolio, aligning the Company’s 
proven experience in passive margin and rift basin 
exploration with its operational capability in frontier 
areas, including Arctic and deepwater capability.
Cairn’s mostly operated interests in frontier 
exploration opportunities lie along the Atlantic 
Margins offshore North West Africa, Republic of 
Ireland and Greenland and are balanced by its mainly 
non-operated exploration and development interests  
in the more mature and emerging basins in the  
UK and Norway. Cairn’s operated Atlantic Margin 
exploration drilling programme, which commenced  
in Morocco in 2013 and continued in Morocco  
and Senegal throughout 2014, targeted various 
Mesozoic age passive margin play types at a  
number of locations.
The success of the programme in the discoveries 
made by the two wells drilled offshore Senegal has 
attracted the attention of the industry by opening  
up a new hydrocarbon basin in the Atlantic Margin. 
Cairn looks to capitalise on this success in 2015 and 
2016 with further exploration and appraisal activity.
Richard Heaton
Director of Exploration
9 March 2015
Illustrative geological reconstruction  
of the world ~ 175 million years ago 23 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Focused on three regions
Atlantic Margin
Along the underexplored coast of North West 
Africa, from Senegal to Morocco, Cairn’s acreage 
position has been created in the deeper water 
areas adjacent to shelf acreage where a number of 
early wells were drilled during the 1960s and 70s. 
Many of these wells encountered petroleum  
in some form, demonstrating the potential for  
a working hydrocarbon system, but without 
confirming any commercially viable discoveries. 
Now, utilising modern 3D seismic data and the 
drilling capability available through dynamically 
positioned rigs, Cairn’s recent programme and 
success in Senegal has opened up a new and 
emerging hydrocarbon basin.
A similar exploration theme encompasses  
the Company’s acreage offshore Republic of 
Ireland, and Greenland where any future plans  
will require additional partners. 
North West Europe
Over the last two years Cairn has built a strong 
position in the UK and Norway with interests in 
two major UK North Sea developments, Catcher 
and Kraken, and a third development, Skarfjell,  
in the earlier stage of planning in Norway.
Around these fields Cairn has continued to build 
an exploration portfolio to leverage its subsurface 
knowledge and operational synergies to access  
the maximum commercial value of each area.  
In parallel, Cairn is applying for operatorship  
in Norway and has more recently entered the 
emerging Barents Sea region, where Cairn’s  
Arctic operational expertise can be combined  
with its geoscience knowledge.
The UK and Norwegian continental shelves  
offer the potential for a balanced portfolio of 
opportunities involving a mixture of mature  
and emerging basins which themselves offer  
the potential for growth but also benefit from  
a particularly active and proven market for  
the efficient trading of assets and associated  
value creation.
Mediterranean
As part of its longer-term frontier exploration 
programme, Cairn has also acquired interests  
in a number of opportunities in the Mediterranean 
area, most recently completing a seismic survey 
offshore Malta. The deeper water areas remain 
underexplored, yet with hydrocarbons 
demonstrated in a number of plays and modern 
3D data starting to unlock new potential,  
the basin offers a number of opportunities  
for discovery and attractive fiscal terms. 
 
The Atlantic Margin
Mediterranean
UK and  
Norwegian  
North Sea
Barents Sea
SPAIN
REPUBLIC  
OF IRELAND
NORWAY
UK
SENEGAL
MAURITANIA
MOROCCO
MALTA
GREENLAND
Other assets
Active assets
Atlantic Margin
FRANCE 24 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Operational review continued
 “Cairn discovered oil in both wells of its Senegal exploration 
programme, opening a new hydrocarbon basin on the  
Atlantic Margin.” 
Senegal
Cairn discovered oil in both wells of its Senegal 
exploration programme, opening a new hydrocarbon 
basin on the Atlantic Margin.
The first exploration well, FAN-1 located in 1,427m 
water depth and ~ 100km offshore in the Sangomar 
Deep block, reached a T arget Depth of 4,927m and 
was targeting multiple stacked deepwater fans.  
The well encountered a very substantial oil bearing 
interval that materially upgrades the prospectivity  
of the block with a proven petroleum system and a 
number of deep fan and shelf prospects established. 
Preliminary analysis indicates:
 – 29m of net oil-bearing reservoir in Cretaceous 
sandstones. 
 – No water contact was encountered in a gross oil 
bearing interval of more than 500m.
 – Distinct oil types ranging from 28° API up to 41° 
API indicated so far from a number of oil samples 
recovered to surface.
 – Initial gross STOIIP estimates for FAN-1 range 
from P90 250 mmbbls, P50 950 mmbbls to P10 
2,500 mmbbls and are broadly in line with 
pre-drill STOIIP estimates.
 
 
The second exploration well, SNE-1, located in 
1,100m water depth and ~ 100km offshore in the 
Sangomar Offshore block, was targeting the Shelf 
Edge Prospect. Wire line logging of SNE-1 confirmed 
hydrocarbons in the Cretaceous clastics objective 
which is of similar age to oil-bearing sands found 
approximately 24km away in FAN-1. Initial analysis  
of the SNE-1 well indicates:
 – 95m gross oil bearing column with a gas cap.
 – Excellent reservoir sands with net oil pay of 36m. 
 – Oil of 32° API from samples of gas, oil and water 
recovered to surface. 
 – Preliminary estimates of the Contingent 
Resource range from P90 150 mmbbls, P50 330 
mmbbls to P10 670 mmbbls recoverable.
Notices of the two discoveries were submitted to the 
Senegal Government in November 2014. Following 
a six month period to plan a future work programme, 
the JV will submit an evaluation plan in May 2015. 
Based on early evaluation, the JV currently envisages 
three firm and three optional wells to begin in 2015. 
Cairn has a 40% WI as Operator in three blocks 
offshore Senegal (Sangomar Deep, Sangomar 
Offshore and Rufisque); ConocoPhillips has 35% WI, 
FAR Limited 15% WI and Petrosen, the national oil 
company of Senegal, 10%. The three blocks cover 
7 ,490km
2
.
Overview
Atlantic Margin
Atlantic Margin 
Cairn’s frontier Atlantic Margin 
exploration strategy is focused 
along the multiple play types 
formed from the break-up of  
the supercontinent Pangaea, 
with success most recently 
achieved offshore Senegal.
Countries
Senegal 1 licence
Morocco 3 licences
Republic of Ireland 3 licences
Greenland 4 licences
Mauritania 1 licence 
2014 activity
 – 2 operated wells offshore Senegal
 – 1 operated well offshore Morocco and  
1 non-operated well (completed 2015) 
offshore Western Sahara
 – 3D seismic survey offshore Republic of Ireland 
Discover more: Our assets
www.cairnenergy.com/operations 25 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Morocco
Offshore Morocco, we operate two exploration 
permits and are also a non-operator partner in one 
exploration permit. 
Our first well in the programme offshore Morocco, 
FD-1 (Cairn 50% WI, Operator) in the Foum Draa 
licence, was plugged and abandoned in December 
2013. The well established a working hydrocarbon 
system with a thermogenic source rock. However , the 
anticipated target reservoirs were not encountered. 
The JM-1 well (Cairn 37 .5% WI, Operator) drilled in 
the Juby Maritime licence to evaluate Upper Jurassic 
and Middle Jurassic objectives reached a total depth 
of 3,711m TVDSS and was plugged and abandoned 
without testing in March 2014. In the Upper Jurassic 
section, the well confirmed the presence of heavy oil 
over a gross interval of 110m as originally tested in 
the 1968 MO-2 well, some 2km from the JM-1 well. 
Reservoir quality and the oil gravity in the Upper 
Jurassic across the Cap Juby structure is undergoing 
further evaluation by JV partners (Office National 
Des Hydrocarbures et Des Mines “ONHYM” and 
Genel Energy). Work is also ongoing to correlate  
the core and log data from JM-1 with other wells  
on Cap Juby to evaluate the extent of moveable 
hydrocarbons and to determine whether any  
further work should be conducted. 
The CB-1 well (Cairn 20% WI) commenced drilling  
in the Cap Boujdour licence offshore Western Sahara 
in December 2014, targeting the Al Khayr prospect 
following a 3D seismic survey earlier in the year .  
It was announced in March 2015 that the CB-1 
exploration well encountered hydrocarbons. The well 
penetrated 14m of net gas and condensate pay in 
clastic reservoirs over a gross hydrocarbon bearing 
interval of approximately 500m. The discovery was 
non-commercial and the well has been plugged and 
abandoned. The permit is operated by Kosmos and 
partnered by ONHYM. 
Mauritania
Work continues to mature block C-19 (Cairn 35% WI) 
offshore Mauritania towards drilling. Interpretation 
of the proprietary 3D data has been completed, with 
four drill-ready prospects identified, each with over 
400 mmbbls of gross mean prospective resources 
(Chariot Oil & Gas Operator estimates). 
Republic of Ireland
A 900km
2
 3D seismic survey was completed in  
Q3 2014 on acreage adjacent to the Spanish Point 
discovery on Frontier Exploration Licence (FEL) 
1/14 (Cairn 38% WI, Operator). A planned appraisal/
exploration well on FEL 2/04 offshore West of 
Republic of Ireland, has been deferred pending 
discussions with partners and the Government  
of the Republic of Ireland. 
Rob Jones, Cairn Regional Director – 
Africa, Mamadou Faye, Petrosen General 
Manager, Simon Thomson, Cairn CEO and 
Matt Fox, ConocoPhillips Executive Vice 
President Exploration and Production  
(left to right).
Sanco Sword vessel used to acquire 3D 
seismic data off West coast of Ireland  
in 2014.
Greenland
Cairn remains encouraged by the opportunity in the 
Pitu exploration block (Cairn WI 87 .5%, Operator), 
with combined prospects within the 3D area 
confirming a potential multi-billion barrel of oil 
equivalent prospective resource. Any future drilling 
plans would require additional partners in this region.  26 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Operational review continued
Mediterranean
As part of our longer term frontier exploration 
programme, Cairn has acquired interests in a 
number of opportunities in the Mediterranean area. 
A 2D seismic survey was completed offshore Malta 
in April 2014 (Cairn 60% WI, Operator) where  
the deeper water areas remain underexplored. 
Hydrocarbons have been demonstrated in a number 
of plays in the area and with modern seismic data 
starting to unlock new potential; the basin offers a 
number of opportunities for discovery. Cairn has also 
made applications for acreage offshore the Gulf of 
Lion and the Bay of Biscay in Spain. 
Overview
Mediterranean 
As part of its frontier exploration 
programme Cairn has interests 
in the Mediterranean with  
a seismic survey recently 
completed offshore Malta.
Countries
Malta 1 Exploration Study Agreement
Spain 4 licences
France 2 licences 
2014 activity
 – 2D seismic survey offshore Malta 
Discover more: Our assets
www.cairnenergy.com/operations
Artemis Atlantic vessel used to acquire  
2D seismic data offshore Malta, 2014.
Overview
North W est Europe 
Over the last two years Cairn 
has built a strong position in the 
UK and Norway with interests  
in two major UK North Sea 
developments, Catcher and 
Kraken, and a third development, 
Skarfjell, in the earlier stage of 
planning in Norway.
Countries
UK 20 licences
Norway 14 licences 
2014 activity
 – 4 non-operated wells in UK and  
Norwegian North Sea
 – Participated in UK 28th Licensing Round 
and Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round
 – Entered Barents Sea region
 – Applied for Norwegian operatorship 
Discover more: Our assets
www.cairnenergy.com/operations 27 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Kraken
The Kraken field (EnQuest Operator 60%, Cairn 
25%, First Oil 15%) was discovered in 1985 in block 
9/2b of the UK North Sea, followed by the Kraken 
North field in 2013. Combined, these two fields make 
up the Kraken development. The JV is continuing to 
evaluate additional opportunities in the block. 
The FDP for the Kraken development was approved 
by DECC in 2013 and the FPSO vessel, which will  
be capable of processing 80,000 bopd, is currently 
under construction in Singapore. The field is located 
~350km north east of Aberdeen and ~ 125km east  
of the Shetland Islands in water depths of ~ 115m. 
Development drilling will start in 2015 with 25 wells 
expected to be drilled over more than four years. 
First oil is anticipated in 2016/17 with net peak 
production to Cairn of ~ 12,500 boepd.
UK & Norway Exploration
In 2014, Cairn continued to build the exploration 
portfolio in order to leverage our subsurface 
knowledge and operational synergies and applied  
for and was awarded interests in both the UK and 
Norwegian licensing rounds. In Q1 2014, we were 
awarded interests in all three licences applied for in 
the Norwegian Awards in Predefined Areas (APA) 
2013 Licensing Round and are currently reviewing 
this acreage, with a view to making drilling decisions in 
future years. Cairn was also awarded non-operated 
interests in five licences in the 2014 APA Licensing 
Round. These licences do not carry firm well 
commitments and are in locations adjacent to current 
areas of interest in Norway. In the UK 28th Licensing 
Round, Cairn was awarded four licences in Q4 2014.
In 2014, the company participated in three 
non-operated wells:
 – Aragon exploration well (Cairn 32.5% WI) licence 
P1763 in UK North Sea plugged and abandoned 
in Q4 2014
 – Ensis prospect (Cairn 25% WI) PL393B in the 
Barents Sea plugged and abandoned in Q3 2014
 – Atlas prospect (Cairn 20% WI) PL420 in the 
Skarfjell area plugged and abandoned in  
Q4 2014
In 2015, the current programme of non-operated 
wells in the North Sea is:
 – West of Kraken, UK North Sea (EnQuest 
Operator , Cairn 25% WI) operations are ongoing
 – Crossbill, Norwegian North Sea (Wintershall 
Operator , Cairn 20% WI), operations to 
commence in Q2
UK and Norwegian North Sea 
Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and 
Norway by acquiring exploration, appraisal and 
development assets and participating in licence 
rounds. The mature basins of the North Sea provide 
balance to the broader exploration portfolio and will 
deliver free cash flow to sustain future exploration. 
The North Sea is an active market for asset 
transactions enabling Cairn to continually optimise 
its position within the region as well as its wider 
capital allocation.
Kraken and Catcher , two of the largest ongoing 
development projects in the UK North Sea are the 
Group’s core development projects and a third, the 
Skarfjell discovery in Norway, is in the early stages  
of development planning. Kraken and Catcher will 
provide free cash flow from 2017 with peak net 
production to Cairn of ~22,500 boepd. 
More recently, Cairn entered the emerging Barents 
Sea and is in the process of applying for operatorship 
in Norway, leveraging Cairn’s Arctic operational 
experience and Norwegian presence.
Catcher
The Catcher field (Premier Operator 50%, Cairn 
20%, MOL 20%, Dyas 10%) was discovered in 2010 
in block 28/9a of the UK Central North Sea. Follow 
up wells in the block then discovered the Varadero, 
Burgman, Carnaby and Bonneville fields. These 
discoveries together with four adjacent licences 
make up what is known as the Greater Catcher area.
In 2014, a Field Development Plan (FDP) for the 
development of the Catcher , Varadero and Burgman 
fields was approved by DECC and 2P reserves were 
booked. The development will comprise a Floating 
Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) facility 
which is currently under construction in Singapore 
and will be capable of processing 60,000 bopd.
The development will be located 170km south east 
of Aberdeen in water depths of ~90m. Development 
drilling will start in 2015 with more than 20 wells 
expected to be drilled over a period of more than 
four years. First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net 
peak production to Cairn of ~ 10,000 boepd. 
 “Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway by 
acquiring exploration, appraisal and development assets  
and participating in licence rounds.” 
Kraken FPSO under construction. 28 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28
Cairn’s operations  
in Rajasthan,  
North West India. 29 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Working alongside the Government of India and Joint Venture 
partners, Cairn has been a long-term investor in India for 20 years 
and its major oil discovery in Rajasthan created the potential  
to provide more than 30% of India’s daily crude production. 
2014 key story
In 2006, Cairn created Cairn India Limited (CIL)  
and 100% owned subsidiaries incorporated outside 
India were transferred to CIL (also a 100% owned 
company). This reorganisation was submitted to  
the authorities in India and approved. In 2007 ,  
CIL was listed on the Bombay and National Stock 
Exchanges of India with an independent Board  
and management team.
Throughout its long history in India, Cairn has been 
fully compliant and paid all applicable taxes under the 
legislation in force at the time, including subsequent 
sales of shares by the Company in CIL.
In January 2014, Cairn received notice from  
the Income T ax Department of India citing  
2012 Retrospective Legislation and requesting 
information relating to the group reorganisation in 
2006. The Income T ax Department provisionally 
attached the company’s remaining 10% shareholding 
in CIL, then valued at approximately US$1 billion. 
Throughout 2014, Cairn has had a strong focus on 
resolving the tax issue and has taken measures to 
protect shareholders’ interests. 
Cairn’s successful exploration and development 
activities have led to long-term job creation in  
India and the establishment of a legacy asset  
for the country.
In 2004 Rajasthan represented the largest onshore  
oil find in India in more than 30 years. Cairn also 
subsequently discovered and developed interests  
in Ravva in East India and Cambay Basin in West  
India. During its involvement in India, Cairn invested 
approximately US$5 billion in developing the country’s 
oil and gas resources, making over 40 significant oil 
and gas discoveries, building 12 offshore platforms, 
developing four major processing platforms, laying 
more than 1,000km of pipeline (giving access to  
75% of India’s refining capacity) and drilling more  
than 500 wells. 
Cairn’s investments in India go beyond our 
exploration and development projects: we have 
created jobs and worked with local suppliers,  
added to Rajasthan’s GDP growth and invested in 
communities for local benefit around our operations. 
For example, the Company, with support from the 
Government of Rajasthan, set up a partnership  
with the International Finance Corporation (IFC),  
the investment arm of the World Bank, to design, 
fund and implement sustainable socio-economic 
development programmes in Rajasthan. Key 
initiatives established included the Enterprise 
Centre which has now trained more than 6,000 
people in areas including construction, handicrafts 
and English; the Rural Dairy Development 
Programme which encourages farmers to pool  
and sell surplus milk; and Health Awareness 
Initiatives which, through Cairn’s Mobile Health 
Vans, have provided more than 100,000 people  
with health services.
Cairn in India 30 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Fully funded to deliver
Financial review
James Smith, Chief Financial Officer
James Smith
Chief Financial Officer
9 March 2015
Cairn is fully funded to deliver its core development 
projects through to anticipated sustainable free cash flow 
generation from 2017 . 
Overview 
The Group secured additional funding of up to 
US$575m during the year through a Reserve Based 
Lending facility. Together with the sale of a 10% 
interest in Catcher , completed in January 2015, this 
provides additional financial flexibility for the Group 
to successfully achieve its strategy of delivering value 
from discovery and development through disciplined 
capital allocation across a balanced portfolio.
Exploration assets
During 2014, Cairn successfully completed a 
four-well frontier exploration programme, focussed 
on the Atlantic Margin offshore Morocco and Senegal. 
The first exploration well in the programme, located in 
the Foum Draa block, completed in January 2014,  
and the second, in the Juby Maritime block, completed  
in March 2014. The rig then moved to Senegal  
where the FAN-1 exploration well and the SNE-1 
exploration well completed in September and 
November 2014 respectively. 
Cairn participated in three unsuccessful wells drilled 
in North West Europe during 2014; two in the North 
Sea and one in the Barents Sea. 
A further appraisal well planned offshore Ireland was 
deferred as the contracted rig was delayed beyond 
an acceptable weather window.
Atlantic Margin – Africa
Morocco 
During the year , Cairn operated two exploration 
wells offshore Morocco, both wells were plugged 
and abandoned after failing to encounter commercial 
hydrocarbon reservoirs. Unsuccessful exploration 
costs in 2014 include US$53m relating to these  
wells (2013: US$107m). At 31 December 2014,  
no material balances remain capitalised in relation  
to the operations in Morocco (2013: US$4m).
In January 2014, Cairn completed the farm-in to  
the Cap Boujdour licence in Western Sahara. The 
CB-1 non-operated exploration well commenced in 
December 2014, but was confirmed unsuccessful 
after the balance sheet date.
The total costs incurred on the Cap Boujdour well to 
31 December 2014 were US$47m and are included 
in unsuccessful exploration costs charged in the year . 31 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Opening 
oil and gas 
assets
Atlantic
Margin:
Senegal
exploration
additions
Atlantic
Margin:
Morocco
additions
Atlantic
Margin:
Greenland 
and Republic
of Ireland
additions
Atlantic
Margin:
Unsuccessful
exploration
Atlantic
Margin:
Impairments
Atlantic
Margin:
Disposals
North West
Europe:
Exploration
additions
North West
Europe:
Unsuccessful
exploration
North West
Europe:
Impairments
North West
Europe:
Development
additions
Mediterranean:
Exploration
Asset
Movements
Foreign
exchange
Closing 
oil and gas 
assets
1,100
US$m
1,000
900
800
700
Increase in assets Decrease in assets
798
146
100
19
(107)
(23)
(26)
109 (95)
(24)
(61)
(1)
885
50
2014 Movements in Oil and Gas assets
In September 2014, Cairn entered into a sales 
agreement with Dyas UK Limited to farm-down  
a 10% interest in the Catcher development and 
adjacent acreage, for a carry of US$182m on future 
exploration and/or development expenditure and  
a refund of exploration and development costs 
incurred from 1 January 2014. Approval for this deal 
was received subsequent to the year end. Following 
completion, Cairn retains a 20% working interest.
Costs held in development assets at year end 2014 
of US$468m include the Group’s 30% interest in 
Catcher (including the 10% subsequently sold to 
Dyas UK Limited) and the Group’s 25% interest in 
the Kraken development. Cairn’s 2014 costs relating 
to Kraken were carried by the operator EnQuest.
Impairment testing
Given recent declines in oil prices, indicating the 
possibility of impairment of certain Group assets, 
Cairn has tested the relevant exploration and 
development assets for impairment. Goodwill, 
allocated to the Group’s North Sea operating 
segment, is tested annually for impairment by 
comparing the net carrying value of the goodwill,  
the North Sea exploration, appraisal and 
development assets and the deferred tax assets  
and liabilities related to those assets to the fair value 
of the underlying assets in the segment based on 
recent market transactions or risk-weighted 
discounted cash flow models.
The Group’s base case short-term oil price 
assumption is based on a three-year forward curve, 
and thereafter a long-term assumption of US$90 per 
barrel is used. With no free cash flow generation 
anticipated until 2017 , the impact of the current 
low-price environment on the fair value calculations  
is limited. A comprehensive review of the Group’s 
assumptions has been undertaken and Cairn believes 
these remain appropriate. Impairment tests resulted 
in an impairment of North Sea exploration assets  
of US$24m and the write-off of remaining costs in 
Greenland of US$23m. No impairment arises on the 
Group’s key North Sea development projects or the 
goodwill associated with the North Sea business. 
Senegal
Cairn holds a 40% interest in three contiguous 
blocks offshore Senegal after gaining approval to 
farm-down 25% to ConocoPhillips early in 2014. 
Back costs of US$21m were recovered. Following 
completion of the Morocco wells, the Cajun Express 
went on to complete the FAN-1 and SNE-1 
exploration wells offshore Senegal. Costs of these 
two successful wells remain capitalised and are 
included in the total exploration costs of US$167m 
carried in Senegal.
Atlantic Margin – North Atlantic 
Greenland
Cairn continues to work to farm-down the Group’s 
interests in Greenland in advance of any further 
activity and until such a farm-down is concluded, no 
further exploration activity is planned, an indicator 
that the asset may be impaired. After testing for 
impairment in line with Cairn’s accounting policy, 
costs previously capitalised of US$23m were fully 
charged to the Income Statement.
North West Europe
UK and Norwegian North Sea 
During the year , Cairn drilled two exploration  
and appraisal wells in the North Sea. Neither the 
Aragon nor Atlas wells encountered commercial 
hydrocarbons. Unsuccessful exploration costs of 
US$50m were charged to the Income Statement.
The conclusion of Skarfjell appraisal activities 
following drilling in 2013 led to an additional charge 
to the Income Statement. Though the work was 
technically successful and confirmed the fair value  
of the asset at the point of acquisition, the appraisal 
work did not identify any incremental increase in 
value and therefore was expensed as unsuccessful 
costs. An additional charge of US$25m was made  
to the Income Statement. 
Costs remaining capitalised of US$193m include 
US$159m relating to the Skarfjell discovery and 
remaining exploration discoveries/prospects in the 
Catcher area that were not included in the FDP .
Norwegian Barents Sea 
Cairn entered into the Barents Sea region by farming 
in to the Statoil operated Ensis well, which completed 
in Q3 2014. The well was unsuccessful and costs of 
US$17m were charged to the Income Statement.
Development assets
North West Europe 
UK North Sea
The Catcher area FDP was approved by DECC in 
June 2014. Costs relating to the fields within the 
development area of US$148m were transferred 
from exploration to development assets. 
 “During 2014, Cairn successfully completed a four-well frontier 
exploration programme, focussed on the Atlantic Margin.”  32 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Opening 
net
funds
Exploration and
Development
spend
Proceeds on
farm-down
of assets
Norway 
Tax
refund
Proceeds
on sale
of CIL
shares
Share
buy-back
Repayment
of borrowings
and facility
fees
Pre-award
costs, admin
and misc
expenses
Foreign
exchange
movements
Closing
net
funds
1,400
US$m
1,000
1,300
1,200
1,100
900
800
700
Liquidity increase Liquidity decrease
1,308 376
31
66
63 64
73
77
9
869
Financial review continued
2014 
US$m
2013 
US$m
Operational and 
administrative activities:
Pre-award costs (55) (24)
Unsuccessful well costs (208) (213)
Administrative expenses and  
other income/costs (65) (42)
Related tax credits 122 86
(206) (193)
Finance income Net finance income 4 48
Impairments and disposal  
of investment in CIL:
Impairment (194) (268)
Gain on sale 4 –
Related net tax credit 41 75
(149) (193)
Impairment and loss on sale  
of oil and gas assets:
Impairment of exploration assets (47) (251)
Impairment of goodwill – (324)
Gain/(loss) on sale of oil and gas assets 2 (25)
Related tax credits 15 382
(30) (218)
Total loss after tax (381) (556)
2014 Net funds movements
Available-for-sale financial asset
As at 31 December 2014, Cairn’s remaining  
~ 10% holding in Cairn India Limited was valued  
at US$703m. 
The current restriction on sale of the financial asset 
does not directly impact its carrying value in the 
Balance Sheet as the restriction applies only to Cairn 
and is not a wider market restriction. Dividends 
declared by CIL of US$35m during 2014, recognised 
as finance income in the period are also included 
within other receivables. A decrease in the CIL  
share price over the year to a close of INR241 at 
31 December 2014, resulted in the recycling of the 
cumulative deficit on valuation of US$ 194m to the 
Income Statement where it is disclosed as impairment. 
Cash and working capital
Cairn’s cash resources at the year end are supported 
by the US$575m Reserve Based Lending facility 
which the Group entered into during 2014. The 
facility is available to draw down to fund development 
capex in the Catcher and Kraken projects and in the 
form of letters of credit or bank guarantees required 
for Cairn’s operational activity. The amount available 
to fund the projects is determined by standard 
reserves based lending calculations and by reaching 
certain project milestones. 
The Group’s net funds (cash at bank less bank 
borrowings) were US$869m (31 December 2013: 
US$1.3bn).
Bank loans in Norway of US$55m at 31 December 
2013 were repaid in full early in 2014 and the  
facility cancelled. 
The US$575m Reserve-Based Lending Facility was 
undrawn at the year end. Arrangement and facility 
fees incurred on entering into the loan agreement 
are held within prepayments and will be amortised 
on an effective interest rate basis over the life of  
the loan, based on drawdown projections. Charges 
incurred while the facility remains undrawn are 
charged to the Income Statement.
During the year , Cairn bought back 19m shares  
for US$64m.
Results for the year 
With no revenue currently recorded in the Income Statement, the Group reported a loss after tax for the year 
of US$381m, analysed as follows: 33 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Impairment 
Remaining costs of US$23m associated with the 
Group’s activities in Greenland have been impaired in 
full as any further activity is subject to a farm-down  
of Cairn’s interests. Impairment tests conducted on 
North West Europe assets identified an impairment 
of US$24m.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
In 2014, Cairn’s strategy was to deliver value from 
discovery and development. There are a number of 
risks associated with the delivery of the strategy and 
work programme which the Group actively manage 
and mitigate. 
 
The principal risks in relation to the Group’s financial 
and operational performance are as follows:
 – Lack of exploration success.
 – Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding.
 – Operational and project performance.
 – Kraken and Catcher development projects not 
executed on schedule and budget.
 
Pre-award costs
The Group continues to seek cost-effective entry 
into new exploration prospects in the Norwegian 
Barents Sea and the UK and Norwegian North Sea. 
Pre-award costs include US$22m of seismic data 
acquired in the Barents Sea. Cairn is also active in 
new UK and Norwegian Licensing Rounds and in the 
Norwegian 2014 APA Licensing Round, Cairn was 
awarded non-operated interests in five licences.
Operational and administrative expenses
Unsuccessful exploration costs of US$208m include 
US$100m relating to the Morocco Foum Draa, Juby 
Maritime and Cap Boujdour wells; US$53m relating 
to North Sea exploration wells drilled including 
Aragon and Atlas and US$17m of costs relating to 
the Ensis well in the Barents Sea. US$25m of costs 
relating to the Skarfjell appraisal wells drilled in 
Norway in 2013 were also charged along with 
US$13m of other exploration costs. 
During 2014, Cairn implemented a Group 
reorganisation and as a result, US$6m has been 
provided for the costs of redundancy and a further 
charge of US$2m on associated share-based 
payments has been recognised. In addition, during 
2014, Cairn incurred costs of US$8m in its efforts  
to seek resolution of the tax issue in India.
These additional costs contribute to the rise in  
net administration costs from US$42m in 2013  
to US$67m for the current year . Controlling 
administrative cost levels remains a priority for the 
Group and the measures taken by Cairn should 
ensure that they remain appropriate for the level  
and nature of business activity in the medium term. 
Finance income
Finance income of US$38m includes US$35m  
of dividends declared by CIL which currently  
remain frozen. 
Impairment and disposal of available-for -sale 
financial assets
Prior to the restriction on sale of the Group’s 
investment in CIL in January 2014, the Group sold 
0.6% of its holding: recognising a gain on sale of 
US$4m. The cumulative deficit in valuation of the 
investment of US$194m has been recycled from 
reserves and is disclosed as impairment.
 “The Group continues to seek cost-effective entry into new 
exploration prospects in the Norwegian Barents Sea and  
the UK and Norwegian North Sea.”  34 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Managing business risks
Managing the risks and opportunities is essential  
to Cairn’s long-term success and sustainability.  
The Group endeavours to pursue investment 
opportunities which provide the right balance of 
political, commercial and technical risk and seeks  
to maintain exposure to these risks at an acceptable 
level in line with the risk appetite of the organisation. 
The Group’s risk management framework supports 
Cairn’s approach to business and enhances the 
chances of safely engaging in successful business 
opportunities and delivering value to shareholders 
and other stakeholders.
How we manage risk
Cairn has robust risk 
management processes  
to manage its business 
Risk identification and management
Cairn Energy PLC Board
Overall responsibility for  
setting risk appetite and  
maintaining sound risk  
management and internal  
control systems
Board oversight of framework  
of internal controls and  
risk management
Monitoring risk management 
issues throughout the business
Embedding risk management 
throughout the organisation
Assurance to management  
and the Board
Audit Committee
Risk Management Committee
Integrated business risk management 
system, including review by the 
management team
Regional  
asset risks
Atlantic Margin, 
North West Europe 
and Mediterranean
Corporate 
functional 
department 
and project 
risks
New venture 
risks 35 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Risk identification and management
Cairn’s system for identifying and managing risks is 
embedded from the top down in its organisational 
structure, operations and management systems and 
accords with the risk management guidelines and 
principles set out in ISO 31000, the International 
Standard for Risk Management. The Group’s  
risk management structure is set out in the  
structure to the left.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring  
the Group’s risk management and internal control 
frameworks are appropriate and applied across the 
organisation. Principal risks are reviewed at each 
Board meeting and, at least once a year , the Board 
undertakes a risk workshop to perform a “deep-dive” 
review of these risks.
The Audit Committee, which is chaired by Iain 
McLaren, monitors and reviews the scope and 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control 
policies and procedures for the identification, 
assessment and reporting of risks to the Board.  
The Audit Committee also monitors the output from 
each Risk Management Committee (RMC) meeting. 
The RMC is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer , 
James Smith, and also includes the Chief Executive, 
Chief Operating Officer , Exploration Director , 
Regional Directors and other senior managers.  
The RMC is responsible for setting the strategic 
direction for risk management in the Group and  
aims to facilitate continual improvement of the risk 
management system. The RMC also considers the 
principal risks to the business.
The risks associated with the delivery of the strategy 
and work programme and the associated mitigation 
measures and action plans are maintained in a series 
of risk registers at group, regional, asset, function 
and project level. Assessment of the potential risks 
plays a fundamental role in the evaluation of each 
new investment opportunity and the ongoing 
management of all projects. The risks and mitigating 
actions from all of these sources are consolidated 
into the Group risk matrix and presented at the 
different meetings and committees outlined in  
the structure to the left. 
 “The risks associated with the delivery of the strategy and  
work programme and the associated mitigation measures 
and action plans are maintained in a series of risk registers  
at group, regional, asset, function and project level.”
Risk appetite
The Group Risk Appetite Statement ensures there  
is a common understanding between the Board and 
senior management as to the quantum and type of 
risk the organisation is willing to seek and tolerate in 
the pursuit of its strategy and value creation. Cairn’s 
risk appetite, in line with the strategy and business 
plan, is to operate across the whole value chain of  
the upstream exploration and production business, 
allocating capital and resources proportionally to 
opportunities which are assessed for the likelihood 
and impact of their risk and reward. Risk appetite and 
supplementary risk tolerance levels are reviewed 
annually by the Board and these levels determine  
the principal parameters for the assessment of risks 
and opportunities. In 2014, the Board reviewed  
the tolerance levels across a number of areas, 
including capital invested, economic thresholds, 
solvency, health and safety, environmental, political, 
reputational, and technical. The Board will continue 
to review key risks to ensure they remain within  
the boundaries defined by the Group Risk  
Appetite Statement. 
Responding to the changing risk 
environment in 2014
As part of steps to seek continual improvement  
of the risk management process, the following 
enhancements were made in 2014:
 – the Board completed a risk workshop with the 
objective of identifying key strategic risks to the 
Group. Risks identified were analysed against  
the Group Risk Register to ensure there was 
alignment between the Board’s view of risk  
and the Group identified risks. The workshop  
was facilitated by Ernst and Young (EY);
 – the Group Risk Appetite Statement was reviewed 
and approved by the Board. Key changes to the 
statement included the introduction of specific 
and measurable risk tolerance levels across a 
number of categories of risk which set out the 
parameters for acceptable risk taking. These 
parameters will be applied by senior management 
in key decision making;
 – the Management T eam formally conducted  
a review of the risks, mitigations and actions 
identified on the Group Risk Register each 
quarter to ensure ownership for the risks, 
mitigations and actions is clearly assigned and 
implementation dates for actions are tracked; and
 – risk reporting to the Board was revised to a 
“dashboard” format to focus attention on key  
risks, as measured by their probability, materiality, 
controllability, new or changing nature and position 
relative to the Group Risk Appetite Statement. 36 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Lack of exploration success
Exploration success is fundamental to the  
strategy of creating value through the discovery 
and development of hydrocarbon resources. 
Consequently, a sustained lack of exploration 
success may lead to limited or no value creation 
and a loss of investor confidence in the Group’s 
business model. In 2014, both the Senegal 
operated wells discovered oil, mitigating this risk to 
a degree. The Group continues to actively evaluate 
a number of potential new exploration investment 
opportunities for 2015 and beyond, which are all 
subject to extensive external and internal peer 
review.
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Restriction on ability to sell Cairn India Limited 
(CIL) shareholding
In January 2014, Cairn received a request from  
the Indian Income T ax Department to provide 
information regarding a group reorganisation that 
took place during the fiscal year ended 31 March 
2007 and as a result a restriction was applied to 
the sale of the Group’s CIL shares. The restriction 
remains in place and the Group continues to 
cooperate with the Indian Income T ax Department 
investigation. The continued freeze of the Group’s 
CIL shares could restrict the Group’s funding 
capacity. The Group will take whatever steps  
are necessary to protect its interests. 
Discover more: Cairn in India
P29
29
Operational and project performance
Delivering all operated and non-operated 
projects in a safe and efficient manner is a key 
objective for the Group. In 2014, the Morocco 
and Senegal drilling campaigns experienced 
delays as a result of unscheduled maintenance 
requirements on the Cajun Express rig. With 
safety being the principal concern, the Group 
ceased drilling until acceptable mitigation plans 
were implemented. Anticipated in 2015, offshore 
wells in Senegal, Western Sahara, the UK and 
Norway will be drilled and the Group will be 
working with the rig contractors to agree on  
a safe and efficient execution plan. In addition,  
the Group will work closely with JV partners to 
ensure the Kraken and Catcher development 
projects are delivered safely and efficiently.
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Kraken and Catcher development projects  
not executed on schedule and budget
The Kraken and Catcher development projects 
will provide future cash flow to sustain the Group’s 
business plan and are part of the North West 
Europe portfolio which provides balance to the 
Group’s exploration and appraisal activities in 
earlier stage hydrocarbon basins. Development 
projects of this nature can be susceptible to delays 
and budget increases for a variety of reasons and 
this may lead to increased costs and delays in 
future cash flow. T o mitigate these risks, the Group 
works closely with its JV partners to support and/
or influence key decisions. The Catcher and 
Kraken developments in the North Sea are 
progressing, with first oil targeted for 2017 . 
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
How we manage risk continued
During 2014, we regularly reviewed the risks which 
we believed could adversely impact our business at 
the time. The following table provides an overview of 
the principal risks to the Group at the end of 2014, the 
potential impacts, the mitigation measures we have in 
place and the KPIs the risks impact on. The list is not 
exhaustive or set out in any order of priority and is 
continually subject to change.
Principal risks  
to the Group  
in 2014/2015
Principal risks  
and uncertainties
As the Group continues to focus on creating value and 
shareholder returns from disciplined capital allocation 
across a balance of exploration and development assets, 
the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group at 
the end of 2014 were as follows: 37 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Strategic risks Principal risks  
to the Group  
in 2014/2015
Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective
Lack of exploration 
success
 – Loss of investor 
confidence
 – Limited or no  
value creation
 – Failure of the 
balanced portfolio 
business model
 – Active programme for high- 
grading new areas through 
licence rounds, farm-ins and 
other transactions
 – Inventory of prospects and 
leads that offer opportunities 
with a balance of geological  
and technical risks
 – Highly competent team 
applying a thorough review 
process of prospects and 
development opportunities  
and a team of geoscientists  
with a track record of delivering 
exploration success
 – Continue to seek out the right 
personnel who can add value, 
knowledge and experience  
to the Group
This risk decreased in 2014.  
Key developments included:
 – Both Senegal operated wells discovered 
oil. Work is underway with JV partners 
to determine follow-up activity which  
is targeted for Q4 2015
 – One operated well in Morocco and  
four non-operated wells in North  
West Europe were drilled, none of  
which discovered oil
 – Invest in exploration 
and appraisal activities 
which will add net 2C 
resources in excess  
of 20 mmboe
Kraken and Catcher 
development projects  
not executed on  
schedule and budget
 – Increased costs
 – Delay in future 
cash flow
 – Reduction in  
debt capacity
 – Actively engage with all our JV 
partners early to ensure highly 
effective working relationships
 – Actively participate in technical 
meetings to challenge, apply 
influence and/or support our 
partners to establish a cohesive 
JV view and ensure operational 
activity is executed in a safe and 
secure manner 
 – Work closely with the Kraken 
and Catcher operators to 
monitor and review progress 
with key contracts 
This risk remained at the same level in 2014. 
Key developments included:
 – All major contracts for both projects 
have been awarded which support the 
target schedule to first oil in 2017
 – The Group continues to work closely 
with all JV partners to challenge, apply 
influence and/or support key decisions 
 – Progress North  
Sea development 
projects, remaining 
within 10% of capital 
guidance and first  
oil dates scheduled 
within six months  
of Final Investment 
Decision (FID) base 
case estimates
Failure to maximise 
Senegal acreage position
 – Sub-optimal 
acreage retention
 – Investment 
commitments not 
fully optimised
 – Actively engage with the 
Senegalese Government  
and JV partners to agree 
the way forward
 – Production Sharing Contract 
terms allow for a one-year 
extension to the exploration 
licence
This risk has been added in 2014.  
Key developments included:
 – The current Senegal licence requires a 
Declaration of Commerciality by February 
2016 and Cairn has the right to extend for 
a further year which has been invoked
 – There is a risk that the relatively short 
timelines for moving to the exploitation 
permit will restrict the technical review of 
the acreage and opportunities may not be 
fully optimised
 – Declaration of 
Commerciality for 
Sangomar , Sangomar 
Deep and Rufisque 
blocks in acceptable 
timeframe to 
maximise  
acreage retention
Inability to identify 
or secure prospective 
acreage at a cost  
which can generate 
reasonable returns 
 – Loss of investor 
confidence
 – Loss of 
competitive edge
 – Exploration Director , with the 
support of the technical and 
commercial teams, continues  
to identify and review a number 
of prospects
 – Experience and knowledge 
throughout the organisation  
in recognising prospective 
opportunities 
This risk remained at the same level in 2014. 
Key developments included: 
 – Cairn successfully farmed-in to 
opportunities in the North Sea  
and the Barents Sea
 – A 2D seismic programme offshore  
Malta was completed and the data  
is currently being analysed
 – The Group participated in the 2014 
Award in Predefined Areas (APA) 
licensing round in Norway with five 
licence awards made to Cairn
 – The Group undertook an extensive 
opportunity screening review which 
evaluated the technical and commercial 
prospects of the many opportunities 
within the Group’s existing portfolio.  
A number of “drill-ready” prospects 
were identified
 – Mature a minimum of 
four new independent 
“drill-ready” 
prospects which meet 
investment criteria 
and which could be 
considered for drilling 
in 2016 or 2017  38 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Health, safety, environment and security risks
Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective
Health, safety, 
environmental and 
security incidents 
 – Serious injury  
or death 
 – Environmental 
impacts 
 – Reputational 
damage 
 – Regulatory 
penalties and 
clean-up costs
 – Effectively managing  
health, safety, security and 
environmental risk exposure is 
the first priority for the Board, 
SLT and MT
 – Corporate Responsibility 
Management System (CRMS) 
processes and procedures are 
embedded throughout the 
organisation and all potential 
health, safety, security, 
environmental and societal 
impacts are proactively 
identified, evaluated and 
treated during project 
screening processes
 – Process in place for assessing  
an operator’s overall operating 
and HSE capabilities, including 
undertaking JV audits to 
determine the level of  
oversight required
 – Emergency organisation 
procedures and equipment are 
maintained and regularly tested 
to ensure the Group is able  
to respond to an emergency 
quickly, safely and effectively
 – Ebola virus monitoring and 
management briefing is  
issued to all staff travelling  
to impacted countries
This risk remained at the same level in 2014. 
Key developments include: 
 – The Group’s safety performance 
improved overall in 2014 despite  
a Lost Time Injury (L TI) in July
 – T otal Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)  
of 3.88 per million hours higher than 
target of 2.0 per million hours. The rate  
in 2013 was 5.04 per million hours
 – Managing health risks was a key 
consideration given the heightened 
health risks in West Africa. A malaria 
management and awareness programme 
was implemented in Senegal as well as a 
programme to manage and monitor the 
Ebola situation
 – Minimise injuries  
and environmental 
incidents in 2015 
operated activities
 – Achieve targets for 
seven HSE leading 
performance 
indicators
How we manage risk continued
Strategic risks (continued)
Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective
Sustained low oil price – Reduction in 
future cash flow
 – Value impairment 
of development 
projects
 – JV partner capital 
constraints
 – Sensitivity reports completed 
to assess robustness of projects 
and development decisions
This risk has been added in 2014. Key 
developments included:
 – Without current production, lower oil 
prices do not directly impact on the 
Group’s operating cash-flow. Indirectly, 
the lower oil price environment may 
reduce the amount of debt available 
under the Group’s reserve based lending 
facility. In addition, the Group’s JV 
partners may experience capital 
constraints leading to a reallocation of 
capital and a reprioritisation of projects 
in which the Group has an equity interest 
 – A sustained low oil price will continue  
to drive down industry costs so there  
is an opportunity for achieving cost 
efficiencies in the Group’s exploration 
and appraisal projects
 – Maintain liquid 
reserves including 
undrawn committed 
banking facilities to 
meet planned funding 
commitments plus a 
cushion at all times 39 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Operational risks
Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective
Operational and  
project performance
 – Increased  
well costs 
 – Incomplete well 
programme 
 – HSE incident 
 – Reputational 
damage 
 – Comprehensive set of criteria 
that must be met before 
contracting and accepting  
any rig 
 – Work very closely with the rig 
contractors to exert influence 
and impose our performance 
expectations 
 – Management and influence of 
drilling contractors to ensure 
Cairn management systems are 
fully embedded in operations 
 – Positive and regular engagement 
with JV operators and partners 
to share knowledge and  
offer support 
This risk increased in 2014. Key 
developments include:
 – The Cajun Express rig experienced 
unscheduled maintenance requirements 
which led to considerable non-productive 
time over the course of the drilling contract
 – The Group worked very closely with  
the drilling contractor to establish and 
implement mitigations, with safety being 
at the forefront of all considerations, 
before operations recommenced
 – Cost pressures in the industry have 
lessened so there is an opportunity for 
project cost efficiencies going forward
 – Progress North Sea 
development projects, 
remaining within 10% 
of capital guidance 
and first oil dates 
scheduled within six 
months of FID base 
case estimates
 – Deliver all operated 
and non-operated 
asset projects 
(technical studies, 
surveys, seismic and 
drilling programmes) 
on schedule and 
budget (including 
manpower costs), 
with full data recovery
 – Secure a suitable  
rig for further 
exploration and 
appraisal in Senegal
Reliance on JV operators 
for asset performance
 – Cost/schedule 
overruns 
 – Poor performance 
of assets 
 – HSE performance 
 – Delay in first oil 
from development 
projects 
 – Impact on  
asset value 
 – Actively engage with all JV 
partners early to establish good, 
trusting, working relationships 
 – Actively participate in technical 
meetings to challenge, apply 
influence and/or support 
partners to establish a  
cohesive JV view 
 – Application of the Group risk 
management processes 
This risk remains at the same level as last 
year . Key developments include:
 – The low oil price is impacting on a 
number of companies throughout the 
industry and there is the potential for 
some of the Group’s JV partners to 
reprioritise projects. At the current  
time, this has not impacted the Group
 – The Group continues to work closely 
with a number of JV operators in North 
West Europe and the Atlantic Margin
 – Progress North Sea 
development projects, 
remaining within 10% 
of capital guidance 
and first oil dates 
scheduled within six 
months of FID base 
case estimates
 – Deliver all operated 
and non-operated 
asset projects 
(technical studies, 
surveys, seismic and 
drilling programmes) 
on schedule and 
budget (including 
manpower costs), 
with full data recovery
Cajun Express  
drilling rig. 40 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial risks
Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective
Restriction on ability to 
sell CIL shareholding 
 – Restriction in the 
funding capacity  
of the Group
 – Business plan is fully funded  
in the absence of CIL stake
 – Continued engagement with 
the Indian Government
 – Robust legal protection  
if required 
This risk remains at the same level as last 
year . Key developments include:
 – The freeze on the CIL shareholding 
remains in place
 – The Group continues to cooperate  
with the Income T ax Department 
investigation
 – Engagement with Indian Government 
continues but the tax issue discussions 
remain unresolved
 – The Group has the option to take  
legal action to recover the value of  
the CIL shareholding but this has not 
been initiated 
 – Make tangible 
progress on CIL 
shares freeze 
Potential tax liabilities 
relating to Indian Income 
T ax Department enquiry
 – Restriction in the 
funding capacity  
of the Group
 – Business plan is fully funded  
in the absence of CIL stake
 – Continued engagement with 
the Indian Government
 – Robust legal protection 
if required 
This risk remains at the same level as last 
year . Key developments include:
 – The freeze on the CIL shareholding 
remains in place
 – The Group continues to cooperate  
with the Income T ax Department 
investigation
 – Engagement with Indian Government 
continues but the tax issue discussions 
remain unresolved
 – The Group has the option to take  
legal action to recover the value of  
the CIL shareholding but this has not 
been initiated 
 – Make tangible 
progress on CIL 
shares freeze 
Uncertainty in  
fiscal regimes
 – Loss of value 
 – Uncertain financial 
outcomes 
 – Engage closely with regulators 
in all jurisdictions where the 
Group has activities 
 – Legal agreements in place  
to protect interests 
 – Seek appropriate legal  
and tax advice 
This risk remains at the same level as last 
year . Key developments include:
 – The Group has assets in a number of 
different geographies and is potentially 
exposed to sudden or unplanned 
changes in tariffs or taxes
 – Maintain liquid 
reserves including 
undrawn committed 
banking facilities to 
meet planned funding 
commitments plus a 
cushion at all times 
Inability to access internal 
or external funding
 – Work programme 
restricted by 
reduced capital 
availability
 – Up to US$575m Reserve Based 
Lending bank facility agreement 
concluded in July 2014 
 – Catcher 10% farm-out to Dyas 
agreed which will reduce capital 
expenditure by ~US$380m
This risk has been added in 2014. Key 
developments include:
 – The restriction on Cairn’s ability to sell 
its shareholding in CIL reduced the 
Group’s access to capital
 – Debt facilities were secured to ensure 
committed work programme was  
fully funded
 – Cairn farmed-out part of its interest  
in Catcher and amended longer-term 
budget plans to ensure the Group was 
fully funded through to generating free 
cash flow
 – The fall in the oil price has reduced the 
market for external funding
 – Maintain liquid 
reserves including 
undrawn committed 
banking facilities to 
meet planned funding 
commitments plus a 
cushion at all times 
How we manage risk continued 41 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Reputational risks
Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective
Negative stakeholder 
reaction to our operations
 – Reputational 
damage 
 – Loss of investor 
confidence 
 – Loss of licence  
to operate 
 – Comprehensive stakeholder 
management and communication 
plans have been developed and 
executed for all operations
 – Actively monitor steps being 
taken by regulators and industry 
through participation in industry 
bodies such as the International 
Association of Oil & Gas 
Producers and Oil & Gas UK
This risk remains at the same level as last 
year . Key developments include:
 – The Group has assets in a number  
of different geographies, which has 
increased the number of stakeholders 
and, therefore the potential for 
stakeholder opposition
 – Minimise injuries  
and environmental 
incidents in 2015 
operated activities
Organisational risks
Risk description Impact Mitigation 2014 movement 2015 KPI objective
Staff recruitment  
and retention
 – Inadequate 
resource to deliver 
work programme 
 – Loss of key 
knowledge and 
experience
 – The organisational restructure 
consultation process identified 
the skills required to deliver  
the work programme and  
the Group worked to ensure  
key people were retained 
 – Regional Directors and 
Departmental Heads agree 
resource requirements as part 
of the annual work programme 
and budget processes 
 – As an accredited Investor in 
People, we support continuous 
professional development 
through technical, professional, 
management and behavioural 
skills courses as well as 
mentoring and educational 
assistance schemes 
 – Succession planning is in place 
for all areas of the business 
This risk was heightened in 2014 as a result 
of the voluntary redundancy process but has 
lessened due to current resource availability 
in the market. Key developments include:
 – The Group underwent a reorganisation 
to ensure the organisation remained 
appropriate to the future activity levels 
and work programme
 – Group reorganisation was implemented, 
following a staff consultation process,  
to retain core technical skills with a 
strong leadership team. Total staff and 
contractor headcount reduced by ~40%
 – The low oil price has led to a number of 
employee cuts across the industry and 
therefore, the market for experienced 
workers is strong
 – The Group is confident that the right 
people with the right skills have been 
retained through the process in order  
to be adequately resourced to 
successfully deliver the work 
programme going forward
 – No specific  
KPI objective 42 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
At the heart 
of our business
Working responsibly
CEO’s introduction
Corporate Responsibility remains at the heart  
of our business to deliver and protect value  
for all our stakeholders. 
Cairn looks to deliver value through discovery and 
development of hydrocarbons and our challenge is  
to do so in a safe, secure and environmentally and 
socially responsible manner .
Corporate Responsibility (CR) is at the heart of  
our business and is based on our core values of 
building respect, nurturing relationships and acting 
responsibly. These are central to delivering our 
business objectives. We use our CR Management 
System (CRMS) to help us achieve these objectives 
and demonstrate transparency to our stakeholders.
We have Business Principles and CR Policies in  
place which are regularly updated, most recently in 
September 2014 to reflect changes in our business 
including our increased focus on risk management 
and the importance of the role of contractors and 
our non-operating partners within our business.  
Our Business Principles and CR policies are  
available on our website at
www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility.
Simon Thomson
Chief Executive
9 March 2015
Dakar port, 
Senegal. 43 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
2014
2014 has been a busy year operationally for Cairn with 
wells completed in Morocco and Senegal and seismic 
data acquired in Malta and the Republic of Ireland, in 
addition to our significant non-operated activities.
Engaging with our contractors, who play an important 
role in the delivery of our business, has been and 
remains of great importance to us, especially with such 
a diverse workforce. In our operated activities we rely 
heavily on our contractors’ performance which we 
influence directly through day-to-day contact and 
specific CR engagement programmes. Where we are 
a non-operating partner , we influence performance 
through our relationship with the operating company 
which includes routine meetings and engaging on 
specific topics where necessary. 
I am pleased to report that our safety performance has 
improved overall in 2014. However it is disappointing 
to report a Lost Time Incident (L TI) in July when a 
member of the rig crew on the Cajun Express was 
injured following a fall whilst carrying out planned 
preventative maintenance on the drilling top drive 
system. A thorough accident investigation was 
completed and corrective measures were taken to 
avoid recurrence. We continue to strive to eliminate 
such incidents.
With significant activity during the year in West 
Africa managing health risks has been important and 
we successfully implemented a malaria management 
and awareness programme whilst monitoring and 
implementing management procedures associated 
with the developing Ebola situation.
Our significant non-operated portfolio has 
continued to develop during the year and we play  
an active role in monitoring and engaging with  
our partners on associated CR requirements.  
Our Catcher and Kraken developments in the  
UK North Sea continue to progress. Kosmos 
voluntarily conducted the first Social Impact 
Assessment in the region prior to commencing 
drilling of the first well in the Cap Boujdour block. 
Plans for 2015
In 2015, as operator , we are delighted to be 
developing an appraisal and exploration programme 
offshore Senegal, as well as continued participation  
in non-operated wells in the UK and Norwegian 
sectors. We are also taking steps to become an 
approved operator in Norway. The completion  
of the Cap Boujdour well in early 2015 will also  
be evaluated to identify the next steps.
We will ensure our CRMS remains fit for purpose in 
2015, especially in light of the Group reorganisation 
completed in 2014. We will continue to set CR 
objectives each year guided by the most important 
material issues which take into account our 
stakeholders’ concerns. 
During 2015, we will continue to prioritise the 
health, safety, security and wellbeing of people  
while continuing to promote safe behaviours of our 
contractors. We remain committed to protecting  
the environment in the areas in which we operate. 
Good governance will also continue with our 
commitment to meeting all of our tax obligations  
in a transparent manner .
We continue to uphold and support the ten principles 
of the United Nations Global Compact and we remain 
a Participating Company of the Extractive Industries 
T ransparency Initiative (EITI). 
In this way CR remains at the heart of our business to 
deliver and protect value for all our stakeholders.
 “Corporate Responsibility (CR) is at the heart of  
our business and is based on our core values of building  
respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly.” 
The 3Rs
Our Business 
Principles are based 
on the core values  
of the 3Rs 
Respect
We act with respect for people,  
their communities, the environment, 
human rights and the law.
Relationships
We act honestly, transparently and 
with integrity to develop strong, 
lasting relationships with all  
our stakeholders. 
Responsibility
We behave fairly, ethically and  
are accountable for our actions.  
We believe in, and act on, our 
responsibility to care for people, 
society and the environment. 
 
On board the Cajun Express drilling rig, 
offshore Senegal.  44 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Protecting people, the 
environment and communities 
Working responsibly continued
How we operate responsibly
Cairn looks to create, add and realise value for stakeholders, but not at the 
expense of the safety and well-being of people and the environment. 
2. 
Prequalification 
 
When we apply for an 
exploration licence, the 
necessary documents are 
submitted to the relevant 
authorities. Typically this 
includes information about 
our legal status, financial 
capability, technical 
competence and plans to 
manage health, safety and 
environmental risks and 
contributions to local 
economic development.
4. 
Site  
Survey
 
Before we commence any 
drilling activity, site surveys 
are carried out to gain 
more detailed information 
on the area where an 
exploration well may be 
drilled and to confirm  
that the selected drilling 
location is safe and that any 
sensitive environments can 
be avoided. The process 
normally involves taking 
geological samples from 
the seabed and carrying 
out shallow seismic 
surveys. These activities 
have low social or 
environmental impacts 
and, therefore, usually  
do not require a separate 
environmental or social 
impact assessment.
5. 
Exploration  
Drilling
Exploration wells are drilled  
to determine whether 
hydro-carbons are present. 
This phase can be accompanied  
by a step-change in activity  
and visibility to local people  
as exploration can involve a 
drilling rig, supply vessels and 
helicopters for transporting 
personnel. Exploration drilling 
is preceded by various 
assessments to understand 
potential health, safety, 
environmental, social, security 
and human rights impacts. 
These assessments identify 
appropriate steps to reduce 
impacts, manage risks and 
assist in operating responsibly. 
Limited community 
development programmes  
may also be put into place at 
this time depending on the 
nature of the programme.
3. 
Exploration  
Seismic
 
Once Cairn has been 
awarded the right to 
explore in a certain area, 
we may carry out seismic 
surveys to develop a 
picture of geological 
structures below the 
surface. This helps identify 
the likelihood of an area 
containing hydrocarbons 
and helps optimise where 
to drill. Seismic surveys are 
preceded by an assessment 
of environmental, social  
or human rights impacts 
which are managed 
through our Project 
Delivery Process (PDP). 
1. 
Due  
Diligence
 
Before making an 
acquisition or investment, 
applying for an exploration 
licence or farming-in to  
an existing project, Cairn 
undertakes an extensive 
screening process which 
includes assessing whether 
there are potential health 
and safety, social, human 
rights, political, corruption, 
security or environmental 
risks and opportunities. 
The findings from these 
assessments are used  
in decision making on 
whether or not to proceed, 
and if investment goes 
ahead, it informs 
approaches to risk 
management  
going forward.
In 2014 we conducted  
due diligence on farm-in 
opportunities including the 
Mesana blocks in Spain.  
We farmed-in to the PL420 
block and drilling project 
operated by Statoil in  
the Norwegian sector  
of the North Sea. We also 
farmed-out of UK sector 
blocks P2040 and P2086, 
reducing our interests  
south of Catcher.
During 2014 Cairn 
successfully completed 
seismic surveys offshore  
the Republic of Ireland and 
Malta. As non-operator,  
we also participated in 
seismic operations offshore 
Western Sahara. Application  
for seismic surveys is 
pending offshore in  
the Gulf of Valencia.
In 2014 we continued our 
exploration drilling campaign 
offshore Morocco, and 
initiated and completed  
an exploration drilling 
campaign offshore Senegal. 
We were also involved, as 
non-operator, in exploration 
drilling in the UK and 
Norwegian North Sea. 
Drilling in the Cap Boujdour 
block, offshore Western 
Sahara, commenced in 
December 2014.
In 2014 Cairn participated  
in the recent licensing round 
in the Barents Sea, Norway.
Pre and post drilling surveys 
were completed for wells 
offshore Senegal and 
following drilling  
offshore Morocco.
Creating value
The oil and gas business is, by nature, long-term and 
our approach covers every stage of the oil and gas 
life-cycle and is outlined below.
Discover more: Operational  
review on P22-27
22
Discover more: Operational  
review on P22-27
22
Discover more: Operational  
review on P22-27
22
Discover more: Operational  
review on P22-27
22
We manage the risks associated with our business 
responsibly for all our activities and wherever we 
operate. This means we aim to behave professionally 
in our dealings with people and in the environment 
from the very start of any project or activity.  45 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
6. 
Appraisal  
Drilling
 
If promising amounts of  
oil and gas are confirmed 
during the exploration 
phase, appraisal drilling  
is then conducted. This 
establishes the size and 
characteristics of the 
discovery and provides 
technical information to 
determine if the discovery 
is commercial and 
subsequently optimise the 
method for recovery of the 
oil and gas. The potential 
impacts associated with 
appraisal drilling are 
comparable to exploration 
drilling and similar 
assessments are  
carried out in advance.
7. 
Development 
 
If appraisal wells show 
technically and commercially 
viable quantities of oil and 
gas, a development plan is 
prepared and submitted to 
the relevant authorities for 
approval. This includes a 
rigorous assessment of  
all the potential risks and  
a long-term assessment  
of environmental and  
social impacts covering  
a timeframe of between  
10 and 30 years. 
 
The plan will also detail 
projected benefits to local 
communities, for example 
employment and supplier 
opportunities, as well as 
proposing how to manage 
potential impacts such as  
an influx of workers from 
outside the local community. 
At this stage good design  
is important to remove  
and mitigate risks to an 
acceptable level, as well as 
managing construction and 
installation in a manner to 
likewise minimise impacts.
8. 
Production 
 
A variety of options are 
available for the production 
of oil and gas. During this 
phase, which can last  
many decades, regular 
reviews are made of  
social and environmental 
performance to ensure that 
impacts identified in the 
assessments are mitigated. 
Changes in the risks 
associated with activities 
are assessed throughout 
the production period.  
Safe operations remain  
an ongoing requirement  
at this stage, which means 
personnel are competent 
and good HSE behaviours 
are in place, and equipment 
is properly maintained  
and operated.
9. 
Decommissioning 
 
This phase occurs  
when hydrocarbons 
can no longer be 
extracted safely or 
economically at the end 
of any field life-cycle. 
Decommissioning 
consists of closing 
operations in a manner 
that protects people 
and the environment  
to avoid unacceptable 
legacy issues for  
local stakeholders  
and the Company. 
We are participating  
as non-operator in two 
development projects,  
the Kraken and Catcher 
fields, in the UK North Sea. 
Due to the delay in 
refurbishment of the 
Blackford Dolphin rig, the 
proposed Spanish Point 
appraisal well, offshore 
Republic of Ireland, could not 
be drilled in 2014 during the 
safe weather window and 
was therefore postponed. 
Preparation for anticipated 
appraisal drilling in Senegal  
is underway.
We currently have no 
operated production, but 
historically had significant 
production through our 
Indian business which we 
subsequently exited, Cairn 
India Limited (CIL). Our 
involvement in exploration 
and latterly production in 
India brought social and 
economic development  
to a number of regions.  
We anticipate production 
from our non-operated 
Catcher and Kraken fields 
from 2017 .
We are not engaged in 
any decommissioning 
activities at this time. 
Creating value Adding value Realising value
Bourbon Topaz, supply vessel  
offshore Senegal. 
On board the Cajun Express drilling rig 
offshore Senegal. 
Discover more: Operational  
review on P22-27
22
Discover more: Operational  
review on P22-27
Discover more: North Sea  
development on P17
17
Discover more: Cairn  
in India on P29
29 46 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Working responsibly continued
People
Recognising that good people 
management is key to a high 
performing organisation
Core to Cairn’s business are its people and we 
understand that our success depends upon the 
wholehearted support and commitment of our 
employees. During 2014 we looked very closely at 
our organisation to ensure we had the right people  
in place to meet the future activity levels and work 
programme of the business. This resulted in a 
reorganisation of the business to ensure forward 
business objectives could be met. Attracting, 
developing and retaining the capability required  
to deliver our business objectives remained a key 
consideration throughout the year .
Organisational effectiveness
The Group reorganisation was announced and 
implemented during 2014. It was important that this 
process resulted in the retention of core technical 
skills and a strong leadership team, whilst allowing 
for certain non-core capabilities to be outsourced.
After the reorganisation was announced to all 
employees in June 2014, we commenced an 
extensive collective and individual consultation 
process with elected employee representatives  
and all members of staff across the Group. During 
the consultation process, we were able to minimise 
the need for compulsory redundancies through  
the identification and acceptance of voluntary 
redundancy applications. In total by June 2015,  
we will have reduced our staff and contractor 
headcount by around 40% and have recruited  
fewer external candidates than in previous years.  
It was critical that throughout this process people 
were treated with respect, with the needs of the 
future business in mind, and that the process  
was conducted transparently. To support those  
who were displaced, we held a successful career 
management day which included a number of 
workshops designed to provide individuals with  
the skills and knowledge required to make the 
transition to a new career . The option to accept 
further formal outplacement support or receive  
a training allowance to develop new skills was also 
offered to those leaving to provide essential support 
at a difficult time. To support all our staff impacted 
(those staying and those leaving) we held a number 
of change management workshops to help develop 
resilience and coping strategies.
Engagement
Throughout the year , during a period of transition 
and uncertainty, we continued to focus on engaging 
our employees with the business, ensuring that our 
people were informed and engaged in our strategic 
and business progress.
We achieved this through a variety of different 
communication mediums including regular company 
meetings involving our overseas offices, email 
updates from senior management and teambuilding 
events. Our Executive Directors also host regular 
“coffee and chat” sessions with small groups of staff 
from across the business to facilitate two-way 
conversations about strategy, operations and the 
working environment.
T o measure engagement levels amongst our people 
as part of our commitment to understanding how our 
people feel about working at Cairn, we conducted  
an internal employee survey in December 2013.  
The survey demonstrated a good participation rate 
with 76% of staff responding. The survey identified  
a number of areas of strength at Cairn including how 
employees feel about their job and the Company;  
the perception that Cairn has a positive impact on 
society; and high levels of satisfaction with the pay 
and benefits offered at Cairn. The survey also 
identified a number of areas for development,  
which we will continue to focus on. 
As part of this engagement strategy and our  
wider commitment to corporate responsibility,  
we encourage staff to support worthwhile causes 
and allow all our staff up to three days’ paid leave per 
year to enable them to participate in volunteering 
activities. One such teambuilding event during the 
year was undertaken by our team of Executive 
Assistants in our Edinburgh headquarters. The 
“Cairn terriers” set up a market stall event in the 
office building in support of the children’s charity 
Barnado’s, raising over £5,000 in the process.  
In addition to raising money for a local charity,  
which is part of our wider corporate charitable  
giving programme, the event helped to develop  
team working skills and engagement throughout  
the business by generating widespread support 
amongst employees.
Performance management
Recognising that good people management is key to a 
high performing organisation, in 2014 we introduced 
a revised performance management process across 
the group, designed to be simpler for staff and 
management, and to connect staff performance to 
business performance, creating a more cohesive 
performance measurement process. This enables our 
staff to monitor their personal progress against the 
progress of the business, mirroring the objectives of 
the business, and understanding why and how their 
objectives are set. In practice, our strategic objectives 
and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) provide the 
starting point for setting business objectives at the 
highest level of the organisation. These goals are then 
cascaded to department and individual objectives. 
 “I have found the regular monthly one-to-one meetings with 
my manager a useful routine to adopt. It has helped me  
to know where I am in relation to achieving my objectives, 
keeps me focused and ensures that I commit to my own 
personal development. The new approach to Performance 
Management at Cairn has further enabled me to clarify  
what my manager expects of me and to seek feedback  
on my strengths and areas for development. I now have  
so much more clarity on my role and responsibilities and  
how I contribute to the performance of my department.”
Quote from team member 47 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
The new process was designed following an extensive 
consultation process across the organisation and  
in collaboration with a group of internal “People 
Champions”, and is intended to reinforce our 
identified high performing behaviours and values 
which are based on our core business values of 
respect, relationships and responsibility. Employees 
are encouraged to actively seek feedback which 
should be provided in a positive and constructive  
way. In addition, a number of People Management 
Accountabilities were introduced, which outline what 
we expect from all our managers in encouraging, 
supporting and motivating their teams. The process is 
supported during the year through regular monthly 
one-to-one meetings with line management in 
addition to the year-end annual performance review. 
Our new approach to performance management 
was designed to ensure that:
 – our people understand their accountability for 
delivering personal performance objectives;
 – assets, functions, teams and personal 
performance objectives are connected  
to business goals;
 – key behaviours which underpin high performance 
and which help us work together in a matrix 
organisation are clearly communicated and 
understood; and
 – performance management becomes an ongoing 
process and not a once-a-year event. 
 “The Group reorganisation was announced and implemented  
in 201 4. It was important that this process resulted in the  
retention of core technical skills and a strong leadership team,  
whilst allowing for certain non-core capabilities to be outsourced.”
 “Our new performance management system 
has helped me to focus on the output of my 
team members through regular one-to-one 
conversations about progress. It has further 
ensured that my team and I have a better 
understanding about how our objectives fit 
with the company’s overall business aims.”
Quote from line manager
Diversity 
Diversity is about valuing everyone as an individual: 
everyone is unique. Diversity can add varied ideas 
and perspectives to a workplace and helps to develop 
an open and inclusive working culture. A diverse 
workforce is important to Cairn and in 2014:
 – 49% of Cairn staff were women
 – 12% of Cairn staff worked part-time
 – 76% of parents returned to work following 
maternity/adoption/paternity leave
 – 14 different nationalities were employed at Cairn
 – 2.8% of the workforce had a disability
 – Average age at Cairn was 43
 – 25% of management roles were held by women
 – 14% of PLC Board were women.
In 2014, Cairn continued to roll out equality and 
diversity training to staff and contractors. The 
training is designed to further increase awareness  
of Cairn’s commitment to equality of opportunity, 
and the behaviours expected of everyone when it 
comes to treating others with dignity and respect. 
 p
Staff in Edinburgh 
headquarters.  48 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Working responsibly continued
Mapping CR priorities
T wice per year we identify CR priorities 
to guide our CR activities as the 
business develops 
2014 Year end materiality matrix
• Tax transparency
• Supply chain and contractors
Complying with our Business • 
Principles in Cap Boujdour
Preventing major accidents • Operational environmental footprint •
Preventing major spills • • Product stewardship
• Resource use
• Climate change
• Operational and Process Safety
• Biodiversity
• Net social and economic benefit
• Business ethics
• Human rights
• Equality and diversity
• Workforce planning
• New approaches  
and technologies
• Political uncertainty 
(host governments)
• Corporate Governance
• Sustainable project funding
• Operational and Project Performance
• Workplace health and safety
• Succession planning
• Security of people and operations
• Non-operated JV and overseas investments
High Significant Medium Low Insignificant
Probability and impact 
adjusted importance to Cairn
Importance to Cairn’s stakeholders
Medium Significant Low High Insignificant
How we identify our key CR priorities
Our CR priorities reflect the topics that matter most 
to our business and our stakeholders. The process  
by which we identify these priorities is known as  
a materiality assessment process. We improved  
the materiality assessment process in 2014,  
by introducing a more objective methodology  
with defined criteria, more closely linked to our 
business risk management procedure. 
These improvements were made in response  
to recommendations from both an internal CR 
Management System (CRMS) audit and an external 
review of our 2013 CR report. The revised process 
was trialled for the 2014 interim report, then refined 
and rerun for the 2014 Annual Report. 
Our ‘CR Materiality Methodology’ is based on  
the AccountAbility APS model (an internationally 
recognised framework developed by AccountAbility) 
and helps us conform to the latest Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines 
known as G4, which Cairn adopted in 2014. G4 is 
superseding the GRI G3.1 guideline against which 
we have reported since 2011. GRI is a leading 
organization in the sustainability field.  
In 2014 the identification of our CR priorities  
was carried out during a ‘materiality’ workshop 
attended by senior management and facilitated  
by a third party. 
As part of the improved materiality assessment 
process corporate and operational risks, identified 
during the business risk management procedure,  
are grouped into clear CR topics. These topics are 
then assessed against criteria aligned with the risk 
management procedure. This gives a rating for 
‘Probability and Impact Adjusted Importance to 
Cairn’ for each topic.  49 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
CR priorities
Six material issues
Six material issues were identified to be of 
‘high’ importance to both our stakeholders 
and to Cairn and these are described on 
the following pages. Further information 
on how we identify, assess and manage 
these CR topics as well as the majority  
of those identified as ‘medium’ is also 
available on the Cairn website at  
www.cairnenergy.com/responsibility.
Understanding  
the matrix: 
The importance to Cairn is plotted on the vertical 
axis of the materiality matrix. The importance  
to stakeholders is plotted on the horizontal  
axis. The importance to Cairn reflects the 
probability and impact of a topic in line with  
our risk assessment criteria. The importance  
to stakeholders uses a number of criteria with 
increasing impact. In this way ‘Preventing major 
accidents’ has a low probability but high impact 
when using Cairn’s risk criteria, giving a medium 
rating: however , it is classified as high against  
the stakeholder concern criteria therefore when 
plotted in the matrix it is a ‘high’ material issue. 
Supply chain  
and contractors
Read more on page 50 
Preventing major  
accidents
Read more on page 5 1 
Preventing major spills
Read more on page 52 
Operational  
environmental footprint
Read more on page 54 
T ax transparency
Read more on page 55 
Complying with our Business 
Principles in Cap Boujdour
Read more on page 57
The topics were then assessed in relation to fixed 
criteria for ‘Importance to Stakeholders’ and mapped 
onto a materiality matrix (as shown below) with final 
broad classifications of ‘high’, ‘medium’ or ‘low’  
for each topic. Those receiving a ‘high’ rating are 
regarded as material in the reporting process and 
also used to focus attention for objective setting. 50 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Cairn total for employees and contractors
IOGP* benchmark
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.42 0.43
0.48 0.45
0.60
3.67
2.52
0.65
0
0
Managing waste
Cairn pays particular attention to 
the waste management capabilities 
of our host countries and wherever 
we operate, we aim to conform  
to EU based approaches to  
waste management. 
This includes not only the application of  
a waste management hierarchy (avoid,  
reuse, recycle, recover , dispose) but also 
requirements of ‘Duty of Care’. 
Duty of Care requires prevention of escape  
of waste; appropriate handling, treatment  
and disposal; and, handing such waste by 
‘fit and proper’ persons. 
In both Senegal and the Republic of Ireland,  
local contractor capabilities and options for 
disposal of hazardous wastes are restricted.  
In the case of the Republic of Ireland, as part of 
the EU, long established methods are available 
to meet ‘Duty of Care’ requirements including 
treatment in the UK where necessary. 
Case study
CR priorities
Supply chain  
and contractors
With up to 78% of the hours worked in connection 
with Cairn’s business contracted out to various 
parties at times of significant operational activity  
we place a particular emphasis on selecting the right 
service providers, communicating expectations, 
ensuring effective policies and management 
processes, monitoring performance and sharing 
lessons learned. 
All our contractors are required to work within 
industry good practice frameworks and they must 
have clear Health Safety and Environment (HSE) 
management systems in place to understand risks 
associated with their activities and implement 
appropriate measures in a manner to control them. 
We have a rigorous selection process to assess the 
suitability of contractors, which includes assessing 
their ability to conduct operations in line with  
our Business Principles and Group policies and 
procedures. In 2014 we revised our Contractor 
Selection and Management Procedure improving 
integration of our CR requirements from contractors, 
as well as refining our tender selection criteria for 
both drilling rigs and seismic vessels. Following 
appointment, we link our contractors’ HSE or CR 
systems to our CRMS using a bridging document 
which lays out responsibilities and clarifies areas of 
potential uncertainty. This is supplemented by project 
specific procedures which must be adhered to. For 
example, in Senegal specialist contractors were used 
for management of hazardous waste to ensure that 
good ‘Duty of Care’ practices were followed and  
that the treatment and disposal was undertaken  
at suitable facilities by fit and proper persons.
Lost Time Injury
In 2013 we initiated a Strategic Contractor 
Engagement Campaign marked by our Chief 
Executive visiting the Cajun Express rig during 
operations offshore Morocco in November 2013, 
following two Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) experienced 
shortly after drilling commenced that same month. 
This Campaign was intensified in 2014. All key 
contractors were engaged by senior personnel  
on the importance of maintaining HSE and CR 
standards as the key priority for our 2014 projects 
offshore Senegal, Republic of Ireland and Malta.  
A total of 13 major contractors were engaged  
in this way prior to activities commencing. Senior 
management continued to visit operational locations 
with 14 rig visits attended by personnel of Project 
Manager level or above. These visits served  
to reinforce our commitment to HSE amongst  
both our own personnel and our contractors.
Despite our efforts, during 2014 we experienced 
one LTI on the Cajun Express rig. A member of the rig 
already a developed oil and gas industry can be difficult. 
In 2014, contracts were awarded to local supply  
base logistics providers in Morocco, Senegal and the 
Republic of Ireland. Particular attention was paid to 
developing health and safety performance among  
local contractors through locating experienced HSE 
advisers at our shore bases in Agadir , Morocco; Dakar , 
Senegal; and Foynes, Republic of Ireland. These HSE 
advisors provided, amongst other activities, training, 
ongoing coaching and supervision, defensive driving 
courses, and training on waste handling. Specialist 
heavy lifting training was provided in all locations as 
these contractors had limited experience of some  
of the specific equipment used by the industry.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Our Group Code of Business Ethics and Anti-Bribery 
and Corruption (ABC) System not only guides our  
own behaviour but also clarifies our expectations of 
partners and suppliers. Before entering into a business 
relationship, we undertake a process of information 
gathering and risk identification, with the option to 
undertake further third party checks if any concerns  
do arise. T o assist with the risk assessment process,  
we use various due diligence tools which enable us  
to identify potential ‘red flags’ and establish whether 
potential issues are manageable and if any resulting 
risks lie within our risk appetite statement. As an 
example of this, we conducted third party due diligence 
checks on over 20 suppliers and business partners. 
During H1 2014 we updated our procedures to  
further minimise the risk of bribery and corruption in 
the supply chain. In Senegal Cairn worked closely with 
crew was injured following a fall whilst carrying out 
planned preventative maintenance on the drilling top 
drive system. A detailed accident investigation was 
completed and corrective measures were taken  
to avoid recurrence. Overall our Lost Time Injury 
Frequency (LTIF) and Total Recordable Injury Rate 
(TRIR) are lower than experienced in 2013. 
Lost Time Injury Frequency (L TIF)** 
(Lost time injuries per million hours worked) 
Working responsibly continued
Mapping CR priorities continued
As part of our commitment to generate a positive  
net social and economic benefit we recognise the 
importance of developing local contractors to support 
our activities wherever we can. However , sourcing 
skilled, local contractors in areas where there is not 
*   IOGP is the International Association of Oil & Gas 
Producers. We have included overall IOGP benchmark 
figures (average of onshore and offshore).  51 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Cairn total for employees and contractors
IOGP* benchmark
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0 1.68
1.76 1.74
1.60
1.81
7.34
5.04
3.88
0
0
CR priorities
Preventing major  
accidents
The prevention of any accident remains  
a key focus for Cairn and the wider oil and  
gas industry and is recognised as a material  
CR topic for Cairn which requires significant 
ongoing vigilance and attention. We apply 
rigorous procedures to identify, assess and 
manage potential risks and impacts in line  
with the As Low As Reasonably Practicable 
(ALARP) principle.
Our drilling operations, both operated and  
non-operated, are the key focus of our drive  
to prevent major accidents. 
The exploration wells offshore Morocco and 
Senegal were designed in accordance with the 
requirements of the Cairn Well Engineering and 
Construction (WEC) Department and CRMS. 
These requirements include various well 
engineering and control barriers applied during 
well design and operation (see ‘Preventing major 
spills’). All Cairn well designs are assessed by an 
independent external expert well examiner who 
verifies that the design complies with defined 
standards based on UK best practice. 
In Senegal, the exploration drilling programme 
only commenced once the well risk assessment, 
major accident safety study, and emergency/oil 
spill response plans had received approval from 
the Senegalese regulators. An operational 
readiness audit was also conducted including  
an independent expert assessment of critical  
equipment and systems before drilling 
commenced. All contingency plans, equipment 
and trained staff were in place prior to starting 
the first well. As required under Senegalese 
legislation the rig and supply base were inspected 
and authorised by the Senegalese regulator 
before and during the drilling process.
In respect of our non-operated activities Cairn 
continued to work closely with EnQuest and 
Premier Oil on our United Kingdom Continental 
Shelf (UKCS) development assets, the operators  
of Kraken and Catcher respectively. This included 
understanding the HSE risks associated with the 
projects to ensure robust mitigation plans are 
implemented throughout the design, construction, 
commissioning and operational phases. In addition, 
as in previous years, we continued to fulfil our ‘see 
to’ obligations in our Norwegian activities. This is a 
requirement that non-operating partners must 
assess HSE arrangements of the block operator 
prior to approval of activities being given by the 
Norwegian regulator . This ensures all non-operating 
parties assure the planned activities being and take 
responsibility for them. In line with our objective  
of becoming an operator in the Barents Sea we  
are furthering our efforts to demonstrate our 
operational capabilities in both Norway and the UK. 
In conjunction with our partners and industry 
bodies we continue to monitor potential legislation 
changes in the UK and other EU jurisdictions  
due to the introduction of the new EU Offshore 
Safety Directive.
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)**   
(T otal recordable injuries per million hours worked)
*   IOGP is the International Association of Oil & Gas 
Producers. We have included overall IOGP benchmark 
figures (average of onshore and offshore). 
**   Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the IOGP 
benchmark after only one incident, or a small number of 
incidents, because our exploration activities often last for 
only a short time period, so there are relatively few hours 
worked compared with ongoing production and other long- 
term operations. 
Base supply provider 
contractors, Bolloré 
Africa Logistics, 
Senegal.
By contrast, in Senegal such methods are limited 
especially in relation to wastes generated from the 
offshore oil and gas industry given this is largely a 
new industry in the country. Consequently, Cairn 
conducted a specialist review of waste disposal 
options in and around Dakar , Senegal and engaged 
a specialist experienced contractor with both 
expert knowledge of local capabilities and ability 
to develop sound Duty of Care programmes for 
the project. 
the business ethics specialist Good Corporation to 
undertake a detailed risk assessment of the business 
environment, with a specific focus on potential bribery 
and corruption risks. The local presence and knowledge 
of the Good Corporation helped guide and shape  
our approach to managing the potential risks and 
implementing mitigations. This included developing  
a local ABC Management System and preparing 
training in both English and French. 52 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The prevention of major hydrocarbon spills and 
preparation for response in the unlikely event of  
a major spill event remain of critical importance  
to the oil and gas industry and to Cairn and  
our stakeholders. 
During the year we continued to focus on ensuring  
the integrity of the exploration wells drilled offshore 
Morocco and Senegal as described in ‘Preventing  
major accidents’ and to adopt industry good practice  
in assessing the risks of oil spills and in oil spill  
response planning.
T o prevent a major accident and oil spill we take a number of steps: 
Design
Our wells are designed and independently assured  
to a level that exceeds requirements for the expected 
characteristics of the geological formations to be 
encountered. We apply our well design standards  
to ensure the appropriate materials are used and 
installation methods conform to recognised good 
industry standards. A qualified external well examiner 
independently assesses the well design and proposed 
development methods. This gives us assurance that  
the well development will meet safety standards.  
We select drilling fluids to maintain well integrity  
and also to minimise impact on the environment  
(see also ‘Preventing major accidents’).
Primary well control
We apply a dual barrier approach during drilling 
activities. This involves control measures designed  
to maintain fluids in the wellbore, including drilling- 
hole pressure evaluation and management,  
kick detection, kick tolerance management,  
fluid management, cementing practices, blow-out 
preventer (BOP) system testing and assurance. 
Testing of a BOP is rigorous and is conducted 
routinely on a defined schedule to ensure it 
remains functional. In the event of unsuccessful  
tests we make safe the well and cease drilling until 
resolution of any problem, which can result in 
substantial lost time and cost. Despite this we  
do not recommence drilling until completion of 
work and if necessary specialist support to assure 
function. We do not compromise in this area.
Secondary well control 
This includes measures to prevent the wellbore fluids 
escaping from the well, using a BOP . The BOP installed 
on the wellhead at the seabed is made up of a series of 
hydraulically operated rams and can be operated in an 
emergency from the rig or via the backup Remotely 
Operated Vehicle (ROV) on board the standby vessel 
which remains with the rig. The BOP is rated for 
pressures greatly in excess of those expected to  
be encountered in the exploration well.
T ertiary well control
These measures provide a third line of defence  
when formations cannot be controlled by primary 
and secondary measures and cover well control 
options such as drilling of a relief well and use of  
a capping device.
Working with stakeholders  
on oil spill planning 
In Senegal we held an emergency and 
oil spill management seminar with a 
variety of stakeholders in late 2013. 
This assisted in establishing our 2014 response 
capability and interfaces with in-country 
response capability. In addition, a field equipment 
deployment exercise was conducted in Senegal 
which used our offshore vessel contractors and 
shore base personnel. 
We shared a video of this exercise with the 
authorities and local contractors. 
During early May 2014, in the Republic of 
Ireland, Cairn participated in the successful 
Shannon Estuary Anti-Pollution Team (SEA-PT) 
oil spill exercise in County Galway. This was 
helpful in developing our Oil Spill Contingency 
Plan and in understanding local capabilities. It 
was well attended and gave us the opportunity 
to work directly with stakeholders including local 
council representatives, local environmental 
experts, the Irish Coast Guard and other  
civil authorities.
Case study
CR priorities
Preventing  
major spills
Working responsibly continued
Mapping CR priorities continued 53 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Additionally, in the unlikely event of an oil spill we are 
able to provide an effective oil spill response. We have 
applied the latest good practice in all of our recent and 
future drilling programmes.
 – Planning – applying the IOGP Joint Industry 
Project (JIP) new approach to oil spill risk 
assessment and response planning which includes 
a structured and detailed analysis of oil spill risk, 
including: development of potential spill scenarios; 
likelihood and consequence analysis; detailed 
modeling; development of a credible response 
capability; and plans submitted and approved by 
the authorities in Senegal and in preparation for 
future drilling in the Republic of Ireland;
 – Surface response capability – maintaining tiered 
oil spill response capability including Associate 
Membership of Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) 
for access to established Tier 3 oil spill response 
equipment. We also enhanced our Tier 2 
capability in Senegal through membership of 
Western and Central Africa Aerial Surveillance 
and Dispersant Spraying Services (WACAF). 
OSRL membership also gave us access to highly 
experienced consultants who assisted in the 
development of the oil spill response plans and 
who could assist in the event of an oil spill;
 – Subsea cap and secure capability – Cairn 
maintained access to the Subsea Well Incident 
System (SWIS) which includes the Capping Stack 
System (CSS), the Subsea Incident Response 
Toolkit (SIRT) and the Global Dispersant 
Stockpile, all of which are managed by OSRL. We 
ran logistics workshops and continued improving 
our ability to mobilise and deploy this equipment;
 – Oil Spill Contingency Plans (OSCPs) – these  
were developed using latest IOGP practices and 
approved in Senegal before drilling commenced. 
We consulted a number of stakeholders including 
government departments, non-government 
organisations (NGOs), local response organisations 
and subject experts for development of our OSCP 
in preparation for drilling an appraisal well in the 
Republic of Ireland; and
 – Preparedness – training and emergency exercises 
were held at our Edinburgh headquarters and 
operational sites in Senegal during 2014 and 
preparations made for the Republic of Ireland. 
These helped to embed roles and responsibilities 
and rehearsed application of the oil spill plans and 
emergency response plans in our field locations. 
As shown in the tables below, in 2014 we maintained 
our record of no oil spills to the environment in the last 
five years.
Total spills to the environment (number)  
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Oil 0 0 0 0 0
Fuel 1 1 0 0 0
Chemical 3 0 1 0 0
Waste 0 0 0 0 0
Other 0 2 0 0 0
Total spills to the environment (barrels)  
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Oil 0 0 0 0 0
Fuel 28.30 0.06 0 0 0
Chemical 56.85 0 2.20 0 0
Waste 0 0 0 0 0
Other 0 9.44 0 0 0
Oil spill response 
exercise, Senegal. 54 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Scope 1 Tonnes CO
2
e per 1,000 hours worked (all scopes GHG) Scope 2 Scope 3
Tonnes CO
2
e
Tonnes CO
2
e per 1,000 hours worked
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
200,000 100
150,000 75
100,000 50
50,000 25
0 0
151,181
479
1,005
46
88
36
41
9
166,266
289
746
1,589
280
1,350
25,030
420
2,793
59,465
402
3,127
CR priorities
Operational environmental footprint
Working responsibly continued
Mapping CR priorities continued
In many parts of the world we operate under 
specific regulatory requirements in order to 
prevent or minimise any impact of our activities. 
However , where regulatory requirements are  
not in place or are limited, we always carry out an 
environmental assessment of the local area prior to 
undertaking any significant operational activity. These 
assessments allow us to understand how our activities 
may impact the environment and local activities and 
how we can avoid or minimise any impact. They also 
provide important background information. 
During 2014 the following environmental 
assessments were completed:
 – Senegal – an Environmental and Social Impact 
Assessment (ESIA) and Environmental and 
Social Management Plan ahead of our offshore 
drilling operations; 
 – Republic of Ireland – an Environmental Area 
Assessment (EAA) in planning for the drilling of 
an appraisal well. During the planning process  
it became clear that the refurbishment of the 
Blackford Dolphin would not complete in time to 
meet the safe weather window. Consequently 
the Spanish Point appraisal well was postponed;
 – Republic of Ireland – submission of an EAA 
ahead of a 3D seismic campaign conducted 
offshore in Q3 2014. Approval to proceed was 
received in July. The survey was conducted 
successfully and we applied the new ‘Guidance 
to Manage the Risk to Marine Mammals from 
Man-made Sound Sources in Irish Waters’; and
 – Malta – an environmental review in line with 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) good 
practices was conducted prior to commencing 
and completing the 2D seismic campaign 
offshore in late March/early April. Though not a 
regulatory requirement the review was used to 
identify and apply mitigation measures during 
the seismic acquisition process.
CR plans, which include environmental requirements, 
and compliance registers are put in place for all our 
operational programmes and these have been 
adhered to with no issue of non-conformance  
or non-compliance during 2014.
Greenhouse gases
Greenhouse gases (GHGs) form a part of our 
operational environmental footprint. We monitor  
and manage the GHGs emitted during our activities 
and disclose them in accordance with industry 
requirements and standards. We disclose on an 
‘operational control’ basis which means we report 
emissions from those assets which are operated  
by us and not from those controlled by our partners. 
With no operated production facilities, our  
direct GHG emissions occur primarily from the 
combustion of fuel on rigs and vessels during  
the drilling of wells or acquisition of seismic. 
The graph below indicates that our GHG emissions 
over the last five years are heavily dependent on the 
level of operational activity in any given year . This 
makes it difficult to identify baseline information 
and set meaningful targets for total GHG reduction 
over time. We have therefore chosen to adopt  
a methodology for calculating GHG emissions 
intensity with reference to the number of hours 
worked, as this provides a direct relationship with 
the levels of activity and provides a mechanism for 
engaging with our contractors on energy efficiency. 
GHG intensity levels in 2014 are slightly higher  
than in 2013 largely as a consequence of an 
extended stay on one of the Senegal wells resulting 
from operational delays. In addition, the figures for 
Scope 3 GHGs (business travel) have all increased, 
including historic data, due to changes in calculation 
factors in line with DEFRA 2014 updates.
Water , wastewater and waste
Water use in our 2014 activities was not regarded 
as a significant or material issue due to the nature  
of our offshore activities and abundance of local 
supply. Wastewater discharges and waste disposals 
consisted of typical vessel sanitary discharges  
and discharge and disposal of drilling wastes.  
Cairn used water based drilling fluids in the  
2014 drill campaigns and these were discharged  
in line with good industry practice following an 
exercise to minimise less benign substances.  
Waste management in Senegal received particular 
attention in order to ensure a ‘Duty of Care’  
was maintained in line with European practice  
(see Supply chain and contractors).
Total and normalised GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3)
Notes:  
We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). 
1.  For calculating Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions we use emission factors from the API Compendium 2009 and also from EEMS 2008 (UK Environmental and Emissions Monitoring  
System for the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC)).
2.  For calculating Scope 2 (purchased electricity) GHG emissions we use emission factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) report ‘CO
2
 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights‘  
(2013 Edition).
3.  In 2014 we updated our methodology for calculating Scope 3 (business travel) emissions in line with DEFRA 2014, including its recommendation to include an uplift for the influence  
of radiative forcing in air travel emissions. This uplift ensures that the maximum climate impact of an organisations’ travel habits is captured. We have re-baselined our historic data in  
line with DEFRA 2014. All of our Scope 3 emissions figures have increased considerably because of these updates. (DEFRA 2014 methodology and conversion factors can be found  
at http://www.ukconversionfactorscarbonsmart.co.uk/) For further details about our GHG emissions’ data and calculations, please see our website. 55 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Proﬁt oil and gas Other taxes
Corporation tax
Payments to 
central government
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
7,544 6,103
40,402
11,730
4,569
3,098
5,439 9,875
139
Case study
Minimising the impact of noise during 
3D seismic operations offshore 
Republic of Ireland and Malta
In 2014 we undertook a 3D  
seismic survey in the Porcupine 
Basin, offshore west Republic of 
Ireland. The survey was conducted 
in August and September and 
resulted in the acquisition of nearly 
1,000km
2
 of 3D seismic data.  
There is a significant marine 
mammal presence in the area and  
as such it was important to minimise 
the impact of noise generated by 
seismic air guns on the marine 
mammal population during  
the survey.
The Irish National Parks and Wildlife Service 
provided new guidelines on minimising the 
impact of man-made noise in 2014 and these, 
along with the findings of the Environmental 
Area Assessment (EAA) undertaken by Cairn, 
formed the basis for our mitigation measures. 
As with all our seismic operations, Cairn 
employed two Marine Mammal Observers 
(MMOs) who worked on board the seismic 
vessel for the duration of the campaign.
The impact of noise was primarily minimised 
by using a process called ‘soft start’, in which 
we slowly increase the power of acoustic 
sources over a minimum of 40 minutes, giving 
marine mammals time to leave the area before 
we reach maximum power . Operations  
would be delayed until any marine mammals 
sighted are observed to be at a safe distance  
of 1,000 metres for 60 minutes. Should  
the air guns be shut down in the hours of 
darkness, they would not be restarted until 
daylight which enables the MMOs to carry  
out a pre-survey watch. 
Summary reports on marine mammal 
observations were sent to the Irish regulator 
daily and a comprehensive report was compiled 
detailing the marine mammal interactions and 
the mitigation measures employed.
By contrast no specific environmental 
assessment was required or noise restrictions 
imposed for shooting seismic offshore Malta. 
However , in accordance with our internal 
standards we conducted an environmental 
review using Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA) practices and ensured that 
we applied the approach described under the 
Agreement on the Conservation of Cetaceans 
of the Black Sea, Mediterranean Sea and 
Contiguous Atlantic Area (ACCOBAMS). 
Artemis Atlantic vessel used  
to acquire 2D seismic data  
offshore Malta, 2014.
CR priorities
Tax 
transparency
Cairn operates in various different territories 
with diverse tax obligations and requirements 
and we are committed to ensuring that in every 
territory we comply fully with local tax rules  
and regulations. 
We support transparency of tax contributions  
and other payments to Governments and as  
such became a Participating Company in the 
Extractive Industries T ransparency Initiative  
(EITI) in September 2013. As in previous years,  
we have disclosed our payments to governments  
as shown below. 
Total Payments to Governments 
(US$’000)
Note: 
In addition Cairn receives a tax refund on qualifying exploration 
and administrative expenditure in Norway. 56 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 56
Atwood Achiever drillship 
operating CB-1 well. 57 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
CR priorities
Complying with our Business 
Principles in Cap Boujdour
Working responsibly continued
Mapping CR priorities continued
1. www.kosmosenergy.com/pdfs/ONHYM-Kosmos-Joint-Declaration-of-Principles-English.pdf
Cairn has a farm-in agreement with Kosmos  
Energy for a 20% non-operated interest in  
the Cap Boujdour exploration block. 
The farm-in builds on Cairn’s presence in three 
countries in Morocco, Senegal and Mauritania.
The CB-1 exploration well commenced operations 
on the Al Khayr prospect in December 2014 
following the successful completion of a 3D  
seismic survey by Kosmos in the late summer . 
Western Sahara has been classified since 1961 as  
a ‘Non-Self-Governing Territory’. Both Morocco  
and the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic  
claim Western Sahara as their sovereign territory. 
Hydrocarbon exploration offshore of the territory  
is consistent with international law. Resolution of  
the territorial status is not required for exploration 
as the UN views Morocco as the territory’s 
administering authority and as such it  
can issue permits for resource development.
The UN continues to mediate a process to resolve 
the dispute between Morocco and the Saharawi 
Arab Democratic Republic. In 2013, Morocco’s 
Economic, Social and Environmental Council, an 
independent constitutional body launched intensive 
consultations in the region on how to properly 
manage the development of the region.
Initial oil and gas industry activities in the area are 
focused solely on exploration and do not involve  
the removal of resources. The region remains 
economically underdeveloped. Cairn believes  
that the exploration for hydrocarbon resources  
will enhance economic development prospects  
for all people of the territory, with the possibility of 
greater private sector investment and job creation. 
Responsible resource development can proceed in 
parallel with the UN-led discussions on the region’s 
future, as long as any such resource development  
is conducted for the benefit of the people of  
the territory.
Applying our Business Principles
Prior to finalising the decision to farm-in to  
Cap Boujdour Offshore, an extensive due  
diligence management process was undertaken  
to fully understand any risks associated with  
the project.
In late 2013, Kosmos made a joint declaration  
with the Government of Morocco setting out  
shared commitments regarding exploration  
activities and the key principles under which 
hydrocarbon development would proceed
1
.  
As part of the ongoing engagement programme, 
governments and international governance and 
economic experts have been engaged to contribute 
to a framework for hydrocarbon development in  
the region. During 2014 Cairn also participated  
and supported Kosmos in discussion to address and 
apply the Joint Declaration of Principles, in particular , 
in monitoring and promoting human rights. 
In 2014, an Environmental Impact Assessment  
(EIA) was delivered and approved in accordance  
with Moroccan legal requirements. In addition  
and in accordance with international best practice, 
Kosmos also conducted a voluntary social impact 
assessment (SIA), the first in the region, to present 
the project to local stakeholders and address 
concerns. These helped to improve understanding 
and assist in developing open lines of communication 
with local communities and will help shape social 
investment and capacity building programmes  
going forward. 
 “Both Cairn and the operator , Kosmos, believe that 
responsible resource exploration and, if successful, 
development in Western Sahara can occur in parallel 
with the UN-led discussion on the region’s future.” 
This Strategic report has been approved by the Board.
 
Simon Thomson
Chief Executive
9 March 2015 58 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Board of Directors
Simon Thomson James Smith Ian T yler
Chief Executive (50) Chief Financial Officer (38) Non-Executive Chairman (54)
Biography Simon Thomson was appointed Chief 
Executive in July 2011 having been 
Legal and Commercial Director since 
2006 and holding various posts across 
the organisation including head of 
assets. Simon originally joined Cairn  
in 1995 and holds an LLB (Hons) from 
Aberdeen University and a Diploma in 
Legal Practice from Glasgow University.
James Smith joined Cairn in March 
2014 from Rothschild where he was a 
director of the energy & power team 
with 15 years’ experience advising E&P 
companies, oil majors and national oil 
companies on their M&A transactions 
and equity and debt market financing. 
During his investment banking career , 
James was a long-standing adviser to 
Cairn on every major transaction and 
financing from the IPO of Cairn India 
until he joined the Company. James 
holds a BA (Hons) from the University 
of Oxford.
Ian Tyler was chief executive of 
Balfour Beatty plc from 2005 until 
March 2013. During this time he took 
the company from being primarily a 
UK construction business, to a global 
infrastructure services business.  
Ian graduated with a first class degree 
in Commerce from Birmingham 
University. He then qualified as a 
chartered accountant with Arthur 
Andersen in 1987 . Ian subsequently 
held a number of senior finance  
and operational positions within  
listed companies.
Term of Office Simon was appointed to the Board  
in November 2006 as Legal and 
Commercial Director and became 
Chief Executive in July 2011.
James was appointed to the Board in 
May 2014 as Chief Financial Officer.
Ian was appointed as an independent 
non-executive director in June 2013 
and became non-executive Chairman 
in May 2014.
Independent Not applicable Not applicable Yes
External Appointments Simon is a non-executive director of 
Graham’s The Family Dairy Limited 
and a member of the advisory Board 
of the Winning Scotland Foundation.
Ian is non-executive chairman  
of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc,  
a non-executive director and 
chairman of the audit committee of 
Cable & Wireless Communications 
plc, a non-executive director of BAE 
Systems plc and non-executive 
chairman of Bovis Homes Group Plc.
Committee Membership Simon chairs the Senior Leadership 
Team. He is a member of the 
nomination committee and attends 
meetings of the remuneration 
committee by invitation and part  
of each audit committee meeting  
by invitation. 
James chairs the Risk Management 
Committee and is a member of the 
Senior Leadership Team. He is a 
member of the governance committee 
and attends meetings of the audit 
committee by invitation. 
Ian chairs the nomination committee 
and is a member of the audit committee, 
the governance committee and the 
remuneration committee.
Todd Hunt Iain McLaren M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Alexander Berger
Non-Executive Director (62) Non-Executive Director (64) Non-Executive Director (59) Non-Executive Director (49)
Todd Hunt has 40 years’ experience in 
the oil and gas industry. He is president 
and joint owner of Atropos Exploration 
Company and Atropos Production 
Company based in Dallas, Texas. 
Iain McLaren has significant 
experience in the oil and gas sector. 
He is a chartered accountant and  
was formerly senior partner for 
KPMG in Scotland. 
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC (Jackie 
Sheppard) was previously executive 
vice president, corporate and legal at 
T alisman Energy Inc., a post she held 
for 15 years from 1993 to 2008.  
She holds a BA from the Memorial 
University of Newfoundland, BA and 
MA in Jurisprudence from Oxford 
University and LLB from McGill 
University. Jackie was admitted to  
the Law Society of Alberta (Canada)  
in 1982 and was appointed Queen’s 
Counsel for the Province of Alberta  
in 2008.
Alexander Berger is chief executive 
officer of Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., 
a private Dutch exploration and 
production company based in 
Amsterdam. Alexander holds a masters 
degree in Petroleum Engineering from 
Delft University and an MBA from 
Rotterdam School of Management.
Todd was appointed as an 
independent non-executive director 
in May 2003. However, given his 
length of tenure he can no longer 
technically be considered to be an 
independent non-executive director 
in terms of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Iain was appointed as an independent 
non-executive director in July 2008.
Jackie was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2010.
Alexander was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2010.
No Yes Yes Yes
Todd is president and joint owner of 
Atropos Exploration Company and 
Atropos Production Company.
Iain is chairman of Investors Capital 
T rust plc and a non-executive director 
of Afren plc, Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon 
plc, Edinburgh Dragon T rust plc and 
Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities 
plc. He is also a past president of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants  
of Scotland.
Jackie is non-executive chairperson  
of Emera Inc., a public Canada-based 
international energy generation, 
transportation and distribution 
company. She is also a director of the 
general partner of Pacific NorthWest 
LNG LP , which was formed for the 
purpose of constructing, owning and 
operating an LNG facility in British 
Colombia. She is a founder of two 
upstream oil and gas companies and  
is the lead director and chair of the audit 
committee of one of those companies, 
Black Swan Energy Inc., a Canada-
based private equity financed company. 
Jackie is also the former chairperson  
of the Research and Development 
Corporation of Newfoundland and 
Labrador , a Crown Corporation.
Alexander is chief executive officer  
of Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., and  
a director of Oranje-Nassau Energie 
UK Limited and Oranje-Nassau 
Energy Petroleum Limited.
Todd is a member of the remuneration 
committee, the nomination committee 
and the governance committee.
Iain chairs the audit committee and is a 
member of the nomination committee 
and the remuneration committee.
Jackie chairs both the  
remuneration committee and  
the governance committee. 
Alexander is a member of  
the audit committee, the  
nomination committee and  
the governance committee.
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 59 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Todd Hunt Iain McLaren M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Alexander Berger
Non-Executive Director (62) Non-Executive Director (64) Non-Executive Director (59) Non-Executive Director (49)
Todd Hunt has 40 years’ experience in 
the oil and gas industry. He is president 
and joint owner of Atropos Exploration 
Company and Atropos Production 
Company based in Dallas, Texas. 
Iain McLaren has significant 
experience in the oil and gas sector. 
He is a chartered accountant and  
was formerly senior partner for 
KPMG in Scotland. 
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC (Jackie 
Sheppard) was previously executive 
vice president, corporate and legal at 
T alisman Energy Inc., a post she held 
for 15 years from 1993 to 2008.  
She holds a BA from the Memorial 
University of Newfoundland, BA and 
MA in Jurisprudence from Oxford 
University and LLB from McGill 
University. Jackie was admitted to  
the Law Society of Alberta (Canada)  
in 1982 and was appointed Queen’s 
Counsel for the Province of Alberta  
in 2008.
Alexander Berger is chief executive 
officer of Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., 
a private Dutch exploration and 
production company based in 
Amsterdam. Alexander holds a masters 
degree in Petroleum Engineering from 
Delft University and an MBA from 
Rotterdam School of Management.
Todd was appointed as an 
independent non-executive director 
in May 2003. However, given his 
length of tenure he can no longer 
technically be considered to be an 
independent non-executive director 
in terms of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
Iain was appointed as an independent 
non-executive director in July 2008.
Jackie was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2010.
Alexander was appointed as an 
independent non-executive  
director in May 2010.
No Yes Yes Yes
Todd is president and joint owner of 
Atropos Exploration Company and 
Atropos Production Company.
Iain is chairman of Investors Capital 
T rust plc and a non-executive director 
of Afren plc, Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon 
plc, Edinburgh Dragon T rust plc and 
Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities 
plc. He is also a past president of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants  
of Scotland.
Jackie is non-executive chairperson  
of Emera Inc., a public Canada-based 
international energy generation, 
transportation and distribution 
company. She is also a director of the 
general partner of Pacific NorthWest 
LNG LP , which was formed for the 
purpose of constructing, owning and 
operating an LNG facility in British 
Colombia. She is a founder of two 
upstream oil and gas companies and  
is the lead director and chair of the audit 
committee of one of those companies, 
Black Swan Energy Inc., a Canada-
based private equity financed company. 
Jackie is also the former chairperson  
of the Research and Development 
Corporation of Newfoundland and 
Labrador , a Crown Corporation.
Alexander is chief executive officer  
of Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., and  
a director of Oranje-Nassau Energie 
UK Limited and Oranje-Nassau 
Energy Petroleum Limited.
Todd is a member of the remuneration 
committee, the nomination committee 
and the governance committee.
Iain chairs the audit committee and is a 
member of the nomination committee 
and the remuneration committee.
Jackie chairs both the  
remuneration committee and  
the governance committee. 
Alexander is a member of  
the audit committee, the  
nomination committee and  
the governance committee.
Non-Executive Directors 60 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ report
The directors of Cairn Energy PLC (registered in Scotland with Company 
Number SC226712) present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 together with the audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Group and Company for the year . These will be laid before  
the shareholders at the AGM to be held on Thursday 14 May 2015.
Results and dividend
The Group made a loss after tax of US$381.1 million (2013 loss of  
US$555.9 million).
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year  
ended 31 December 2014.
Subsequent events that have occurred after the balance sheet date  
as at 31 December 2014 are included in Section 6 of the Notes to the  
Financial Statements. 
Strategic report
Details of the Group’s strategy and business model during the year and the 
information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic report can be found  
in the Strategic report section on pages 1 to 57 of this document, which are 
deemed to form part of this report by reference. 
Details of Cairn’s offices and Cairn’s advisers are given at the end of this report. 
Change of control
All of the Company’s share incentive plans contain provisions relating to  
a change of control and further details of these plans are provided in the 
Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97 . Generally, outstanding 
options and awards will vest and become exercisable on a change of control, 
subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time. 
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his 
employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation pursuant  
to his service contract. Further details of the relevant provisions are set out  
in the Directors’ Remuneration report on page 84. There are no agreements 
providing for compensation to the Chief Financial Officer or to employees on  
a change of control and no such provision will be included in the contracts of  
other future appointees to the Board. 
Other than the Senior Secured Borrowing Base Facility Agreement entered  
into by the Company with BNP Paribas and other syndicated banks dated  
18 July 2014 (the “Facility Agreement”), there are no significant agreements  
to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate in the  
event of a change of control of the Company. In terms of clause 9.2 of the  
Facility Agreement, if there is a change of control of the Company, any lender  
may cancel its commitment and declare its participation in all outstanding 
utilisations, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued 
immediately due and payable. 
Corporate governance
The Company’s Corporate Governance statement is set out on pages 63 to 72 
and is deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Directors
The names and biographical details of the current directors of the Company  
are given in the Board of directors section on pages 58 and 59. The beneficial 
interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below:
As at  
31 December  
2013
As at  
31 December  
2014
As at  
9 March  
2015
Simon Thomson 387 ,383 457 ,567 457,567
James Smith* 0 2,688 2,688
Ian Tyler 0 0 0
Todd Hunt 72,012 72,012 72,012 
Iain McLaren 7,878 7,878 7,878
Jackie Sheppard 0 7 ,000 7 ,000
Alexander Berger 10,979 40,008 40,008
Former directors
Dr Mike Watts** 1,164,932 – –
Jann Brown** 295,550 – –
Sir Bill Gammell** 596,331 – –
Dr James Buckee** 37,788 – –
* James Smith was appointed as an executive director of the Company on 15 May 2014.
** As set out in the Company’s Corporate Governance statement on pages 63 to 72, on 15 May 
2014, Dr Mike Watts stood down as the Deputy Chief Executive of the Company, Jann Brown 
stood down as the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, Dr James 
Buckee stood down as a non-executive director of the Company and Sir Bill Gammell stood 
down as the non-executive Chairman of the Company.
Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company held by  
the directors (or any members of their families) are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97 .
None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service 
contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings. Details of the 
directors’ service contracts are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report  
on pages 76 to 97 . 
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Note 5.1 of the Notes to  
the Financial Statements. As at 9 March 2015, 576,343,55 1 ordinary shares  
of 
231
/ 169 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the 
London Stock Exchange. The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set  
out in the Company’s Articles of Association. There are no special control  
rights in relation to the Company’s shares and the Company is not aware of  
any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions  
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Voting rights
The following paragraph details the position in relation to voting rights set out  
in the Company’s Articles of Association. However , the Company recognises  
that best practice is now to hold a poll on all shareholder resolutions. It is the 
Company’s current practice, therefore, to hold a poll and it is committed to  
doing so going forward.
Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at  
a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member present  
in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and 
on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote for every share held by him/her . In the case of joint holders of a 
share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or  
by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders 
and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the 
names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding. Under the 
Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be 
a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to  61 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting. A member 
may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class 
meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached  
to a different share or shares held by that member . A corporation which is a 
member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its 
representative or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any 
separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares. A person so authorised 
shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as  
the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise determine,  
be entitled in respect of any share held by him/her to attend or vote at a  
general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy if any call or other 
sum presently payable by him/her to the Company in respect of shares in the 
Company remains unpaid. Further , if a member has been served with a notice  
by the Company under the Companies Act 2006 requesting information 
concerning interests in shares and has failed in relation to any shares to provide 
the Company, within 14 days of the notice, with such information, the directors  
of the Company may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect 
of such shares to attend or vote (either in person or by proxy) at any general 
meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that class  
of shares. Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours (or such shorter 
time as the Board may determine) (excluding, at the Board’s discretion, any part 
of any day that is not a working day) before the time appointed for the holding  
of the meeting or adjourned meeting or , in the case of a poll taken more than 48 
hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 hours (or such shorter time as the 
Board may determine) before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at 
which it is to be used.
Variation of rights
Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of 
shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute 
and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of 
that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders 
of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class  
or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting 
of the holders of the shares of that class. At every such separate general meeting, 
the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least 
one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class. These provisions also 
apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only  
of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares  
of such class formed separate classes. The rights attached to any class of shares 
shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares  
or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed not 
to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari 
passu with, or subsequent to, the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by 
the Company of its own shares.
T ransfer of shares
Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with the Articles 
of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by instrument in writing  
in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors of 
the Company. The instrument of transfer shall be executed by, or on behalf of,  
the transferor and (except in the case of fully paid shares) by, or on behalf of, the 
transferee. The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the shares 
concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members 
of the Company. 
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason 
therefor , refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share 
unless such share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and 
traded on the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed securities. The 
directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form 
where the Company is entitled to refuse (or is excepted from the requirement) 
under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer 
and they may refuse any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees. 
The directors may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the 
Company has a lien. 
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason 
therefor , refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated form unless the 
relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, is duly 
stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged  
at the transfer office or at such other place as the directors may determine,  
is accompanied by the relevant share certificate(s) and such other evidence  
as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to 
make the transfer and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly. If the 
directors refuse to register a transfer , they shall, as soon as practicable and in any 
event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with 
the Company (in the case of a share in certificated form) or the date on which  
the operator instruction (as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 
2001) was received by the Company (in the case of a share in uncertificated 
form) (or in either case such longer or shorter period (if any) as the Listing Rules 
may from time to time permit or require), send to the transferee notice of  
the refusal.
Major interests in share capital
As at 31 December 2014 and 2 March 2015 (being the latest practicable date 
prior to the date of this report), the Company had received notification that 
shareholdings of 3% and over were as set out in the table below. 
  
As at 
31 December 
2014
% Share 
Capital
As at 
2 March 
2015
% Share 
Capital
MFS Investment 
Management 75,181,585 13.05 79,803,779 13.85
BlackRock 54,755,256 9.50 63,854,899 11.08
Greenlight Capital 32,309,120 5.61 32,305,959 5.61
Schroder Investment 
Management 29,313,125 5.09 24,146,564 4.19
Franklin Templeton 24,248,713 4.21 26,621,773 4.62
Aviva Investors 21,994,682 3.82 24,098,192 4.18
Hotchkis & Wiley 19,534,233 3.39 26,889,183 4.67
Legal & General  
Investment Management 17 ,270,219 3.00 – –
    
Political donations
No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred 
during the year .
Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Strategic 
report section on pages 1 to 57 of this document, which are deemed to form  
part of this report by reference.
Financial instruments
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are 
detailed in Appendix 2 of the Financial Statements.
Acquisition of own shares
On 25 October 2013, with its focus on capital discipline, the Company initiated  
a share buy-back programme with a view to maximising shareholder value and 
optimising capital allocation. The Board considered that the share buy-back 
programme would maximise shareholder value by increasing the capital gain per 
share that would be expected in the event of a successful hydrocarbon discovery 
and that it would be in the best interests of shareholders generally. Therefore,  
the Company entered into an irrevocable and non-discretionary agreement  
with its brokers, Morgan Stanley and Jefferies, to repurchase on the Company’s 
behalf and within certain pre-set parameters up to US$300m of ordinary shares 
in the Company for cancellation.  62 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ report continued
Acquisition of own shares (continued)
The Board decided to suspend the share buy-back programme as of 21 March 
2014 and therefore no further shares have been repurchased by the Company 
since that date. In the period from the start of the year to 21 March 2014, 
18,887 ,604 ordinary shares were repurchased and cancelled, which represents 
3.28% of the called-up share capital of the Company as at that date and as at  
31 December 2014. The nominal value of the shares purchased from the start  
of the year to 21 March 2014 is US$427 ,529 and the aggregate amount of 
consideration paid by the Company for those shares is US$63,682,702. 
Appointment and replacement of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed 
by the Company by ordinary resolution, or by the Board. The nomination 
committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and 
replacement of directors. Further details of the rules governing the appointment 
and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance statement 
on pages 63 to 72 and in the Company’s Articles of Association.
Directors’ indemnities
As permitted by the Company’s Articles of Association, the directors have the 
benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as 
defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 (a “Qualifying Third Party 
Indemnity Provision”). The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial 
year and is currently in force. In May 2014, the Company entered into standalone 
deeds of indemnity with each of the directors, pursuant to which the directors 
have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Qualifying Third Party Indemnity 
Provision. The indemnities came into force upon execution of the deeds  
of indemnity and are currently in force. The Company also purchased and 
maintained throughout the financial year directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
Powers of the directors
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, UK legislation and any 
directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed 
by the Board. The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing 
and buying back of the Company’s shares and are seeking renewal of these 
powers at the forthcoming AGM.
Articles of Association
Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Company’s  
Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the  
Company’s shareholders. 
Directors’ responsibility statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts,  
the Directors’ Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each 
financial year . Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and  
parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB) and as adopted by the European Union (EU). Under company law, 
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.  
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 – make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 – state whether applicable IFRSs issued by the IASB and adopted by the  
EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed  
and explained in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that  
are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose  
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and 
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 
Directors’ Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.  
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and  
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection  
of fraud and other irregularities. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the  
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the  
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from  
legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider the Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts  
2014, taken as a whole, are fair , balanced and understandable and provide the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of 
directors section on pages 58 and 59, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 – the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company; and
 – the Strategic report section on pages 1 to 57 of this document includes  
a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2014 confirm 
that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which  
the Company’s auditors are unaware. In making this confirmation, the directors  
have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant  
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware  
of this information.
AGM 2015
The AGM of the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of The Caledonian,  
a Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 12 noon (BST)  
on Thursday 14 May 2015. The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set 
out and fully explained in the Circular containing the Notice of AGM which has 
been posted to shareholders together with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Recommendation
The Board considers that all of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM  
are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole  
and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all of the proposed 
resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
By order of the Board
Duncan Wood 
Company Secretary
9 March 2015 I would like to assure shareholders  
that since taking over as non-executive 
Chairman in May 2014, corporate 
governance remains a matter of  
high importance for the Company. 
Maintaining and promoting high 
standards of corporate governance  
is central to my role as Chairman and  
I firmly believe that this is an essential 
prerequisite to delivering sustainable 
business performance. 
At Cairn we operate with integrity at all times, recognising that in 
doing so the Company will maintain the trust of its many stakeholders. 
The Cairn Board is committed to promoting high standards  
of corporate governance and understands that an effective, 
challenging and diverse Board is essential to enable the Company  
to deliver its strategy and shareholders’ long-term interests, whilst 
also generating investor confidence that the business is conducting 
itself in a responsible manner . Further information on our strategy, 
business model and approach to operating responsibly can be found 
in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report and Accounts. 
The Board were delighted when, in November 2014, the Company 
received two awards in respect of its 2013 annual report, winning 
Best Strategic Report in the FTSE 250 category at the ICSA 
(Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators) Excellence 
in Governance Awards and Best Annual Report in the FTSE 250 
category at the Investor Relations Society Awards. The Company 
was also highly commended for its corporate governance reporting 
in the PwC Building Public Trust awards in December 2014. I would 
personally like to take this opportunity to thank the team involved  
in annual reporting at Cairn for their continuous effort in producing 
such an exemplary standard of reporting.
63 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Corporate Governance statement
Dear shareholder
There have been a number of significant changes to the Cairn Board during 2014:
 – Sir Bill Gammell retired as non-executive Chairman and I succeeded him in 
this role;
 – Dr Mike Watts (Deputy Chief Executive) stepped down as an executive 
director;
 – Jann Brown (Managing Director & CFO) stepped down as an executive 
director;
 – James Smith was appointed Chief Financial Officer (CFO); and
 – Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director .
All of these changes took effect immediately following the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting (AGM) in May 2014 and I am pleased to report that the Board 
has continued to function efficiently and effectively since those changes. James 
Smith joined the Company in March 2014 and there was a smooth handover of 
responsibilities from Jann Brown to James Smith prior to his appointment as  
CFO in May 2014. 
Since standing down as executive directors in May 2014, Dr Mike Watts and 
Jann Brown continued in senior roles with the Company for a proportion of their 
one-year notice period with their time dedicated solely to seeking to resolve the 
tax issue in India. Mike and Jann held no executive director responsibilities during 
this period. The Board agreed in October 2014 to bring Mike and Jann’s notice 
period to an end and day-to-day responsibility for the Indian tax issue was passed 
to James Smith at that time. 
Following these changes, the Board currently comprises myself as Chairman; two 
executive directors (the Chief Executive and the CFO); and four non-executive 
directors, all but one of whom are independent. The Company recognises that  
as Todd Hunt has served on the Board for more than nine years he can no longer 
technically be considered to be an independent non-executive director . As such 
the composition of the Board continues to comply with the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, other than in respect of Mr Hunt’s independence. 
Despite this technical non-compliance with the Code, the Board are however 
confident that Mr Hunt’s judgement remains independent and that he continues 
to display all of the behaviours expected of our independent non-executive 
directors (see page 65).
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
As a company incorporated in the UK with a Premium Listing on the London Stock 
Exchange, Cairn is required to report against the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (as published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website 
at www.frc.org.uk). Cairn is fully committed to achieving compliance with the 
principles and provisions set out in the Code.
The Board continually reviews the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and has amended or enhanced the Company’s governance framework  
to ensure that the Company complies with the Code (other than as detailed on 
page 72). Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles 
in sections A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended  
31 December 2014. This statement reports compliance with the version of the 
Code published in September 2012. The Company recognises that the UK 
Corporate Governance Code was amended in September 2014 and intends  
to report against the revised version of the Code in next year’s annual report.
The Board
Cairn’s business is international in scope and carries political, commercial  
and technical risks. Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition  
and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the industry 
and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial, 
operational and risk management skills. In each Board appointment, whether 
executive or non-executive, objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, 
ability and diversity, assist the Board in its key functions, and are prerequisites  
for appointment. This also applies to senior management appointments below 
Board level and to our succession planning.
Following the changes described above, the Board currently comprises the 
Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive directors. The current 
directors’ biographies are on pages 58 and 59. 
The Company considers the significant refreshment of the Board during 2014  
to be positive as it brings new thinking to the Company as well as ensuring that 
the Board’s collective experiences equip it to direct the Company’s strategy and 
meet its business needs as they evolve over time. The Board is also mindful that 
an appropriate balance between directors who can bring a new perspective and 
those who provide continuity is essential for a business like Cairn’s.  64 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance statement continued
The Board (continued)
Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed not only on 
gender but also on nationality and experience. Following the retirement of Jann  
Brown as Managing Director & CFO in May 2014 the number of women on the 
Cairn Board has reduced from two to one. The Board does however continue to 
demonstrate diversity in the broader sense, with 14% female representation and 
directors from the Netherlands, the USA and Canada, as well as the UK, bringing 
gender diversity and international experience to the Board. The Board’s diverse 
range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth of experience of 
operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, operational, 
financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise. Further information on 
diversity within Cairn is included in the report of the Nomination Committee on 
page 68 and in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Division of responsibilities between Chairman  
and Chief Executive
The Company has a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
The Chairman’s responsibilities include:
 – the leadership and effective running of the Board;
 – ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the determination 
and development of the Group’s strategy;
 – acting as guardian and facilitator of the Board’s decision-making process;
 – ensuring effective implementation of the Board’s decisions; and
 – ensuring open communications with shareholders and, in particular , 
understanding their issues and concerns with regard to governance.
The Chairman’s other significant commitments out-with the Company are included 
in his biography on page 58 and there were no changes to these during 2014.
The Chief Executive’s responsibilities include:
 – managing the Group’s business and proposing and developing the Company’s 
strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board;
 – leading the Senior Leadership Team in implementing the decisions of the 
Board and its committees; 
 – ensuring the successful and efficient achievement of the Company’s Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) and objectives; and
 – providing coherent leadership of the Company in representing the Company 
to its stakeholders.
Senior independent director 
Iain McLaren continues to be Cairn’s senior independent non-executive director . 
The main responsibilities of the senior independent non-executive director are  
as follows:
 – to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary 
with other directors when necessary;
 – to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through 
the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive 
directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate; and
 – to meet with the other non-executive directors without the Chairman 
present, at least annually, in order to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
Re-election of directors
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Company’s 
directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders. As such, each of  
the directors will seek re-election at the AGM to be held on 14 May 2015.  
Full biographical details of the current directors can be found in the Board  
of Directors section on pages 58 and 59. 
Performance evaluation 
The Board continually strives to improve its effectiveness and recognises that  
the performance evaluation process represents an annual opportunity to 
enhance overall Board effectiveness. The Company conducted an externally 
facilitated Board evaluation in 2012 and an internal evaluation in 2013. 
The 2013 evaluation resulted in some important recommendations for improving 
the Board’s effectiveness which were set out in last year’s corporate governance 
statement. The majority of these were addressed in Q1 2014 under the leadership 
of the previous Chairman and the new Chairman has continued to follow  
up on these. 
This year , given the significant changes to the Board during the review period,  
it was agreed at the August 2014 Board meeting that an internal rather than 
external board performance evaluation would once again be most beneficial to 
the Company. The Chairman and Company Secretary subsequently discussed 
how best to facilitate this and it was decided that the Company Secretary should 
prepare a questionnaire for this purpose. 
The questionnaire was approved by the Chairman and this was subsequently 
completed by all directors to evaluate the performance of the Board, each of  
its committees, individual Board members and the Chairman. 
Following completion of the questionnaires, the Chairman held a series of 
one-to-one meetings with each of the directors in December 2014 in order  
to discuss the answers to the questionnaires. The Chairman’s own appraisal  
was conducted by the senior independent director who did this through  
a series of one-to-one meetings with the other directors before meeting  
with the Chairman to present feedback.
The findings of the internal evaluation were then discussed with the Board at  
the March 2015 Board meeting and a number of action points agreed, including 
the following:
Strategy: in view of market 
influences impacting on the sector 
in which the Company operates, 
the Board recognises that strategy 
is a dynamic issue and as such must 
be kept under regular review.
The Board will conduct an in 
depth strategy session during 
2015 in addition to their 
regular discussions of strategy 
at scheduled Board meetings.
Succession planning: it was 
identified that the Board require  
a clearer process for fully 
understanding succession planning 
beneath Board level, including 
assessing the strength of executive 
management, succession planning 
risks and the organisation structure 
within which the executive  
team works.
The Chairman has requested 
that a session on succession 
planning be built in to the 
Board agenda during 2015. 
The Board recognise that this 
matter should be a topic in 
which all directors participate 
going forward rather than 
delegated to a Board 
committee.
Board composition: following  
the changes to the Board during 
2014 the Board have committed  
to appoint up to two new 
non-executive directors.
A recruitment process is 
underway with a number  
of interviews scheduled  
for H1 2015.
Key actions Progress
Following the internal performance evaluation process conducted in 2014, the 
Board and the Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively 
and that each director has performed well in respect of their roles on the Board 
and its committees. 
As explained above, some improvements have been identified and have already 
been or will be addressed during 2015. Following the results of the individual 
performance evaluations, the Board believes that all of the directors’ 
performance continues to be effective and that they each demonstrate 
commitment to their role. 
The executive directors also have their performance individually reviewed by the 
remuneration committee against KPIs which are set annually (further details of 
the KPIs can be found in the KPI section on pages 18 to 21). The bonuses payable 
to the executive directors under the Company’s cash bonus scheme (described 
further in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 97) are linked 
directly to the results of these reviews. 65 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Independence of non-executive directors
The Board evaluation and review process covered the independence of  
each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, their 
objectivity and their contribution to the Board and its committees. The Board  
is of the view that the following behaviours are essential for a director to be 
considered independent:
 – provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the assumptions, 
beliefs and views of senior management and the other directors;
 – questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously  
and dispassionately;
 – acts at all times in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders;
 – has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Company’s business and of the 
market as a whole which provides a solid background against which they can 
consider the Company’s strategy objectively and help the executive directors 
develop proposals on strategy; and
 – has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, either directly  
or indirectly.
Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors 
against these criteria, the Board concluded that all non-executive directors 
demonstrated each of the required competencies to a high level and are, 
therefore, each considered independent by the Board. The Board does  
however recognise that, in view of the characteristics of independence  
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, Todd Hunt cannot  
technically be deemed independent given his length of service.
Induction and development
New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.  
This involves meetings with other Board members (in particular the Chairman), 
senior management and the Company’s principal advisers. In addition, any new 
director is provided with a comprehensive induction pack which contains a wide 
range of materials including:
 – Board   
Directors’ and Company Secretary’s contact details; list of Board and 
committee members and dates of appointment; schedule of matters reserved 
to the Board; financial delegations of authority; Board papers and minutes  
of previous meetings; schedule of dates for Board and committee meetings; 
current directors’ education programme.
 – Committees  
Terms of reference for all Board committees.
 – Risk 
Terms of reference for Risk Management Committee and minutes of last 
meeting; current Group Risk Matrix and Risk Appetite Statement; FRC 
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial  
and Business Reporting.
 – Key policies 
Group Corporate Responsibility Business Principles; Group Code of Business 
Ethics; Anti-Bribery-and-Corruption (ABC) Management System; ABC 
Business Partner Due Diligence Procedure; Dealing Rules and Model Code; 
Procedures, Systems and Controls for Compliance with the Listing Rules and 
Disclosure Rules.
 – Organisation  
Group Structure Chart; latest Annual Report and Accounts.
 – Governance  
UK Corporate Governance Code; FRC Guidance on Board Effectiveness and 
Audit Committees; ICSA Guidance on Liability of non-executive directors; 
GC100 Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Guidance.
 – Legal/regulatory 
Memorandum for directors on their responsibilities and obligations  
as directors.
 – Insurance  
Full details of directors’ and officers’ liability cover .
The Company also provides on an ongoing basis the necessary resources  
for developing and updating its directors’ knowledge and capabilities. In 
particular , the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional 
development training to its directors. In 2014, the Company continued with  
its practice of providing a directors’ education programme consisting of a  
number of seminars for Board members, which are presented by the Company’s 
external advisers/guest speakers/members of senior management, on subjects 
appropriate to the Company’s business, including changes to legislation, 
regulation and market practice. During 2014, the subjects covered by  
these seminars included:
 – Cairn and the Scottish independence referendum;
 – a Board risk workshop facilitated by the Company’s internal auditor which 
included a “deep dive” and discussion of the Company’s top risks; 
 – a corporate governance update; 
 – a cyber security briefing; and
 – asset presentations by senior managers at pre-Board meetings.
These seminars are held prior to Board meetings and are attended by all directors 
present at such meetings (the Company keeps a record of attendance). Any director 
may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar . In addition, all media 
articles relating to the Company and all analyst reports relating to the Company are 
distributed to all directors. 
Information and support
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to 
perform its duties. The Company Secretary ensures the presentation of high 
quality information to the Board and its committees and that all papers and 
information are delivered in a timely fashion. Board and committee papers  
are delivered securely through an electronic platform. 
The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are responsible  
for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance 
matters, and each director has access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary. There is also a procedure agreed  
by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent 
professional advice if necessary, at the Company’s expense. 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
The Company has directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in place. 
Conflicts of interest
The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation  
of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Company’s interests. All directors are 
aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary or Deputy 
Company Secretary of any current situations (appointments or otherwise) which 
may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest. There are no conflict 
matters which require to be authorised for the current directors. The Board will 
continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Matters reserved to the Board and delegation of authority
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for 
decision. These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy  
of the Company and approval of the annual report and accounts; the Company’s 
annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount; 
borrowing and security; acquisitions and disposals; capital expenditure over  
a specified amount; amendments to the organisational structure of the Company 
and Board; approval of significant changes to accounting policies; and approval  
of management incentive schemes and Company policy on pensions. 
By way of example, some of the matters which the Board considered and 
approved during 2014 were:
 – the Company’s strategy, business plan and annual budget;
 – the Group KPIs for 2014;
 – suspension of the Company’s share buy-back programme;
 – the Company’s 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and 2014  
half-year accounts;
 – the Company’s 2013 Effectiveness of Internal Control Assessment Report;
 – the Company’s 2014 AGM circular; 66 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance statement continued
Matters reserved to the Board and delegation of authority 
(continued)
 – the appropriateness of the Group going concern sign-off for the 2013  
full year accounts and 2014 half-year accounts;
 – the Company’s Risk Appetite Statement;
 – the Company’s strategy for seeking resolution of the Indian tax issue;
 – exploration drilling in Morocco and Senegal;
 – approval of Field Development Plan for the Catcher development in the  
UK North Sea;
 – the US$575 million Reserve Based Lending bank facility agreement;
 – strategic entry into the Barents Sea and related planning and resourcing; 
 – divestment of 10% in the Catcher development and adjacent acreage;
 – Kraken development FPSO and detailed engineering; and
 – participation in the Norwegian APA 2014 licensing round.
The Board also has an approved set of financial delegations of authority to  
ensure clarity throughout the business concerning the distinction between 
financial matters which require Board approval and those that can be delegated 
to senior management. 
Following changes made to the organisation structure of the Company during 
2014 there were also a number of changes made to the senior management 
committee structure beneath Board level.
The main change has been the creation of a Senior Leadership Team (SLT)  
which has replaced the Executive Team and which combines input from all  
senior management. The Executive Team previously comprised the executive 
directors in office prior to the AGM. The new SLT comprises the Chief Executive, 
the CFO, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), the Director of Exploration and  
the Company’s Regional Directors. The SLT is chaired by the Chief Executive  
and meets six times per year with those meetings scheduled in advance of  
Board meetings. 
Key elements of the SLT’s role include the following:
 – formulate strategy for finding, developing and producing oil and gas, to be 
approved by the Board;
 – assess and review (and amend as required) the Business Plan in line  
with strategy;
 – generate, consider and direct acquisitions and disposals; and
 – determine the requirement for , objective and authors of, Board papers  
to ensure timely consideration and approval by the Board.
The members of the SLT also form the RMC, which identifies and reviews  
key business risks – further information with regard to the role of the RMC is 
contained in the internal control section of this statement on page 70 and 71.
The Management Team (MT) has continued in existence during 2014 but with  
a revised mandate to allow it to support the new SLT. The MT currently comprises 
nine members of the senior management team including the members of the  
SLT as well as the Deputy Finance Director and three functional managers 
(Human Resources (HR) Manager , Legal Manager and Health, Safety and 
Environment (HSE) Manager). The MT continues to be chaired by the COO  
and meets formally six to nine times per year with four of those meetings  
focusing on a quarterly performance review of the business. 
The key elements of the MT’s role include the following:
 – develop and implement a Business Plan, which will deliver the Company’s 
strategic objectives (these will be reflected in annual KPIs, including HSE);
 – critically assess and determine the mitigation plans for key business risks and 
ensure that all risks are captured and reviewed regularly in the Company’s  
risk register;
 – co-ordinate operations and licence management along with resource 
allocation and organisational alignment to ensure timely and cost-effective 
delivery against approved budgets; and
 – review and approve other day-to-day business requirements, including 
Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) matters. 
The previously existing HSE Leadership Team has been disbanded with 
responsibility for Group level HSE/Corporate Responsibility (CR) leadership 
being undertaken by the SLT. Day-to-day specific operational HSE/CR issues will 
be managed by the relevant department managers who in turn report to the MT. 
Finally, the Company has also created an Exploration Leadership Team (ELT) 
which is chaired by the Director of Exploration and currently comprises the 
Group Geoscience Manager , the Chief Geologist, the Chief Geophysicist,  
three regional Exploration Managers and a representative from new ventures/
new business. 
The ELT meets every two weeks to facilitate alignment, consistency, best practice 
and team work in the following areas:
 – ensuring exploration, appraisal and new venture opportunities align with the 
Company’s Business Plan;
 – ensuring consistent screening and ranking of exploration opportunities prior 
to detailed assessment, thereby utilising the significant knowledge and 
experience of the ELT;
 – developing and implementing new geosciences technology and techniques 
where appropriate for application within the Company to reduce subsurface 
uncertainty and/or risks; and
 – ensuring appropriate representation at resource assessment reviews and 
other internal subsurface peer reviews.
Board meetings
During 2014, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, with all of these 
meetings taking place over two consecutive days. The Company’s Board 
meetings are held over two days to allow for a pre-Board discussion and Board 
dinner on the first day followed by the Board and relevant committee meetings 
on the second day. 
All of the Board meetings during 2014 were held at the Company’s registered 
office in Edinburgh except for one meeting which was held at the Company’s 
office in London. Details of attendance at each of those Board meetings, and  
at meetings of each of the Board committees, are set out below. 
Given the level of operational activity undertaken by the Company during  
the year , a number of other meetings took place to deal with specific matters  
that required to be considered at short notice. When a specific matter requires 
consideration at short notice, there is a procedure that sets out when those 
matters must be considered at a short-notice Board meeting and when they  
may be dealt with by a duly authorised committee of the Board. 
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings  
is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting 
by telephone or in writing. Video and telephone conferencing facilities are used 
when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes 
presentations from senior management, is set by the Chairman in consultation 
with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary. Formal minutes of  
all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the  
next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.  
In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact between  
meetings to progress the Group’s business. 
The non-executives have a practice of meeting informally before and after  
each Board meeting without executive directors being present. At these 
non-executive forums, the non-executive directors are invited to bring forward 
any matter pertaining to the business of the Board that they believe would 
benefit from discussion in such forum. This practice also applies after Board 
committee meetings (in particular the remuneration and audit committees)  
to ensure that non-executive directors can discuss any relevant issues arising 
from those meetings without executive management being present. 67 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Directors’ attendance at Board and committee meetings 
The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled 
Board and Board committee meetings during 2014: 
Board
Audit
Committee 
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Governance 
Committee
Meetings held during 2014 6 5 6 5 4
Meetings
attended
Meetings
attended
Meetings
attended
Meetings
attended
Meetings
attended
Executive Directors
Simon Thomson  
(Chief Executive) 6 n/a
3
n/a
3
n/a n/a
James Smith (CFO) 6 n/a
4
n/a n/a 3
Dr Mike Watts (former 
Deputy Chief Executive)
5
2 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Jann Brown  
(former Managing 
Director & CFO)
5
2 n/a
6
n/a n/a 2
Non-Executive Directors
Ian Tyler (Chairman) 6 4 5 3
7
2
7
Iain McLaren (senior 
independent director) 6 5 5 4 n/a
Todd Hunt 6 n/a 6 5 4
Alexander Berger 6 5 n/a 5 4
Jackie Sheppard 6 n/a 6 n/a 4
Sir Bill Gammell  
(former chairman)
8
2 n/a n/a 2 1
Dr James Buckee  
(former director)
9
2 2 4 n/a n/a
Notes:
n/a  not applicable (where a director is not a member of the committee).
1. During 2014, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of  
the audit committee, remuneration committee, nomination committee and governance 
committee by invitation. These details have not been included in the table.
2. Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees,  
they reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided their comments to  
the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
3. Simon Thomson is not a member of the remuneration committee but attends its meetings  
by invitation. Mr Thomson also attends part of each audit committee meeting by invitation.
4. James Smith is not a member of the audit committee but attends its meetings by invitation.
5. Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown stepped down as executive directors on 15 May 2014.  
The number of meetings they attended are stated up to and including that date.
6. Jann Brown was not a member of the audit committee but attended its meetings by  
invitation prior to stepping down as a director.
7 . Ian Tyler was appointed a member of the nomination and governance committees  
on 15 May 2014. The number of meetings he attended is stated from that date.
8. Sir Bill Gammell retired as non-executive Chairman on 15 May 2014. The number  
of meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date.
9. Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director on 15 May 2014. The number  
of meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date.
Board committees
The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee,  
a nomination committee and a governance committee, each of which has formal 
terms of reference approved by the Board. Copies of the terms of reference are 
available on the Company’s website. 
The terms of reference for each of the Board committees satisfy the requirements 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of the provision  
that the Chairman should not be a member of the audit committee. The Board 
decided in May 2014 that, notwithstanding this provision, it was appropriate for 
Ian Tyler to remain a member of the audit committee following his appointment 
as Chairman in order to provide continuity given that Dr James Buckee was 
retiring from the committee at that time. This has also allowed the committee  
to continue to benefit from Mr Tyler’s extensive financial experience.
Each of the Board committees is provided with all necessary resources to  
enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner . The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees with the exception of the 
audit committee, where the Deputy Company Secretary undertakes this role. 
The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Set out below are reports from each of the Board committees, with the exception 
of the audit committee report which, in line with best practice, is presented as  
a separate report (on pages 73 to 75) rather than including this in the corporate 
governance statement. The remuneration committee section on page 68 covers 
only the composition and role of the committee, with full details of the Company’s 
policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments given in 
the separate Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 97 , which has been 
prepared in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Regulations 
introduced in 2013. 
Cairn Energy PLC Board
Audit  
Committee
Remuneration  
Committee
Nomination  
Committee
Risk Management  
Committee
Governance  
Committee
Board and committee structure 68 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance statement continued
The remuneration committee met six times during 2014. The Chief Executive  
of the Company is not a member of the committee but attends its meetings  
by invitation. The committee’s remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street,  
also attended some of the committee’s meetings. None of the members of  
the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any 
meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration. The committee has 
established a practice of meeting informally without any executive directors or 
advisers present after each committee meeting to allow the non-executives to 
discuss any matter which has arisen in the meeting (or relating to the duties of  
the committee) which they believe would benefit from discussion in such forum.
The role of the committee includes:
 – determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the 
executive directors, the Chairman, and the Company’s Persons Discharging 
Managerial Responsibilities (PDMRs);
 – within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual 
remuneration package for each executive director;
 – determining the level of awards made under the Company’s long-term 
incentive plans and share option plans and the performance conditions  
which are to apply;
 – determining bonuses payable under the Company’s annual cash  
bonus scheme;
 – determining the vesting of awards under the Company’s long-term incentive 
plans and exercise of share options; and
 – determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements  
and termination payments for executive directors.
The nomination committee met five times in 2014. The Chairman and three  
of the Company’s non-executive directors are members of the committee.  
In addition, to ensure continuing executive input on nomination matters,  
the Chief Executive is also a member of the committee.
The role of the nomination committee includes:
 – considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making 
recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of  
new directors and on the reappointment and orderly succession of existing 
directors; and
 – facilitating an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members  
of the Board are effectively discharging and devoting sufficient time to  
their duties and responsibilities.
The committee considers, on an ongoing basis, the balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its diversity 
(including gender), how the Board works together as a unit, and other factors 
relevant to the Board’s effectiveness. 
One of the main recommendations of the 2013 Board evaluation was to consider 
the composition of the Board in light of the changes to the Board during the year . 
The committee has commenced a recruitment process with a view to appointing 
up to two new non-executive directors during 2015 and has instructed external 
recruitment consultants Ridgeway Partners to assist with this. 
The members of the nomination 
committee during the year were  
as follows: 
 – Ian Tyler (appointed Chair with effect from 15 May 2014);
 – Iain McLaren;
 – Todd Hunt;
 – Alexander Berger; 
 – Simon Thomson; and 
 – Sir Bill Gammell (stepped down as chair and member of the 
committee on 15 May 2014);
Nomination Committee Report
The members of the remuneration 
committee during the year were  
as follows: 
 – Jackie Sheppard (Chair);
 – Todd Hunt;
 – Iain McLaren; 
 – Ian Tyler; and
 – Dr James Buckee (retired as a director and member of the 
committee on 15 May 2014).
Remuneration Committee Report 69 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Diversity
The nomination committee very much takes into account the benefits of diversity 
on the Board, including gender . As a result of Jann Brown stepping down as  
an executive director of the Company, the number of women on the Board has 
reduced from two to one during 2014. The Board does however remain diverse 
in terms of the range of nationality and international experience of its members. 
The directors’ diverse range of experience and expertise covers not only a wealth 
of experience of operating in the oil and gas industry but also extensive technical, 
operational, financial, governance, legal and commercial expertise.
Cairn aspires to diversify its Board further as part of its succession planning 
policy. In seeking to achieve this aspiration the Company will not appoint an 
individual to the Board unless they are the best candidate for the role, whether 
male or female. 
Beneath Board level, the Company is also seeking to develop and increase  
the number of women in senior management roles across the Group through  
a number of measures including succession planning, training and development, 
and flexible working policies which support diversity at Cairn. The pipeline of 
younger talent within the Group is diverse and bodes well for the future.
Succession planning
The nomination committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge and experience) required of the Board and makes 
recommendations to the Board as appropriate. The Board has satisfied itself that 
the committee has in place appropriate plans for orderly succession to the Board 
and senior management positions as well as procedures to ensure an appropriate 
balance of skills within the Company and on the Board and its committees. 
The Board and the nomination committee have regularly discussed and reviewed 
Board composition and succession planning throughout 2014 and this will continue 
in 2015 in view of the Board changes which have taken effect during the year and 
the proposed appointment of up to two new non-executive directors. 
The Board and the nomination committee are satisfied that the individuals 
currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation have  
the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
The governance committee met four times in 2014 and is comprised of a majority 
of non-executive directors. In addition, to ensure continuing executive input  
on governance matters, the CFO was appointed a member of the committee  
on 15 May 2014. 
The role of the governance committee includes:
 – reviewing and approving changes to the Board’s corporate governance 
practices and policies; 
 – monitoring the Company’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and with all applicable legal, regulatory and listing requirements; and 
 – reviewing developments in corporate governance generally and advising the 
Board periodically with respect to significant developments in the law and 
practice of corporate governance.
Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.  
The Company has implemented the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 
regarding electronic communication with its shareholders, in order to give 
shareholders more choice and flexibility in how they receive information from  
the Company. Cairn responds promptly to correspondence from shareholders 
and its website contains a wide range of information on the Company, including  
a dedicated investor relations section.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding  
of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional 
shareholders, including meetings with executive management after the 
announcement of the year-end and half-yearly results. The Chairman is available 
to attend a number of these meetings. The Board is kept informed of any issues 
raised by shareholders both as a standing agenda item in Board papers and 
through feedback at pre-Board meetings and following results or other 
significant announcements. In addition, the Company maintains an investor 
relations database which details all meetings between the Company and its 
investors or other related stakeholders. All analyst reports relating to the 
Company are also distributed to the Board. 
The members of the governance 
committee during the year were  
as follows: 
 – Jackie Sheppard (Chair); 
 – Todd Hunt;
 – Alexander Berger; 
 – Ian Tyler (appointed a member of the committee with effect 
from 15 May 2014);
 – James Smith (appointed a member of the committee with effect 
from 15 May 2014);
 – Sir Bill Gammell (stepped down as a member of the committee 
on 15 May 2014); and
 – Jann Brown (stepped down as a member of the committee on  
15 May 2014).
Governance Committee Report 70 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance statement continued
Relations with shareholders (continued)
A list of the Company’s major shareholders can be found in the Directors’ Report 
on page 60. Following his appointment as Chairman in May 2014, Ian Tyler held 
introductory meetings with a number of the Company’s major shareholders at 
which a broad range of matters were discussed.
The Company recognises that the success of the comply-or-explain approach 
under the UK Corporate Governance Code depends on an ongoing and open 
dialogue with shareholders, and remains committed to communicating with 
shareholders, as well as proxy voting agencies, on any matter which they wish  
to discuss in relation to the Company’s governance.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors 
and welcomes their participation. It is policy for all of the Company’s directors to 
attend the AGM. Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal 
reasons, in normal circumstances the chair of each of the Board committees will 
be available to attend the AGM and be prepared to answer questions.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to  
give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Company’s 
activities and prospects. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM  
on 14 May 2015 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which  
is contained in the shareholder circular posted with this Annual Report and 
Accounts. Further explanation of each of the resolutions can also be found  
in the circular .
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be 
counted before the AGM and the results will be made available following the 
meeting after the shareholders have voted in a poll on each resolution. Both the 
Form of Proxy and the poll card for the AGM include a “vote withheld” option in 
respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular 
resolution. It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a “vote withheld” is not a vote 
in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes 
“for” or “against” a resolution.
Information pursuant to the T akeover Directive
The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 7 .2.6 
(directors’ interests in shares; appointment and replacement of directors; powers 
of the directors; restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the 
Company) in the Directors’ Report.
Going concern
The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on 
going concern. They have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable  
future and have therefore continued to use the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. In concluding that the going concern assumption is 
appropriate, the Board and Audit Committee considered the Group cash flow 
forecasts under various scenarios, and concluded that the Group has sufficient 
funding to meet its current commitments as and when they fall due.
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the Company’s system of internal control and for 
regularly reviewing its effectiveness. The Company has in place an Integrated 
Internal Control and Assurance Framework (the “framework”), which plays a 
critical role in setting out how the Company manages and assures itself that the 
risks relating to the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives are 
effectively controlled. The framework is based on the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organisations (COSO) framework and its five key components, which is a 
commonly used and recognised framework for considering internal control 
systems. The COSO framework, which was first released in 1992 and updated  
in 2013, seeks to help organisations develop systems of internal control which 
help facilitate the achievement of business objectives and improvements in 
Company performance. The framework also supports organisations in adapting 
to increasingly complex business environments and managing risks to acceptable 
levels with the aim of safeguarding shareholders’ interests and Company  
assets. This system of internal control is in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The framework has been in place for the 2014 financial year and up to the date  
of approval of the annual report and accounts. The Board has carried out a 
review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2014 and  
will ensure that a similar review is performed in 2015. In so doing, the Board  
took into account the assurance provided by the Chief Executive in respect  
of the effectiveness of the system of internal control within the Company.  
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective controls are in place and that 
risks have been mitigated to a tolerable level across the Group in 2014. 
The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature of the 
oil and gas exploration and production business and some of which relate to the 
countries in which it conducts its activities (see pages 34 to 41 of this Annual 
Report and Accounts for more information on risks). 
Cairn seeks to create value through oil and gas exploration and production while 
at the same time safeguarding the environment and respecting and contributing 
to the communities it is a part of. In order to achieve this, Cairn’s core values of 
building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly are at the core of 
the business, informing how the Company operates. These values are promoted 
to Cairn’s employees, partners and contractors. Cairn’s licence to operate 
depends on transparent relationships and active stakeholder engagement 
programmes with our many stakeholders including governments, communities, 
partners, shareholders and suppliers globally. The directors believe that this 
commitment to strong governance generates trust and ensures consistent  
global standards and is critical to the Company’s success.
Particular attention has been placed by the Company’s management during 2014 
on ensuring that an effective system of internal control has been maintained 
during the year in relation to the key risks in the Company’s business activities. 
Enhancements have been made during 2014 to the following key controls, 
business processes and procedures:
 – a Standard Operating Manual of core business processes has been developed 
which outlines “the Cairn way” for executing key processes. The Manual will 
be rolled out across the Group in Q1 2015;
 – the Company’s Project Delivery Process was refreshed and rolled out to  
the business;
 – the suite of policies and procedures which form the Group’s Corporate 
Responsibility Management System were developed or refreshed to  
reflect current best practice or Group policy;
 – our Business Continuity Plan has been updated to reflect current business 
impacts and recovery strategies. A test of the Business Continuity Plan was 
completed in March 2014 with positive results; and
 – an extensive “lessons-learned” project was executed which reviewed our 
drilling campaigns and identified areas for enhancement which are being 
implemented in future planning.
The following describes the key elements of the framework and the processes 
used by the Board during 2014 to review the effectiveness of the system and  
the approach to be taken in 2015.
1. Strategic Direction
The Company’s strategy and business plan are proposed by the SLT and 
approved by the Board. The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the 
Company’s business and implementing the Company’s strategy and overall 
commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and SLT. The Chief 
Executive is also responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board  
and its committees and driving performance against the Company’s KPIs. 71 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
2. Operating Management
The Company operates three regional units covering different countries and with 
various partners on both an operated and non-operated basis. Supporting the 
strategy is a matrix organisation, where the assets are the principal focus, tasked 
with delivering objectives for their particular asset with functional departments 
providing support to the assets in delivering their objectives.
Following organisational changes which were implemented during 2014 the 
executive directors are supported by the new SLT as well as by the MT and ELT. 
Further information on the composition of these teams and their remit can be 
found earlier in this statement on page 66. There are also a number of functional 
department heads whose roles include providing expert input and challenge to 
the Company’s work programmes, budgets and business plans; and supplying  
the directors with full and accurate information with which to make statements 
on the adequacy of internal control.
A Business Plan with a five-year outlook and annual work programmes and 
budgets are prepared annually to help ensure the Company meets its strategy. 
These start at asset level before being consolidated at regional and Company 
levels. The Business Plan sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset  
and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated into the Company’s 
annual business plan. After an iterative process, the Business Plan and budget  
are presented to the Board for approval.
The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement  
the business plan and to deliver the agreed work programmes within the 
approved budget and delegations of authority, and in accordance with the 
internal control framework.
3. Risk Management 
The RMC continues to be responsible for the development of risk management 
strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation 
of the requirements of this strategy. It does this by ensuring that the framework 
for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk  
is fit for purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in 
relation to these risks to bring them within the Risk Appetite Statement agreed  
by the Board.
The Company’s Business Risk Management System (BRMS) defines the processes 
through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and 
monitor the business risks faced by the Company. The BRMS also identifies the 
risk management organisational structure through which business risks are 
managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, country and Company levels. 
The BRMS was updated in 2014 to cover enhancements to the process over the 
last few years and to reflect organisational changes. 
Following the retirement of Jann Brown as Managing Director & CFO in May 
2014, James Smith, CFO, took over the role of Chair of the RMC. The RMC 
currently comprises the executive directors and senior functional management. 
The internal auditor also attends RMC meetings, in order to ensure internal 
audit’s integration with the risk management process. Regular MT risk meetings 
were also held to manage and facilitate the assessment and treatment of business 
risks that may affect the Company’s ability to deliver its strategy. 
The RMC, which met four times during 2014, continues to focus on ensuring the 
risk framework and strategies embedded in the organisation are fit for purpose. 
To supplement the role of the RMC, business risks, together with the mitigating 
measures and responsibilities, are identified and managed at an asset, country, 
regional and departmental level. Local level risk registers are used to capture, 
assess, monitor and review risks before principal risks are consolidated into the 
Company’s Group risk register , which is regularly reviewed by the SLT, RMC and 
MT to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there  
is an embedded risk management approach in place across the Company. 
Enhancements to our approach to risk management during 2014 included  
the following:
 – the Group Risk Appetite statement was reviewed in light of changes to the 
business over the last year to ensure it was still aligned with the business 
strategy. A series of risk tolerance levels across a number of categories  
were identified and agreed with the Board and senior management. 
 – the Company’s internal auditor facilitated a Board risk identification 
workshop. The purpose of the workshop was to utilise the collective 
knowledge of the Board to consider , in line with the strategy going forward, 
the principal risks to the achievement of the strategy objectives. An analysis 
against the Group Risk Register was then performed to ensure alignment. 
The RMC reports on the Company’s risk profile to both the audit committee  
and the Board. Additionally, the audit committee and the Board receive internal 
reviews of the effectiveness of internal controls relative to the key risks. The 
conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2014 is that the internal 
controls in respect of key risks are effective.
4. Assurance 
The “three lines of defence” framework adopted by the Board provides three 
levels of assurance against the risks facing the Company: first of all at the 
operational level; secondly through overview by functional management  
and the RMC; and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
The integrated internal control and assurance framework document includes  
a description of the Company’s business and assurance models and of its 
organisation and committee structure, and defines responsibilities. The 
framework defines the key policies and procedures which govern the way in 
which Cairn conducts its business and is therefore a core part of its system of 
internal control. Cairn’s internal control and assurance framework document  
was reviewed by external specialists in 2013 and an updated framework 
document was finalised and rolled out across the business in Q4 2013.
During 2014, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Company’s system 
of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance 
controls, risk management and high-level internal control arrangements. The 
Directors derived assurance from the following internal and external controls 
during 2014:
 – a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision  
by the Board;
 – implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities;
 – an appropriate organisational structure;
 – control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated 
representatives;
 – specific delegations of authority for all financial transactions and other  
key technical and commercial decisions;
 – segregation of duties where appropriate and cost-effective;
 – business and financial reporting, including KPIs;
 – functional management reviews;
 – an annual “letters of assurance” process, through which asset and functional 
managers review and confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-
financial controls and their compliance with Company policies, and report any 
control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in respect of 
weaknesses identified in the prior year;
 – a “letter of assurance” from the Chief Executive confirming the adequacy  
of internal controls within the Company in line with its policy, and reporting  
of any control weaknesses identified in the past year and actions taken in 
respect of weaknesses identified in the prior year;
 – an annual internal audit plan, which is approved by the audit committee  
and Board and is driven by risks and key controls;
 – reports from the audit committee and RMC;
 – reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its  
statutory audit;
 – reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers; 
 – independent third party reviews; and
 – the skills and experience of all employees. 72 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Corporate Governance statement continued
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Throughout 2014, the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2012, except in the following areas:
Provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code Company position Explanation
B.1.1 – the Board should state its reasons if  
it determines that a director is independent 
notwithstanding the existence of relationships  
or circumstances which may appear relevant  
to its determination, including if the director  
has served on the Board for more than nine  
years from the date of their first election.
Todd Hunt has served on the Board for more than  
nine years since his initial appointment to the Board  
in May 2003.
The Company accepts that Mr Hunt is not 
independent in terms of his length of service but the 
Board is of the view that he is independent in all other 
respects and has therefore agreed that he should 
continue as a non-executive director for the time 
being in order to retain his valuable technical skills and 
experience. The Company recognises that Mr Hunt 
continues to sit on certain Board committees and as 
such the composition of those committees do not fully 
satisfy the Code provisions in relation to the number 
of independent non-executive directors on each of 
those committees. 
C.3.1. – In smaller companies the company 
chairman may be a member of, but not chair , the 
audit committee in addition to the independent 
non-executive directors, provided he or she was 
considered independent on appointment.
The Chairman is a member of, but does not chair ,  
the audit committee.
The Company’s recognises that the Code 
recommends that, except in smaller companies, 
the Chairman should not be a member of the audit 
committee. Ian Tyler was not appointed Chairman 
of the committee until May 2014 and as such the 
Company complied with this provision prior to the 
2014 AGM. Following the 2014 AGM, in view of  
Dr James Buckee’s retirement from the audit 
committee and Ian Tyler’s considerable financial 
experience, the Company considers it appropriate 
that Mr Tyler continues to be a member of the  
audit committee.  73 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Audit Committee report 
Throughout 2014, our activities 
continued to focus on the integrity of  
the financial reporting of the Group and 
the appropriateness of internal controls.  
We continue to evolve our activities  
and our reporting to you in light of 
guidance from regulators and emerging 
best practice. In the current year,  
we have enhanced our reporting on  
our assessment of the effectiveness  
of the external audit process. 
During the year under review, I served as Chair of the audit 
committee alongside three of my fellow non-executive directors,  
all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent. 
The members of the committee who served with me during the  
year were:
 – Ian T yler; 
 – Alexander Berger; and
 – Dr James Buckee (retired as a director and member of the 
committee on 15 May 2014).
Dear shareholder
Responsibilities
The Terms of Reference of the committee take into account the requirements  
of the Code and are available for inspection on the Group’s website. 
These include:
 – monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance and reviewing 
any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them; 
 – reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in 
financial reports; 
 – reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and internal control  
and risk management systems and oversight of the Group’s risk  
management committee;
 – monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal  
audit function; 
 – overseeing the Group’s relationship with the external auditors, including making 
recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the 
external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement and engagement for 
non-audit services, and monitoring the external auditors’ independence, 
objectivity and effectiveness; and 
 – reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that 
arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation 
of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and 
for appropriate follow-up action.
The members of the committee have been chosen to provide the wide range  
of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these duties. In addition, 
both Ian Tyler and I have Chartered Accountant qualifications as well as recent 
and relevant financial experience.
Main activities of the committee during the year
The audit committee met five times in 2014, with meetings arranged around  
the key external reporting dates. Meetings in January and March focused on  
the 2013 year-end external audit process (reported in the 2013 Annual Report), 
in June and August on half-year reporting; and a December meeting on planning 
for the 2014 year-end cycle and external audit process. 
At each meeting the committee receives an updated report from the external 
auditors which either explains their plans and scope for a forthcoming audit  
or review, or contains the conclusions from that audit or review. The audit 
committee also monitors the Internal Audit process, approving the annual 
internal audit plan, tracking the progress of internal audits and reviewing their 
output and recommendations. Other business covered by the committee 
includes the approval of corporate assumptions and re-approval of the Group’s 
policy on non-audit services and the Group’s Whistleblowing Policy. Subsequent 
to the year-end a further meeting was held in March 2015 to conclude on the 
2014 audit and significant issues. 
At our request, the Finance Director and senior members of the Finance 
Department attended each of these meetings. Other relevant people from the 
business are also invited to attend certain meetings to give us the necessary 
insight into their own areas of business, for example in relation to the reporting of 
oil and gas reserves. In addition, these meetings were attended by both internal 
and external auditors.
The external auditors receive copies of all relevant audit committee papers and 
minutes of all audit committee meetings. In addition, I regularly meet with the 
external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Group. 74 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2014 year-end and significant accounting issues
   
Key accounting issue
Recurring issues Non-recurring issues
Impairment testing  
on oil and gas assets –  
corporate assumptions.
Impairment testing on 
goodwill – components  
of Cash Generating Unit 
(“CGU”) and consistency 
with asset impairment tests
Cairn India Limited tax issue Sale of 10% interest in Catcher Recognition  
of deferred  
tax assets
Background
With the fall in oil prices 
through Q4 of 2014, the noted 
that the Group’s exploration 
and appraisal assets would  
be tested for impairment.
Goodwill is tested  
annually for impairment on 
31 December , regardless  
of whether indicators exist  
or not. Goodwill is tested 
against the carrying value  
of assets and liabilities in  
the North Sea CGU. 
Cairn is subject to enquiries regarding 
certain group reorganisation transactions 
carried out in 2006, as a result of the 
retrospective tax legislation introduced in 
2012 and is therefore currently restricted 
from selling its shares in CIL and CIL are 
restricted from remitting dividends to 
Cairn, (see page 29).
In September 2014, Cairn 
announced the sale of a 10% 
working interest in Catcher . 
The deal completed in  
January 2015.
The approval of  
the Catcher FDP in  
June confirms the 
eligibility to certain 
tax allowances and 
creates additional UK 
tax trading losses. 
Audit Committee action
The audit committee  
review the group corporate 
assumption’s proposed by 
management. The committee 
discussed and agreed the use 
of short-term and long-term 
assumptions and challenged 
management on the 
appropriateness of these 
assumptions. This included  
a review of the benchmarking 
exercise that management  
had performed and the 
guidance offered by the 
external auditors.
The inclusion of assets and 
liabilities in the CGU both  
in determining the carrying 
value of the unit and its 
recoverable amount is closely 
monitored by the audit 
committee. Specifically,  
we challenged management 
on the inclusion of deferred 
tax assets and liabilities in  
the CGU and the consistency 
of this approach with 
impairment tests conducted 
on the individual assets 
within the CGU.
The audit committee discussed with the 
Company’s tax and legal advisers and 
management whether the Company 
should make any tax provision in relation 
to the transactions subject to Indian 
Income T ax Department enquiries. In 
addition the audit committee discussed 
with management and the auditors the 
accounting implications of the restriction 
(in the context of the IFRS definition of  
a restriction on sale) to satisfy ourselves 
that the restriction did not lead to an 
impairment of the financial asset and 
related dividend income nor did it require 
a provision for tax to be recognised in the 
financial statements.
The sale of our 10% interest  
in Catcher had several impacts 
in the financial statements.  
The valuation of Catcher 
implied in the sale was used  
as its fair value for the 
purposes of impairment  
test. The audit committee 
challenged management on  
the appropriateness of this fair 
value given changing market 
conditions. We also considered 
whether the share of the asset 
to be sold should be classified 
as held-for-sale at the Balance 
Sheet date. 
The approval of the 
FDP triggered the 
recognition of eligible 
field allowances and 
tax losses in the 
Group’s deferred  
tax calculations.  
The audit committee 
challenged 
management, 
ensuring that the 
deferred tax assets 
recognised were 
reflective of their 
probable future 
benefit to the Group. 
Audit Committee conclusions
The audit committee 
concluded that the use  
of a short-term oil price 
assumption based on  
the forward curve was 
appropriate. After challenge, 
the audit committee also 
determined that the Group’s 
long-term price assumption 
should remain unchanged.
After reviewing the 
impairment tests prepared  
by management and the 
assumptions around 
deferred taxation and after 
taking account of the views  
of the Group’s auditors, the 
audit committee approved 
management’s proposals on 
the impairment test CGU. 
The Audit Committee agreed with the 
recommendations of management and the 
Group’s advisers and the opinion of the 
auditors that there was no requirement  
to make a tax provision in respect of  
the transactions subject to Income T ax 
Department of India enquiries and the 
restriction on sale does not lead to an 
impairment of the asset or a tax provision.
After challenge of both 
management and auditors we 
agreed that it was appropriate 
to base the fair value of Catcher 
on the sale and were satisfied 
that the disclosures made  
in the financial statements 
were appropriate. 
Following guidance from our 
auditors, the 10% interest is  
not disclosed as held-for-sale.
We were satisfied 
that after challenging 
management the 
increase in the 
deferred tax asset 
was reasonable.
Further details in Financial Statements
See Section 2. See section 2.5 See section 3.1 See sections 2.1 and 2.3 See section 4.6
   
Going Concern
At each reporting date management consider the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern (see Corporate Governance section on page 70). The audit 
committee review and challenge management’s conclusions so that we may, in turn, provide comfort to the Board that management’s assessment has been considered 
and challenged where appropriate. 
Given the ongoing restriction on the sale of the shareholding in Cairn India Limited and the committed levels of expenditure on exploration and development projects, 
the audit committee carefully reviewed management’s going concern conclusion based on the Group’s latest net cash position and the forecast spend in the period 
ending 31 March 2016. This confirmed that the Group is fully funded to meet its work programme and firm commitments. The audit committee subsequently 
recommended to the Board that the Group continues to use the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
External audit 
The current edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code states that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every  
ten years. Cairn not only adopted this policy but decided to comply with this provision early and completed an external audit re-tendering process in 2013. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) were subsequently appointed as external auditor of the Group, on our recommendation. The 2014 year-end audit therefore 
represents the second year of PwC’s tenure as Group auditor .
Audit Committee report continued  75 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Assessment of external audit process
The committee has an established framework to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process. This comprises of:
A review of the audit plan including the materiality level set by the auditors and 
the process they have adopted to identify financial statement risks and key areas 
of audit focus (summarised in the Independent Auditor’s Report on page 98).
The Committee agreed with the level of materiality set by the auditors. 
A review of the Audit Quality Inspection (AQI) Report published by the Financial 
Reporting Council with particular emphasis on those k ey messages applicable to Cairn.
There were no matters raised in the AQI report that caused concern for the  
audit committee.
A review of the final audit report, noting key areas of auditor judgement and the 
reasoning behind the conclusions reached.
The audit committee reviewed findings on the key audit issues identified.  
The committee were satisfied that appropriate challenge had been made  
of management and that the audit process was robust.
A review of the management letter produced by the auditors and the weighting 
given to points raised indicating the understanding of the auditor of matters  
of significance to the Group.
The management letter was discussed at the August Audit Committee meeting, 
with the Committee noting the actions taken by management. The Committee 
were encouraged by the points that were raised by the Auditors and the wider 
impact that they have on the business. 
Regular communications through formal papers submitted and presentations  
to the committee and meetings between myself as Chair of the Audit Committee 
and the lead audit engagement partner .
The Audit plan for the year ending 31 December 2014 was presented to the 
Audit Committee in June 2014 and is summarised in the Independent Auditor’s 
Report on page 98. 
A formal questionnaire issued to all Audit Committee members and senior Cairn 
management who are involved in the audit covering the robustness of the audit 
process, the quality of delivery, the quality of reporting and the quality of the 
auditor’s people and service.
No matters of significance have been reported to the Audit Committee.
Of particular focus for the Committee is the assessment of the judgement applied by PwC during each stage of the audit process including setting audit materiality, 
identifying the risks to the financial statements, evaluating audit findings and communicating those areas of judgement to the committee. 
The audit committee noted the level of planned materiality and agreed on the levels of misstatements to be presented. The final audit report was presented to the audit 
committee in March 2015. After thorough discussion the committee agreed with the conclusions that the auditors had reached noting the significant areas of judgement. 
Auditor independence and provision of non-audit services
We have a long established policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors. The Group will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit 
services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third party’s knowledge of the Group and cost. 
These advisers may include the Group’s external auditors, under a restricted set of circumstances, although, before the engagement commences, Cairn must be 
satisfied that the auditor’s objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services. 
The Group’s current policy for approval of non-audit services was reviewed and re-approved by the Audit Committee in December 2014. No changes were made  
to the existing policy, full details of which can be found on the Group’s website.
During the year , PwC provided other services including accounting advice in relation to the tax dispute in India, advice in relation to contracts tax in Republic of Ireland 
and providing a working capital report on a shareholder circular .
A full breakdown of remuneration paid to the Group’s external auditor in respect of both audit and non-audit work is provided in Appendix 4 to the Financial Statements. 
Internal Audit
Following a competitive tender process, Ernst & Young LLP (EY) were appointed as the Group’s internal auditor with effect from July 2013. Prior to the beginning of 
each year , an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor , in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous year’s 
internal audits, the outcome of the annual assessment of effectiveness of internal control (refer to page 70), the results of historical audits of fundamental business 
processes and the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures. The plan is then presented to the audit committee for review and 
approval. The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the group risk management committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and 
associated risks and to update the group risk management committee on the internal audit work plan. The audit committee also receives updates on the internal audit 
work plan on an ongoing basis. The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Group’s internal audit function due to the nature of the 
scope and the timing of their work. The external auditors do, however , attend all committee meetings where internal audit updates are given and meet separately with 
the internal auditors to discuss areas of common focus in developing the audit plan. 
Whistleblowing and Related Policies 
The Group updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2012 and the new policy was reviewed by the audit committee and subsequently rolled out across the 
organisation. The committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect  
of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action. The Whistleblowing Policy was reviewed by the committee in December 2014 and 
re-approved with no changes considered necessary.
The Group has in place a comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Corruption Management System and Code of Business Ethics and training has been provided to all staff in 
relation to these. As Cairn enters new countries, further monitoring is undertaken and training is continued. Further information regarding these policies can be found 
on the Group’s website. 
Iain McLaren
Chair of the Audit Committee
9 March 2015 76 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report
As the Chair of Cairn’s remuneration committee (the “remuneration 
committee” or the “committee”), I am pleased to present our Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for 2014. 
Last year was the first time that shareholders were asked to vote 
separately on both our “Directors’ Remuneration Policy” and “Annual 
Report on Remuneration” and the committee was encouraged by the 
strong support for both resolutions shown by the Company’s members.
The overall executive remuneration framework that was approved at  
last year’s AGM was intended to operate for the remainder of 2014 and 
the following two financial years. It was subsequently applied throughout 
2014 and the committee continues to believe that it remains fit for 
purpose for 2015. As a consequence, shareholders are not being asked  
to approve a new Directors’ Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGM. 
However , for ease of reference the substantive provisions of the approved 
policy are repeated in Part 2 of this report. Part 3, which contains our 
Annual Report on Remuneration, then goes on to explain how these 
provisions were actually applied in 2014 and how they will be operated  
in 2015. The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an 
advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Summary of 2014 business context and key 
remuneration decisions 
The work of the committee in 2014 was conducted against a backdrop  
of a year in which the Company fulfilled its objective of operating with  
a focus on safety, building a business with appropriate exposure to material 
frontier and mature basin exploration whilst maintaining a strong balance 
sheet with financial flexibility. 
Its key decisions relating to remuneration in 2014 are described in more 
detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration contained on pages 85 to 97 
and can be summarised as follows:
 – Base salary increases
 Each of the individuals that were executive directors of the Company 
as at 1 January 2014 (being Simon Thomson, Jann Brown and Dr Mike 
Watts) received an increase to base salary of 2.5% with effect from  
that date. This was consistent with the level of standard annual salary 
increase awarded to other employees at that time. 
 – Board changes – departure of Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts
 On 15 May 2014, Jann Brown, Managing Director & CFO, and  
Dr Mike Watts, Deputy CEO, stood down as executive directors of  
the Company. Both individuals agreed to work a portion of their notice 
periods, principally in order to help seek a resolution of the tax issue  
in India, and subsequently ceased employment on 17 October 2014. 
 It was agreed that, during the time they remained as employees of the 
Group following cessation of directorship:
 – a reduction of £75,000 would be applied to both individuals’ base 
salaries; and
 – they would continue to participate in the Company’s annual bonus 
scheme, with any awards made for 2014 being pro-rated to the date 
of leaving employment.
 Following the cessation of their employment on 17 October 2014, no 
additional payments were made to either individual in lieu of the salary 
(or pension or other benefits) to which they would have been entitled 
had they worked the remainder of their notice periods.
 Finally, the committee concluded that Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts 
should both be treated as “good leavers” for the purposes of the 
Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan (or “LTIP”) with the result that 
their outstanding awards under that scheme will continue to vest  
on their original terms, subject to application of the performance 
conditions at the end of the normal performance period and a time 
pro-rating reduction.
 Further details of the pay arrangements that have been applied to  
the above individuals following the cessation of their directorships  
can be found throughout the Annual Report on Remuneration.
 – Board changes – recruitment of James Smith
 James Smith joined the Company on 3 March 2014 and became CFO 
on 15 May 2014. His annual base salary was set at £350,000 and the 
remaining elements of his remuneration package on appointment were 
consistent with the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM. 
As a consequence, during the year he participated in both the existing 
LTIP and annual bonus scheme (with awards under the latter 
arrangement being pro-rated by reference to the part of the  
period that he was employed by the Company).
 In connection with his recruitment, and as previously announced on  
10 April 2014, James Smith was also granted an award of £200,000  
in order to compensate him for bonus forfeited from his previous 
employment due to his resignation to join Cairn. 50% of this award was 
paid in cash on commencement of employment with the remaining 50% 
being delivered in the form of an award of shares that was released 
after the completion of 12 months’ service. The aggregate value of  
this award made to James Smith was less than the amount of bonus 
foregone and the deferral period imposed on the share element was 
comparable to the time horizon applicable to his forfeited entitlements.
 Additional information in relation to James Smith’s pay arrangements 
and recruitment “buy-out” award is set out pages 86 and 87 of the 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
 – Annual bonus
 During the early part of the year , the committee carried out an  
interim review of the 2014 annual bonus scheme in order to determine 
whether any variations were required to reflect the exceptional 
circumstances surrounding the Indian tax issue that had arisen after 
the original structure had been agreed. The conclusion reached was 
that the committee should use its discretionary powers under the 
Company’s approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy to alter the 
weightings ascribed to a number of the Group KPIs in order to  
increase the relative importance of balance sheet strength. 
 The committee was also required to consider whether the cessation  
of directorship by Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts necessitated the 
making of any variation to the terms of their participation in the bonus 
scheme over the remainder of the period of their employment with the 
Company. The committee decided that, in order to better reflect their 
revised roles, the weightings used to calculate their 2014 bonuses 
should be amended to 50% Group KPIs and 50% individual 
Dear shareholder
Part 1 – Annual Statement from  
the Chair of the Committee 77 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
performance, with the latter category being assessed by reference 
to specific measures relating to the Indian tax issue.
 The committee is firmly of the view that the amended weightings 
described above (full details of which are set out in page 89 of the 
Annual Report on Remuneration) were entirely necessary in order 
to ensure that the 2014 KPIs, and therefore management activity, 
were appropriately aligned with the revised priorities of the 
business that arose as a result of the occurrence of these 
unforeseen material events at the beginning of the year . For the 
avoidance of doubt, the committee is also of the opinion that these 
in-year variations to the 2014 bonus scheme did not make it less 
demanding for any individual than when it was originally set. 
 Based on an assessment of the extent to which the relevant targets 
were achieved during 2014, and taking into account any pro-rating 
requirements, payments made under the annual bonus scheme  
to individuals who served as executive directors during the year  
(as a percentage of salary paid during the year) were: 78.5% in the 
case of Simon Thomson; 79.15% for James Smith; and 76.75% for 
both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts. Further details of the way in 
which these awards were determined are set out on pages 89 to 91 
of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
 – Long Term Incentive Plan (L TIP)
 The performance period applicable to the LTIP awards granted  
in 2011 came to an end during 2014. However , the performance 
conditions that required to be satisfied in order for these awards  
to vest were not achieved, with the result that no shares were 
released to participants and the awards lapsed. 
Applying the policy for 2015 
The ways in which the Company’s remuneration policy will be applied  
in 2015 are set out in detail on page 97 in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. In particular , salaries for the executive directors in post 
at the beginning of the year were increased by 1.5% on 1 January 2015 
in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees in 
the Group. The Group KPI measures used for the annual bonus scheme 
(and their respective weightings) have been reformulated for 2015  
in order to appropriately reflect the Company’s strategic goals for  
the period. In addition, and in order to ensure consistency with the 
approach first adopted for the Chief Executive in 2014, the proportion 
of the CFO’s bonus opportunity for the year that will be determined  
by reference to these Group KPIs has been increased to 100% (from 
the 90% level that applied in 2014). No material changes have been 
made to the manner in which the LTIP will operate in 2015, although 
the members of the Total Shareholder Return international oil and gas 
comparator group will be slightly changed to take account of delistings 
and the need to ensure there are sufficient companies.
Shareholder support and feedback on Directors’ 
Remuneration Report
We welcome questions and feedback from all parties on both the 
content and style of this report and hope that shareholders are 
supportive of the resolution to approve our Annual Report on 
Remuneration that is to be proposed at the AGM on 14 May 2015.
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC
Remuneration Committee Chair
9 March 2015
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Introduction
At the AGM held on 15 May 2014, shareholders overwhelmingly approved  
a new Directors’ Remuneration Policy for the Company. This policy, which 
specifies the various pay structures operated by the Company and summarises 
the approach that the committee will adopt in certain circumstances such as  
the recruitment of new directors and/or the making of any payments for loss of 
office, became effective immediately on receipt of such approval and was applied 
by the committee during 2014. This policy will be operative throughout 2015.
Although not required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the “Regulations”), the substantive 
terms of the above Directors’ Remuneration Policy are repeated in this Part 2  
for ease of reference. However , any details that were specific to 2014 or earlier 
years (including, for example, any disclosures relating to named directors and the 
illustrative remuneration scenarios set out on page 83) have, where applicable, 
been updated to reflect the current position. The policy as originally approved  
by shareholders can be found on pages 82 to 89 of the 2013 Annual Report and 
Accounts, a copy of which is available on the Company’s website.
Purpose and role of the remuneration committee
The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall 
remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Group’s PDMRs 
(Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities). Within the terms of this 
agreed policy, the committee is also responsible for: 
 – determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive 
director and PDMR; 
 – determining the level of awards made under the Company’s LTIPs and share 
option plans and the performance conditions which are to apply;
 – determining bonuses payable under the Company’s annual cash bonus scheme;
 – determining the vesting levels of awards under the Company’s LTIPs and 
share option arrangements; and
 – determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and 
termination payments for executive directors and PDMRs.
The committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration levels  
of employees below senior management level, but does not set individual 
remuneration amounts for such individuals. This oversight role allows the 
committee to take into account pay policies and employment conditions within 
the Group as a whole when designing the reward structures of the executive 
directors and PDMRs. For example, the committee considers the standard 
increase applied to basic pay across the Group when setting executive directors’ 
base salaries for the same period.
Cairn’s remuneration committee operates within written terms of reference 
agreed by the Board. These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the 
committee remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its 
strategy and the business and regulatory environment in which it operates.  
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the 
Company’s website. 
Consultation with relevant stakeholders
The committee is always keen to ensure that, in carrying out its functions,  
it takes into account the views and opinions of all the relevant stakeholders  
in the business. During 2014, Ian Tyler met with a selection of the Company’s  
larger institutional investors following his appointment as Chairman in order  
to listen to their views on a range of issues relating to the business, including  
its remuneration structures and practices.
Although the committee does not undertake a formal consultation exercise with 
employees in relation to the Group’s policy on senior management remuneration, 
members of staff are regularly given the opportunity to raise issues on a variety 
of matters, including executive pay, via a number of mechanisms including 
employee engagement surveys.
Dear shareholder 78 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued)
Overview of current remuneration policy
Cairn’s current policy on executive directors’ remuneration, which became effective on 15 May 2014 and which is set out below, is to ensure that it appropriately 
incentivises individuals to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives to create, realise and add value for its shareholders, whilst offering a competitive package against 
the market. 
A description of each of the elements comprised in the pay packages for Cairn’s directors under its remuneration policy is as follows:
Policy T able – elements of directors’ remuneration package 
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance
Base salary Helps recruit and retain 
employees.
Reflects individual experience 
and role.
Normally reviewed annually 
(with changes taking effect on 
1 January) and/or when an 
individual changes position  
or responsibility.
Aim is to provide a competitive 
base salary relative to the 
market (although the committee 
does not place undue emphasis 
on benchmarking data and 
exercises its own judgement  
in determining pay levels).
Decision influenced by:
–  role and experience;
–  average change in broader 
workforce salaries;
–  individual performance; and
–  remuneration practices  
in companies of a broadly 
similar size and value  
and relevant oil and  
gas exploration and 
production companies.
Annual increases will not 
exceed the level of standard 
increase awarded to other 
employees except that more 
significant increases may  
be awarded at the discretion  
of the committee in  
connection with:
–  an increase in the scope  
and responsibility of the 
individual’s role; or
–  the individual’s development 
and performance in the role 
following appointment; or
–  a re-alignment with  
market rates.
None
Benefits Helps recruit and  
retain employees.
Directors are entitled to  
a competitive package of 
benefits. For UK executives, 
the major elements include  
a company car , permanent 
health insurance, private 
health insurance, death-in-
service benefit and a gym  
and fitness allowance.
Company cars up to a value of 
£70,000 (or , as an alternative, 
an annual car allowance of up 
to £8,771) may be provided. 
Other benefits will be in line 
with the market.
None 79 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance
Annual bonus Rewards the achievement  
of annual KPIs and/or other 
objectives linked to the 
Company’s strategic goals.
Bonuses are awarded by 
reference to performance 
against specific targets 
measured over a single 
financial year . 
Any amounts awarded to  
an individual under this 
arrangement are paid out in full 
shortly after the assessment of 
the performance targets has 
been completed. However , 
annual bonuses may be subject 
to clawback where, in the period 
of three years from the end of 
the relevant financial year , the 
committee becomes aware of  
a material misstatement of the 
Company’s financial results or 
an error in the calculation of 
performance targets.
Maximum % of salary: 100%. The measures and targets 
applicable to the annual bonus 
scheme (and the different 
weightings ascribed to each  
of them) are set annually by  
the committee in order to 
ensure they are relevant to 
participants and take account 
of the most up-to-date 
business plan and strategy.
All, or a significant majority,  
of the bonus opportunity will 
normally be determined by 
reference to performance 
against demanding Group  
KPIs such as:
–  exploration and new  
venture objectives;
–  development and production 
targets; and
–  H S E .
Any remaining part of a 
director’s bonus will normally 
be based on the achievement 
of personal objectives relevant 
to that individual’s role within 
the business.
A payment scale for different 
levels of achievement against 
each KPI and/or other 
objective is specified by the 
committee at the outset of 
each year – these range from 
0% for below-threshold 
performance up to 100%  
for full satisfaction of the 
relevant condition.
The committee has discretion 
to vary the measures and 
weightings during the year  
if events arise which mean  
that it would be inappropriate 
to continue with the originally 
prescribed structure. The 
committee expects that  
this discretion will only be 
exercised in exceptional 
circumstances and not to  
make the bonus scheme for 
that year less demanding than 
when it was originally set.
In addition, the committee  
has discretion to ensure that 
the ultimate bonus payment 
for a financial year is fair and 
reasonable and properly 
reflects performance over  
that period.
     80 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued)
Policy T able – elements of directors’ remuneration package (continued)
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance
Long Term Incentive Plan  
(or L TIP)
Incentivises executive directors 
to deliver superior levels of 
long-term performance for  
the benefit of shareholders, 
thereby aligning the interests  
of the directors with those  
of the Company’s investors. 
Cairn currently operates one 
LTIP that was approved by 
shareholders in 2009.
Awards of conditional shares 
and/or nil-cost options are 
made annually with vesting 
dependent on achievement  
of performance conditions 
chosen by the committee. 
Performance is measured  
over a three-year period.
On vesting of an award, only 
50% of the shares to which the 
holder has become entitled are 
released/become exercisable 
immediately, with the 
remaining 50% normally  
being released/becoming 
exercisable after a further 
period of one year .
The committee reviews the 
quantum of awards annually, 
taking into account factors 
such as market rates and 
overall remuneration.
Awards may be subject to 
clawback where, in the period 
of three years from the end  
of the relevant performance 
period, the committee 
becomes aware of a material 
misstatement of the 
Company’s financial results  
or an error in the calculation  
of performance conditions.
Normal maximum %  
of salary: 300%.
Exceptional circumstances 
maximum % of salary: 400%.
Vesting of all awards granted 
under the LTIP to date is 
determined by comparing the 
growth in Total Shareholder 
Return (“TSR”) of Cairn over  
a performance period of three 
years from grant with the  
TSR of a comparator group  
of international oil and gas 
companies that is selected by 
the committee prior to each 
grant, with 20% vesting at 
median, 100% at upper decile 
and on a straight line sliding 
scale in between.
In order to encourage 
exceptional performance,  
the above condition provides 
that, at upper decile levels,  
a “multiplier” of up to 1.33 is 
applied if absolute TSR growth 
is between 50% and 100%  
(or more). It also states that  
no part of any award will vest 
unless the remuneration 
committee is satisfied that 
there has been an overall 
satisfactory and sustained 
improvement in the 
performance of the  
Company as a whole over  
the performance period.
Although the committee’s 
intention is that the above 
condition will be applied to 
LTIP awards granted in 2015,  
it may decide to impose 
different (but equally 
challenging) conditions in 
future years. The committee 
will consult with major 
shareholders prior to making 
any such decision and will 
ensure that the vesting of at 
least 50% of all awards granted 
under the LTIP continues to be 
determined by reference to the 
Company’s TSR performance. 81 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance
Share Incentive Plan (or SIP) Encourages a broad range  
of employees to become 
long-term shareholders.
The Company established an 
HM Revenue and Customs 
approved share incentive plan 
in April 2010. It allows the 
Company to provide eligible 
employees, including the 
executive directors, with some 
or all of the following benefits:
–  partnership shares acquired 
using deductions from salary;
–  matching shares awarded to 
those employees who 
purchase partnership shares 
on the basis of a ratio specified 
by the Company; and
– free shares.
Matching and free shares 
awarded under the SIP must 
normally be held in the plan  
for a specified period.
Participation limits are those 
set by the UK tax authorities 
from time to time. These limits 
are currently as follows:
–  Partnership shares: up to 
£1,800 per tax year can  
be deducted from salary.
–  Matching shares: up to  
two matching shares for 
every one partnership  
share purchased.
–  Free shares: up to £3,600 
worth in each tax year .
None
Pension Rewards sustained 
contribution.
The Company operates  
a defined contribution  
group personal pension plan  
in the UK. The scheme is 
non-contributory and all  
UK permanent employees, 
including the executive 
directors, are eligible  
to participate. 
The Company contributes  
a specified percentage  
of basic annual salary for  
senior employees, including 
executive directors.
Where an executive director 
has an individual personal 
pension plan (or overseas 
equivalent), the Company  
pays its contribution to  
that arrangement.
If an executive director’s 
pension arrangements are fully 
funded or applicable statutory 
limits are reached, an amount 
equal to the Company’s 
contribution (or the balance 
thereof) is paid in the form  
of additional salary.
Company contributes 15%  
of basic salary on behalf of 
executive directors or pays 
them an equivalent amount  
of additional salary.
None 82 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance
Non-executive  
directors’ fees
Helps recruit and retain 
high-quality, experienced 
individuals.
Reflects time commitment  
and role.
Non-executive directors’ fees 
are considered annually and are 
set by the executive members 
of the Board and the Chairman 
taking into account a range of 
relevant factors including:
–  market practice;
– time commitment; and
–  responsibilities associated 
with the roles.
Additional fees are payable  
to the Chairs of the audit and 
remuneration committees.
Company’s Articles of 
Association place a limit on  
the aggregate annual level of 
non-executive directors’ and 
Chairman’s fees (currently 
£900,000).
None
Chairman’s fees Helps recruit and retain the 
relevant individual.
Reflects time commitment.
The Chairman’s fee is 
considered annually and is 
determined in light of market 
practice, the time commitment 
and responsibilities associated 
with the role and other 
relevant factors.
Company’s Articles of 
Association place a limit on  
the aggregate annual level  
of non-executive directors’  
and Chairman’s fees  
(currently £900,000).
None
Notes:
1. A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table during the financial year to 31 December 2015 is provided on page 97 .
2. The following differences exist between the Company’s above policy for the remuneration of directors and its approach to the payment of employees generally:
 – Participation in the LTIP is limited to the executive directors and certain selected senior managers. Other employees are eligible to participate in the Company’s share option schemes,  
details of which are provided on pages 129 and 130.
 – Under the Company’s defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is 10% of basic annual salary.
 – A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the executive directors and certain PDMRs.
 – Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise permanent health insurance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and gym and fitness allowance.
 In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals. They also reflect the fact that,  
in the case of the executive directors and PDMRs, a greater emphasis is placed on variable pay. 
3. The TSR performance conditions applicable to the LTIP (further details of which are provided on page 91) were selected by the remuneration committee on the basis that they improve shareholder 
alignment and are consistent with the Company’s objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders. Under the terms of these performance conditions, the committee can 
specify the basis on which TSR for any company is calculated and has the discretion to make adjustments to this methodology to take account of exceptional circumstances, including share capital 
variations. Where any company becomes unsuitable as a member of the comparator group as a result of, for example, a change of control or delisting, the committee has the discretion to treat that 
company in such manner as it deems appropriate (including replacing it with another organisation).
4. Where a nil-cost option award under the LTIP becomes exercisable, it will generally remain so until the tenth anniversary of the date on which it was granted. 
5. The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the committee’s belief that any incentive compensation should be tied to appropriately challenging measures  
of both the overall performance of the Company against its strategic KPIs and (where appropriate) those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence. 
6. The legislation applicable to the SIP does not allow performance conditions to be applied in relation to partnership or matching shares and, given that the SIP is an “all-employee” arrangement,  
the Company has decided that it is not appropriate to apply performance conditions to free shares awarded under it.
7 . As highlighted on page 95, the Company has a share ownership policy which requires the executive directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary. Until such  
a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Company’s share incentive plans. 
Details of the extent to which the current executive directors had complied with this policy as at 31 December 2014 are set out on page 95.
Committee discretions
The committee will operate the annual bonus scheme, L TIP and SIP according to their respective rules and the policy described in this Part 2 of the report. The committee, 
consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these arrangements. These include (but are not 
limited to) the following:
 – who participates in the plans;
 – the timing of grant of award and/or payment;
 – the size of an award and/or a payment;
 – discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction;
 – the weightings, metrics and targets for the annual bonus plan;
 – the determination of the annual bonus payment;
 – determination of a “good leaver” (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate  
treatment chosen;
 – discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control or good leaver circumstances;
 – adjustments or variations required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, change of control, special dividends and other major 
corporate events); and
 – the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events.
Legacy awards
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested/unexercised as detailed on page 93 of the Annual Report on Remuneration remain eligible to vest/be 
exercised based on their original award terms.
Part 2 – Directors’ Remuneration Policy (continued)
Policy T able – elements of directors’ remuneration package (continued) 83 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Fixed Elements Long-term Incentives Annual Variable
Minimum       On-Target       Maximum
Chief Executive
Minimum       On-Target       Maximum
CFO
£3.5m
£3.0m
£2.5m
£1.0m
£1.5m
£2.0m
£0.5m
£0
100% 32%
19%
49%
19%
16%
65%
100% 32%
19%
49%
19%
16%
65%
£654,253
£2,019,745
£424,868
£1,312,993
£2,197,565
£3,379,776
Remuneration scenarios relating to the above policy
Cairn’s pay policy seeks to ensure that the overall package of the executive directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within such variable  
pay element, that greater emphasis is placed on the delivery of long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives. In the chart below, we show  
the make-up of remuneration of the current executive directors in 2015 under minimum, on-target and maximum scenarios.
In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made:
 – The “minimum” columns are intended to show the fixed level of remuneration to which the executive directors are entitled in 2015 irrespective of performance 
levels, namely base salary (at current rates), benefits (using the annualised details set out in the 2014 single-figure table provided on page 87) and pension 
(calculated by applying the percentage entitlement set out in the policy table against latest confirmed salary).
 – The “on-target” scenario seeks to illustrate the remuneration the executive directors would receive if performance was in line with expectation. In addition to the 
fixed elements summarised above, it assumes a specified level of payout/vesting under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP . Given that neither of these incentive 
arrangements explicitly stipulate an “on-target” amount, the assumed levels for this scenario have been calculated by reference to the approximate average annual 
payouts/vestings for all executive directors over the five years up to and including 2014, being a payout of 70% of salary under the annual bonus scheme and  
a 60% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted over shares worth 300% of salary.
 – The “maximum” columns demonstrate total remuneration levels in circumstances where the variable elements pay out in full (i.e. annual bonus payment of 100%  
of salary and 133% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted over shares worth 300% of salary).
 – For the purposes of valuing the LTIP awards, any post-grant share price movements have been ignored.
 – The executive directors are entitled to participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees. The value that may be received under this arrangement is 
subject to legislative limits and, for simplicity, has been excluded from the above chart. 
Recruitment policy 
Base salaries 
Salaries for any new director hires (including internal promotions) will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Company’s intended pay positioning and the 
market rate for the role. Where it is appropriate to offer a below-market salary initially, the committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases over 
time for newly appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
Benefits 
Benefits and pensions for new appointees to the Board will normally be provided in line with those offered to other executive directors and employees taking  
account of local market practice, with relocation expenses/arrangements provided for if necessary. T ax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely 
affected by taxation due to their employment with Cairn. Legal fees and other relevant costs and expenses incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company.
Variable pay 
For external appointments, the committee will ensure that their variable remuneration arrangements are framed in accordance with the terms of, and are subject  
to the limits contained in, the Company’s existing policy.
The committee may however , in connection with an external recruitment, offer additional cash and/or share-based elements intended to compensate the individual 
for the forfeiture of any awards under variable remuneration schemes with a former employer . The design of these payments would appropriately reflect the value, 
nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration foregone. Shareholders will be informed of any such arrangements at the time  
of appointment.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account 
the individual’s role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant  
to take into account the appointment. 
Non-executive directors 
On the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director , the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual. Where specific 
cash or share arrangements are delivered to non-executive directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements. 84 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Executive directors’ service contracts
The current executive directors’ service contracts contain the key terms shown in the table below:
Provision Detailed terms
Remuneration –  Salary, pension and benefits.
–  Company car or cash allowance.
–  Permanent health insurance.
–  Private health insurance for director and dependants.
–  Death-in-service benefits.
–  30 days’ paid annual leave.
–  Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules.
–  Participation in LTIP and SIP , subject to plan rules.
Notice period
1
–  12 months’ notice by the director or by the Company. 
Termination payment –  See separate disclosure below.
Restrictive covenants –  During employment and for 12 months after leaving.
Note:
1. The committee believes that this policy on notice periods provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals who will benefit the business and the need to limit 
the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
The executive directors’ service contracts are available for inspection, on request, at the Company’s registered office.
Exit payment policy for executive directors 
Executive directors’ contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Company’s 
discretion. The contracts also allow for phased payments to be made on termination with an obligation on the individual to mitigate loss. Neither notice nor a payment 
in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct. The committee’s approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account  
of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination and the contractual obligations of both parties as well as the relevant share plan and pension 
scheme rules.
In the event of termination by the Company, an executive director would be entitled to receive an amount representing base salary and the value of benefits and 
pension contributions due under the individual’s service contract for the notice period. Directors are not entitled to participate in any additional redundancy scheme.
On termination of employment, the committee has discretion as to the amount of bonus payable in respect of the current year . The bonus paid would reflect the 
Company’s and the individual’s performance during that period. However , any bonus payable on termination would not exceed a pro-rated amount to reflect the 
period for which the individual had worked in the relevant year .
As a general rule, if an executive director ceases employment, all unvested awards granted pursuant to the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements will lapse 
immediately. However , if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability or redundancy, or because the individual’s employing company or part 
of the business in which he/she is employed is transferred out of the Group, or in any other exceptional circumstances determined by the committee (in each case,  
a “good leaver”), those awards will not lapse and will continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable 
performance conditions are satisfied. It is the remuneration committee’s normal policy to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver , although it retains  
the discretion to refrain from doing so in exceptional circumstances.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his 
annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment. As noted and explained in previous reports, the committee recognises that this provision is no longer 
in accordance with best practice. It was not included in the contract of the new CFO, and will not be included in the contracts of other future appointees to the Board; 
however , it continues to apply to the current Chief Executive.
Executive director board appointments with other companies
The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills 
and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous. The executive directors are permitted to retain 
any fees paid for such appointments.
The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the nomination committee. In the case of  
a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only normally be given if the two companies do not compete in the same 
geographical area.
Non-executive directors’ letters of appointment
None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman has a service contract but all have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities, the time 
commitment expected by the Company, and the basis on which their fees will be paid. These letters of appointment can be terminated with immediate effect by either 
the director concerned or the Company and are subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, which provide for the annual election or re-election by shareholders 
of all of the Company’s directors. There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of appointment.
None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman participates in any of the Company’s share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
The non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection, on request, at the Company’s registered office. 85 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration 
Introduction
This Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of the way in which the committee operated during the financial year to 31 December 2014 and explains how 
Cairn’s approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy that is described on pages 77 to 84 was implemented during that period. It also summarises how that policy will be 
applied in 2015.
In accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM on 14 May 2015.
The Company’s auditors are required to report to Cairn’s shareholders on the “auditable parts” of this Annual Report on Remuneration (which have been highlighted 
as such below) and to state whether , in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006.
Operation of the remuneration committee during 2014
Members of the remuneration committee 
The members of the remuneration committee during the year (all of whom are independent non-executive directors) were as follows:
 – M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC (Chair of the committee);
 – Dr James Buckee (retired as a non-executive director and member of the committee on 15 May 2014);
 – Todd Hunt;
 – Iain McLaren; and
 – Ian Tyler .
The non-executive directors who served on the committee had no personal financial interest (other than as shareholders) in the matters decided, no potential 
conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business. Biographical information on the committee members is  
shown on pages 58 and 59 and details of attendance at the committee’s meetings during 2014 are shown on page 67 .
Internal assistance provided to the committee
The Chief Executive is not a member of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals. 
Similarly, the CFO is not a member of the committee but may occasionally be invited to attend parts of its meetings to address specific matters. Neither the Chief 
Executive nor the CFO is consulted or involved in any discussions in respect of their own remuneration. During the year , the committee also received material 
assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Company Secretary.
External assistance provided to the committee 
As and when the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources. During the year , it received 
the following assistance:
Adviser Assistance provided to the committee during 2014 Fees for committee assistance in 2014
1
Other services provided to the Company during 2014
New Bridge Street
2 
Appointed by the committee to give 
periodic advice on various aspects of 
the directors’ remuneration packages. 
Also assisted with the preparation of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and provided support on a number  
of miscellaneous remuneration  
related projects.
£85,128 None 
Slaughter and May Appointed by the committee to  
provide advice in relation to executive 
directors’ service contracts and other 
matters relating to their remuneration 
arrangements. Also assisted with  
the preparation of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
£5,790 None 
Ernst & Young LLP Carried out an independent verification 
of the Company’s achievement against 
performance conditions applicable to 
the Company’s LTIP and share option 
schemes. However , they provided no 
advice to the committee.
n/a Internal auditors of the Company 
throughout the year . 
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Appointed by the Company to carry 
out regular calculations in relation  
to the LTIP performance conditions.  
Also assisted with the preparation of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
£30,715 General legal services to the Group 
throughout the year .
Notes:
1. The bases for charging the fees set out in the above table were agreed by the committee at or around the time the particular services were provided and, in general, reflected the time spent by the 
adviser in question on the relevant matter.
2. “New Bridge Street” is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc – they are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and their work is governed by the Code of Conduct  
in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
3. The committee reviews the performance and independence of all its advisers on an annual basis.  86 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Total 
Remuneration
Long-Term 
Incentives
Bonus SIP Pension Benefits Salary
+ + + + + =
Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Operation of the remuneration committee during 2014 (continued)
Statement of shareholder voting at general meetings
The table below shows the voting outcome at the last general meeting(s) at which shareholders were asked by the Company to approve a resolution relating to its 
Directors’ Remuneration report and Directors’ Remuneration Policy:
Description of resolution
Date of general 
meeting
Number of 
votes "For" & 
"Discretionary" % of votes cast
Number of votes 
"Against" % of votes cast
Total number of 
votes cast
Number of votes 
"Withheld"
1
To approve the 2013 Directors’ 
Remuneration report 15 May 2014 384,329,738 99.30% 2,692,844 0.70% 387,022,582 1,031,354
To approve a Directors’  
Remuneration Policy 15 May 2014 379,512,480 98.06% 7 ,495,533 1.94% 387 ,008,013 1,045,923
Note:
1. A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
The committee welcomed the endorsement of both the above resolutions that was shown by the vast majority of shareholders and took steps, wherever practicable, 
to understand the concerns of investors who did not support the resolutions.
Board changes during 2014
Leaving arrangements – Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown
Dr Mike Watts, Deputy CEO, and Jann Brown, Managing Director & CFO, stood down as executive directors on 15 May 2014. Both individuals agreed to work a 
portion of their 12 month notice period, principally in order to help seek a resolution of the tax issue in India, and subsequently ceased employment on 17 October 2014.
Following their retirement as directors, their annual salaries were reduced by £75,000 to £400,600 (in the case of Dr Mike Watts) and to £362,675 (in the case of 
Jann Brown). On the subsequent cessation of their employment, no additional payments were made in lieu of the salary (or pension or other benefits) to which these 
individuals would have been entitled had they worked the remainder of their notice periods.
Both individuals continued to participate in the annual bonus scheme for 2014 and details of their payments for the year under that arrangement (which were 
pro-rated to the date of cessation of employment) are set out on page 87 . 
Finally, the committee determined that, for a number of reasons (including the particular circumstances surrounding both individuals’ departure and the significant 
contribution that they had made to the Group over a very considerable period), it was appropriate to treat Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown as “good leavers” for the 
purposes of the LTIP . As a result, their outstanding awards did not lapse and will continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the 
extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied. The number of ordinary shares that vest will also be subject to a time pro-rating reduction to reflect 
their early cessation of employment. 
Recruitment of James Smith 
James Smith, CFO, joined the Company on 3 March 2014 and became an executive director on 15 May 2014. Details of his remuneration package for the year  
(which is consistent with the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM) are provided throughout this Annual Report on Remuneration.
As previously announced on 10 April 2014, the committee agreed that, in connection with his recruitment, James Smith would be granted an award of £200,000 in 
order to compensate him for bonus forfeited from his previous employment due to his resignation to join Cairn. 50% of this award was paid in cash on commencement 
of employment with the remaining 50% being delivered in the form of an award of shares that was released after 12 months’ continuous service with the Group.  
The aggregate value of this award made to James Smith was less than the amount of bonus foregone and the deferral period imposed on the share element was 
comparable to the time horizon applicable to his forfeited entitlements.
Single total figure table for 2014 (audited)
The tables below set out the remuneration received by executive directors and non-executive directors during the year in the following categories. 87 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Executive directors
Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance
Financial year
Salary  
and fees Benefits
1
Pension
2
SIP
3
Award on 
recruitment
4
Fixed  
element 
subtotal Bonus
5
Long-term 
incentives
6
Performance 
element 
subtotal
Total 
remuneration
Current directors
Simon Thomson 2014 £538,125 £26,126 £80,719 £5,997 – £650,967 £422,458 – £422,458 £1,073,425
2013 £525,000 £22,269 £78,750 £5,996 – £632,015 £330,750 – £330,750 £962,765
James Smith
4&8
2014 £291,667 £21,000 £43,750 £2,998 £200,000 £552,023 £229,969 – £229,969 £781,992
2013 – – – – – – – – – –
Former directors
Jann Brown
7,8&9
2014 £333,144 £19,279 £47,461 £2,998 – £402,882 £244,158 – £244,158 £647,040
2013 £427 ,000 £22,688 £64,050 £5,996 – £519,734 £264,740 – £264,740 £784,474
Dr Mike Watts
7,8&9
2014 £349,633 £10,817 £51,982 £2,998 – £415,430 £267 ,444 – £267 ,444 £682,874
2013 £464,000 £11,497 £69,600 £5,996 – £551,093 £285,360 – £285,360 £836,453
Notes:
1. T axable benefits available to the executive directors during 2014 were a company car/car allowance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit, relocation expenses (in the case of James 
Smith) and, in the case of all of the executive directors who served during the year other than Dr Mike Watts, a gym and fitness allowance. This package of taxable benefits was unchanged from 2013. 
2. Additional disclosures relating to the pension provision for the executive directors during 2014 are set out on page 89.
3. This column shows the face value (at date of award) of matching and free shares provided to the executive directors under the SIP during the relevant period. Further details on the way in which the 
SIP was operated during 2014 are set out on pages 94 and 95.
4. James Smith became an employee of the Company on 3 March 2014 and was appointed as a director with effect from 15 May 2014. His “Award on recruitment” was made up of: a cash award  
of £100,000 that was paid on the commencement of his employment with the Group; and a conditional award of 55,096 ordinary shares at a price of 181.5 pence per share, both by way of 
compensation for the loss of bonus from his previous employer. Further information in relation to these matters is provided on page 86. 
5. This column shows the amount of bonus paid or payable in respect of the year in question after the operation of any applicable time pro-rating reduction. Further information in relation to the  
annual bonus scheme for 2014 is provided on pages 89 to 91.
6. This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the period in question. Further details of the LTIP’s operation during 
2014 are provided on pages 91 to 94.
7 . Both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts stood down as executive directors on 15 May 2014 but thereafter continued as employees of the Group until 17 October 2014. 
8. The Regulations only require the above table to show remuneration paid to an individual at a time when he or she is a director of the Company. However, it has been decided that, in order to be  
as transparent as possible, it should disclose all sums paid to each of James Smith, Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts during 2014, including those paid at a time when they were employees of the  
Group but not directors.
9. For 2014, the salary figures for Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts include accrued holiday pay of £16,739 and £3,082 respectively that was paid on termination of employment.
10. Following the end of the year to 31 December 2014, the committee considered whether there were any circumstances that could or should result in the recovery or withholding of any sums 
pursuant to the clawback arrangements contained within the Company’s remuneration policy. The conclusion reached by the committee was that it was not aware of any such circumstances. 
Non-executive directors
Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance
Financial 
year
Salary  
and fees
1
Benefits Pension
2
Fixed  
element 
subtotal Bonus
2
Long-term 
incentives
2
Performance 
element 
subtotal
Total 
remuneration
Current directors
Ian Tyler
3
2014 £127 ,675 – – £127 ,675 – – – £127 ,675
2013 £36,277 – – £36,277 – – – £36,277
Todd Hunt 2014 £73,800 – – £73,800 – – – £73,800
2013 £72,000 – – £72,000 – – – £72,000
Iain McLaren 2014 £83,800 – – £83,800 – – – £83,800
2013 £82,000 – – £82,000 – – – £82,000
Alexander Berger 2014 £73,800 – – £73,800 – – – £73,800
2013 £72,000 – – £72,000 – – – £72,000
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 2014 £83,800 – – £83,800 – – – £83,800
2013 £82,000 – – £82,000 – – – £82,000
Former directors
Sir Bill Gammell
4
2014 £90,712 – – £90,712 – – – £90,712
2013 £236,000 – – £236,000 – – – £236,000
Dr James Buckee
4
2014 £27,675 – – £27,675 – – – £27,675
2013 £72,000 – – £72,000 – – – £72,000
Notes:
1. The annual fee for each of the non-executive directors (other than the Chairman) for 2014 was £73,800. In addition, a further annual fee of £10,000 was payable to both Iain McLaren  
and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC for their roles as Chair of the audit committee and the remuneration committee respectively. 
2. The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements and are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
3. Ian Tyler, who had previously served as a non-executive director, was appointed Chairman on 15 May 2014. The annual rate of fees payable to him in this new role was £160,000. 
4. Both Sir Bill Gammell and Dr James Buckee retired as directors on 15 May 2014 and their respective fees for 2014 reflect the period from the start of the year to that date. 88 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
FTSE250 Cairn FTSE100
Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 14 Dec 13
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
FTSE 250
FTSE 100
Cairn Energy
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
TSR performance graph and further information on Chief Executive pay
Introduction
The following chart demonstrates the growth in value of a £100 investment in the Company and an investment of the same amount in both the FTSE 250 Index  
and the FTSE 100 Index over the last six years. These comparisons have been chosen on the basis that Cairn was a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index  
for the whole of 2014 but has also previously been a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index.
The table beneath the graph illustrates the movements in the total remuneration of the Company’s Chief Executive during the same six-year period.
Performance graph – comparison of six-year cumulative TSR on an investment of £100
T otal remuneration of Chief Executive during the same six-year period
Financial year Chief Executive
Total remuneration 
of Chief Executive
1
Annual variable 
element award rates 
for Chief Executive 
(as % of max. 
opportunity)
Long term incentive 
vesting rates for 
Chief Executive (as 
% of original  
award level)
2014 Simon Thomson £1,073,425 78.5% 0%
2013 Simon Thomson £962,765 63% 0%
2012 Simon Thomson £1,018,570 86% 0%
2011
2
Simon Thomson £3,405,719 82% 121%
2011 Sir Bill Gammell £4,053,822 n/a 106%
2010 Sir Bill Gammell £7 ,302,533 58% 113%
2009 Sir Bill Gammell £962,757 54% 0%
Notes:
1. The amounts disclosed in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single total figure table shown on page 87 .
2. Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was replaced by Simon Thomson (who had previously been Legal and Commercial Director) with effect from that date. Sir Bill 
Gammell’s “total remuneration” for 2011 shown in the above table reflects the amount of salary, benefits and pension paid to him in respect of the period to 30 June 2011. However, during the year 
to 31 December 2011, Sir Bill Gammell also received, in connection with the termination of his employment and in settlement of his contractual entitlements, a payment of salary and benefits in lieu 
of his contractual notice period of one year (£770,000) and a cash bonus under the Company’s annual cash bonus scheme (£625,000).
Percentage annual change in Chief Executive’s remuneration elements compared to all Group employees
The table below illustrates, for various elements of the Chief Executive’s 2014 remuneration package, the percentage change from 2013 and compares it to the 
average percentage change for all the Group’s employees in respect of that same period.
% change  
in base salary
% change in  
taxable benefits
% change in  
annual bonus
Chief Executive 2.5% 17.3% 27.7%
All Group employees 3.0% 23.0% 27.9% 89 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Executive directors’ base salaries during 2014
Based on a review carried out in December 2013, the following salary increases for executive directors became effective on 1 January 2014:
2014 Annual salary details 
Job title
Annual salary as at  
31 December 2013
Annual salary as at  
1 January 2014  
(or on appointment, 
if later)
% increase  
with effect from  
1 January 2014
Current directors
Simon Thomson Chief Executive £525,000 £538,125 2.5%
James Smith CFO n/a £350,000 n/a
Former directors
Jann Brown
1
Managing Director & CFO £427 ,000 £437 ,675 2.5%
Dr Mike Watts
1
Deputy Chief Executive £464,000 £475,600 2.5%
Notes:
1. Both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts stood down as executive directors with effect from 15 May 2014 but subsequently remained as employees of the Group until 17 October 2014. With effect 
from the date of cessation of directorship, their respective base salaries were reduced by £75,000 from the level noted in the above table.
The increases shown in the above table for each of Simon Thomson, Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase 
awarded to other employees on 1 January 2014. 
Executive directors’ pension provision during 2014 (audited)
As highlighted in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy described on pages 77 to 84, the Company operates a defined contribution, non-contributory group personal 
pension plan which is open to all UK permanent employees. The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary (15% in respect of senior executives) on behalf  
of all qualifying employees. The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the Company’s 
pension arrangements. 
On joining the Company, James Smith became a member of the Company scheme and, during the remainder of the year , received a Company contribution of 15%  
of his basic salary.
Both Simon Thomson and Jann Brown have an individual personal pension plan. During 2014, Jann Brown received a contribution from the Company equal to 15%  
of her salary for the period that she was employed by the Group. Simon Thomson also received a contribution of 15% of his salary into his personal plan for the first  
3 months of the year , at which point the arrangement reached the applicable statutory limit. Thereafter , he received an amount equivalent to 15% of his basic salary 
for the remaining portion of the year in the form of additional salary. 
During the year , Dr Mike Watts received an amount equivalent to 15% of his annual basic salary in the form of additional salary, as his pension arrangements are fully funded.
Details of the actual amounts of pension contributions/additional salary that were paid to current and former executive directors during 2014 are set out in the 
“pension” column of the single total figure table on page 87 .
Annual bonus – 2014 structure and outcome (audited)
During 2014, Cairn operated annual cash bonus schemes for all employees and executive directors. The maximum level of bonus award for executive directors and 
certain PDMRs for 2014 was 100% of annual salary (as at date of award). 
For all participants, as in prior years, bonus awards were based on individual and/or Company performance measures. Individual performance was measured through 
the Company’s performance management system and Company performance conditions were based on annually defined KPIs. 
The following paragraphs highlight, for each individual who served as an executive director during the year , the allocation of their bonus opportunity between Group 
KPI and individual performance conditions. T aking into account commercial sensitivities around disclosure, a summary of the relevant targets, ascribed weightings and 
achievement levels is also set out below.
2014 annual cash bonus scheme – allocation between Group KPIs and individual performance conditions 
Allocation of maximum bonus opportunity  
(as % of salary) between:
Group  
KPIs
Individual 
performance
Current directors
Simon Thomson 100% 0%
James Smith 90% 10%
Former directors
Jann Brown
1
50% 50%
Dr Mike Watts
1
50% 50%
Notes:
1. In connection with the cessation of Jann Brown’s and Dr Mike Watts’ directorships on 15 May 2014, the committee determined that, in order to better reflect their revised roles in the business  
going forward, the weightings used to calculate their 2014 bonuses should be amended to 50% Group KPIs and 50% individual performance, with the latter category being assessed by reference  
to specific measures relating to the Indian tax issue. 90 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Annual bonus – 2014 structure and outcome (audited) (continued)
2014 annual cash bonus scheme – Group KPI performance conditions and achievement levels
Measures and weightings Performance achieved in 2014
Performance measures Performance targets
Weighting (as % of  
allocated proportion  
of maximum opportunity)
Bonus awarded (as %  
of allocated proportion  
of maximum opportunity) Summary of achievement
Exploration and appraisal success Discovery of commercial 
hydrocarbons
2
35%
3
35% Two oil discoveries offshore 
Senegal with the FAN-1 and 
SNE-1 exploration wells;  
target volumes of commercial 
hydrocarbons exceeded
Active portfolio optimisation Prospect generation; acquire value 
accretive nearer term production 
assets; secure partners in higher  
cost frontier acreage
15% 3% Seven new prospects matured 
out of a target of twelve; 
unsuccessful in achieving other 
two targets during 2014 
Balance sheet Retain balance sheet strength; 
minimum target liquid reserves  
up to 2017
15%
3
13.5% Debt financing concluded; 
divestment of 10% interest  
in Catcher to Dyas completed 
after year end
Licence to operate Maintain licence to operate by 
achieving targets for several leading 
HSE performance indicators
15% 13% Good performance against 
almost all the leading targets, 
both leading and lagging 
indicators (versus OGP 
industry standards)
Demonstrate operational excellence Timely and cost effective delivery  
of operated and non-operated asset 
projects; progress development 
projects on schedule and  
within budget
20% 14% Timely delivery of the majority 
of operated and non-operated 
asset projects, particularly 
seismic projects; some delays  
in exploration drilling due to rig 
inefficiency and non-productive 
time; Catcher and Kraken 
development projects on track 
Totals 100% 78.5%
 
Notes:
1. Further disclosures in relation to the above Group KPIs, including details of the way in which they were measured and assessed, are set out in the 2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) section  
on pages 18 to 21.
2. This KPI was assessed on (i) evidence of commercial discoveries based on 2C resources; plus (ii) the net volumes versus the 50 mmboe target; and (iii) the finding efficiency expressed in US$/boe. 
3. As explained in the Annual Statement set out on pages 76 and 77 , the committee carried out an interim review in May 2014 of the above annual bonus scheme in order to determine whether any 
variations were required to reflect the exceptional circumstances surrounding the Indian tax issue that had arisen after the original structure had been agreed. The conclusion reached was that,  
as provided for by the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the committee should vary the weightings ascribed to the “Exploration and appraisal success” and “Balance sheet” measures, with the former 
being moved from 45% to 35% and the latter being changed from 5% to 15%. 
2014 annual cash bonus scheme – individual performance conditions and achievement levels
With the exception of the Chief Executive, each individual who served as an executive director during the year was given a number of different personal objectives 
tailored to their role and the needs of the business for the year . In summary, these objectives related to various matters associated with the Indian tax issue and, in the 
case of James Smith, also included the negotiation of certain debt facilities, a strategic review of funding and identified actions connected to the management of the 
finance department.
The achievements against the above objectives were carefully considered by the committee following which it awarded each of the relevant individuals between 8.5% 
and 37 .5% of salary, as set out on page 91. 91 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
2014 annual cash bonus scheme – actual payments awarded 
Award (as % of salary) based on achievement 
against performance measures relating to:
Group KPIs
Individual 
performance
Bonus actually paid 
(i.e. after application 
of any time pro-
rating adjustment)
Current directors
Simon Thomson 78.5% – £422,458
James Smith 70.65% 8.5% £229,969
1
Former directors
Jann Brown 39.25% 37.5% £244,158
1
Dr Mike Watts 39.25% 37.5% £267 ,444
1
Note:
1. The 2014 bonus awarded to each of these individuals was pro-rated by reference to the proportion of the year that he/she was employed by the Company.
The remuneration committee considered that the above award levels were appropriately reflective of overall performance during the year .
Long-term incentives during 2014 
Introduction
During the year to 31 December 2014, the executive directors participated in the Company’s LTIP , which was originally approved by shareholders at the AGM held  
on 19 May 2009.
The LTIP enables selected senior individuals to be granted conditional awards or nil-cost options over ordinary shares, the vesting of which is normally dependent  
on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period of three years.
In the case of all awards under the LTIP (including those granted during 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014), the performance conditions involve a comparison of the TSR of 
the Company over a three-year performance period (commencing on the date of grant of the relevant award) with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator 
group. At the end of this period, each company in the comparator group is listed in order of TSR performance to produce a “ranking table”. The vesting of awards then 
takes place as follows:
Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in award that vest
Below median 0%
Median 20%
Upper decile (i.e. top 10%) 100%
Between median and upper decile 20%–100% on a straight line basis
A list of the companies comprised in the comparator groups applicable to all LTIP awards that were outstanding during 2014 is set out on page 94.
In order to ensure that the LTIP encourages and rewards exceptional performance in terms of delivering increased growth and shareholder value, the performance 
conditions attaching to awards also provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator 
group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his/her award that vests through the application of a “multiplier” that is linked  
to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period. The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: 
Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest TSR of the Company over the performance period
1 50% or less
1.33 100% or more
1–1.33 on a straight line basis Between 50% and 100%
However , notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied 
that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period. In addition, and 
as noted in the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, awards granted in 2012 and later years are subject to clawback provisions which may be operated by the committee 
where, in the period of three years from the end of the applicable performance period, it becomes aware of either a material misstatement of the Company’s financial 
results or an error in the calculation of performance metrics.
On any vesting of an award under the LTIP , only 50% of the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled are released/become exercisable immediately, 
with the remaining 50% normally being released/becoming exercisable after a further period of one year . 92 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Long-term incentives during 2014 (continued)
L TIP – awards granted during 2014 (audited)
On 19 March 2014, the following awards under the LTIP were granted to directors:
Face value (£,000) of ….
Type of award
Basis of  
award granted
Share price at  
date of grant
No. of shares 
over which award 
originally granted
% of shares over 
which award 
originally granted 
that vest at 
threshold
…shares over which 
award originally 
granted
3
…max. no. of 
shares to vest if 
all performance 
measures met
4
Vesting determined 
by performance 
over
Current directors
Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£538,125
£1.682 959,794 20% £1,614 £2,147 3 years until  
18 March 
2017
James Smith Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£350,000
£1.682 624,256 20% £1,050 £1,396
Former directors
Jann Brown
5
Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£437 ,675
£1.682 780,633 20% £1,313 £1,746 3 years until  
18 March 
2017
Dr Mike Watts
5
Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£475,600
£1.682 848,275 20% £1,427 £1,898
Notes:
1. Details of the performance conditions applicable to the awards granted in 2014 are provided on page 91.
2. No price is payable by participants for their shares on the exercise of a nil-cost option granted under the LTIP.
3. The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the “number of shares over which the award was originally granted” by the “share price at date of grant” (being, for these 
purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant).
4. The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the “number of shares over which the award was originally granted” by 133% (being the vesting percentage that would apply  
on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject – see page 91) and multiplying the result by the “share price at date of grant” (being, for these purposes, the closing 
mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant).
5. As explained on page 86 of this report, both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts have been categorised as “good leavers” for the purposes of the LTIP rules with the result that their awards will continue  
to vest at the same time and in substantially the same manner (subject to time pro-rating) as those held by all other participants.
L TIP – awards vesting during the year (audited)
On 16 June 2014, the three-year performance period applicable to the awards granted under the LTIP on 17 June 2011 to various participants (including the 
executive directors) came to an end. Thereafter , the remuneration committee assessed the relevant performance conditions. The results of this assessment can  
be summarised as follows:
Performance measure % of award subject to measure Performance achieved 2011–2014 % of award vested
Relative TSR performance against a comparator 
group of 17 companies with the opportunity for 
additional multiplier of up to 1.33 to be applied  
for upper decile performance.
100% Cairn’s TSR over the period ranked below the 
median company in the comparator group.
0%
Notes:
1. Further details of the performance conditions that applied to the above awards are set out on page 91.
2. At various points in the period 17 June 2011 to 16 June 2014, the committee was required to determine the treatment of those comparator group companies that were the subject of takeover 
transactions. No other discretions were exercised by the remuneration committee during or after the relevant performance period.
3. The calculations used to inform the committee’s determinations in relation to the above awards were independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP. 93 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
L TIP – other awards held by executive directors during the year
For the sake of completeness, and in order to allow comparisons to be made with the awards granted under the LTIP during 2014, set out below are details of the 
other entitlements under the plan that were held by current and former executive directors during the year:
Face value (£,000) of ….
Date of grant Type of award
2
Basis of  
award granted
Share price at 
date of grant
No. of shares 
over which 
award  
originally 
granted
% of shares  
over which 
award  
originally 
granted  
that vest at 
threshold
…shares over 
which award 
originally 
granted
3
…max. no.  
of shares 
to vest if all 
performance 
measures 
met
4
Vesting determined 
by performance 
over three years 
until…
Current directors
Simon Thomson 14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£494,000
£2.887 513,335 20% £1,482 £1,971 13 June 2015
20 March 2013 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£525,000
£2.784 565,732 20% £1,575 £2,095 19 March 2016
James Smith – – – – – – – – –
Former directors
Jann Brown
5
14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£416,000
£2.887 432,282 20% £1,248 £1,660 13 June 2015
20 March 2013 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£427 ,000
£2.784 460,129 20% £1,281 £1,704 19 March 2016
Dr Mike Watts
5
14 June 2012 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£452,000
£2.887 469,691 20% £1,356 £1,803 13 June 2015
20 March 2013 Nil-cost option 3 x salary of 
£464,000
£2.784 500,000 20% £1,392 £1,851 19 March 2016
Notes:
1. Further details of the performance conditions that apply to these awards are set out on page 91.
2. The awards shown in the above table that were granted in 2012 were originally made in the form of conditional shares. However, to provide flexibility to participants, they have been converted into 
nil-cost options.
3. The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant “number of shares over which the award was originally granted” by the appropriate “share price at date of grant” 
(being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant).
4. The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant “number of shares over which the award was originally granted” by 133% (being the vesting percentage that would 
apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject – see page 91) and multiplying the result by the appropriate “share price at date of grant” (being, for these 
purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant).
5. As explained on page 86 of this report, both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts have been categorised as “good leavers” for the purposes of the LTIP rules with the result that their awards will continue  
to vest at the same time and in substantially the same manner (subject to time pro-rating) as those held by all other participants. 94 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Long-term incentives during 2014 (continued)
Comparator group companies applicable to L TIP awards
The table below provides details of the comparator groups applicable to each tranche of awards granted under the LTIP that were outstanding during 2014.
Comparator group applicable to LTIP awards granted on…
Company 17 June 2011 14 June 2012 20 March 2013 19 March 2014
Afren PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
BG Group PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited ✓
DNO ASA ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
EnQuest PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
EOG Resources, Inc ✓
Faroe Petroleum PLC ✓ ✓ ✓
Genel Energy PLC ✓ ✓ ✓
JKX Oil & Gas PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Lundin Petroleum AB ✓ ✓ ✓
Melrose Resources PLC* ✓
Newfield Exploration Company ✓
Niko Resources Limited ✓ ✓ ✓
Noble Energy, Inc ✓
Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited ✓
Ophir Energy PLC ✓ ✓ ✓
Petroceltic International PLC ✓ ✓ ✓
Premier Oil PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Rockhopper Exploration PLC ✓ ✓ ✓
Salamander Energy PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Santos Limited ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
SOCO International PLC ✓ ✓ ✓
T alisman Energy, Inc ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Tullow Oil PLC ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Woodside Petroleum Limited ✓
   
* Denotes company that has delisted during the applicable performance period. 
Participation of executive directors in all-employee share schemes during 2014 
Introduction
In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM Revenue and Customs 
approved SIP in April 2010. The SIP provides eligible employees, including the executive directors, with the following benefits: 
 – “Partnership shares” – employees can authorise deductions of up to £1,800 per tax year from pre-tax salary, which are then used to acquire ordinary shares  
on their behalf.
 – “Matching shares” – the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two matching shares for 
every one partnership share purchased. For the tax year 2014/2015, the Company awarded two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased  
and intends to continue using this award ratio for the tax year 2015/2016.
 – “Free shares” – employees can be given up to £3,600 worth of ordinary shares free in each tax year . On 8 April 2014, an award of free shares was made to 
employees, including to a number of the executive directors. 
As the SIP is an “all-employee” arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to its terms. 95 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Details of executive directors’ SIP participation in 2014
Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the executive directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows:
Partnership shares awarded on… Matching shares awarded on…
Total SIP shares held 
at 1 January 2014
Free shares 
awarded on  
8 April 2014  
at a price of  
£1.676 per share
…6 May 2014  
at a price of  
£1.85 1 per share
…5 December 2014 
at a price of  
£1.673 per share
…6 May 2014  
at a price of  
£1.85 1 per share
…5 December 2014 
at a price of  
£1.673 per share
Total SIP shares held 
at 31 December 
2014 (or date 
of cessation of 
employment,  
if earlier) 
Current directors
Simon Thomson 6,761 1,789 810 – 1,620 – 10,980
James Smith – –
1
– 896 – 1,792 2,688
Former directors
Jann Brown 6,761 1,789 – – – – 8,550
Dr Mike Watts 6,761 1,789 – – – – 8,550
Notes:
1. Although James Smith was an employee of the Company on the date these free shares were awarded, he had not by that time satisfied the qualifying employment requirements for SIP participation.
The total number of shares held by each of the current executive directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the directors’ report 
on page 60.
Shareholding guidelines for directors (audited)
The committee believes that a significant level of shareholding by the executive directors strengthens the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders. 
Accordingly, a formal share ownership policy is in place under which the executive directors are required to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of 
base salary. The policy also provides that, until such a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax 
gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Company’s share incentive plans.
The following table discloses the beneficial interest of each director in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2014 (or date of cessation of 
directorship, if earlier). It also highlights the fact that, on that date, the above shareholding requirements were satisfied by Simon Thomson, Chief Executive but,  
in light of his relatively recent appointment as CFO, not by James Smith. However , James Smith does intend to build up his holding over time in accordance with  
the committee’s policy and it is expected that he will reach the necessary levels within a period of three to five years from joining the Group. 
Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares 
held in the SIP
2
Total holding of 
ordinary shares
Value of holding as a 
% of salary on  
1 January 2015
3
Ordinary 
shares subject 
to outstanding 
unvested awards 
under the LTIP
4
Ordinary shares 
subject to other 
unvested awards
5
Total interest in 
ordinary shares
Executive directors
Simon Thomson 446,587 10,980 457,567 141% 2,038,861 – 2,496,428
James Smith 0 2,688 2,688 1% 624,256 55,096 682,040
Non-executive directors
Ian Tyler 0 – 0 – – – 0
Todd Hunt 72,012 – 72,012 – – – 72,012
Iain McLaren 7,878 – 7,878 – – – 7,878
Alexander Berger 40,008 – 40,008 – – – 40,008
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 7 ,000 – 7 ,000 – – – 7 ,000
Former directors
Sir Bill Gammell 656,131 – 656,131 – – – 656,131
Dr James Buckee 37,788 – 37,788 – – – 37,788
Jann Brown 305,279 8,550 313,829 – 1,673,044 – 1,986,873
Dr Mike Watts 1,224,136 8,550 1,232,686 – 1,817,966 – 3,050,652
2,796,819 30,768 2,827,587 6,154,127 55,096 9,036,810
Notes: 
1. Details of the Company’s share ownership policy for executive directors are set out above.
2. Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified “holding period” of up to five years. The receipt of these shares is not subject to the 
satisfaction of performance conditions.
3. Share price used is the average share price over the period of 90 days ending on 1 January 2015.
4. This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the director concerned as at 31 December 2014 (i.e. including those granted during the year). Details of 
these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, are set out on page 91).
5. As explained on page 86, in connection with his recruitment, James Smith was granted a conditional award of 55,096 ordinary shares, the vesting of which was subject to continued employment until 
the first anniversary of the date he joined the Group. This condition was satisfied on 3 March 2015 and the relevant shares were released to him shortly thereafter. 96 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Directors’ Remuneration report continued 
Part 3 – Annual Report on Remuneration (continued)
Dilution of share capital pursuant to share plans during 2014
In any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Company’s discretionary share plans cannot exceed 5%  
of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. 
In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all of the Company’s employee share schemes 
(whether discretionary or otherwise) cannot exceed 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. 
For the purposes of operating both the above limits, the number of shares issued prior to 6 February 2012 in connection with options and awards is adjusted to reflect 
the share capital consolidation which became effective on that date.
It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market. As a result, the SIP 
does not involve the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares.
Board appointments with other companies during 2014
Certain of the Company’s current executive directors serve as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies and are permitted to retain any associated 
fees. Details of the positions held during 2014 and the fees that were payable are as follows:
Position held
Fees received for the year 
to 31 December 2014 
(or date of cessation of 
employment with the 
Group, if earlier)
Current directors
Simon Thomson Non-executive director , Graham’s The Family Dairy Limited £35,000
Relative importance of spend on pay
Set out below are details of the amounts of, and percentage change in, remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees and distributions to shareholders in 
the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2014.
Financial Year  
2013
Financial Year  
2014 % change
Employee costs (US$m) 41.5 51.3 23.6%
Distributions (US$m)
1
36.6 64.3 75.7%
Note: 
1. For the purposes of the above table, “distributions” include amounts distributed to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.  97 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015
The following table provides details of how the Company intends to implement the key elements of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy described on pages 77 to 84 
during the year to 31 December 2015.
Remuneration element Implementation during 2015
Base salary Both of the executive directors received a 1.5% increase in base salary on 1 January 2015 – this was in line  
with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees on that date. After applying this increase, details 
of the base salaries payable to both the current executive directors for the year to 31 December 2015 are  
as follows:
 – Simon Thomson, Chief Executive – £546,197; and
 – James Smith, CFO – £355,250.
Benefits Executive directors will continue to receive the same benefits as in 2014.
Annual bonus In accordance with the requirements of the policy, executive directors will be eligible to receive a bonus of up  
to 100% of base salary depending on the extent to which specified measures are satisfied over the year .
All of the Chief Executive’s and CFO’s 2015 bonus opportunity will be based on the demanding Group KPIs 
described below (with details of the weightings specified in brackets):
 – exploration and appraisal success (25%);
 – active portfolio optimisation (25%);
 – retain balance sheet strength (20%);
 – maintain licence to operate (15%); and
 – operational excellence (15%).
The specific targets to be used for the purposes of the 2015 bonus scheme are commercially sensitive and have 
not, therefore, been set out in detail above. However , appropriate disclosures in relation to the 2015 bonus 
scheme will be included in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP It is intended that, during 2015, the executive directors will be granted LTIP awards over shares worth 300%  
of salary (being the same level as was awarded in 2014). The performance conditions that will determine the 
vesting of these grants will be those that applied to last year’s awards (full details of which are set out on page 91 
of the Annual Report on Remuneration) except that the Total Shareholder Return comparator group will 
exclude T alisman Energy Inc, Salamander Energy PLC, JKX Oil & Gas PLC and Niko Resources Limited and 
include Kosmos Energy Limited, Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC, Dragon Oil PLC and Det Norske Olj eselskap ASA.
SIP Executive directors will be given the opportunity to participate in the SIP on the same terms as apply to all other 
eligible employees in the arrangement.
Pension The Company will continue to contribute 15% of basic salary on behalf of executive directors or pay them an 
equivalent amount of additional salary.
Non-executive directors’ fees The annual non-executive director fee for 2015 has been increased from £73,800 to £74,900. The additional 
annual fee for chairing the audit and/or remuneration committees is unchanged at £10,000.
Chairman’s fees The annual Chairman’s fee for 2015 has been retained at £160,000. 
By order of the Board
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC
Chair of the remuneration committee
9 March 2015 98 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Cairn Energy PLC
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
 – Cairn Energy PLC’s group financial statements and parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the group’s loss and the group’s and the parent company’s cash flows for the year  
then ended;
 – the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the  
European Union;
 – the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by  
the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Cairn Energy PLC’s financial statements comprise:
 – the Group Balance Sheet and the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014;
 – the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
 – the Group Statement of Cash Flows and the Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended;
 – the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
 – the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach
The context for our audit is set by Cairn Energy PLC’s (“Cairn”) major activities in 2014, together with the significant fall in world oil prices in Quarter 4. In the year , 
Cairn has progressed to development stage their interest in the Catcher North Sea field; raised finance for this and the other development project, Kraken; and 
completed a 4 well exploration drilling programme offshore North West Africa, which resulted in oil discoveries on 2 wells offshore Senegal. Away from core 
operations, Cairn’s main focus has been dealing with enquiries from the Indian T ax Authorities relating to a group reconstruction undertaken prior to the IPO  
of Cairn India in 2007 , which has also resulted in a restriction on the ability to sell the remaining 10% holding in Cairn India.
Overview
 – Overall group materiality was $30.2m which represents 1% of group total assets.
 – Group audit scoping was performed based on total assets held within each of the 63 individual components in the group and 
addressed over 94% of group total assets.
 – Impairment of exploration/development assets and goodwill.
 – Impact of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited on tax provisions.
 – Going concern.
 – Other tax judgements.
Materiality
The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative 
considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, 
both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality $30.2m (2013: $36.0m).
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that total assets is an appropriate measure for an exploration and development oil and gas group that does not 
currently have producing assets.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.5m (2013: $1.8m) as well as misstatements 
below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account 
the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. 
For operating purposes, the group is structured around 3 key segments: Atlantic Margin (North Atlantic & North West Africa), the Mediterranean and North  
West Europe. During 2014, North West Europe has seen the most significant development activity, with the main exploration activity being undertaken in  
North West Africa. 
Materiality
Areas of
focus
Audit scope 99 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
For accounting purposes, the group is structured into 63 reporting units or components. Our group scoping was based on total assets, consistent with our approach 
to materiality, and identified 10 components which required an audit of their complete financial information. A further 7 components were subject to specified 
procedures at a financial statement line item (FSLI) level to obtain sufficient coverage. The majority of the finance function is in Edinburgh, other than North West 
Europe which is primarily accounted for in Norway. Our PwC Norway audit team performed the audit work on the North West Europe components and all other 
audit work was performed by our UK audit team. The UK team attended audit planning and clearance meetings in Norway, as well as being directly involved in the 
scoping and review of the work performed by PwC Norway.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular , we looked at where the 
directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events  
that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was 
evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as “areas of focus” in  
the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, 
and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Risk of impairment of exploration/development assets and goodwill
Exploration assets of $417 .0m relate to costs incurred where there is expected 
future activity but no approved development plan. Development assets of 
$467 .8m reflect spend to date on Catcher and Kraken. Both of these asset 
categories only require an impairment review if an impairment trigger  
is identified. 
The goodwill balance of $145.1m arose on the acquisitions of Agora and Nautical 
in 2012. As required by IAS 36, an annual impairment review is performed on 
this balance.
Due to the nature of Cairn’s industry, indicators of impairment include:
 – unsuccessful exploration such as experienced in Foum Draa, Juby Maritime 
and Skarfjell during the year;
 – the recent significant decrease seen in global oil prices;
 – changes to exploration plans;
 – changes to reserves estimates; and
 – consolidated net assets being more than $1.5bn greater than the market 
capitalisation of the group.
When an impairment review is triggered, within the impairment review calculations 
there are significant judgements in relation to assumptions such as:
 – long-term oil price ;
 – reserve estimates;
 – production profiles;
 – cost profiles and escalation applied; and
 – discount rates.
We focused on this area due to the significant values and the nature of the 
judgements and assumptions management are required to make in determining 
whether there are any impairment triggers or impairments.
 
Refer to Notes 2.1, 2.2 and 2.4 to the financial statements.
We tested management’s impairment review of goodwill, capitalised exploration 
and capitalised development costs.
We reviewed management’s assessment of impairment triggers and did not 
identify any further triggers which had not been considered by management.
Specific work that we performed over the impairment review included:
 – comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review model to 
approved budgets and business plans and other evidence of future intentions 
for individual exploration properties, which we found to be consistent;
 – comparing reserves and production profiles and matching capital and 
operating expenditure forecasts to group approved values or operator 
estimates, which we found to be consistent;
 – benchmarking of key assumptions including commodity price and discount 
rate and inflation against our own internal data which we found to be in line;
 – performing sensitivity analysis over key assumptions in the model in order to 
assess the potential impact of a range of possible outcomes. For Catcher and 
Kraken, we determined that the calculation was most sensitive to assumptions 
relating to the oil price. We calculated the degree to which the long-term oil 
price assumption would need to reduce further before an impairment arises 
on these assets and considered the likelihood of this arising in isolation from 
other changes in assumptions; and
 – challenged management on the inclusion of all appropriate assets and 
liabilities in the cash-generating units and in particular given that the 
recoverable amount is determined based on a fair value less costs of disposal, 
the inclusion or exclusion of certain tax related balances and agreed that all 
relevant balances had been included. 
None of the items noted above resulted in a change to the impairment charge 
recorded by management 100 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Cairn Energy PLC continued 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited
We focused on this area because on 22 January 2014 the Group received  
a request for information from the Indian tax authorities in respect of 
amendments introduced in the 2012 Indian Finance Act which seek to tax  
prior year transactions under legislation applied retrospectively. At the same 
time the Group received an order not to sell the remaining shares in Cairn India. 
Although there have been developments over the course of 2014, no conclusion 
has been reached by the Indian tax authorities in relation to this enquiry and 
therefore management have made judgements relating to the likelihood of  
an obligation arising and whether there is a need to recognise a provision  
or disclose a contingent liability.
Refer to Note 6.2 to the financial statements.
In assessing the potential impact of the request for information by the Indian tax 
authorities we:
 – read the correspondence received by the Group from the Indian tax authorities;
 – understood the group reconstruction under review, and the potential basis 
for any claim, including the relevant legislation and other precedent;
 – discussed with management the advice and action they had taken with 
regards to the enquiry and reviewed any associated documents;
 – discussed certain aspects of the matter directly with the group’s legal 
advisers; and
 – sought advice from our own tax experts.
We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements was 
reasonable based on the work we performed, in particular:
 – management’s view that no provision for tax should be made at this time;
 – the adequacy of the disclosure in the Annual Report; and
 – the impact of the restriction on sale of Cairn India shares on the future 
funding requirements for the Group.
We also considered whether this ongoing enquiry would have any impact on the 
carrying value of the investment in Cairn India Limited of $702.6m. We noted 
that while the group are restricted from selling the investment, this is a restriction 
directly on them and not all market participants, and therefore it does not affect 
the fair value of the underlying investment, which is the basis on which it is 
carried in the consolidated balance sheet.
Going concern
We focused on this area as the Group is in the exploration and development phase 
and is therefore reliant on having sufficient funding to progress their asset portfolio. 
As the group currently has no significant cash-generating assets in operation, 
there is a finite cash resource to fund ongoing activities and therefore we have 
focused on whether there are sufficient cash resources in place to allow the 
group to continue as a going concern.
In addition, the restriction on selling the remaining Cairn India shares noted 
above means the Group is currently unable to access the value in this investment 
to fund operations.
During 2014, the group negotiated a debt facility to partially fund the 
development of Catcher and Kraken, and are required to meet a liquidity test to 
allow them to drawdown this facility. Cairn are also planning to drill exploration 
and appraisal wells in North West Europe and North West Africa over the next 
12-18 months which will be funded from existing cash resources.
In assessing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption used in 
preparing the financial statements, we:
 – reviewed the cash flow requirements of the Group over the next 18 months 
based on budgets and forecasts:
 – understood what forecast expenditure is committed and what could be 
considered discretionary;
 – considered the liquidity of existing assets on the balance sheet, including the 
Cairn India investment;
 – reviewed the terms associated with the debt agreement and the amount of 
the facility available for drawdown; and
 – considered potential downside/upside scenarios and the resultant impact  
on available funds
Our conclusion on going concern is below.
Other tax judgements
We focused on this area because Cairn operates in a complex tax environment 
comprising a number of jurisdictions with specific tax rules relating to oil and gas 
activities. The rules which have the most significant impact on the results are in 
relation to North Sea field allowances and UK reinvestment relief. As a result, 
management have to make significant judgements regarding current and 
deferred tax positions.
Refer to Note 4.6 to the financial statements.
Our assessment of the tax judgements was made on the basis of:
 – our tax knowledge from similar circumstances and past experience;
 – our understanding of the Group and the relevant transactions;
 – reviewing correspondence with tax authorities and/or evidence from similar 
precedent; and
 – our professional judgement.
Specifically, in relation to corporate and deferred tax positions we:
 – considered the information available in relation to the Group’s open tax 
positions and assessed the associated level of provisioning. We found  
that management had appropriately included the relevant information  
and calculated the provision accordingly;
 – assessed management’s consideration of the impact of the Group’s future 
plans and current legislation specifically related to oil and gas on the 
recognition of deferred tax and found it to be reasonable. In particular , we 
assessed the treatment of field allowances relating to Catcher and Kraken 
awarded at the time of Field Development Plan approval and found it to  
be in line with industry practice; and
 – we assessed the basis on which deferred tax assets recognised are expected  
to be recovered and agreed with management’s assessment. 101 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 70, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting. 
The going concern basis presumes that the group and parent company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend they will do so,  
for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis  
is appropriate.
However , because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s and parent company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinions
In our opinion:
 – the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and
 – the information given in the Corporate Governance statement set out on pages 63 to 72 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about 
share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – Information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired in the course  
of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
 – the statement given by the directors on page 72, in accordance with provision 
C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider 
the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair , balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the group’s 
and parent company’s performance, business model and strategy is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company acquired 
in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
 – the section of the Annual Report on page 73, as required by provision C.3.8 of 
the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records  
and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made.  
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent company’s compliance with 10 provisions  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.  102 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Cairn Energy PLC continued 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibility Statement set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this 
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes an assessment of: 
 – whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; 
 – the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
 – the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”) to identify material inconsistencies  
with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications  
for our report.
Michael Timar (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Glasgow
9 March 2015
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Cairn Energy PLC website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 103 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Contents 
104 Group Income Statement 
104 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 
105 Group Balance Sheet 
106 Group Statement of Cash Flows 
107 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 
108 Section 1 – Basis of Preparation 
108 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies 
110 Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill 
111 2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets 
113 2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets 
114 2.3 Capital Commitments 
114 2.4 Intangible Assets – Goodwill 
115 2.5 Sensitivity Analysis 
116 Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital 
116 3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets 
117 3.2 Net Funds 
118 3.3 Income T ax Assets 
118 3.4 Other Receivables 
118 3.5 Trade and Other Payables 
119 3.6 Financial Instruments 
120 Section 4 – Results for the Year 
120 4.1 Segmental Analysis 
122 4.2 Pre-award Costs 
122 4.3 Net Operating Expenses 
123 4.4 Finance Income 
123 4.5 Finance Costs 
123 4.6 T axation on Loss 
126 4.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share 
127 Section 5 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures 
127 5.1 Issued Capital and Reserves 
128 5.2 Capital Management 
128 5.3 Staff Costs 
129 5.4 Share-based Payments 
130 5.5 Directors’ Emoluments and Remuneration of Key Management Personnel 
130 5.6 Guarantees 
131 Section 6 – Post Balance Sheet Events 
131 6.1 Sale of 10% Working Interest in Catcher
132 Company Balance Sheet 
133 Company Statement of Cash Flows 
134 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
135 Section 7 – Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
135 7 .1 Basis of Preparation 
135 7 .2 Net funds 
135 7 .3 Other Receivables 
135 7 .4 Trade and Other Payables 
136 7 .5 Financial Instruments 
136 7 .6 Investments in Subsidiaries 
137 7 .7 Capital Management 
137 7 .8 Related Party Transactions 
138 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements 
138 Appendix 1 – Principal Subsidiary Undertakings 
139 Appendix 2 – Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies 
141 Appendix 3 – Share-based Payments 
142 Appendix 4 – Auditors’ Remuneration  104 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Group Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Section
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Continuing operations
Pre-award costs 4.2 (54.8) (23.5)
Unsuccessful exploration costs 2.1 (208.4) (213.1)
Net operating expenses 4.3 (64.5) (42.2)
Impairment of intangible exploration/appraisal assets 2.1 (46.9) (251.4)
Gain/(loss) on disposal of oil and gas assets 2.2 2.3 (24.7)
Impairment of goodwill 2.4 – (324.2)
 
Operating loss (372.3) (879.1)
 
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 3.9 –
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 (194.3) (267 .5)
Finance income 4.4 38.3 50.6
Finance costs 4.5 (34.7) (2.9)
Loss before taxation from continuing operations (559.1) (1,098.9)
Taxation
T ax credit 4.6a 178.0 543.0
Loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (381.1) (555.9)
Loss per ordinary share – basic (cents) 4.7 (66.51) (93.24)
Loss per ordinary share – diluted (cents) 4.7 (66.51) (93.24)
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Section
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Loss for the year (381.1) (555.9)
Other comprehensive income – items that may be recycled to profit or loss
Deficit on valuation of financial assets 3.1 (261.1) (110.8)
Deferred tax credit on valuation of financial assets 4.6a 56.6 48.8
Valuation movement recycled to Income Statement 3.1 189.2 267.5
Deferred tax charge on valuation movement recycled to Income Statement 4.6a (40.9) (74.5)
Currency translation differences (58.8) 7.6
Other comprehensive income for the year (115.0) 138.6
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (496.1) (417.3)
  105 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Group Balance Sheet
 As at 31 December 2014
Section
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Non-current assets  
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets 2.1 417.0 498.6
Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets 2.2 467.8 299.9
Intangible assets – goodwill 2.4 145.1 163.4
Other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 5.5 6.0
Available-for-sale financial assets 3.1 702.6 1,027.6
Deferred tax assets 4.6c 106.2 58.7
 1,844.2 2,054.2
Current assets 
Income tax asset 3.3 60.3 81.3
Inventory 5.0 10.0
Other receivables 3.4 238.6 152.3
Cash and cash equivalents 3.2 869.3 1,308.3
 1,173.2 1,551.9
Total assets 3,017.4 3,606.1
  
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 3.5 278.2 201.0
Provisions 11.6 11.4
Loans and borrowings 3.2 – 55.3
 289.8 267.7
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 4.6c 61.7 148.0
Provisions 2.8 2.6
64.5 150.6
Total liabilities 354.3 418.3
Net assets 2,663.1 3,187.8
  
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 
Called-up share capital 5.1 12.4 12.8
Share premium 5.1 487.0 486.9
Shares held by ESOP/SIP Trusts 5.1 (26.7) (28.0)
Foreign currency translation 5.1 (82.7) (23.9)
Capital reserves – non-distributable 5.1 40.8 40.4
Merger reserve 5.1 255.9 255.9
Available-for-sale reserve 5.1 – 56.2
Retained earnings 1,976.4 2,387.5
Total equity  2,663.1 3,187.8
   
The financial statements on pages 104 to 142 were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
James Smith   Simon Thomson
Chief Financial Officer  Chief Executive
  106 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Group Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Section
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Cash flows from operating activities 
Loss before taxation (559.1) (1,098.9)
Unsuccessful exploration costs 208.4 213.1
Depreciation and amortisation 3.3 4.5
Share-based payments charge 21.4 14.0
Impairment of intangible exploration/appraisal assets 46.9 251.4
(Gain)/loss on sale of oil and gas assets (2.3) 24.7
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (3.9) –
Inventory disposal/write down 8.4 –
Impairment of goodwill – 324.2
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 194.3 267.5
Finance income (38.3) (50.6)
Finance costs 34.7 2.9
Interest paid (0.5) (2.9)
Income tax received 66.0 59.9
Foreign exchange differences 8.8 1.3
Other receivables movement 4.3 (6.4)
Trade and other payables movement (4.6) 34.5
Provisions movement 2.9 –
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (9.3) 39.2
Cash flows from investing activities
Expenditure on intangible exploration/appraisal assets (336.0) (386.6)
Expenditure on property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets (39.8) (31.4)
Proceeds on disposal of intangible exploration/appraisal assets 31.4 7.1
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets – 72.7
Purchase of inventory (4.5) (10.3)
Proceeds from disposal of inventory 0.6 –
Purchase of other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets (3.2) (4.4)
Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 62.6 –
Movement in funds on bank deposits 0.2 2.0
Dividend received – 40.5
Interest received 3.1 3.8
Net cash used in investing activities (285.6) (306.6)
Cash flows from financing activities 
Cost of shares purchased (64.3) (36.6)
Facility and arrangement fees (19.2) –
Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.3 –
Proceeds of borrowings – 32.5
Repayment of borrowings (53.4) –
Net cash flows used in financing activities (136.6) (4.1)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (431.5) (271.5)
Opening cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,308.3 1,586.6
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents (7.5) (6.8)
Closing cash and cash equivalents 3.2 869.3 1,308.3 107 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Group Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Equity  
share  
capital  
US$m 
 Shares  
held by  
ESOP Trust  
and SIP Trust  
US$m
 Foreign  
currency  
translation  
US$m 
 Merger  
and capital  
reserves  
US$m
Available- 
for-sale  
reserve  
US$m
Retained  
earnings  
US$m 
 Total  
equity  
US$m
At 1 January 2013 499.9 (28.7) (31.5) 296.1 (74.8) 2,980.7 3,641.7
Loss for the year – – – – – (555.9) (555.9)
Deficit on valuation of financial assets – – – – (110.8) – (110.8)
Deferred tax credit on valuation  
of financial assets – – – – 48.8 – 48.8
Valuation movement recycled  
to Income Statement – – – – 267.5 – 267.5
Deferred tax charge on valuation 
movement recycled to Income Statement – – – – (74.5) – (74.5)
Currency translation differences – – 7.6 – – – 7.6
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 7.6 – 131.0 (555.9) (417 .3)
Share buy-back (0.2) – – 0.2 – (50.6) (50.6)
Share-based payments – – – – – 14.0 14.0
Cost of shares vesting – 0.7 – – – (0.7) –
At 31 December 2013 499.7 (28.0) (23.9) 296.3 56.2 2,387.5 3,187 .8
Loss for the year – – – – – (381.1) (381.1)
Deficit on valuation of financial assets – – – – (261.1) – (261.1)
Deferred tax credit on valuation  
of financial assets – – – – 56.6 – 56.6
Valuation movement recycled  
to Income Statement – – – – 189.2 – 189.2
Deferred tax charge on valuation 
movement recycled to Income Statement – – – – (40.9) – (40.9)
Currency translation differences – – (58.8) – – – (58.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – (58.8) – (56.2) (381.1) (496.1)
Share buy-back (0.4) – – 0.4 – (50.3) (50.3)
Share-based payments – – – – – 21.4 21.4
Exercise of employee share options 0.1 0.2 – – – – 0.3
Cost of shares vesting – 1.1 – – – (1.1) –
At 31 December 2014 499.4 (26.7) (82.7) 296.7 – 1,976.4 2,663.1
 
 
  108 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation
This section contains the Group’s significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements 
as a whole. Significant accounting policies specific to one note are included with that note. Accounting 
policies relating to non-material items are not included in these financial statements. 
This section also includes new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations 
and their expected impact, if any, on the performance of the Group.
1.1 Significant Accounting Policies 
a) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements of Cairn Energy PLC (‘Cairn’ or ‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance 
with a resolution of the directors on 9 March 2015. Cairn is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded. 
The registered office is located at 50 Lothian Road, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9BY.
Cairn prepares its financial statements on a historical cost basis, unless accounting standards require an alternate measurement basis. Where there are assets  
and liabilities calculated on a different basis, this fact is disclosed either in the relevant accounting policy or in the notes to the financial statements. The financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
The Group’s financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
b) Accounting standards 
Cairn prepares its financial statements in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’), issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (‘IASB’) as adopted by the EU. The Group’s financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (‘IASB’) as they apply to accounting periods ended 31 December 2014.
Effective 1 January 2014, Cairn has adopted the following standards:
 – IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’
 – IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’
 – IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in Other Entities’
 – IAS 27 (amendment) ‘Separate Financial Statements’
 – IAS 28 (amendment) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’
Adopting IFRS 11 has the most significance as the Group’s material interests in oil and gas exploration and development licences are managed through joint 
arrangements with fellow partners.
Previously, the Group’s interests in these arrangements were classified as jointly controlled assets and disclosed as joint venture balances in the notes to the 
appropriate financial statement line item. Following implementation of IFRS 11, the Group’s joint arrangements are all now classified as joint operations and the 
disclosures in the financial statements amended accordingly. There was no impact on the results for the year as a result of adoption.
The following amendments to standards issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU have yet to be adopted by the Group:
 – Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle (effective 1 July 2014)
The adoption of these amendments will have no material impact on Cairn’s results or financial statement disclosures. There are no other standards or amendments 
issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU that will impact the Group.
c) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Cairn Energy PLC and its subsidiary undertakings to the Balance Sheet date. Where subsidiaries follow 
differing accounting policies from those of the Group, those accounting policies have been adjusted to align with those of the Group. Inter-company balances and 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation, though foreign exchange differences arising on inter-company balances between 
subsidiaries with differing functional currencies are not offset. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired in any year are included in the Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows from the effective date of acquisition while the results 
of subsidiaries disposed of during the year are included in the Income Statement and Statement of Cash Flows to the date at which control passes from the Group.  109 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
1.1 Significant Accounting Policies – Continued
d) Joint arrangements
Cairn is a partner (joint operator) in oil and gas exploration and development licences which are unincorporated joint arrangements. All of the Group’s current 
interests in these arrangements are determined to be joint operations. A full list of oil and gas licence interests can be found on pages 144 to 146.
Costs incurred relating to an interest in a joint operation are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for oil and gas assets as appropriate  
(see sections 2.1 and 2.2). All of the Group’s Intangible exploration/appraisal assets and Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets are related  
to interests in joint operations.
Cairn’s working capital balances relating to joint operations are included in Other receivables (section 3.4) and Trade and other payables (section 3.5). Any share  
of finance income or costs generated or incurred by the joint operation is included within the appropriate Income Statement account. 
e) Foreign currencies 
These financial statements continue to be presented in US dollars (US$), the functional currency of the parent. 
In the financial statements of individual Group companies, Cairn translates foreign currency transactions into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing 
at the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at 
the Balance Sheet date. Exchange differences arising are taken to the Income Statement except for those incurred on borrowings specifically allocable to development 
projects, which are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
The Group maintains the financial statements of the parent and subsidiary undertakings in their functional currency. Where applicable, the Group translates parent and 
subsidiary accounts into the presentation currency, US$, using the closing rate method for assets and liabilities which are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at 
the Balance Sheet date and rates at the date of transactions for Income Statement accounts. Cairn takes exchange differences arising on the translation of net assets of 
Group companies whose functional currency is non-US$ directly to reserves.
 
 
  110 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill
This section focuses on the assets in the Balance Sheet which form the core of Cairn’s business.  
This section quantifies the financial impact of the operations for the year fully described in the 
Operational review on pages 22 to 27 .
Included are details of the costs of multi-well programmes in Morocco and Senegal and the 
impairment reviews and tests performed on the Group’s assets.
Significant accounting judgements in this section:
Impairment testing on oil and gas assets
Given the recent fall in oil prices which lowers the Group’s short-term oil price assumption, Cairn has tested its oil and gas assets which contain discovered resources 
for impairment. Remaining exploration assets are reviewed for indictors of impairment and tested where indicators are identified. This is consistent with the Group’s 
accounting policies.
The impairment tests resulted in an impairment of an asset in the North Sea and Greenland. For details of the indicators and the subsequent impairment tests 
conducted on those assets, see section 2.1.
Key estimates and assumptions in this section:
Impairment testing of Intangible exploration/appraisal assets and Property, plant & equipment – development assets
Where an indicator of impairment is identified on an intangible exploration/appraisal asset or a development asset, an impairment test is conducted in accordance with 
the Group’s accounting policies. The test compares either the carrying value of the asset or the carrying value of the cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) containing the asset, 
to the recoverable amount of that asset or CGU. 
The recoverable amount of an asset represents its fair value less costs of disposal. Where there is a verifiable third-party arm’s-length transaction from which a market 
value can be obtained this market value represents the fair value. In January 2015, Cairn completed the sale of a 10% working interest in the Catcher development 
and this transaction provides evidence of the fair value less costs of disposal of this asset at the Balance Sheet date. 
Where there is no verifiable third-party arm’s-length transaction, the fair value less costs of disposal of an asset is calculated using discounted post-tax cash flow models. 
The key assumptions used in the Group’s discounted cash flow models reflect past experience and take account of external factors. These assumptions include:
 – Short/medium-term oil price based on a three-month average forward curve for three years from the Balance Sheet date;
 – Long-term oil price of US$90 per boe escalated at 2.5% per annum;
 – Reserve estimates of discovered resource (2P and 2C) based on P50 reserve estimates;
 – Production profiles based on Cairn’s internal estimates which are not materially different from those of the operators;
 – Cost profiles for the development of the field and subsequent operating costs supplied by the operator and escalated at 2.5% per annum; and
 – Discount rates of 10% for the Group’s UK and Norwegian North Sea assets.
Impairment testing of goodwill 
The goodwill arising from past corporate transactions in the UK and Norwegian North Sea is tested for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount against the 
carrying value of the underlying oil and gas assets in the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment. As with the assets above, fair value less costs of disposal  
are based on discounted post-tax cash flow models where no recent third-party transactions exist on which a reliable market-based fair value can be established.  
The key assumptions are therefore consistent with those for testing intangible exploration/appraisal assets.
Where resource is prospective, fair value represents the expected net present value of the prospect, risk-weighted for future exploration success. Given the inherent 
risk associated with exploration activities, valuations of prospective resource are highly subjective. 111 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets
Accounting policy
Cairn follows a successful-efforts-based accounting policy for oil and gas assets.
Costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately to the Income Statement. 
Expenditure incurred on the acquisition of a licence interest is initially capitalised on a licence-by-licence basis. Costs are held, un-depleted, within intangible exploration/
appraisal assets until such time as the exploration phase on the licence area is complete or commercial reserves have been discovered. Exploration expenditure incurred 
in the process of determining oil and gas exploration targets is capitalised initially within intangible exploration/appraisal assets and subsequently allocated to drilling 
activities. Exploration/appraisal drilling costs are initially capitalised on a well-by-well basis until the success or otherwise of the well has been established. The success  
or failure of each exploration/appraisal effort is judged on a well-by-well basis. Drilling costs are written off on completion of a well unless the results indicate that 
hydrocarbon reserves exist and there is a reasonable prospect that these reserves are commercial. 
Following appraisal of successful exploration wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction demonstrated, then the related 
capitalised intangible exploration/appraisal costs are transferred into a single field cost centre within property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets, 
after testing for impairment (see below). Where results of exploration drilling indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which are ultimately not considered commercially 
viable, all related costs are written off to the Income Statement. 
Impairment
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets are reviewed regularly for indicators of impairment and tested for impairment where such indicators exist. An indicator that 
one of the Group’s assets may be impaired is most likely to be one of the following:
 – There are no further plans to conduct exploration activities in the area; 
 – Exploration drilling in the area has failed to discover commercial reserve volumes; or
 – Development proposals for appraisal assets in the pre-development stage indicate that it is unlikely that the carrying value of the exploration/appraisal asset will 
be recovered in full.
In such circumstances the intangible exploration/appraisal asset is allocated to any property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets within the same  
cash-generating unit and tested for impairment. Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year. Where there are no development/
producing assets within the cash-generating unit, the excess of the carrying amount of exploration/appraisal asset over its recoverable amount are charged 
immediately to the Income Statement. 
Atlantic Margin
Senegal  
US$m
Other  
Africa  
US$m
Greenland and 
Republic of Ireland 
US$m
Mediterranean 
US$m
 North West Europe 
– UK and Norway 
US$m
Total  
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2013 – 2.2 44.5 3.6 849.5 899.8
Foreign exchange – – – – 7.4 7.4
Additions 41.6 136.3 17.3 4.5 160.5 360.2
Disposals – – – (0.5) (5.1) (5.6)
Transfers – – – – (298.7) (298.7)
Impairment – – – – (251.4) (251.4)
Unsuccessful exploration costs – (107.4) (23.6) (0.8) (81.3) (213.1)
At 1 January 2014 41.6 31.1 38.2 6.8 380.9 498.6
Foreign exchange – – (0.8) (0.8) (28.6) (30.2)
Additions 145.7 99.8 19.1 5.5 108.8 378.9
Disposals (20.5) (0.3) (5.5) – (0.3) (26.6)
Transfers – – – – (148.4) (148.4)
Impairment – – (22.7) – (24.2) (46.9)
Unsuccessful exploration costs – (100.1) (6.6) (6.9) (94.8) (208.4)
At 31 December 2014 166.8 30.5 21.7 4.6 193.4 417.0 112 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2.1 Intangible Exploration/Appraisal Assets – Continued
Atlantic Margin – Senegal
Cairn completed the farm-down of the three contiguous Senegalese blocks to ConocoPhillips in January 2014. Back costs received under the agreement are shown 
as disposals of US$20.5m. Cairn had originally farmed-in to the three blocks during 2013.
During 2014, Cairn completed two exploration wells offshore Senegal: the FAN-1 and SNE-1 wells. Both wells encountered hydrocarbons. Results to date indicate 
that the SNE-1 well discovered commercial volumes of oil while further work is required to determine the commerciality of the FAN-1 discovery. Capitalised costs of 
US$166.8m at 31 December 2014 include the cost of these wells. Cairn, along with its partners in the joint operation, are preparing further exploration and appraisal 
programmes for submission to the Government of Senegal in May 2015, with a drilling programme due to commence in Q4 2015. 
Atlantic Margin – Other Africa: Morocco and Mauritania
Cairn completed two exploration wells offshore Morocco in the current year. The Foum Draa and Juby Maritime wells did not encounter commercial hydrocarbons 
and both were plugged and abandoned. US$53.2m of unsuccessful exploration costs were charged to the Income Statement in 2014. Costs of US$107 .4m incurred  
to 31 December 2013 were charged as unsuccessful costs in the prior year. 
A third well in Morocco, offshore Western Sahara, the non-operated Cap Boujdour well, commenced drilling in December 2014. The well failed to encounter 
commercial hydrocarbons and costs to 31 December of US$46.9m were charged to the Income Statement in 2014 as unsuccessful exploration costs. 
Work continued on the C-19 licence offshore Mauritania during 2014 with additions of US$2.9m in the current year (2013: US$27 .0m). Costs of US$30.5m 
remaining at the year end represent US$29.9m of Mauritania costs and US$0.6m of other costs. 
Atlantic Margin – Greenland and Republic of Ireland
Cairn is actively seeking to farm-down the Group’s interests in Greenland before undertaking any further exploration activities across the licence interests it holds. 
Though Cairn remains encouraged by the Pitu prospect, with no firm plans for future exploration activity, the remaining costs of US$22.7m associated with the 
Greenland licences were fully impaired at the year end. 
The costs of US$21.7m remaining at the year end relate to the Spanish Point appraisal prospect, offshore Republic of Ireland. 
North West Europe – UK and Norway
UK and Norwegian North Sea
Additions in the current year of US$108.8m (2013: US$160.5m) relate to expenditure on exploration and appraisal wells drilled and new prospects added to the 
portfolio. The Group added to its existing exploration portfolio through the acquisition of non-operated interests in the PL248c Grosbeak prospects in the Norwegian 
North Sea and through licences awarded under the latest rounds in both the UK and Norway.
During 2014, two exploration wells were completed in the North Sea. Neither the UK Aragon well nor the Norwegian Atlas well discovered hydrocarbons. Unsuccessful 
exploration costs of US$50.0m were charged to the Income Statement together with US$2.2m relating to other licences. 2013 unsuccessful costs of US$81.3m 
included costs of US$53.5m and US$18.6m relating to the Frode and Klara exploration wells in the Norwegian North Sea. 
Following the two-well appraisal programme on the Skarfjell discovery which completed drilling operations in 2013, the interpretation of the well results concluded  
in the current year. The appraisal wells confirmed the estimated reserve volumes of the discovery without materially increasing the future economic value of the field. 
As the Skarfjell asset was initially recognised at fair value, it is unlikely that the costs relating to the appraisal wells will be recovered and costs of US$25.2m are charged 
as unsuccessful exploration costs in the year. 
DECC approval of the Catcher FDP was received in June 2014. Costs of US$148.4m were transferred from Intangible exploration/appraisal assets to Property, plant 
& equipment – development/producing assets during the year. A similar transfer of US$298.7m was made in 2013 following approval of the Kraken FDP.
Exploration costs remaining at the year end include the net book value of the Catcher satellite discoveries and exploration prospects and the Skarfjell discovery and 
associated satellite prospects.
At the year end, Cairn reviewed its intangible exploration/appraisal assets for indicators of impairment. Impairment tests identified impairment on one of the Group’s 
intangible exploration assets, resulting in a charge of US$24.2m to the Income Statement.
The 2013 year end impairment review identified an indicator of impairment on the Catcher asset. The subsequent test resulted in an impairment charge of 
US$251.4m.
Norwegian Barents Sea
Cairn has farmed-in to Block PL393B in the Barents Sea, which included the Ensis exploration well which completed in September 2014. The well did not encounter 
any hydrocarbons and was plugged and abandoned. Farm-in costs and additional costs incurred of US$17 .4m were charged to the Income Statement as unsuccessful 
exploration costs. No costs remain capitalised at the year end. 
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill continued 113 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets 
Accounting policy
Costs
All costs incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of producing hydrocarbons has been demonstrated are capitalised within development/
producing assets on a field-by-field basis. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only where it either enhances the economic benefits of the development/producing 
asset or replaces part of the existing development/producing asset. Any remaining costs associated with the part replaced are expensed. 
Costs of borrowings relating to the ongoing construction of development assets and facilities are capitalised during the development phase of the project. 
Capitalisation ceases once the asset is ready to commence production.
Net proceeds from any disposal of development/producing assets are credited against the previously capitalised cost. A gain or loss on disposal of a development/
producing asset is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent that the net proceeds exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the net capitalised costs 
of the asset.
Impairment
Development/producing assets are reviewed for indicators of impairment at the Balance Sheet date. Indicators of impairment for the Group’s development/
producing assets include:
 – Downward revisions of reserve estimates; 
 – Increases in cost estimates for development projects; or
 – A decrease in the oil price or other negative changes in market conditions. 
Impairment tests are carried out on each development/producing asset at the Balance Sheet date where an indicator of impairment is identified. The test compares 
the carrying value of an asset to its recoverable amount based on the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal or value in use. Where the fair value less costs of 
disposal supports the carrying value of the asset, no value-in-use calculation is performed. 
If it is not possible to calculate the fair value less costs of disposal of an individual asset, the fair value less costs of disposal is calculated for the cash-generating unit 
containing the asset and tested against the carrying value of the assets and liabilities in the cash-generating unit for impairment. Where an asset can be tested 
independently for impairment, this test is performed prior to the inclusion of the asset into a cash-generating unit for further impairment tests. 
If the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge is made. 
Where there has been a charge for impairment in an earlier period that charge will be reversed in a later period where there has been a change in circumstances to the 
extent that the recoverable amount is higher than the net book value at the time. In reversing impairment losses, the carrying amount of the asset will be increased to 
the lower of its original carrying value or the carrying value that would have been determined (net of depletion) had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
North West Europe 
– UK and Norway 
US$m
Total  
US$m
Cost and net book value
At 1 January 2013 71.0 71.0
Foreign exchange 1.7 1.7
Additions 44.2 44.2
Transfers from intangible exploration/appraisal assets 298.7 298.7
Disposals (115.7) (115.7)
At 1 January 2014 299.9 299.9
Foreign exchange (30.5) (30.5)
Additions 50.0 50.0
Transfers from intangible exploration/appraisal assets 148.4 148.4
At 31 December 2014 467.8 467.8
Exploration and appraisal costs of US$148.4m relating to the Catcher fields included in the FDP were transferred to development/producing assets in 2014. A similar 
transfer of exploration costs for the Kraken field was made in 2013 upon receiving DECC approval.
In September 2014, Cairn entered into an agreement to farm-down 10% of the Group’s 30% working interest in the Catcher development, satellite fields and surrounding 
exploration acreage to Dyas UK Limited (‘Dyas’). Under the terms of the deal, Dyas will fund Cairn’s exploration and development costs in respect of the licences up to a 
cap of US$182.0m. 
Final approval for the sale to Dyas was received in January 2015. As the deal had an effective economic date of 1 January 2014, on completion, Cairn received  
a refund of costs of US$54.7m including US$36.5m received under the carry. 
During 2013, Cairn agreed the sale of the Mariner asset in the UK North Sea to Dyas BV, receiving formal approval in December 2013. The disposal of Mariner 
resulted in a US$24.7m loss to the Income Statement. 114 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2.2 Property, Plant & Equipment – Development/Producing Assets – Continued
Impairment tests were performed on the Group’s development/producing assets at the Balance Sheet date. The value of Catcher implicit in the Dyas sale supports 
the carrying value of the Group’s remaining 20% working interest. Impairment tests were also performed on the Kraken development asset and concluded that no 
impairment existed (2013: US$nil). Sensitivity analysis is provided in section 2.5.
2.3 Capital Commitments
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Oil and gas expenditure:
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets – non-rig commitments 146.1 292.6
Intangible exploration/appraisal assets – drilling rig commitments – 195.2
Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets 1,271.4 372.8
Contracted for 1,417.5 860.6
Capital commitments represent Cairn’s share of obligations in relation to its interests in joint operations. These commitments include Cairn’s share of the capital 
commitments of the joint operations themselves. 
The capital commitments for intangible exploration/appraisal assets relate to operations in Africa and the UK and Norwegian North Sea. The capital commitments on 
Property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets relate to the North Sea development projects and include US$215.0m of capital commitments for the 
10% share of Catcher which was farmed-down to Dyas in January 2015 (section 6.1). Dyas will be responsible for funding this in full. 
Capital commitments for property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets include US$685.9m relating to two FPSO lease commitments due within the 
next eight years. This includes US$119.7m of lease commitments on the 10% of Catcher which was farmed-down to Dyas as noted above. The lease term for these 
assets has not yet commenced.
The Group has no further material capital expenditure committed at the Balance Sheet date.
2.4 Intangible Assets – Goodwill 
Accounting policy
Goodwill
Cairn allocates the purchase consideration on the acquisition of a subsidiary to the assets and liabilities acquired on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.  
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill. Any goodwill arising is recognised as an asset and is subject 
to annual review for impairment. Goodwill is written off where circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount of the underlying cash-generating unit including 
the asset may no longer support the carrying value of goodwill. Any such impairment loss arising is recognised in the Income Statement for the year. Impairment losses 
relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future years. 
In testing for impairment, goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated from the date of acquisition to the group of cash-generating units representing the 
lowest level at which it will be monitored. Cairn’s policy is to monitor goodwill at operating segment level before combining segments for reporting.
The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, within the segment is based on its fair value less costs of disposal, using 
estimated cash flow projections over the licence period of the exploration assets risk-weighted for future exploration success. The key assumptions are sensitive to 
market fluctuations and the success of future exploration drilling programmes. The most likely factor which will result in a material change to the recoverable amount 
of the cash-generating unit is the result of future exploration drilling, which will determine the licence area’s future economic potential. 
UK and  
Norwegian  
North Sea  
US$m
Total  
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2013 485.5 485.5
Foreign exchange 2.1 2.1
Impairment (324.2) (324.2)
At 1 January 2014 163.4 163.4
Foreign exchange (18.3) (18.3)
At 31 December 2014 145.1 145.1
Goodwill is fully allocated to the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment. At 31 December 2014, the goodwill impairment test did not identify any 
impairment, with the carrying value of the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment being less than the recoverable amount of the underlying assets, 
principally the Catcher, Kraken and Skarfjell assets. 
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets and Related Goodwill continued 115 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
2.4 Intangible Assets – Goodwill – Continued
The impairment of the Catcher asset in 2013 (see section 2.1) reduced both the carrying value of the operating segment and its recoverable amount in equal 
measures. The release of deferred tax provided on the Catcher asset, however, increased the carrying value of the segment in relation to the recoverable amount. 
Additionally, the recognition of tax credits for field allowances to which the Kraken asset was eligible further increased the carrying value of the segment. As a result, 
the recoverable amount of the assets could no longer support their carrying value and at 31 December 2013 the year end impairment test identified impairment and 
a charge of US$324.2m was recorded.
The remaining carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2013 was supported by the fair value less costs of disposal of the Group’s UK and Norwegian North  
Sea assets. 
2.5 Sensitivity Analysis 
North West Europe oil and gas assets
At 31 December 2014, impairment tests were conducted on the Group’s North Sea exploration/appraisal assets and development/producing assets resulting in  
an impairment charge of US$24.2m. An impairment test was also conducted on goodwill allocated to the North Sea Operating Segment. No impairment of goodwill 
was identified. 
For assets where the recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal estimated using discounted cash flow modelling, the key assumptions used in 
determining the valuations are subjective such as the future oil price assumption, or reliant upon the performance of operational partners for delivering development 
projects on time and within approved budgets. 
Cairn has run sensitivities on its long-term oil price assumptions at US$75 and US$70. Cairn also increased the short-term period, where assumptions are based on 
the forward curve, from three to four years. The impact of these changes on the carrying value of the Group’s assets at the Balance Sheet date is summarised below:
Decrease in 
Intangible 
exploration/ 
appraisal  
assets  
US$m
Decrease in 
Property, plant 
& equipment – 
development  
assets  
US$m
Decrease in 
Goodwill  
US$m
Short-term period increased from three to four years – – –
Decrease in oil price assumption to US$75 per boe (14.6) – (37.1)
Decrease in oil price assumption to US$70 per boe (32.6) (27.1) (88.1)
A Key Performance Indicator (“KPI”) for the Group is to ensure effective engagement with partners to progress the North Sea development projects on time and 
within budget. Cairn’s base case asset valuations, used to estimate fair value less costs of disposal in impairment tests, assume this KPI is met. With the value of the 
Catcher development asset supported by the sale to Dyas, Cairn has run sensitivities on the Kraken development asset, delaying the date of first oil production by  
up to 12 months and increasing costs by 10%. The resultant fall in value would not impact the carrying value of any of the assets on the Group’s Balance Sheet. 
The Group’s proved and probable and contingent reserve estimates are based on P50 probabilities. P10 and P90 estimates are also produced but would not provide  
a reasonable estimate to be used in calculating the fair value of the Group’s assets. Cairn’s reserve estimates do not materially differ from those of the operators.
Other oil and gas assets
At the year end, an impairment charge was recognised on intangible exploration assets in Greenland as noted in section 2.1. These assets are fully impaired in 
accordance with IFRS and the Group’s accounting policies and therefore there is no meaningful sensitivity analysis to provide. 
There are no reasonable changes in assumptions that would lead to a material impairment of any of the Group’s remaining assets in the Atlantic Margin.
 
  116 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital
Cairn’s liquid cash resources supported by the undrawn US$575.0m secured borrowing facility 
ensure the Group is fully funded to meet its current exploration and development programme 
despite the current restriction on the sale of shares in Cairn India.
This section focuses on those assets, together with the working capital position of the Group  
at the year end. 
Significant accounting judgements in this section:
Impairment of Available-for -sale Financial Asset
The Group’s ~10% shareholding in Cairn India Limited, classified as a non-current available-for-sale financial asset, suffered a significant fall in value during 2014.  
The size of the deficit was such that cumulative mark-to-market valuation movements recognised in ‘Other Comprehensive Income’ and classified as an available-for-
sale reserve in equity, were recycled to the Income Statement as impairment.
The closing book value of the asset represents the quoted market price of the Group’s residual holding. Although Cairn is currently not able to sell its 9.8% stake,  
there is no restriction in the wider market where Cairn India Limited shares trade freely at this price. 
Key estimates and assumptions in this section:
There were no key estimations or assumptions in this section.
3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets
Accounting policy
The Group’s available-for-sale financial assets represent listed equity shares which are held at fair value (the quoted market price). Movements in the fair value during 
the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The cumulative gains or losses that arise on subsequent 
disposal of available-for-sale assets are recycled through the Income Statement.
At each reporting date, the fair value of the financial asset is compared to the value at the date of its initial recognition for signs of a prolonged or significant deficit  
in the valuation, which would indicate impairment. Where impairment is identified, cumulative losses recognised in Other comprehensive income are recycled to  
the Income Statement. In the event of a subsequent recovery in the valuation of the asset, there is no reversal of impairment; any such post-impairment gains are 
recognised as a surplus through Other comprehensive income. Any further impairment losses will be recognised through the Income Statement. 
Listed equity  
shares  
US$m
Fair Value
As at 1 January 2013 1,138.4
Deficit on valuation (110.8)
As at 1 January 2014 1,027.6
Deficit on valuation (261.1)
Disposal (63.9)
As at 31 December 2014 702.6
Available-for-sale financial assets represent the Group’s remaining investment in the fully diluted share capital of Cairn India Limited, listed in India, which by its nature 
has no fixed maturity or coupon rate. These listed equity securities present the Group with an opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains. 
In January 2014, Cairn was contacted by the Indian Income T ax Department to provide information in relation to the year ending 31 March 2007 . While interaction 
with the Indian Income T ax Department continues, Cairn has been restricted by the Indian Income T ax Department from selling its shares in, or receiving dividends 
declared by, Cairn India Limited. 
Prior to the restriction in January, the Company disposed of 12,048,836 shares in Cairn India Limited, recognising a gain of US$3.9m. This includes prior year unrealised 
gains recycled from equity of US$5.1m. The disposal of 0.6% shareholding leaves a residual 9.8% interest in Cairn India Limited. 
At 31 December 2014, the value of the investment in Cairn India Limited had fallen to US$702.6m. The significant accumulated deficit of US$194.3m from the date  
of a previous impairment was recycled to the Income Statement and recorded as impairment. An impairment of US$267 .5m was recycled to the Income Statement  
in June 2013 following a significant fall in value from the date of original recognition. 117 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
 
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
7.0
1 Jan 2013:
$5.87 
31 Dec 2013:
$5.24
30 June  2014:
$6.08
31 Dec 2014:
$3.82
3.1 Available-for-sale Financial Assets – Continued
Sensitivity analysis
At the year end the closing Cairn India Limited share price used to value the available-for-sale financial assets was INR 240.55/US$3.82 (2013: INR 323.75/US$5.24). 
The movement in the Cairn India Limited share price over the current and prior year is as follows:
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date, assuming all other variables are held constant. 
Sensitivities have been run based on the highest and lowest share prices measured in the preceding 12-month period and on decreases of 10% and 20% on the share 
price at 31 December 2014. Those prices are determined using the closing INR share price converted to US$ at the daily rate.
As at 31 December 2014
Effect on loss  
for year  
US$m
Effect on  
Equity  
US$m
Increase to the highest share price in 2014 – INR 383 (US$6.46) – 382.2
Decrease to the lowest share price in 2014 – INR 229 (US$3.61) (30.0) (30.0)
Decrease of 10% on closing share price in 2014 – INR 216 (US$3.43) (60.8) (60.8)
Decrease of 20% on closing share price in 2014 – INR 192 (US$3.05) (131.1) (131.1)
As at 31 December 2013
Effect on loss  
for year  
US$m
Effect on  
Equity  
US$m
Increase to the highest share price in 2013 – INR 340 (US$6.33) – 167.7
Decrease to the lowest share price in 2013 – INR 274 (US$4.51) (54.6) (111.2)
3.2 Net Funds
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Cash and cash equivalents 869.3 1,308.3
Loans and borrowings – (55.3)
Net funds 869.3 1,253.0
Cash and cash equivalents earn interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short-term deposits are made for varying periods from overnight deposits 
to three months depending on the cash requirements of the Group. 
Cairn limits the placing of deposits, certificates of deposit and other investments to banks or financial institutions that have ratings of A- or above from at least two of 
Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s or Fitch, unless a Sovereign Guarantee is available from an AAA rated Government. The counterparty limits vary between US$50.0m and 
US$200.0m depending on the ratings of the counterparty. No investments are placed with any counterparty with a five-year CDS exceeding 250 bps. Investments in 
money market liquidity funds are only made with AAA rated liquidity funds and the maximum holding in any single fund is 5% of total investments. 
The 2013 bank loan represents amounts drawn under the Capricorn Norge AS revolving exploration loan facility. During 2014, this facility was fully repaid and 
subsequently cancelled. 118 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
3.2 Net Funds – Continued
On 18 July 2014, Cairn Energy PLC signed a US$575.0m senior secured borrowing base facility with a syndicate of six international banks (BNP Paribas, Commonwealth 
Bank of Australia, DNB Bank ASA, HSBC Bank PLC, Societe Generale and Standard Chartered Bank) which was effective 1 August 2014. Until completion of the Catcher 
and Kraken developments the facility can be utilised to fund development costs on those projects and facility finance costs. The facility may also be utilised to issue letters 
of credit and performance guarantees for the Cairn Group of up to US$175.0m. Following completion, the facility can be used for general corporate purposes. Interest on 
outstanding debt is charged at the appropriate LIBOR for the currency drawn plus an applicable margin. The facility is subject to bi-annual redeterminations, has a market 
standard suite of covenants and is cross-guaranteed by all Group companies party to the facility. The outstanding debt is repayable in line with the amortisation of bank 
commitments over the period from 1 July 2018 to the final maturity date of 30 June 2021.
Cairn Energy PLC had issued a US$100.0m Letter of Credit on 22 July 2013 as required under the membership of the Oil Spill Response Scheme’s “Cap and Contain” 
arrangement which was fully cash backed. On 31 December 2014, the Letter of Credit was released by the beneficiary and the cash released such that no restrictions  
now apply. Any future requirement for such a Letter of Credit could be drawn from the US$575.0m committed facility signed in 2014.
3.3 Income T ax Assets
Income tax assets of US$60.3m (2013: US$81.3m) relate to cash tax refunds due from the Norwegian authorities on the tax value of exploration expenses incurred  
in Norway during the current year. 
3.4 Other Receivables
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Prepayments 19.1 5.2
Other receivables 105.8 86.2
Joint operation receivables 113.7 60.9
238.6 152.3
Prepayments include facility fees of US$16.3m incurred to secure debt funding. The amount will be amortised over the useful life of the facility, commencing on the 
date of the first draw-down under the facility, using an effective interest rate method. Costs directly related to development projects will be capitalised.
Other receivables includes costs incurred by Cairn awaiting recharge to joint operations and dividends receivable of US$35.2m from Cairn India Limited. While the 
restriction over Cairn’s investment remains, Cairn India Limited is unable to remit these dividends to the Group. See section 3.1. 
Joint operation receivables includes Cairn’s working interest share of the receivables relating to joint operations and amounts recoverable from partners in  
joint operations. 
At 31 December 2014 no amount within the Group’s other receivables or joint operation receivables was past due or impaired (2013: US$nil).
There was no Group allowance for doubtful debts in 2014. In determining the recoverability of other receivables the Group carries out a risk analysis based on the 
type and age of the outstanding receivable. 
3.5 Trade and Other Payables
 
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Trade payables 28.5 10.3
Other taxation and social security 6.4 6.4
Other payables 3.0 15.2
Joint operation payables 235.6 135.6
Accruals 4.7 33.5
278.2 201.0
Joint operation payables includes Cairn’s share of the trade and other payables of operations in which the Group participates. Where Cairn is operator of the joint 
operation, joint operation payables also includes amounts that Cairn will settle and recover from partners. 
 
Section 3 – Financial Assets and Working Capital continued 119 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
3.6 Financial Instruments
Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
Financial assets 
Carrying amount and fair value
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalents 869.3 1,308.3
Joint operation receivables 113.7 60.9
Other receivables 105.8 86.2
Available-for-sale financial assets
Listed equity shares 702.6 1,027.6 
1,791.4 2,483.0
All of the above loans and receivables are current and unimpaired. The impairment of the available-for-sale financial asset recycled to the Income Statement does not 
impact the carrying amount in the Balance Sheet.
Financial liabilities 
Carrying amount and fair value
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Amortised cost
Trade payables 28.5 10.3
Joint operation payables 235.6 135.6
Accruals 4.7 33.5
Other payables 3.0 15.2
Provisions 14.4 14.0
Loans and borrowings – 55.3
286.2 263.9
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, other than available-for-sale financial assets, has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at 
prevailing interest rates.
Maturity analysis
All of the Group financial liabilities have a maturity of less than one year, other than a provision of US$2.8m (2013: US$2.6m) that falls due after one year.
Fair value 
The Group holds listed equity shares as a non-current available-for-sale financial asset. The Group determines and discloses the fair value of these by reference to the 
quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for those shares at the measurement date.
At 31 December 2014 the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value:
Assets measured at fair value – Level 1
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Equity shares – listed 702.6 1,027.6
702.6 1,027.6
 
 
  120 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 4 – Results for the Y ear
This section includes the results and performance of the Group, with segmental disclosures 
highlighting the core areas of the Group’s operations in its three core regions of the Atlantic Margin, 
North West Europe and the Mediterranean.
This section also includes details of the Group tax credits in the year and deferred tax assets and 
liabilities held at the year end.
Significant accounting judgements in this section:
Deferred taxation
The deferred tax liability relating to the Group’s investment in Cairn India Limited, classified as an available-for-sale financial asset, is provided on the assumption that 
any future disposal will result in a tax liability. 
At the year end Cairn recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of UK North Sea oil and gas assets. This deductible temporary difference represents eligible field 
allowances on the Kraken and Catcher assets, offset by other taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are not included in the impairment tests conducted 
on the Group’s oil and gas assets. However, at each reporting date, Cairn reviews the carrying value of deferred tax assets to assess whether taxable profits will be 
available against which the Group can utilise unused tax losses and allowances which give rise to the asset. 
Cairn believes it is probable that UK North Sea assets will generate the taxable profits necessary to allow the temporary differences reflected in the deferred tax asset 
to be utilised in full.
Key estimates and assumptions in this section:
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax liabilities relating to UK and Norwegian North Sea assets are measured using the tax rates and laws that are enacted at the Balance Sheet date and are 
expected to apply to the period when the assets are realised, based on the conditions that existed at the Balance Sheet date. Deferred tax assets do not include additional 
field allowances that certain assets in the UK may qualify for in future periods, but which are subject to Government approval of respective field development plans which 
did not exist at the Balance Sheet date. 
4.1 Segmental Analysis
 
Operating segments
Cairn holds a balanced portfolio of exploration and development assets focused in three geographical regions: North West Europe; the Atlantic Margin; and the 
Mediterranean. 
The operations of the Group are organised on a country-by-country basis; countries form the Group’s operating segments. For management reporting purposes, 
operating segments are combined into regional business units. Cairn monitors the results of each regional unit separately for the purposes of making decisions about 
resource allocation and performance assessment. 
The Group’s Atlantic Margin exploration region contains two regional units. Assets in Greenland and the Republic of Ireland are combined into one unit while the 
Group’s African assets in Senegal, Morocco and Mauritania also form a separate unit. 
The North West Europe regional unit holds the UK and Norway operating segments. This region was previously reported as “UK and Norwegian North Sea”. 
Currently the segment contains the Group’s North Sea assets including the Skarfjell discovery in Norway and the UK Catcher and Kraken developments. The Ensis 
prospect in the Norwegian Barents Sea is also included in this segment.
The results of the Mediterranean region are reported along with the Group’s corporate assets within “Other Cairn Energy Group”. The Mediterranean includes 
licences in Spain, France and Malta.
  121 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
4.1 Segmental Analysis – Continued
Geographical information: non-current assets
Other Cairn Energy Group: 
Others
2014 2013
US$4.8m US$5.1m 
Other Cairn Energy Group: 
Mediterranean 
2014 2013
US$4.6m US$6.9m
North West Europe:  
UK and Norway
2014 2013
US$807.0m US$844.6m
Atlantic Margin:  
Greenland and Republic of Ireland
2014 2013
US$21.7m US$38.2m
Atlantic Margin:  
Senegal, Morocco and Mauritania
2014 2013
US$197.3m US$73.1m
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of intangible exploration/appraisal assets; property, plant & equipment – development/producing assets; intangible assets 
– goodwill; and other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets.
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2014 are as follows:
Atlantic Margin
Senegal,  
Morocco and 
Mauritania  
US$m
Greenland and 
Republic of Ireland 
US$m
North West Europe 
– UK and Norway 
US$m
Other  
Cairn Energy  
Group  
US$m
Total  
US$m
Pre-award costs – (0.7) (45.1) (9.0) (54.8)
Unsuccessful exploration costs (100.1) (6.6) (94.8) (6.9) (208.4)
Inventory disposal/write down – – – (8.4) (8.4)
Depreciation – (0.1) (0.3) (0.7) (1.1)
Amortisation – – – (2.2) (2.2)
Other income and administrative expenses – (0.4) (2.1) (50.3) (52.8)
Impairment of oil and gas assets – (22.7) (24.2) – (46.9)
Gain on disposal of oil and gas assets – – 2.3 – 2.3
Operating loss (100.1) (30.5) (164.2) (77.5) (372.3)
Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets – – – 3.9 3.9
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets – – – (194.3) (194.3)
Interest income – – 1.2 1.9 3.1
Interest expense – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Other finance income and costs 0.8 (0.4) 3.5 (3.3) 0.6
Loss before taxation (99.3) (30.9) (159.6) (269.3) (559.1)
T ax (charge)/credit (1.3) – 134.0 45.3 178.0
Loss for the year (100.6) (30.9) (25.6) (224.0) (381.1)
Capital expenditure 245.5 19.1 159.5 8.0 432.1
Total assets 358.1 28.0 988.8 1,642.5 3,017.4
Total liabilities 203.7 0.8 119.2 30.6 354.3 122 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 4 – Results for the Y ear continued
4.1 Segmental Analysis – Continued
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are as follows:
Atlantic Margin
Senegal,  
Morocco and 
Mauritania  
US$m
Greenland and 
Republic of Ireland 
US$m
North West Europe 
– UK and Norway 
US$m
Other  
Cairn Energy  
Group  
US$m
Total  
US$m
Pre-award costs – (1.1) (10.3) (12.1) (23.5)
Unsuccessful exploration costs (107.4) (23.6) (81.3) (0.8) (213.1)
Depreciation – (0.1) (0.5) (1.1) (1.7)
Amortisation – – – (2.8) (2.8)
Other income and administrative expenses (0.5) (0.2) (2.6) (34.4) (37.7)
Impairment of oil and gas assets – – (251.4) – (251.4)
Loss on disposal of oil and gas assets – – (24.7) – (24.7)
Impairment of goodwill – – (324.2) – (324.2)
Operating loss (107.9) (25.0) (695.0) (51.2) (879.1)
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets – – – (267 .5) (267 .5)
Interest income – – 1.3 2.5 3.8
Interest expense – – (2.5) – (2.5)
Other finance income and costs – 0.4 (0.2) 46.2 46.4
Loss before taxation (107.9) (24.6) (696.4) (270.0) (1,098.9)
T ax credit – – 468.7 74.3 543.0
Loss for the year (107.9) (24.6) (227.7) (195.7) (555.9)
Capital expenditure 177.9 17.3 204.9 8.4 408.5
Total assets 49.4 163.8 1,129.1 2,263.8 3,606.1
Total liabilities 8.8 135.1 169.0 105.4 418.3
4.2 Pre-award costs 
During the year, the Group incurred total pre-award costs of US$54.8m (2013:US$23.5m) as Cairn looked at new opportunities in North West Europe  
and elsewhere. 
US$30.3m (2013: US$nil) relates to pursuing new opportunities to follow up on the recent entry in the Norwegian Barents Sea, including US$22.0m acquiring  
seismic data. US$14.8m (2013: US$10.3m) relates to new opportunities in the UK and Norway including licensing round applications. In the Norwegian 2014 APA 
Licensing Round, Cairn was awarded non-operated interests in five licences: PL788 (Cairn 50%), PL787 (Cairn 30%), PL790 (Cairn 25%), PL159 (Cairn 18%) and 
PL800 (Cairn 35%). Further costs of US$9.7m (2013: US$13.2m) were incurred in pursuit of new opportunities in the Mediterranean and other regions. 
 
4.3 Net Operating Expenses 
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Other income (3.1) –
Administrative expenses 59.2 42.2
Inventory disposal/write down 8.4 –
64.5 42.2
Administrative expenses include US$7 .6m relating to the Group reorganisation, US$1.6m of which were accelerated share-based payment charges. US$8.5m  
(2013: US$nil) incurred to defend the Group’s tax position in India are also included in administrative expenses.  123 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
4.4 Finance Income 
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Bank and other interest receivable 3.1 3.8
Dividend income 35.2 40.5
Exchange gain – 6.3
38.3 50.6
Dividend income is receivable from Cairn India Limited. See section 3.1. 
4.5 Finance Costs
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Bank loan and overdraft interest 0.3 2.6
Other finance charges 3.1 0.3
Exchange loss 31.3 –
34.7 2.9
4.6 T axation on Loss
Accounting policy
The total tax charge or credit represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. The current tax is based on taxable profit or loss for the year. T axable profit or loss 
differs from net profit or loss as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and  
it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and 
the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit or loss. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in 
subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint operations where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences that exist only where  
it is probable that taxable profits will be generated against which the carrying value of the deferred tax asset can be recovered. 
A deferred tax asset or liability is not recognised if a temporary difference arises on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business 
combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Current and deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date. 124 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 4 – Results for the Y ear continued
4.6 T axation on Loss – Continued
a) Analysis of tax credit on loss in the year 
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Current tax credits:
Norwegian tax refunds receivable (67.3) (81.6)
Withholding taxes deducted at source 1.4 –
(65.9) (81.6)
Deferred tax credit:
Norwegian deferred tax (credit)/charge (13.4) 20.3
Recognition of eligibility to future field allowances on UK development asset (71.2) (211.9)
Release of provision on disposal of UK development asset – (32.8)
Release of provision on impairment of UK intangible exploration/appraisal asset (15.0) (152.2)
Other UK deferred tax credits 28.4 (10.3)
Recycled from other comprehensive income on impairment of financial assets (42.0) (74.5)
Recycled from other comprehensive income on sale of financial assets 1.1 –
(112.1) (461.4)
Total tax credit on loss (178.0) (543.0)
T ax included in Other Comprehensive Income:
Deferred tax credit on valuation of financial assets (56.6) (48.8)
Deferred tax charge on valuation movement recycled to Income Statement 40.9 74.5
Total tax charge in Other Comprehensive Income (15.7) 25.7
 
Norwegian deferred tax credit includes a credit of US$6.9m (2013: charge of US$23.8m) on temporary differences in respect of non-current assets and a credit  
of US$6.5m (2013: US$3.5m) on losses and other temporary differences.
Other UK deferred tax charges includes a charge of US$112.9m (2013: US$59.0m) on temporary differences in respect of non-current assets and a credit  
of US$84.5m (2013: credit of US$69.3m) on losses and other temporary differences. 
b) Factors affecting tax credit for the year
A reconciliation of income tax credit applicable to loss before income tax at the UK statutory rate to income tax credit at the Group’s effective income tax rate is as follows:
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Loss before taxation (559.1) (1,098.9)
Loss before tax multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) (120.2) (255.5)
Effect of:
Special tax rates and reliefs applying to oil and gas activities (145.5) (200.6)
Impact of field allowances on deferred tax (47.8) (145.5)
Additional deferred tax credit on disposal of development asset – (27.0)
Non-deductible impairment of goodwill – 72.3
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (2.6) (16.6)
Temporary differences not recognised 147.2 46.0
Deferred tax credit on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset (3.3) –
Foreign exchange movements (1.6) (12.1)
Other (4.2) (4.0)
Total tax credit on loss (178.0) (543.0)
The reconciliation shown above has been based on the average UK statutory rate of corporation tax for 2014 of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%). 
The UK main rate of corporation tax was 23% prior to 1 April 2014, and 21% from that date onwards. The reduction in the tax rate from 23% to 21% has resulted  
in an average rate of corporation tax of 21.5% for the year ended 31 December 2014, as shown above. The rate will reduce to 20% on 1 April 2015.
Special rates of tax apply to oil and gas activities in the UK and Norwegian North Sea operating segment. The applicable UK statutory tax rate applying to North Sea 
oil and gas activities is 62% and the applicable Norwegian rate applying to oil and gas activities is 78%. 125 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
4.6 T axation on Loss – Continued
c) Deferred tax assets and liabilities recoverable/due after more than one year
Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax assets/(liabilities):
Temporary 
difference in  
respect of  
non-current  
assets  
US$m
Losses  
US$m
Other  
temporary 
differences  
US$m
Total  
US$m
Deferred tax assets
At 1 January 2013 – – – –
Deferred tax credit though Income Statement (50.6) 109.3 – 58.7
At 1 January 2014 (50.6) 109.3 – 58.7
Deferred tax credit though Income Statement (31.3) 84.5 – 53.2
Exchange differences arising (0.2) (5.5) – (5.7)
At 31 December 2014 (82.1) 188.3 – 106.2
Deferred tax liabilities
At 1 January 2013 (597 .4) 62.7 3.8 (530.9)
Deferred tax credit though Income Statement 448.4 (49.3) 3.7 402.8
Deferred tax charge through Other Comprehensive Income (25.6) – – (25.6)
Exchange differences arising 18.4 (12.4) (0.3) 5.7
At 1 January 2014 (156.2) 1.0 7.2 (148.0)
Deferred tax credit though Income Statement 52.3 3.9 2.6 58.8
Deferred tax charge through Other Comprehensive Income 15.7 – – 15.7
Exchange differences arising 14.5 4.2 (6.9) 11.8
At 31 December 2014 (73.7) 9.1 2.9 (61.7)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) analysed by country:
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Deferred tax assets:
UK 106.2 58.7
106.2 58.7
Deferred tax liabilities:
Norway (52.2) (77.5)
India (9.5) (70.5)
(61.7) (148.0)
Recognised deferred tax assets
As at the Balance Sheet date, a net deferred tax asset of US$106.2m (2013: US$58.7m) has been recognised in the UK on other temporary differences and tax losses in 
excess of the UK deferred tax liability arising on temporary differences in respect of non-current assets attributable to UK Ring Fence trading activity. This includes the 
recognition in the year of a deferred tax credit to UK temporary differences in respect of non-current assets of US$71.2m (2013: US$211.9m), reflecting the eligibility 
to future field allowances on the Kraken and Catcher developments which will reduce future Ring Fence profits subject to Supplementary Charge. The eligible field 
allowances were confirmed when DECC approved the Kraken field development plan in 2013 and the Catcher field development plan in 2014, and will be claimed  
when production commences.
A deferred tax asset has also been recognised in respect of Norwegian tax losses and other temporary differences of US$12.0m (2013: US$8.2m) against a 
Norwegian deferred tax liability arising on temporary differences in respect of non-current assets.       
   
       126 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 4 – Results for the Y ear continued
4.6 T axation on Loss – Continued
c) Deferred tax assets and liabilities recoverable/due after more than one year (continued)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
No deferred tax asset has been recognised on the following as it is not considered probable that it will be utilised in future periods: 
 
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
UK fixed asset temporary differences 244.5 163.8
UK Ring Fence trading losses 167.8 –
UK Ring Fence pre-trade losses – 16.1
UK non-Ring Fence trading losses 3.9 –
UK non-Ring Fence pre-trade losses 5.3 5.3
UK excess management expenses 311.9 205.4
UK non-trade deficits 39.8 53.2
UK other temporary differences 7.6 6.6
Greenlandic tax losses 1,301.5 1,277.0
    
d) T ax strategy and governance
The Group’s tax strategy is fully aligned with its overarching business objectives and principles. Cairn commits to managing its tax affairs in a transparent and responsible 
manner and ensuring that all statutory obligations and disclosure requirements are met. We aim to comply with both the letter and spirit of the law in the relevant 
jurisdictions in which we operate, to ensure that the right amount of tax is paid, at the right time, within the right jurisdiction. 
As the Group is currently at an early stage in the value creation cycle and the level of its exploration activities is high, there are currently no taxable profits in the UK. 
T axable profits in other jurisdictions are also minimal, and as a result cash payments of corporation taxes are currently low. 
Cairn’s policy is to not enter into any artificial tax avoidance schemes and to build and maintain strong collaborative working relationships with all relevant tax authorities, 
based on honesty, integrity and proactive cooperation. The Group aims for certainty in relation to the tax treatment of all items; however, we acknowledge that this will 
not always be possible, for example where transactions are complex and there is a lack of maturity in the tax regime in the relevant jurisdiction in which we are operating. 
In such circumstances the Group will seek external advice where appropriate and ensure that the approach adopted in any relevant tax return is supportable and 
includes full disclosure of the position taken.
4.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated using the following measures of loss: 
 2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Loss and diluted loss attributable to equity holders of the parent (381.1) (555.9)
The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 
2014 
’000
2013 
 ’000
Weighted average number of shares 578,845 602,279
Less weighted average shares held by ESOP and SIP Trusts (5,730) (5,969)
Basic weighted average number of shares 573,115 596,310
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Employee share options 33 389
Diluted weighted average number of shares 573,148 596,699
 
 
 
 
  127 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Section 5 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
The disclosures in this section focus on the issued share capital, the share schemes in operation and 
the associated share-based payment charge to profit or loss. Other mandatory disclosures, such as 
details of related party transactions, can also be found here.
Significant accounting judgements in this section:
There are no significant accounting judgements in this section.
Key estimates and assumptions in this section:
Share-based payments
Charges for share-based payments are based on the fair value at the date of the award. The shares are valued using appropriate modelling techniques and inputs to 
the models include assumptions on leaver rates, trigger points, discount rates and volatility. See section 5.4.
5.1 Issued Capital and Reserves
Called-up share capital
Group and Company
Number  
231/169p  
ordinary 
’000
231/169p  
ordinary  
US$m
Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares
At 1 January 2013 603,261 13.0
Issued and allotted for employee share options 14 –
Shares repurchased and cancelled by the Company (8,218) (0.2)
At 1 January 2014 595,057 12.8
Issued and allotted for employee share options 94 –
Shares repurchased and cancelled by Company (18,887) (0.4)
At 31 December 2014 576,264 12.4
Share premium
Group and Company
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
At 1 January 486.9 486.9
Arising on shares issued for employee share options 0.1 –
At 31 December 487.0 486.9
 
Share buy-back 
The Company’s share buy-back programme (US$100.0m plus associated fees of $0.9m) ran from October 2013 until its suspension in March 2014. The first 
US$50.0m was entered into with Cairn’s brokers during 2013, and a further US$50.0m during 2014. During 2014 18.9m shares were repurchased at a cost of 
US$63.7m (2013: 8.2m shares at a cost of US$36.3m) plus associated fees of US$0.6m (2013: US$0.3m). 
 
Shares held by ESOP T rust 
Shares held by the ESOP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Trust at 31 December 2014 of US$19.3m (2013: US$22.4m). 
The number of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Trust at 31 December 2014 was 4,284,055 (2013: 4,965,135) and the market value of these 
shares was £7 .6m/US$11.9m (2013: £13.4m/US$22.2m).
Shares held by SIP T rust 
Shares held by the SIP Trust represent the cost of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Employees’ Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2014 of US$7 .4m 
(2013: US$5.6m). The number of shares held by the Cairn Energy PLC Share Incentive Plan Trust at 31 December 2014 was 1,351,203 (2013: 938,846) and the 
market value of these shares was £2.4m/US$3.8m (2013: £2.5m/US$4.1m).
Foreign currency translation
Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses arising on consolidation of subsidiary undertakings are taken directly to reserves. Foreign exchange differences arising 
on intra-group loans are not eliminated on consolidation; this reflects the exposure to currency fluctuations where the subsidiaries involved have differing functional 
currencies. These intra-group loans are not considered to be an investment in a foreign operation.
Merger and capital reserves
The merger reserve of US$255.9m arose in 2012 on shares issued by Cairn on the acquisition of Agora Oil and Gas AS. Capital reserves – non-distributable include 
non-distributable amounts arising on various Group acquisitions and the capital redemption reserve arising from the 2013/2014 share buy-back programme. 128 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 5 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures continued
5.1 Issued Capital and Reserves – Continued
Available-for -sale reserve
The available-for-sale reserve represents fair value movements on the available-for-sale financial assets (see section 3.1). At 31 December 2014, the cumulative 
deficit was recycled to the Income Statement as impairment.
5.2 Capital Management
The objective of the Group’s capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Group to carry out committed work 
programme requirements. The Group monitors the long-term cash flow requirements of the business in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital 
structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility.
Cairn manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes to economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, Cairn may buy  
back shares, make a special dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for cash, repay debt, put in place new debt facilities (see section 3.2) or 
undertake other such restructuring activities as appropriate. No significant changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 
31 December 2014. 
 
Capital and net debt were made up as follows:
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Continuing operations
Trade and other payables 278.2 201.0
Loans and borrowings – 55.3
Less cash and cash equivalents (869.3) (1,308.3)
Net funds less payables (591.1) (1,052.0)
Equity 2,663.1 3,187.8
Capital and net funds less payables 2,072.0 2,135.8
Gearing ratio 0% 0%
 
5.3 Staff Costs
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Wages and salaries 43.2 38.4
Social security costs and other taxes 5.6 4.8
Redundancy costs 4.7 0.3
Other pension costs 3.4 2.8
Share-based payments charge 21.4 14.0
78.3 60.3
Staff costs are shown gross before amounts recharged to joint operations and include the costs of share-based payments. The share-based payments charge includes 
amounts in respect of both equity and cash-settled phantom options.
During 2014 the Company carried out a programme of restructuring which included redundancy costs of US$4.7m.
The average number of full time equivalent employees, including executive directors and individuals employed by the Group working on joint operations, was:
Number of employees
2014 2013
UK 164 158
Norway 14 15
Spain 4 5
Greenland 15 12
Nepal – 2
Morocco 1 1
Group 198 193 129 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
5.4 Share-based Payments
 
Accounting policy
The cost of awards to employees under Cairn’s LTIP and share option plans are recognised over the three-year period to which the performance relates. The amount 
recognised is based on the fair value of the shares as measured at the date of the award. The shares are valued using a Monte Carlo model with the exception of the SIP 
awards which have been valued using a Black-Scholes model. Awards in prior years were valued using a Monte Carlo model. 
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (“the vesting date”). The cumulative expense recognised 
for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Company’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The Income Statement charge or credit for a year represents the movement in cumulative 
expense as recognised at the beginning and end of that year.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
 
The Group operates a number of share-based schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The number of Share Awards made by the Company during the year is given in the table below together with their weighted average fair value (‘WAFV’) and weighted 
average grant or exercise price (‘WAGP/WAEP’):
2014  
WAFV  
£
2014  
WAGP/WAEP  
£
2014  
Number  
of shares
2013  
WAFV  
£
2013  
WAGP/WAEP  
£
2013  
Number  
of shares
2010 SIP – free shares 1.40 1.68 264,810 2.50 2.82 129,578
2010 SIP – matching shares 1.40 1.86 197 ,097 2.50 2.79 121,474
2009 Approved Plan 0.28 1.68 589,320 0.72 2.78 485,814
2009 Unapproved Plan 0.28 1.68 6,479,802 0.72 2.78 4,277,846
2009 LTIP 1.06 1.68 10,986,850 1.35 2.78 5,648,805
2014 Share awards 1.81 1.81 55,096 – – –
18,572,975 10,663,517
The analysis of the charge to the Income Statement in the year is:
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Included within administrative expenses:
2010 SIP 0.8 0.9
2009 Approved Plan 1.0 0.6
2009 Unapproved Plan 4.4 3.6
2009 LTIP 15.0 8.3
2012 Share awards 0.2 0.6
21.4 14.0
As a result of the Group reorganisation in 2014, administrative expenses include US$1.6m (2013: US$nil) of accelerated share-based payment charges reflecting the 
reduced performance period for staff leaving through redundancy. 
Details of those awards with a significant impact on the results for the current and prior years are given below together with a summary of the remaining awards. 
Further details on assumptions and inputs applying to all share awards can be found in appendix 3.
2009 L TIP
The awards existing under the 2009 LTIP are detailed in the table below together with the weighted average grant price (“WAGP”) at 31 December:
2014 2013
Number WAGP (£) Number WAGP (£)
Outstanding as at 1 January 12,710,604 3.04 9,337,452 3.50
Granted during the year 10,986,850 1.68 5,648,805 2.78
Lapsed during the year (5,673,289) 2.84 (2,275,653) 4.29
Outstanding at 31 December 18,024,165 2.28 12,710,604 3.04
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 1.5 years 1.6 years 130 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 5 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures continued
5.4 Share-based Payments – Continued 
Summary of all other share schemes
The awards existing under all share schemes other than the 2009 LTIP but including the SIP are detailed in the table below together with the weighted average of the 
grant price, exercise price and notional exercise prices (“WAGP/WAEP”) at 31 December:
2014 2013
Number WAGP/WAEP (£) Number WAGP/WAEP (£)
Outstanding at 1 January 11,011,826 2.82 7 ,126,626 2.94
Granted during the year 7,586,125 1.69 5,014,712 2.78
Vested/exercised during the year (363,053) 2.10 (175,799) 2.94
Lapsed during the year (2,456,149) 3.00 (953,713) 3.57
Outstanding at 31 December 15,778,749 2.26 11,011,826 2.82
Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards 8.0 years 8.0 years
LTIP
The fair value of the 2009 LTIP scheme awards has been calculated using a Monte Carlo model, as described at appendix 3. The main inputs to the model have been 
laid out in the appendix, though vesting percentages for LTIPs can be above 100%. For details on the vesting conditions attached to the LTIPs refer to the Directors’ 
Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97 .
5.5 Directors’ Emoluments and Remuneration of Key Management Personnel
Details of each Director’s remuneration, pension entitlements, share options and awards pursuant to the LTIP are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report  
on pages 76 to 97 . Directors’ remuneration, their pension entitlements, and any share awards vested during the year is provided in aggregate in section 7 .8.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors of the Company and of the members of the Management and Corporate teams who are the key management personnel of the 
Group is set out below in aggregate.
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Short-term employee benefits 9.8 10.2
Termination benefits 0.3 –
Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6
Share-based payments 6.8 5.3
17.5 16.1
In addition employer’s national insurance contributions for key management personnel in respect of short-term employee benefits were US$1.4m (2013: US$1.3m).
Share-based payments represent the cost to the Group of key management personnel’s participation in the Company’s share schemes, measured under IFRS 2.
5.6 Guarantees
It is normal practice for the Group to issue guarantees in respect of obligations during the normal course of business. 
During the year , Cairn Energy PLC entered into a US$575.0m senior secured borrowing facility with a syndicate of six international banks (BNP Paribas, Commonwealth 
Bank of Australia, DNB Bank ASA, HSBC Bank PLC, Societe Generale and Standard Chartered Bank). See section 3.2. On entering into the facility certain subsidiaries 
granted cross-guarantees to each of the lenders.
The Group also provided the following guarantees at 31 December 2014:
 – Various guarantees under the Group’s bank facility for the Group’s share of minimum work programme commitments for the current year of US$7 .8m  
(2013: US$33.8m); and
 – Parent company guarantees for the Group’s obligations under joint operating agreements and other contracts. 
  131 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Section 6 – Post Balance Sheet Events
6.1 Sale of 10% Working Interest in Catcher
In September 2014, Cairn entered into an agreement to farm-down 10% of the Group’s working interest in the Catcher development, satellite fields and surrounding 
exploration acreage to Dyas. Under the terms of the deal, Dyas will fund Cairn’s exploration and development costs in respect of the licences up to a cap of US$182.0m. 
Final approval for the sale to Dyas was received in January 2015. As the deal had an effective economic date of 1 January 2014, on completion Cairn received a 
refund of costs of US$54.7m including US$36.5m received under the carry.  132 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Company Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2014
Section
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Non-current assets   
Investments in subsidiaries 7.6 2,804.7 1,649.7
Current assets 
Other receivables 7.3 18.9 309.9
Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 24.0 882.9
42.9 1,192.8
Total assets 2,847.6 2,842.5
  
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 7.4 68.4 19.8
Total liabilities 68.4 19.8
Net assets 2,779.2 2,822.7
  
Equity  
Called-up share capital 5.1 12.4 12.8
Share premium 5.1 487.0 486.9
Shares held by ESOP/SIP Trusts 5.1 (26.7) (28.0)
Capital reserves – non-distributable 5.1 0.7 0.3
Merger reserve 5.1 255.9 255.9
Retained earnings 2,049.9 2,094.8
Total equity  2,779.2 2,822.7
The financial statements on pages 132 to 142 were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
James Smith   Simon Thomson
Chief Financial Officer  Chief Executive 133 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Company Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Section
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Cash flows from operating activities 
Loss before taxation (14.9) (291.6)
Share-based payments charge 4.6 4.0
Impairment of investment in subsidiary – 336.7
Finance income (0.9) (59.8)
Finance costs 2.9 –
Other receivables movement 307.4 (324.6)
Trade and other payables movement (1,075.5) (0.4)
Net cash used in operating activities (776.4) (335.7)
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividend received – 57.7
Interest received 0.7 1.8
Net cash from investing activities 0.7 59.5
Cash flows from financing activities 
Cost of shares purchased (64.3) (36.6)
Facility and arrangement fees (19.2) –
Proceeds from exercise of share options 0.3 –
Net cash flows used in financing activities (83.2) (36.6)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (858.9) (312.8)
Opening cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 882.9 1,196.4
Exchange losses on cash and cash equivalents – (0.7)
Closing cash and cash equivalents 7.2 24.0 882.9
  134 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Equity  
share  
capital  
US$m
 Shares  
held by  
ESOP Trust  
and SIP Trust  
US$m
 Merger  
and capital  
reserves  
US$m 
 Retained  
earnings  
US$m 
 Total  
equity  
US$m
At 1 January 2013 499.9 (28.7) 256.0 2,423.7 3,150.9
Loss for the year – – – (291.6) (291.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (291.6) (291.6)
Share buy-back (0.2) – 0.2 (50.6) (50.6)
Share-based payments – – – 14.0 14.0
Cost of shares vesting – 0.7 – (0.7) –
At 31 December 2013 499.7 (28.0) 256.2 2,094.8 2,822.7
Loss for the year – – – (14.9) (14.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (14.9) (14.9)
Share buy-back (0.4) – 0.4 (50.3) (50.3)
Share-based payments – – – 21.4 21.4
Exercise of employee share options 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3
Cost of shares vesting – 1.1 – (1.1) –
At 31 December 2014 499.4 (26.7) 256.6 2,049.9 2,779.2
  135 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Section 7 – Notes to the Company Financial Statements
This section contains the notes to the Company Financial Statements.
The issued capital and reserves of the Company are largely consistent with Cairn Energy PLC 
Group Financial Statements. Refer to section 5.1 of the Group Financial Statements.
Key estimates and assumptions in this section:
Impairment testing of investments in subsidiaries 
The Company’s investments in subsidiaries have been tested for impairment by comparison against the underlying value of the subsidiaries’ exploration/appraisal 
assets based on fair value less costs of disposal calculated using the same assumptions as noted for the testing of goodwill impairment in section 2.4. 
7 .1 Basis of Preparation
The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. 
The Company applies consistent accounting policies as applied by the Group. To the extent that an accounting policy is relevant to both Group and Company Financial 
Statements, refer to the Group Financial Statements for disclosure of the accounting policy. Material policies that apply to the Company only are included as appropriate.
Cairn has used the exemption granted under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 that allows for the non-disclosure of the Income Statement of the parent company. 
The loss attributable to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014 was US$14.9m (2013: US$291.6m).
7 .2 Net Funds
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Cash and cash equivalents 24.0 882.9
Net funds 24.0 882.9
7 .3 Other Receivables
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Prepayments 15.0 0.3
Other receivables 3.9 1.8
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – 307.8
18.9 309.9
During the year, the Company received shares from Capricorn Oil Limited, its principal subsidiary, for settlement of inter-company debts of US$1,138.9m. Refer to 
section 7 .6 for further details. 
During 2013 a provision for doubtful debts of US$689.2m made in a prior year was released when the net debt due from the subsidiary was capitalised through  
a share issue. 
7 .4 Trade and Other Payables
 
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Trade payables 0.2 0.1
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 57.6 4.2
Other taxation and social security 1.3 1.1
Accruals 9.3 14.4
68.4 19.8 136 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Section 7 – Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
7 .5 Financial Instruments
Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Company’s financial instruments that are carried in the Financial Statements.
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Financial assets: Carrying amount and fair value 
Loans and receivables
Cash and cash equivalents 24.0 882.9
Other receivables 3.9 1.8
Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings – 307.8
27.9 1,192.5
All of the above financial assets are current and unimpaired.
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Financial liabilities: Carrying amount and fair value
Amortised cost
Trade payables 0.2 0.1
Accruals 9.3 14.4
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 57.6 4.2
67.1 18.7
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Maturity analysis
All of the Company’s financial liabilities have a maturity of less than one year (2013: less than one year).
 
7 .6 Investments in Subsidiaries
Accounting policy
The Company’s investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provisions resulting from impairment. In testing for impairment the carrying value of the investment 
is compared to its recoverable amount, being its fair value less costs of disposal. The fair value is based on the discounted future net cash flows of oil and gas assets 
held by the subsidiary, using estimated cash flow projections over the licence period. For exploration assets, estimated discounted cash flows are risk-weighted for 
future exploration success.
Discounted future net cash flows are calculated using an estimated short-term oil price based on the forward curve and long-term oil price of US$90 per boe  
(2013: long-term oil price of US$90 per boe), escalation for prices and costs of 2.5%, and a discount rate of 10% (2013: 2.5% and 10% respectively). Full details  
on the assumptions used for valuing oil and gas assets can be found in section 2.
Subsidiary 
undertakings  
US$m
Total  
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2013 916.9 916.9
Additions 1,069.5 1,069.5
Impairments (336.7) (336.7)
At 1 January 2014 1,649.7 1,649.7
Additions 1,155.0 1,155.0
At 31 December 2014 2,804.7 2,804.7
Details of the Company’s principal subsidiaries at the Balance Sheet date are included in appendix 1. 
Additions during the year included US$1,138.9m for the issue of 731,262,214 shares of £1 each at par by Capricorn Oil Limited which reduced the amounts owed  
to the Company by Capricorn Oil Limited. 
A further US$16.1m (2013: US$9.7m) was recognised as additions relating to Capricorn Oil Limited for the award of share options of the Company to the employees 
of Capricorn Energy Limited (a principal subsidiary of Capricorn Oil Limited). 
Additions during 2013 included US$1,059.8m capital contribution by Cairn Energy PLC which reduced the amounts owed to the Company by Capricorn Oil Limited. 
  137 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
7 .6 Investments in Subsidiaries – Continued
At the year end, investments in subsidiaries were reviewed for indicators of impairment and impairment tests conducted where indicators found. Given that the 
market capitalisation of Cairn is less than its net book value, impairment tests were conducted on all investments in subsidiaries held by the Company. No impairments 
arose at the year end. At 31 December 2013 the Company’s investment in Capricorn Oil Limited was impaired to reflect the fair value of the underlying assets of the 
Capricorn Oil Group. A charge of US$336.7m was made to the Company’s Income Statement. 
 
7 .7 Capital Management
Capital and net debt were made up as follows:
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Trade and other payables 68.4 19.8
Less cash and cash equivalents (24.0) (882.9)
Net debt 44.4 (863.1)
Equity 2,779.2 2,822.7
Capital and net debt 2,823.6 1,959.6
Gearing ratio 2% 0%
7 .8 Related Party Transactions 
The Company’s principal subsidiaries are listed in appendix 1. The following table provides the Company’s balances which are outstanding with subsidiary companies 
at the Balance Sheet date:
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings – 307.8
Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings (57 .6) (4.2)
(57 .6) 303.6
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and repayable on demand and will be settled in cash. 
During the year, the Company increased its investment in Capricorn Oil Limited through capitalisation of loan balances receivable from the subsidiary. See section 7 .6 
for further details. 
 
The following table provides the Company’s transactions with subsidiary companies recorded in the loss for the year:
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Amounts invoiced to subsidiaries 17.3 8.4
Amounts invoiced by subsidiaries 7.2 2.2
Dividend received from subsidiary – 57.7
Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration of the directors of the Company is set out below. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97 .
2014  
US$m
2013  
US$m
Emoluments 5.8 4.8
5.8 4.8
Pension contributions were made on behalf of directors in 2014 of US$0.4m (2013: US$0.2m).
No share awards to directors vested during 2014 (2013: none).
Other transactions 
During the year the Company did not make any purchases in the ordinary course of business from an entity under common control (2013: US$nil). 
  138 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements
Appendix 1 – Principal Subsidiary Undertakings
The Company’s principal subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet date are set out below. A full list of subsidiaries can be found on the Annual Return. The Company holds 
100% of the voting rights and ordinary shares of the following companies:
Principal activity Country of incorporation Country of operation
Direct holdings
Capricorn Oil Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland
Cairn UK Holdings Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland
Indirect holdings – Capricorn Oil Limited Group
Capricorn Energy Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland
Capricorn Spain Limited Exploration Scotland Spain
Capricorn Malta Limited Exploration Scotland Malta
Capricorn Greenland Exploration A/S Exploration Greenland Greenland
Capricorn Exploration and Development Company Limited Exploration Scotland Morocco
Capricorn Mauritania Limited Exploration Scotland Mauritania
Capricorn Senegal Limited Exploration Scotland Senegal
Capricorn Ireland Limited Exploration Scotland Republic of Ireland
Capricorn Norge AS Exploration Norway Norway
Nautical Petroleum Limited Exploration England UK
Nautical Petroleum AG Exploration and development Switzerland UK
Agora Oil and Gas (UK) Limited Exploration Scotland UK
  139 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Appendix 2 – Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies
 
Group and Company
The main risks arising from the Company’s and the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk arising from equity price fluctuations and 
foreign currency risk. The Board of Cairn Energy PLC through the Treasury Sub-Committee reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these 
are summarised below.
The Group’s treasury function and Executive Team as appropriate are responsible for managing these risks, in accordance with the policies set by the Board. Management 
of these risks is carried out by monitoring of cash flows, investment and funding requirements using a variety of techniques. These potential exposures are managed whilst 
ensuring that the Company and the Group have adequate liquidity at all times in order to meet their immediate cash requirements. There are no significant concentrations 
of risks unless otherwise stated. The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivatives, for speculative purposes.
The primary financial assets and liabilities comprise cash, short and medium-term deposits, notice accounts, certificates of deposit, money market liquidity funds, 
listed equity shares (Cairn India Limited only), intra-group loans and other receivables and financial liabilities held at amortised cost. The Group’s strategy has been to 
finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. Other alternatives such as equity issues and other forms of non-investment-grade 
debt finance are reviewed by the Board, when appropriate.
 
Liquidity risk
The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk using both short and long-term cash flow projections, supplemented by debt financing plans and active 
portfolio management. Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in and delays of 
development projects. The Group’s forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within its current debt facilities and have significant financial headroom  
for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts. Details of the Group’s debt facilities can be found in section 3.2.
At 31 December 2013 Cairn Energy PLC Group had a total of US$60.0m of facilities in place to cover the issue of performance guarantees. On 21 February 2014  
the facilities were further increased to US$100.0m. On 1 Aug 2014 these were cancelled and replaced by the US$575.0m debt facility noted above.
The Group currently has surplus cash which is invested in a combination of money market liquidity funds, notice accounts and term deposits with a number of 
international and UK financial institutions, ensuring sufficient liquidity to enable the Group to meet its short and medium-term expenditure requirements. 
Interest rate risk
Surplus funds are invested at floating rates. Borrowing arrangements are generally entered into at floating rates. From time to time the Group may opt to manage a 
proportion of the interest costs by using derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps. At this time, however, there are no such instruments (2013: none).
The Group’s loss before tax is not sensitive to changes in interest rates.
Foreign currency risk
Cairn manages exposures that arise from non-functional currency receipts and payments by matching receipts and payments in the same currency and actively 
managing the residual net position. Generally the exposure has been limited given that receipts and payments have mostly been in US dollars and the functional 
currency of most companies in the Group is US dollars. 
The Group also aims where possible to hold surplus cash, debt and working capital balances in functional currency which in most cases is US dollars, thereby matching the 
reporting currency and functional currency of most companies in the Group. This minimises the impact of foreign exchange movements on the Group’s Balance Sheet. 
Where residual net exposures do exist and they are considered significant the Company and Group may from time to time opt to use derivative financial instruments 
to minimise exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to movements in the US$:GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Group’s and the 
Company’s monetary assets and liabilities. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
2014 2013
Group
Effect on  
loss before tax 
US$m
Effect on  
Equity  
US$m
Effect on  
loss before tax 
US$m
Effect on  
Equity  
US$m
10% increase in Sterling to US$ 28.3 80.1 9.2 41.4
10% decrease in Sterling to US$ (28.3) (80.1) (9.2) (41.4)
2014 2013
Company
Effect on  
loss before tax 
US$m
Effect on  
Equity  
US$m
Effect on  
loss before tax 
US$m
Effect on  
Equity  
US$m
10% increase in Sterling to US$ 89.8 89.8 93.5 93.5
10% decrease in Sterling to US$ (89.8) (89.8) (93.5) (93.5) 140 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements continued
Appendix 2 – Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies – Continued
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, investments with banks and financial institutions and joint operations. 
Joint operation partners are subject to a risk assessment using publicly available information and credit reference agencies, with follow-up due diligence and 
monitoring if required. 
Investment credit risk for investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the Group Treasury function in accordance with the Board-approved 
policies of Cairn Energy PLC. These policies limit counterparty exposure and maturity and take account of published ratings, market measures and other market 
information. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate the risk of financial loss through counterparty failure. It is Cairn’s policy to 
invest with banks or other financial institutions that firstly offer the greatest degree of security in the view of the Group, and, secondly the most competitive interest 
rates. Repayment of principal is the overriding priority and this is achieved by diversification and shorter maturities to provide flexibility. The Board continually 
re-assesses the Group’s policy and updates as required. 
At the year end the Group does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk. As at 31 December 2014 the Group had investments with 22 counterparties 
(2013: 33) to ensure no concentration of counterparty investment risk. The maturity of these investments ranged from instant access to three months.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date.
Market risk: equity price risk
The Group is exposed to equity price risks arising from the listed equity investments it holds in Cairn India Limited. Equity investments are held for strategic rather 
than trading purposes and the Group does not actively trade these investments, which are classified as non-current available-for-sale financial assets.
Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The cumulative gain or loss 
that arises on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets is recycled through the Income Statement.
Further details on the impact of equity price movements on the fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets are included in section 3.1. 141 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Appendix 3 – Share-based Payments
Cairn Energy PLC Group and Company
The schemes below apply for both Group and Company.
Cairn Energy PLC share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year, subject to the normal employee dealing bans imposed at certain times  
by the Company. The weighted average share price during the year was £1.877 (2013: £2.753). 
The Cairn Energy PLC share awards during 2014 were valued using a Monte Carlo model with the exception of the SIP awards which were valued using a Black-
Scholes model. Awards in prior years were valued using a Monte Carlo model. 
The main inputs to the models include the number of options, share price, leaver rate, trigger points, discount rate and volatility. 
 – Leaver rate assumptions are based on past history of employees leaving the Company prior to options vesting and are revised to equal the number of options  
that ultimately vest.
 – Trigger points are based on the length of time after the vesting periods for awards in 2014. Awards in prior years have trigger points based on the profit points  
at which the relevant percentage of employees are assumed to exercise their options. 
 – The risk-free rate is based on the yield on a zero coupon Government bond with a term equal to the expected term on the option being valued.
 – Volatility was determined as the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the shares of a peer group of similar companies 
selected from the FTSE, as disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97 , over a 10-year period to the date of award.
The following assumptions and inputs apply to the share plans detailed in section 5.4:
Scheme name Volatility
Risk-free rate  
per annum
Lapse due to 
withdrawals  
per annum
2010 Share Incentive Plan 29% – 52% 0% – 0.69% 5% 
2009 Approved and Unapproved Plans 29% – 52% 0.29% – 3.20% 5% 
2009 LTIP 29% – 52% 0% – 2.33% 0%
2012 Share awards 29% – 52% – 5%
Employee exercise trigger point assumptions
For 2014 awards, the assumption used for the 2009 Approved and Unapproved awards is that employees will exercise half of the awards on the vesting date and the 
remaining half will be exercised equally each year over the following seven years. This assumption is modified for the 2009 LTIP awards such that awards are assumed 
to be exercised 10% on the three-year anniversary of the award date and 22.5% each year thereafter up until the seventh anniversary date. The assumption used for 
the valuation of the SIP is that employees will withdraw shares five years after the award date.
For details on the vesting conditions attached to the LTIPs refer to the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97 .
  142 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements continued
Non Audit fee,
$203,000
Audit fee,
$596,000
Non Audit fee,
$79,000
Audit fee,
$729,000
Appendix 4 – Auditors’ Remuneration 
2014  
US$’000
2013  
US$’000
PwC LLP 
Fees payable to the Group’s auditors and its associate firms for:
Audit of parent company and consolidated Financial Statements 346 246
Audit of Group companies pursuant to legislation 250 139
T ax advisory and other services 203 13
Ernst & Young LLP
Fees payable to the Group’s auditors and its associate firms for:
Audit of parent company and consolidated Financial Statements – 86
Audit of Group companies pursuant to legislation – 258
T ax advisory and other services – 66
The Group has a policy in place for the award of non-audit work to the auditors which, in certain circumstances, requires Audit Committee approval (see the Audit 
Committee report on pages 73 to 75). 
The split of audit fees to non-audit fees payable to the auditor is as follows:
2014 Fees to Auditors 2013 Fees to Auditors 143 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Group booked reserves and resources
A total of 56.1 mmboe were booked as 2P Reserves and 171.6 mmboe as 2C Resources at 31 December 2014 on a net working basis.
 
Net 2P Reserves
31.12.13  
mmboe
Revisions  
mmboe
Discoveries  
& Extensions  
mmboe
Acquisitions  
& Disposals  
mmboe
Production  
mmboe
31.12.14  
mmboe
UK 30.1 26.1 – – (0.0) 56.1
Totals 30.1 26.1 – – (0.0) 56.1
Net 2C Contingent Resources
UK 33.7 (32.5) – – – 1.1
Ireland 23.4 – – – – 23.4
Norway 23.0 0.5 – 3.4 – 26.9
Senegal – – 120.1 – – 120.1
Totals 80.1 (32.0) 120.1 3.4 – 171.6
 – 2P Reserves increased by 26.0 mmboe during 2014 due to the Catcher project FDP approval. 
 – 2C Resources increased by 91.5 mmmboe during 2014 due to Senegal and promotion of Catcher Resources to Reserves.
 – All 2P bookings are supported by independent Competent Persons Reports.
 – In January 2015 Cairn completed the sale of a 10% interest in the Catcher development to Dyas UK Limited; this sale is not reflected in the reserves  
disclosed above. 144 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Licence list 
As at 31 December 2014
Country Asset Name Block/Licence Operator Cairn Interest (%)
Atlantic Margin
Morocco FOUM DRAA OFFSHORE 
1, 2 AND 3
Foum Draa Cairn 50
Morocco JUBY MARITIME I, II AND 
III
Juby Maritime Cairn 37.5
Morocco CAP BOUJDOUR I – XV Cap Boujdour Kosmos 20
Mauritania C-19 PSC C-19 Chariot 35
Senegal RUFISQUE OFFSHORE, 
SANGOMAR OFFSHORE 
AND SANGOMAR DEEP 
OFFSHORE
Sangomar-Rufisque Cairn 40
Greenland ATAMMIK 2002/15 Cairn 87.5
Greenland EQQUA 2008/11 Cairn 87.5
Greenland LADY FRANKLIN 2005/06 Cairn 87.5
Greenland PITU 2011/13 Cairn 87.5
Republic of Ireland SPANISH POINT FEL 2/04
(Blocks 35/8, 35/9)
Cairn 38
Republic of Ireland SPANISH POINT NORTH FEL 4/08
(Blocks 35/2b, 35/3b, 35/4a)
Cairn 38
Republic of Ireland FEL 1/14 FEL 1/14
(Blocks 35/13, 35/14, 35/15 (p), 35/18, 35/19)
Cairn 38
Mediterranean
Spain ALTA MAR 1 Alta Mar Cairn 100
Spain ALTA MAR 2 Alta Mar Cairn 100
Spain BENIFAYO Albufera-Benifayo-Gandia Cairn 100
Spain GANDIA Albufera-Benifayo-Gandia Cairn 100
France ST LAURENT Saint Laurent
(Block P566)
eCORP 22
France GEX GEX eCORP 20
Malta BLOCKS 1, 2 and 3 Area 03 Cairn 60
North West Europe
UK PEDL203 PEDL203
(Block SK/65b)
Egdon 15
UK PEDL118 PEDL118
(Blocks SK/65c, SK/66d)
Egdon 15
UK PEDL005 PEDL005
(Blocks TF/38b andTF/49b)
Egdon 10
UK P218 P218
(Block 15/21a Gamma)
Premier 21
UK P1763 P1763
(Blocks 9/9d, 9/14a, 9/15d)
MPX North Sea 32.5
UK P1463 P1463
(Block 14/30a)
Premier 20
UK P1077 P1077
(Block 9/2b ALL)
EnQuest 25 145 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Country Asset Name Block/Licence Operator Cairn Interest (%)
UK P2040 P2040
(Block 29/11)
Premier 20 (see Notes 4 
and 5)
UK P2124 P2124
(Block 113/22a)
Serica 10
UK P2086 P2086
(Blocks 28/9b, 28/14)
Premier 20 (see Notes 4 
and 5)
UK P1995 P1995 
(Blocks 210/25b, 211/21b, 211/26b)
TAQA 50
UK P2070 P2070
(Block 28/4a)
Premier 46 (see Note 4)
UK P2077 P2077
(Block 28/8)
Premier 46 (see Note 4)
UK P1430 P1430
(Blocks 28/9a, 28/10c)
Premier 30 (see Note 4)
UK P1655 P1655 
(Block 15/21g)
Premier 21
UK P1976 P1976
(Blocks 8/5, 9/1b)
EnQuest 40
UK P1991 P1991
(Block 14/30c)
Endeavour 20
UK P1659 P1659
(Block 20/7a)
Nexen 19
UK P1887 P1887
(Blocks 12/16b and 12/17b)
First Oil 26.67
UK P1482 P1482
(Blocks 113/26b, 113/27c)
Hydrocarbon Resources 
Ltd (Centrica) 
10
Norway PL159C PL159C
(Block 6507/3a)
Statoil 18
Norway PL393B PL393B
(Blocks 7125/4c, 7125/5b)
Statoil 25
Norway PL248C PL248C 
(Blocks 35/11g, 35/11h)
Statoil 20
Norway PL378 PL378
(Block 35/12a)
Wintershall 20
Norway PL378B PL378B
(Block 35/12b)
Wintershall 20
Norway PL418 PL418
(Blocks 35/8f, 35/9e)
Wintershall 20
Norway PL630 PL630
(Blocks 35/10b, 31/1b)
Statoil 20
Norway PL665S PL665S
(Blocks 2/2d, 2/3b, 3/1a)
Faroe Petroleum 20
Norway PL632 PL632
(Block 33/9c)
Statoil 40
Norway PL748 PL748
(Blocks 34/2, 34/5)
DNO 20
Norway PL682 PL682
(Block 35/9b)
Bayerngas 10
Norway PL758 PL758
(Blocks 6508/1, 6608/10, 6608/11)
EnQuest 35
Norway PL747 PL747
(Block 35/8)
Bayerngas 40
Norway PL420 PL420
(Block 35/9d)
RWE Dea Norge AS 20 146 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Licence list 
As at 31 December 2014 – continued
Country Asset Name Block/Licence Operator Cairn Interest (%)
Asia Pacific
Nepal KARNALI AND 
DHANGARI
Petroleum Agr. 1
(Blocks 1 and 2)
Cairn 100
Nepal LUMBINI, BIRGANJ AND 
MALANGAWA
Petroleum Agr. 2
(Blocks 4, 6 and 7)
Cairn 100
Notes:
1. Cairn has issued surrender notices in respect of Greenland Licences 2011/16, 2011/17, 2008/14, 2009/11, 2008/13, 2009/10 and 2008/10. 
2. Cairn has received four new licences in the 28th Seaward Licensing Round in the UKCS (P2184, P2149, P2148 and P2918).   
3. Cairn has issued surrender notices in respect of UKCS Licences P1633 and P1887.     
4. Cairn has completed a transfer of a 10% interest in Licences P1430, P2040, P2070, P2077 and P2086 to Dyas UK Limited. The transfer took place on 20 January 2015 with an effective economic 
date of 1 January 2014.     
6. Cairn has agreed to transfer its interest in Licences P2040 and P2086 to Statoil. This transfer is conditional on the usual third party approvals.    147 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Glossary
AGM  Annual General Meeting
Board the Board of Directors of Cairn Energy PLC
Cairn Cairn Energy PLC and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate
Cairn India/CIL Cairn India Limited and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate
Capricorn Capricorn Oil Limited and/or its subsidiaries as appropriate
Company Cairn Energy PLC
CR  Corporate Responsibility
CRMS  Corporate Responsibility Management System
ELT Exploration Leadership Team
Group the Company and its subsidiaries
RMC Risk Management Committee
SLT Senior Leadership Team
2C  best estimate of contingent resources
2D/3D  two dimensional/three dimensional
2P  proven plus probable
ABC anti-bribery and corruption
ALARP  as low as reasonably practicable
APA  awards in predefined area
bbl  barrel
boe  barrel(s) of oil equivalent
boepd  barrel(s) of oil equivalent per day
BOP blow out preventer
bopd  barrels of oil per day
DC  drill centre
DECC  Department of Energy and Climate Change
DEFRA Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs
E&P exploration and production
EAA environmental area assessment
ESA  exploration study agreement
EIA  Environmental Impact Assessment
EITI  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
ESIA  Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
FDP  field development plan
FEED  front end engineering design
FEL  frontier exploration licence
FID final investment decision
FPSO  floating production, storage and offloading
GHGs Greenhouse gases
GMT  Greenwich Mean Time
GRI Global Reporting Initiative 
HSE  Health, safety and environment
IFRS  International Financial Reporting Standards
IOGP International Association of Oil & Gas Producers
JV  Joint Venture (referring to industry term, not IFRS definition)
KPI  Key Performance Indicator
LPI leading performance indicator
LTI  lost time incident/injury
LTIF lost time injury frequency
mmbbls  million barrels of oil
mmboe  million barrels of oil equivalent
mmbopd  million barrels of oil per day
MMO marine mammal observer 
mmscfd  million standard cubic feet of gas per day
NCS Norwegian Continental Shelf
ONHYM  Office National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines
PCDP  Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan
PDP  Project Delivery Process
Q1/2/3/4 quarter 1/2/3/4
STOIIP stock-tank oil initially in place
TRIR total recordable injuries rate
TD target depth
TVDSS  total vertical depth sub sea
UKCS  UK Continental Shelf
US$  US dollar
WEC well engineering and construction
WI  working interest
 
The following are the main terms and abbreviations used in this report:
Corporate Other  148 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Notes Printed on FSC-recognised paper, produced from sustainably managed forests.  
This report was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised  
printer that holds an ISO 14001 accreditation.
Financial Advisers 
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
New Court
St Swithin’s Lane
London 
EC4N 8AL
Secretary
Duncan Wood LLB
Solicitors 
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP
1 Exchange Crescent
Conference Square
Edinburgh  
EH3 8UL
Auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
141 Bothwell Street
Glasgow
G2 7EQ
Stockbrokers
Jefferies
Vintners Place 
68 Upper Thames Street
London
EC4V 3BJ
Morgan Stanley
20 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London
E14 4AD
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex  
BN99 6DA
T 0871 384 2030
Overseas shareholder  
helpline number
T +44 121 415 7047
www.shareview.co.uk
These materials contain forward-looking statements regarding Cairn,  
our corporate plans, future financial condition, future results of operations,  
future business plans and strategies. All such forward-looking statements  
are based on our management’s assumptions and beliefs in the light of 
information available to them at this time. These forward-looking statements  
are, by their nature, subject to significant risks and uncertainties and actual 
results, performance and achievements may be materially different from  
those expressed in such statements. Factors that may cause actual results, 
performance or achievements to differ from expectations include, but are not 
limited to, regulatory changes, future levels of industry product supply, demand 
and pricing, weather and weather-related impacts, wars and acts of terrorism, 
development and use of technology, acts of competitors and other changes  
to business conditions. Cairn undertakes no obligation to revise any such 
forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in Cairn’s expectations with 
regard thereto or any change in circumstances or events after the date hereof.
Company information Head Office
50 Lothian Road
Edinburgh 
EH3 9BY
T : +44 131 475 3000
F: +44 131 475 3030
E: pr@cairnenergy.com
www.cairnenergy.com
London
6th Floor
20 Berkeley Square
London
W1J 6EQ
Norway
Veritasveien 25
Stavanger
Norway
Senegal
Immeuble EPI
Blvd du Sud x Rue des Ecrivains
3eme etage
Point E
Dakar 
Senegal
BP . 25087 Dakar Fann
www.cairnenergy.com/ar2014
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
