 Our platform  
for growth
Annual Report 2013 Find out more online 
www.capeplc.com
“ 2013 has been a year of consolidation 
and improved performance for Cape. 
 
We have now established our platform for  
the future. The growth phase of our strategy  
is a key area of focus for 2014 and this will  
help enhance our existing competitive 
advantage and market leading position. 
 
This year we have used the International 
Integrated Reporting Framework, providing 
a clearer and more comprehensive view 
of our business and how we create value 
for our stakeholders.” 
 
Tim Eggar 
Chairman
Overview Overview
02 2013 highlights
03 Our regions
04 Cape at a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
Strategic report
Business structure
10 Strategy
12 Business model
14 Drivers and markets
16 Risks and opportunities
24 Key performance indicators
Performance review
28 Chief Executive’s review
32 Strategic delivery
38 Strategic goals for 2014
40 Business review
4 6  Ch ie f F i na n cia l 
Officer’s review
49  Corporate and Social 
Responsibility
Governance
60  Introduction from the Chairman
6 1  C o r p o r a t e g ov e r n a n c e 
compliance
62  Leadership: the Board and 
its Committees
66 Effectiveness
67  Nomination Committee report
68 Accountability
70 Audit Committee report
7 3  R e l a t i o n s h i p w i t h 
shareholders and share 
capital
75 Other statutory information
76 Directors’ responsibilities
77  Directors’ remuneration report
Financial statements
90  Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Cape plc
92  Consolidated income statement
93  C o ns o li d a t e d s t a t e m e n t  
of comprehensive income
94  Consolidated statement of 
financial position
9 5  C o ns o li d a t e d s t a t e m e n t  
of changes in equity
9 6  C o n s o l i d a t e d c a s h  
flow statement
97  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
133  Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Cape plc
134  Company statement of 
comprehensive income
135  Parent company statement  
of financial position
136  Parent company statement  
of changes in equity
137  Parent company cash flow 
statement
138  Notes to the parent company  
financial statements
141  Five-year financial summary 
(Unaudited)
142 Find out more online
Contents
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 01 Adjusted Revenue
*
£697.1m -7%
2012: £746.0m
Adjusted operating profit
*
£41.0m +48.0%
2012: £27.7m
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
23.6p +85.8%
2012: 12.7p
Cash conversion
*
121.0%
2012: 154.2%
Dividend per share
14.0p +0.0%
2012: 14.0p
Adjusted net debt
*
£60.2m -8.0%
2012: £65.2m
2013 highlights
Group financial highlights
 – Adjusted operating profit up 48% to £41.0m (2012: £27.7m)
 – Adjusted diluted earnings per share up 86% to 23.6p  
(2012: 12.7p)
 – Order intake at £625m (2012: £619m); Order book at 31 December 
2013 10% lower at £648m (31 December 2012: £720m)
 – Arzew project completed to revised plan and within the  
existing provision
 – Divestment of non-core operations and Performance  
Improvement Plan in Australia completed
 – Substantial progress on the first phase of strategy to stabilise the 
operational performance of the business
 – £37.7m acquisition of Motherwell Bridge in Q1 2014
 – Operating cash flow 20% up to £49.7m (2012: £41.5m) resulting  
in adjusted net debt of £60.2m (2012: £65.2m)
 – Full year dividend 14.0p (2012: 14.0p)
 – The Board is confident in the continued improvement in operating 
performance and the future prospects of the Group
Our 2013 development
2013 2012
Revenue £697.1m £737.0m
Operating profit/(loss) £10.2m (£133.2m)
Profit/(loss) before tax £0.2m (£143.2m)
Loss per share (5.6p) (172.5p)
Group statutory results
*  Throughout this statement various non-statutory measures are used and referred to as adjusted. These are defined and 
reconciled to their statutory equivalents in Note 7 ‘Adjusted measures’ on page 107. Certain amounts do not correspond  
to the 2012 financial statements and reflect the adjustments detailed in Note 40 Prior period restatements on page 131.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 02
Overview UK, Europe & CIS UK, Europe & CIS
Employees
c.5,100
Adjusted revenue
£361.1m 
2012: £367.2m (1.7%)
Adjusted operating profit
£31.9m
2012: £40m (20.3%)
MENA
Employees
c.10,200
Adjusted revenue
£202.8m 
2012: £163.3m +24.2%
Adjusted operating profit
£19.8m
2012: -£1.1m
Asia Pacific
Employees
c.2,800
Adjusted revenue
£133.2m 
2012: £215.5m (38.2%)
Adjusted operating profit
£1.5m
2012: £1.2m +25.0%
We provide our clients with a broad range of critical 
industrial services across three regions: UK, Europe  
& CIS, Middle East & North Africa and Asia Pacific.
Our regions
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 03 Access
Scaffolding enables site operators and other 
contractors to obtain access to all parts of  
an industrial plant. This can be for routine 
maintenance, shutdowns, major projects or 
new construction. Cape both supplies and 
erects scaffolding using computer-aided design 
where appropriate. Increasingly Cape is able  
to deploy alternative access services such  
as rope access, system scaffold, tension 
netting and powered access.
Refractory linings
Cape’s services include the provision of the 
lining of boilers, furnaces, kilns and high 
temperature petrochemical reactors with 
materials to withstand temperatures in excess 
of 1000ºC. Cape offers design, supply and 
installation services to clients worldwide.
Environmental services
Cape offers clients the provision of  
specialist onshore and offshore cleaning and 
decontamination services. Cape has developed 
a reputation for pioneering and integrating a 
wide range of safe, environmentally sound, 
industrial cleaning techniques involving 
high pressure water jetting, high airflow  
vacuum services and chemical decontamination 
processes. These services are complemented 
by extensive integrated waste management 
services and on-site waste handling capabilities. 
In addition, Cape offers specialist on-line 
desanding systems for upstream oil separators 
allowing operators to minimise downtime.
Insulation
Cape delivers services including the provision 
and application of thermal and acoustic insulation 
for industrial applications. Thermal insulation is 
provided for personnel protection and for the 
conservation of heat and efficient cryogenic 
insulation for temperatures down to -160ºC.  
Cape can provide heat loss analysis and evaluate 
savings from thermal insulation. Cape also uses 
infrared equipment to enable it to undertake 
surveys of thermal insulation efficiency.
Specialist coatings
Cape provides of a complete range of specialist 
coatings for a variety of structures, including 
petrochemical plants, refineries and offshore 
installations. Cape provides surface protection 
and the application of coatings to prevent 
corrosion of bare surfaces or those to be 
insulated and clad.
Fire protection
Cape is an expert in the application of  
fire protection to a variety of structures in 
environments ranging from the extreme 
weather conditions in the North Sea  
to onshore petrochemical and other 
installations exposed to fire risk.
Associated services
In response to client needs, Cape seeks  
to maximise the range of industrial services 
offered. These include fabrication of both 
insulation and sheet metal and, for offshore 
installations, the provision of integrated  
deck facilities management support service 
including lifting and crane operations.
We provide a wide range of critical industrial  
services from construction to maintenance  
and decommissioning phases. 
Cape at 
a glance
 Our critical  
 industrial services...
Overview
04
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 1. Onshore oil and gas
Cape’s success in the downstream oil and gas 
sector is based on building strong, lasting client 
relationships, with both site personnel and also 
with the national and international oil and gas 
companies who own and operate those sites. 
Cape works at some of the largest and most 
complex refineries in the world, and is able to 
deploy large resources of qualified personnel 
and appropriate equipment at short notice.
2. Offshore oil and gas
Cape provides a wide range of services  
to some of the world’s largest international  
oil and gas companies, as well as to smaller, 
independent operators. The Group’s multi-
disciplinary activities focus on the fabric 
maintenance of production assets. Cape’s 
workforce includes multi-skilled teams who 
perform a wide range of complex tasks safely 
and efficiently, thus keeping on-board 
personnel to a minimum.
3. Power
Cape offers exceptional experience and 
expertise in the power generation sector, as 
well as an ability to deliver a rapid emergency 
response to repairs and plant defects. In the 
UK, Cape is responsible for servicing nearly 
50% of the total power generation capacity.
4. Industrials
Cape provides a wide range of multi-
disciplinary services across industrial plants 
including extensive access and insulation 
support to the construction and maintenance 
of major chemical, petrochemical, polymer  
and steel production plants.
5. Minerals and mining
Cape provides expertise in the minerals and 
mining sector across construction support 
services and key maintenance services to 
clients. Cape’s multi-disciplinary approach 
helps reduce operational costs and eradicate 
waste, while enhancing efficiency, productivity 
and safety.
6. Other including marine
Cape also has an international presence in 
several other sectors, including the marine 
construction market, where Cape provides 
services supporting challenging marine projects 
around the world. Cape’s clients rely on the 
Group’s expertise and emphasis on safety,  
to support large secure industrial assets.
Construction support services
Build
Cape provides access, insulation, refractory 
services, fireproofing and coatings during the 
initial build phase. In recent years, Cape has 
established an unrivalled reputation in the 
provision of critical industrial services in 
supporting clients’ construction projects.
Maintenance services
Maintain
Following the construction phase, Cape is often 
retained by plant operators to maintain the 
asset. Cape provides a wide range of critical 
services to support client maintenance and 
shutdown programmes, on contracts that  
are typically of a three to five year duration.
Extension of life
As an industrial asset gets older, Cape will work 
closely with the client on rejuvenation projects, 
to devise a strategy to extend its useful life.
Decommissioning
Cape’s expertise and broad range of  
services makes Cape the contractor of  
choice to support decommissioning and  
asset abandonment activities.
 Our critical  
 industrial services...
 Focused on the energy and 
 natural resources sectors...
 Throughout the  
 life of the asset
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 05 A platform for growth
2013 has been a year of consolidation for Cape. 
We set out to stabilise the Company after the 
challenges of 2012 and have achieved that goal, 
delivering a steady performance against a 
backdrop of mixed market conditions.
The financial turnaround since 2012 represents 
the foundation of what we believe will be a strong 
future for Cape. We have made good progress  
in executing the first phase of our strategy and 
actions taken during the year have put in place  
a solid platform to support future growth. 
Operational excellence has been a key element of 
this phase and is being embedded in our culture. 
In 2014 we will increase our focus on the growth 
phase of our strategy by broadening our portfolio 
of critical industrial services, cementing our 
customer relationships and through focused 
geographical expansion. We have already taken 
our first steps towards this growth strategy in 
2014 with the acquisition of Motherwell Bridge,  
a market leader in services for the oil and gas 
tank storage market.
Enhanced management team
2013 marked the first full operating year of the 
new executive management team which has 
implemented significant improvements in the 
operating and control environment across the 
Group. As a next step in the development of this 
team, Steve Connolly, previously responsible for 
our UK, Europe and CIS region, was appointed 
as Chief Operating Officer effective from January 
2014. This appointment will both ensure an 
efficient implementation of our new operational 
processes across the Group and allow our  
Chief Executive to focus on delivering the  
growth phase of our strategy.
Improved risk management
The previously reported challenges in Algeria  
and Australia in 2012 have been addressed. 
Moving forward, we have strengthened our risk 
assessment processes and sought to embed a 
more open and transparent culture across the 
business. As already announced, we identified a 
challenging project in Qatar in 2013 on which  
we took an onerous contract provision. Although 
this was disappointing, it is encouraging that our 
improved management and operational controls 
enabled the issue to be identified early and 
remedial action to be taken in a timely manner. 
Nevertheless, this serves to emphasise the 
importance of our strategy of focusing on 
operational excellence in order to deliver 
consistent performance.
Strong safety record
Cape has an uncompromising approach to health 
and safety and I am pleased to report that our 
safety record remained at a high standard during 
the year. The safety of our workforce is our 
highest priority – our goal is zero harm. Our 
commitment to safety has once again been 
recognised by our customers with a number of 
accolades during the year, including ‘Winner of 
the Safety Award for Contractors’ from BAPCO, 
and for the second year running ‘HSE Performer 
of the Year’ from Borouge. We are extremely 
proud of our safety record, and the dedication of 
all of our people in sustaining an environment and 
culture that instils the critical importance of safety 
in all our employees, whilst delivering a high 
quality service to our clients. We believe that it is 
this combination of safety and quality delivery that 
has enabled Cape to forge a leading position in 
the market with strong relationships with our 
blue-chip international client base.
Corporate governance
The Board remains committed to achieving  
the highest possible standards of corporate 
governance as we believe compliance with  
these standards is in the best interest of all our 
stakeholders. Our commitment to this policy 
throughout the year has resulted in a further 
strengthening of our governance and we will 
continue to review and identify where, if 
necessary, improvements can be made to  
ensure we maintain a best in class standard of 
transparency, disclosure and across all other 
areas of corporate governance. 
Dividend 
We are recommending a final dividend for 2013  
of 9.5 pence (H2 2012: 9.5 pence) reflecting our 
confidence in the delivery of our strategy and  
the encouraging prospects for the Group.  
With the interim dividend of 4.5 pence  
(H1 2012: 4.5 pence), this results in a full-year 
dividend of 14.0 pence (2012: 14.0 pence). This is 
subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual 
General Meeting on 14 May 2014 and the final 
dividend will be payable on 6 June 2014 to 
shareholders on the register as at 9 May 2014.
Conclusion
The operational challenges faced by  
Cape have been identified and substantially  
addressed, putting the business on a stable 
platform for future growth. We will continue to 
focus on improving the operational effectiveness 
of the Group whilst entering the growth  
phase of our strategy. This will enhance our 
competitiveness and strengthen our position in 
our chosen markets. I would like to thank all of 
Cape’s employees for their continued efforts and 
commitment to the much needed cultural and 
organisational change achieved during the year. 
Tim Eggar
Chairman 
18 March 2014
In 2013 we have been establishing our platform  
for growth.
Chairman’s  
statement
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 06
Overview Directors’ governance report Page 60
We now have a well-balanced Board, with 
experienced and capable executive directors 
who are driving significant improvements to 
Group performance and governance controls 
and a non-executive team that adds value 
through their industry-specific knowledge  
and functional experience.
Nomination Committee Page 67
The Committee has continued to monitor  
the effectiveness of the Board and has noted  
a considerable improvement over the last  
12 months.
Remuneration Committee Page 77
The Committee has worked with our external 
advisers and with the senior management  
team to further improve the alignment of 
management and shareholder interests  
through implementing challenging  
remuneration structures.
Audit Committee Page 70
We have worked closely with both the new 
Chief Financial Officer, and the new external 
auditor, to oversee an improvement of Cape’s 
control environment.
Tim Eggar
Chairman
Tim Eggar
Chairman 
Nomination Committee
Brendan Connolly
Chairman 
Remuneration Committee
Michael Merton
Chairman 
Audit Committee
 Governance
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
07
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 08
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report Strategic report: 
Business structure 
10 Strategy
12 Business model
14 Drivers and markets
16 Risks and opportunities
24 Key performance indicators 
Strategic  
report: 
Business  
structure
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
09
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Operational 
excellence
We will differentiate ourselves from our 
competitors by being the operational  
leader in our industry, providing safe, 
on-time, high quality services in the  
most efficient manner.
Customer  
intimacy
Balanced  
business
Broaden  
portfolio
Geographic 
expansion
We will create value for our clients through a 
deep understanding of their needs, both now 
and in the future, delivering solutions to meet 
those needs. This will achieve higher client 
satisfaction and better client retention.
We aim to achieve stable revenues by having 
a balanced business across the maintenance 
and new construction segments and a broad 
geographical spread.
We will expand the range of critical  
services we offer to our clients by adding 
new specialist services adjacent to  
our core existing offerings.
Our aim is to achieve market leading  
positions in our key markets, delivering better 
service to our clients and superior returns  
to our shareholders. We seek to achieve  
the maximum potential from our existing 
territories whilst seeking out opportunities  
to enter new high-growth markets. 
Common tools  
and processes
Talent development
Sharing of best practice
Better understanding of 
our key clients’ needs
Proactive account  
management
Maximise our position in 
our existing geographies
Strategic  
objectives
Strategy
Our strategic intent is to be the leading provider of critical 
industrial services in our chosen geographic markets.
Phase 1: 
Stabilise, establish  
a platform for growth
10
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Business structure Offer the full range of existing 
services across existing  
geographies
Expand our range of critical 
services into additional 
specialist areas
Sharing of resources Improved management 
information
Continuous improvement  
of processes
Consolidated procurement Optimisation of  
asset deployment
Become embedded in 
our clients’ organisations
Provide expert advice to our 
clients for our range of services
Provide project and programme 
management as part of our  
service offering
Establish a core maintenance 
base in all our key geographies
Steadily grow our  
maintenance business  
year-on-year
Targeted expansion 
into high-growth and  
emerging markets
Our strategic intent is to be the leading provider of critical 
industrial services in our chosen geographic markets.
Phase 1: 
Stabilise, establish  
a platform for growth
Phase 2: 
Optimise and grow
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
11
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Shareholders
Customers
Employees
Delivering critical services to our clients      
Driven by our values
Implementation of our strategy
Our 
people
Our 
knowledge 
and processes
Our 
assets
Our vision is to build a great business for the long-term. We will achieve this through our business model 
that delivers long-term value to our key stakeholders by implementing our strategy in a culture built on 
our values. Our people are at the heart of Cape and our core values encapsulate the behaviours that 
drive our long-term success.
Business  
model
12
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Business structure Shareholders
Customers
Employees
Delivering critical services to our clients      
Driven by our values
Implementation of our strategy
Our 
people
Our 
knowledge 
and processes
Our 
assets
–  Delivers consistent results,  
enhances and protects margins.
–  Local scale enables cost  
efficiency and delivers  
higher returns. 
–  Delivers growth by driving new 
specialist services around the  
Cape international footprint.
–  Delivers growth through 
targeted geographic expansion.
–  Delivers more security and  
stability of revenue.
–  Clients can trust Cape to  
deliver safely, on-time, to  
cost and quality.
–  Ability to mobilise rapidly to 
meet clients needs.
–  Reduces downtime and 
saves clients’ costs.
–  Allows us to better understand  
clients’ needs and to develop 
and deliver solutions to those 
needs.
–  Provides capability to support 
key clients across a range 
of territories.
–  Provides access to a broad  
range of specialist services  
under one roof. 
–  Our one team approach provides  
a supportive environment where 
people learn from each other.
–  A commitment to develop and  
train our people so that they can 
achieve their best performance.
–  Operating with integrity provides  
a positive working environment.
–  Keeping our people safe and 
healthy is at the heart of what  
we do.
–  International reach provides 
opportunities for growth  
and development.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
13
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Diversity gives us resilience to individual  
market fluctuations.
Downstream and 
midstream oil  
and gas capex
Downstream and 
midstream oil 
and gas opex
Upstream/offshore  
oil and gas capex
Upstream/offshore  
oil and gas opex
Power generation 
opex and capex
Mining opex  
and capex
Macro drivers
Macro drivers for Cape’s 
services include:
Increasing  
client and 
regulatory  
focus on plant 
safety
Ageing 
infrastructure
Over the long term, global demand for the Group’s services  
is expected to grow, driven by increased demand for energy 
leading to investment in new projects for the oil and gas market 
and the need to maintain, and in many cases extend the life  
of ageing infrastructure across the power generation, mining 
and oil and gas markets.
Markets:
Each market in which we operate  
has its own dynamics.
Commissioning 
of new plants
Increasing 
energy 
demand
Drivers and 
markets
14
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Business structure Relative impact 
on the Group
Affected 
geographies
UK, Europe & CIS;  
MENA; Asia Pacific
UK, Europe & CIS;  
MENA; Asia Pacific
UK, Europe & CIS;  
MENA; Asia Pacific
UK, Europe & CIS;  
MENA; Asia Pacific
UK, Europe & CIS
Asia Pacific
Growth  
drivers
Increasing global demand for oil and gas 
Development of refining closer to  
production site
Asian LNG demand
Increasing global capacity
New capacity coming on-stream
Increasing global demand for oil and gas
High oil prices justify field developments
High oil prices drives push to exploit  
ageing assets
Need to invest to deal with change 
in maturing field characteristics
Need to fully exploit ageing assets to  
meet demand
Upgrades to meet environmental targets
Long-term nuclear new build
Demand driven by commodity prices
Shift in strategy of major players  
towards cost reduction likely to favour  
opex rather than capex
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
15
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013  
 
Independent assurance is provided by:
– Business assurance (Internal audit)
– The independent registered public accounting
rm (external)
– Other external advisors (external)
Management-based Assurance is provided by:
– Our management team (ExCo)
– Our ‘management system’ of policies and internal
control procedures
– Our HSEQ policies and controls
Executive directors
CEO: Joe Oatley
CFO: Michael Speakman
Remuneration Committee
Chairman
Brendan Connolly
Nomination Committee
Chairman
Tim Eggar
Audit Committee
Chairman
Michael Merton
Board of directors
Chairman
Tim Eggar
Cape has a renewed focus on risk management.  
The Board is committed to enhance the Group’s risk 
management capability.
management systems and processes to ensure 
that our responses remain appropriate to the 
range of risks that we face. A number of the 
risks that Cape faces are also faced by other 
service providers and finding rigorous  
methods of mitigating such risks can generate 
competitive advantage. Where these apply, 
they are explained further on pages 18 to 23. 
These factors and the other information 
contained in this Annual Report should be 
carefully considered. The following is a 
description of the risks that may affect some  
or all of our activities and which may affect the 
value of an investment in our securities. If any  
of the events described below occurs, the 
Cape’s performance and prospects may be 
affected by a number of risks and uncertainties 
that relate to the industries and the environments 
in which it undertakes its operations around the 
world. The Group is alive to the issue of risk and 
has systems and procedures in place across the 
Group to identify, assess and mitigate major 
business risk.
Each region and central function is required  
to undertake a formal review of risks which 
could impact its area of business. Identified 
significant risks and agreed mitigation are 
formally reviewed on a regular basis and are 
recorded in a standardised active risks register. 
The Group continues to develop its risk 
business, financial condition or results of 
operations of the Group could be adversely 
affected in a material way. Additional risks and 
uncertainties that the Group is unaware of or 
that it currently deems immaterial may in the 
future have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s business, results of operations and 
financial condition.
Committees of the Board
Risk factors
Risks and  
opportunities
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 16
Strategic report: Business structure Increasing Impact
Increasing Likelihood
Arrows show direction and magnitude of change
A
E
J
H
G
F
B
C
I
D
2012 events and the Operational 
Excellence Programme
The identification of events during 2012, such  
as significant losses on a small number of  
major projects; inadequate forecasting in  
light of deteriorating project performance  
and trading conditions, poor control of fixed 
assets, and inconsistent Group-wide application 
of accounting policies; has demonstrated that,  
in certain instances, the control environment 
was insufficiently robust either in the 
identification, the escalation or the timely 
management and mitigation of such  
control failures. 
Operational Excellence Programme
In response to these events, in 2013 the  
Group initiated an Operational Excellence 
Programme, tasked with identifying the key 
issues preventing consistently high operational 
performance and addressing them by 
identifying best practice and then standardising 
and rolling out those best practices to all parts 
of the Group. This programme made good 
progress in 2013 and will continue in 2014  
and beyond. 
Risk Heatmap The Operational Excellence Programme has three 
goals. Firstly, to develop and provide operational 
management with the best available tools and 
procedures to manage and monitor operational 
activities, particularly large projects. Secondly, 
through improved recruitment, training and 
management development, provide the whole 
Group with a pool of operational management 
with the practical and leadership skills 
necessary to consistently manage our current 
and foreseeable operations and projects. Thirdly, 
to codify best practice and ensure it is operated 
consistently across all activities and geographies. 
The effective identification, reporting and management of risk is critical to the success of Cape. In light of the operational, commercial and control 
issues that arose during 2012 and 2013, actions continue to be taken to ensure the following systematic approach is applied across the Group.
Identifying key risks
Analysing risks and controls
Determining management actions
Reporting and monitoring
 – To consistently apply the same methodology of identifying risk at project, operation, business 
unit and Group level. 
 – Risks are evaluated to establish financial and non-financial impacts, the likelihood of occurrence 
and the root cause. This results in a prioritised register of risks, against which we then review the 
nature, adequacy and appropriateness of our current controls to mitigate these risks.
 – If new, different or additional risks are identified or if additional controls are required, these are 
developed and appropriate responsibilities to discharge are assigned. Investment related risks  
are identified and assessed before key investment decisions are made.
 – Emerging risks are identified, reported and reviewed on an ongoing basis, with particular focus  
on capturing emerging risk and monitoring all changing risk during monthly business reviews. 
Management is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of controls and progress of actions 
taken to mitigate our key risks; this is supported through the Group’s internal audit programme.  
The results of the risk management process are reported to the Audit Committee at least every  
six months.
A  Global political, security and  
economic conditions
B  Key market and client  
dependencies risk
C HSE risks
D Skills shortages and HR risks
E Contract acceptance risk
F  Operational and project 
performance risk
G Investment and asset integrity risks
H  Compliance and business  
conduct risks
I IDC provision adequacy risk
J  General financial risks (eg interest  
rate and foreign exchange)
Further details of the Group’s internal control and risk management 
processes can be found in the Directors’ governance report on 
pages 60 and 89.
Effective risk management
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 17
Governance Financial statements Operating activities may be affected by factors 
outside the Group’s control. These include  
geo-political events, such as tensions in the 
Middle East or CIS, government actions or 
inactions, climatic conditions, unusual or 
unexpected geological occurrences, 
environmental hazards, industrial conditions, 
technical failures, labour disputes, delays in 
construction, availability of materials or parts 
and shipping, import or customs delays. 
Changes in the political or security environment 
in existing and new territories may result in 
Cape, or its clients, losing commercial or legal 
protections, facing security threats or being 
less able to control their operations.
Incidence and severity of geopolitical and 
economic instability has increased in some 
locations (ME/Gulf) and reduced in others  
(end of Algeria project). The net impact is 
broadly neutral.
Regional management teams have been 
strengthened with new managers (regional 
director changes, commercial and HR directors 
in ME) that are more attuned to such risks.
Market risks
Key client dependency
Health, Safety and 
Environmental (HSE) risks
Achievement of HSE excellence 
Inherent site dangers
Key market dependency
Losing certain key clients could have an 
adverse effect on Cape’s revenues.
The majority of Cape’s clients are either in,  
or are directly or indirectly dependent upon,  
the energy and natural resources sectors.  
A proportion of Cape’s earnings therefore 
depend on stable long-term energy demand 
particularly for oil, gas and electricity. 
Client dependency is essentially unchanged  
in 2013.
Management have become increasingly 
focused on the importance of client 
responsiveness and developing multiple  
level relationships.
External risks
Global political, security  
and economic conditions
Cyclical downturns could lead to declines in 
demand for Cape’s services.
Key market dependency is essentially 
unchanged in 2013.
Many clients have sites that have inherent dangers 
with associated health and safety risks (offshore 
platforms, refineries, and power stations). 
Failure to maintain the highest HSE standards 
on-site could result in injury to our employees 
or others involved in site operations. 
Failure to deliver HSE excellence could result 
in a material loss of clients and/or damage to 
Cape’s reputation and the environment.
During 2013 as part of the OE project, the  
Cape CMS system, which is a Cape-wide  
set of operating and HSEQ instructions, was 
reviewed, redesigned and is being moved onto 
a user friendly IT platform that will be securely 
accessible from all sites worldwide. 
For further details of safety awards see the  
Corporate and Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) 
report on page 49.
Risk category Description and  
potential impact
Evolution in 2013
Risks and  
opportunities continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 18
Strategic report: Business structure These external factors are normally likely to  
affect a specific location, client relationship or  
a single contract. Cape’s business is diverse  
by geography, number of client sites, range of 
services and exposure to industries or sectors. 
This portfolio diversification reduces the impact 
of Cape’s overall exposure to individual risks  
and uncertainties. Where specific risks are 
identified, measures are taken in a proportional 
manner to reduce or eliminate them to an 
acceptable level or orchestrate a withdrawal  
from the activity in question.
Cape’s policy is to avoid a concentration of 
activity in markets/regions which it assesses  
as high risk. 
Risk is mitigated by a strong senior 
management presence in each region and 
particularly where risks are identified, regions 
Existing and potential risks often differ 
between regions within a country and the 
specific locations where Cape staff work  
are kept under regular review. 
Opportunities could exist if perceptions of  
risk differ from the reality.
operate in close communication with central 
management. Along with the OE initiative to 
improve training of managers and to encourage 
and facilitate the sharing of relevant 
experiences and knowledge between peers.
General counsel is regularly engaged to ensure 
compliance with local legislation and to advise 
managers on actual or potential changes in 
legal or regulatory framework.
We monitor carefully any changes in political 
regimes that might impact on our business. 
Cape has an in-house Head of Security, who  
is responsible for security coordination in  
higher risk territories and we have expanded  
our use of specialist consultancies to perform 
background research, advise us and when 
necessary, provide protection.
Cape’s top 10 clients accounted for 38% of 
Group revenues in 2013 (2012: 40%), with the 
largest customer accounting for 11% of Group 
revenues (2012: 11%). Cape has a broad 
customer base, with circa 105 clients  
(2012: 104) clients each contributing more  
than £1 million to annual revenue. Cape  
seeks to maintain a stable and balanced 
customer profile. 
Strong customer relationships based  
on consistent high service levels produce 
opportunities to cross sell both additional 
services and into new locations.
Cape has developed long-standing 
relationships with clients, based on service 
quality, reliability and safety. These relationships 
are at multiple levels from site supervisors to 
senior management. Strong ‘client responsive’ 
relationships support revenue retention and 
growth through ongoing contract award and 
renewal. 
In most existing markets Cape has a relatively 
small market share. 
Most contracts cover a multi-year engagement 
and are for work of a long-term nature. Cape, 
therefore, has limited exposure to fluctuations 
in the spot price of any one energy product, or 
its short-term demand. 
Cape’s wide range of essential services 
ensures it can serve clients’ needs through 
the lifecycle of the production asset, whether 
related to installation, maintenance, extension 
of life or decommissioning.
Cape is firmly positioned in the downstream 
energy infrastructure, power generation and later 
cycle production markets. These markets are less 
impacted by cyclical downturns than upstream, 
exploration segments. In some industries, there is 
a counter-cyclical effect with extra maintenance 
(outages) required on off-line assets, when 
demand falls or spot prices decline.
Cape values its excellent reputation for safety and 
HSE related matters around the world. Cape’s 
investment in systems and resources, with around 
455 people (2012: 455) in full-time HSE roles 
across the Group, continues to deliver a superior 
performance in accidents, working days lost and 
environmental incidents (further details are set  
out in the CSR on pages 49 to 57).
Occupational health and safety performance 
continues to be in the upper quartile of 
comparable companies, with a Total 
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of 0.92 per 
million hours worked (2012: 1.656 per million) 
for the Group as a whole. 
Demonstration of an excellent HSE 
performance is increasingly becoming a 
pre-qualification requirement for most large oil, 
gas, mineral and power generation tenders.
Through both its training centres and on-site 
training courses, Cape invests a considerable 
amount in improving staff skills. This helps 
retain key staff through regular progression, 
helps reduce skills shortages and improves 
safety performance.
Mitigation Opportunities
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 19
Governance Financial statements The loss of key managers, supervisors or 
skilled employees, may adversely affect Cape’s 
business. Cape’s ability to successfully operate 
and grow the business is largely dependent on 
its ability to attract and retain high-quality 
personnel. An inability to attract and retain 
well-qualified and skilled personnel could 
materially adversely affect Cape’s business, 
operating results or financial condition.
The lack of capacity, capability or competence 
of Cape managers would have a significant 
adverse impact on the business.
OE and other initiatives to attract, retain and 
develop key staff started in 2013 and will 
continue into 2014 including:
 – Standardisation of corporate recruitment  
and other HR processes
 – Enhanced remuneration review processes 
and long term incentive plan
 – Improved staff performance review and 
management development processes
 – Introduction of matrix management and 
cross business training
 – Appointment of Asia based COO to review, 
supervise and motivate staff in the more 
remote locations
Contract  
acceptance risk
Terms and conditions risk
Contract bidding  
and estimating risk
Investment and asset 
integrity risks
Unacceptable return on  
assets or investments
Operational risk
Operational and project  
performance risk
Cape could sign up to contract terms and 
conditions exposing the Group to excessive 
financial risks and potential cost overruns.
Due to errors in the accurate determination, 
scope and poor estimates or changes in 
on-site circumstances, Cape may not be able 
to recover all costs incurred resulting in an 
adverse financial performance.
An experienced General counsel was 
appointed this year. He is responsible for 
ensuring group-wide compliance in new 
contract negotiations and is currently 
conducting a review to reassess the risks  
in existing contracts. 
Skills shortages  
and HR risks
Recruitment, development and 
retention of key managers, 
supervisors or skilled employees
Actual project performance may differ 
materially from ‘as bid’ or forecast 
performance.
The Group’s financial performance could  
be significantly affected by the operational 
performance of a relatively small number  
of large contracts.
During the year the ‘cost to complete’ review 
identified an onerous contract, primarily 
because extra costs incurred by Cape could 
not be passed on to the client. The losses were 
identified at an early stage and where possible 
a number of corrective management actions 
were taken to re-engineer costs and so mitigate 
the losses.
Appointment of an Asia based COO to regularly 
review and supervise the more remote projects 
and businesses.
Failure to achieve satisfactory returns on 
assets, acquisitions, joint ventures, partnership 
arrangements and other investments.
An experienced General counsel and  
Company Secretary appointed this year will 
improve the in-house legal advice available  
for strategic investment structuring, during 
investment negotiations and the governance 
over existing investments.
Risk category Description and  
potential impact
Evolution in 2013
Risks and  
opportunities continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 20
Strategic report: Business structure Cape’s regionalised organisational structure 
provides considerable management autonomy 
and opportunity for supervisors and managers 
to develop within the business. This has both 
advantages and risks, so to gain the 
advantages, while mitigating the risks, the 
Group is taking the following steps:
 – The Future Leaders Programme was 
introduced to provide managers with the skills 
to effectively perform their roles and progress 
in the organisation. The Cape Management 
Training Scheme has been introduced to 
provide a regular pipeline of talent for key 
management roles across the Group. Annual 
performance appraisals are conducted to 
assess executives’ performance and to 
discuss career goals. All these processes have 
been reviewed and improved in 2013.
Retaining talented staff and engendering  
long term loyalty has many advantages to 
both Cape and staff, including:
 – Reduced recruitment fees and basic 
training cost.
 – Retention of knowledge and skill
 – Efficiency improvements.
 – Growth of discipline and industry 
specialisms.
 – Establishment of a core of in-house 
trainers.
 – Internal career development paths  
and opportunities.
 – Improved operational robustness,  
staff cover and succession paths.
 – In 2013 the OE initiative undertook to 
improve the strength and depth of 
management talent at key levels within the 
business by assessing needs and resources 
and then introducing training and other 
procedures to improve the capability, 
capacity and competences needed for the 
businesses today and in the years ahead.
 – Senior executive remuneration is reviewed 
against market data provided by specialist 
remuneration consultants to ensure awards 
are competitive. Long-term incentive plans 
are in place to encourage the retention of  
the key management group.
Cape’s policy is to avoid lump sum or fixed rate 
contracts, with the large majority of contracts 
being cost reimbursable or at scheduled rates. 
To ensure this applies, contract acceptance 
authorisation procedures and controls have 
continued to be strengthened over the last  
2 years. The Group has also introduced a 
system of ‘Peer review’ for significant and 
material projects.
Improved contract acceptance 
management will have a beneficial  
effect on long term margin. 
The Group seeks to avoid the acceptance of 
liabilities that are unquantifiable or for which  
we could not reasonably be regarded as 
responsible, including design responsibility, 
customer or other party delays, liquidated 
damages, direct and indirect consequential 
losses. The adequacy of insurance covers is 
reassessed annually.
The Group has a strong track record of 
successful project execution which reflects  
a practical and client focused approach  
to both construction and maintenance  
project management. In response to certain 
construction project performance issues during 
2012, the ‘operational excellence’ initiative 
commenced. Some OE benefits were evident 
in 2013, but they will largely impact 2014 and 
future years, and include:
 – A professional approach to contract bidding 
and contract management, including in-house 
training of project managers to gain APM 
professional qualifications.
Improved project management will improve 
the consistency of project execution, which 
will improve customer perception and so  
have a beneficial effect on long term margin.
 – Recognition of project management as a  
key competence within Cape, and a focus  
on managing the resource Cape-wide.
 – Development of a project management toolkit 
for new projects, including a standardised 
project planning and delivery system and  
a site IT system with standardised KPIs.
 – Initiating standardised, detailed, regular 
reviews of projects and cost to complete 
calculations in all businesses, with risk  
based escalation and overriding Regional 
and Central reviews.
 – Access from all sites to the redesigned  
user friendly Cape-wide set of operating 
instructions (CMS).
Cape carries out detailed assessments and 
reviews of existing and potential acquisition,  
joint venture, partnership arrangements and 
other investments including internal legal  
and financial diligence, with external support  
when appropriate.
An increasingly professional approach to 
investment decision-making, management 
and control will add value by improving the 
return on capital employed.
Mitigation Opportunities
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 21
Governance Financial statements Inadequate visibility or reporting 
over operations or assets 
Investment and asset 
integrity risks continued
Unacceptable return on  
assets or investments
Compliance and 
business conduct risks
Breach of applicable laws and 
regulations
Business integrity and ethical  
conduct risk
Failure to obtain/renew key licences 
and permits
Failure to manage key relationships
Disparate and old IT systems across much of 
Cape are a risk to management and financial 
control and prevent management at all levels 
from optimising performance.
A Chief Information Officer (CIO) was  
appointed in 2013, tasked with co-ordinating 
infrastructure, improving the robustness of 
business systems generally and specifically  
the Group’s ERP provision.
Breach of applicable laws and regulations 
including tax, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, 
competition and business conduct laws and 
failure to file necessary statutory and regulatory 
returns. Failure to renew key operating licences 
and permits, including asbestos removal and 
waste transfer licences. Failure to manage key 
corporate relationships including those with key 
customers, joint venture partners, investors,  
the Scheme shareholder and scheme trustee 
directors, banking consortium and pensions 
trustees.
A new General counsel was appointed to focus 
on compliance, legal risk management and 
business integrity and ethics. The newly 
appointed COO’s role includes a focus on 
strategic management of key contracts and 
customers. The new executive management 
team has built strong relationships with all key 
stakeholders. 
Inadequate management and financial controls 
leading to loss of operational control, loss of 
assets, loss of financial data or loss of the 
integrity of data.
Detailed mobile asset control processes have 
been tightened, with further tightening planned 
for 2014.
IDC provision 
adequacy risks
Material underestimate of 
the IDC funding requirement
Failure to properly quantify future cash flows 
related to industrial disease claims and 
changes in the external claims environment 
(including changes in the law and judicial 
processes).
The 2013 triennial scheme valuation (carried 
out by external actuaries) was undertaken 
using the Group’s cumulative claims history 
and updated economic assumptions.
General financial risks
Foreign exchange and interest  
rate exposure
Financial risks including foreign exchange, 
interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, 
capital management and financial derivatives 
are described further in note 25 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
No significant change.
Risk category Description and  
potential impact
Evolution in 2013
Risks and  
opportunities continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 22
Strategic report: Business structure Work has commenced within the OE project, on 
the scoping out of a uniform ERP system that will 
link with existing site systems for eventual 
worldwide implementation. 
A uniform ERP system will significantly 
improve management’s visibility of  
operations and financial results.
UK and ME IT has been moved to 
professionally hosted data centres  
that operate to robust internationally 
recognised security and DR standards.
To assess and manage these corporate risks 
Cape has high quality and experienced finance, 
investor relations, corporate, internal audit, tax, 
treasury, legal and compliance teams that 
operate at Group level and across the regions. 
Continued strengthening of key customers 
account management along with customer 
needs and satisfaction reviews. Completion  
of the refinancing has provided increased 
certainty and stability in the Group’s financing 
and banking relationships.
Good legal compliance and improved 
corporate relationships will increase certainty 
and stability, allowing management focus  
to shift towards strategic business 
development and growth.
To assess and to help mitigate these risks  
Cape has high quality and experienced legal, 
commercial, operations, finance, acquisitions, 
internal audit, tax and treasury teams that 
operate at Group level and across the regions.
The court-approved 2006 Scheme of 
Arrangement protects the interests of  
future IDC claimants whilst at the same time 
protecting the Group from the impact of 
extreme adverse changes in the claims 
environment.
The Group is proactively managing the IDC 
claims process to ensure a fair and speedy 
response to industrial disease claimants 
whilst seeking to minimise the erosion of 
scheme funds through payment of excessive 
claimant and defendant legal costs.
To assess and mitigate these risks, Cape has 
high-quality and experienced finance personnel 
both centrally and in operations addressing 
the activities of finance, internal audit, tax  
and treasury.
Mitigation Opportunities
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 23
Governance Financial statements Order intake (£m) 
£625.2m
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
625.2
619.0
Adjusted operating prot margin (%) 
5.9%
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
5.9
3.7
11.2
12.0
11.0
Operating cash conversion (%) 
121%
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
121.0
154.2
42.0
126.1
116.9
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) (per m) 
0.92%
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
0.92
1.66
1.58
1.89
4.27
The Board and executive management set annual KPI 
targets, monitor and assess performance against these 
benchmarks on a regular basis.
Description
Operating cash flow divided by adjusted 
operating profit.
Description
Defined as the total number of incidents 
divided by the number of hours worked  
during the year. This is measured on a  
per million basis.
Since 2012 we have changed our KPIs 
representing our need to more closely align  
the measures of our improvement against  
our strategic objectives. We have made the 
following changes:
 – Included order intake as a leading indicator  
of future revenue performance
 – Replaced return on managed assets with 
return on invested capital because it better 
represents the performance of the Group 
against the financing of those assets
 – Introduced a measure of the absolute growth 
in maintenance revenue. We seek to grow 
our maintenance revenues year-on-year
 – Included working capital as a percentage  
of sales to show how efficiently we are 
managing our capital as we grow
Description
The orders agreed and signed in the period 
from 1 January to the 31 December 2013.  
Note that this information was not reliably 
measured until 2012.
Description
Adjusted operating profit as defined in note 
7 divided by adjusted revenue.
Key performance  
indicators
24
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Business structure Return on invested capital (%) 
21.2%
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
21.2
11.8
16.8
18.5
18.9
Annual growth in maintenance revenue (%) 
5.6%
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
5.6
8.1
5.5
10.5
11.1
Adjusted diluted EPS (pence) 
23.6p
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
23.6
12.7
43.8
42.6
37.5
Working capital, as percentage of revenue (%) 
11.3%
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
11.3
11.4
16.6
12.3
12.0
Description
Working capital as a percentage of revenues 
(trailing 6 months multiplied by 2).
Description
The annual growth in revenue that is related 
to maintenance contracts.
Our target is to achieve year-on-year positive 
growth of our maintenance business.
Description
Defined at Group level as adjusted operating 
profit divided by the accounted value of 
equity plus adjusted net debt. At regional 
level it is defined as adjusted operating profit 
divided by net trading assets.
Description
Defined as profit after tax on continuing 
operations excluding Exceptional and Other 
items expressed as a percentage of the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year adjusted to assume conversion 
of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
25
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 26
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Performance review Strategic  
report: 
Performance  
review
Strategic report: 
Performance review
28 Chief Executive’s review
32 Strategic delivery
38 Strategic goals for 2014
40 Business review
46 Chief Financial Officer’s review
49  Corporate and Social 
Responsibility
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
27
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Overview
We have focused throughout 2013 on 
implementing the first phase of our strategy  
to stabilise our business by driving operational 
excellence across the Group. Although this 
phase is on-going, we have made significant 
progress in installing operational rigour and 
establishing a robust platform for future growth.
We delivered a much improved performance  
in 2013 with the UK business continuing to 
deliver strongly, the Arzew project completed 
in-line with the plan set out early in the year  
and a successful implementation of the 
restructuring and performance improvement  
of our Australian business, offsetting weaker 
market conditions in CIS. It was disappointing 
that a strong year for our Middle East and 
North Africa (MENA) business was negatively 
affected by the previously announced provision 
for an onerous contract in Qatar.
Whilst 2013 has been a year of consolidation, 
the Group has identified a number of long-term 
growth opportunities and we are now working 
hard to ensure that we are well positioned to 
capture those opportunities.
Market conditions 2013
Market conditions were mixed across the 
Group’s three regions as a number of major 
new capital investment programmes in the oil 
and gas and mining industries were delayed. 
As anticipated, this resulted in lower activity 
levels of construction services in a number of 
our markets. The volume of construction 
service contract awards is expected to increase 
in late 2014 and 2015 as a number of new  
oil and gas projects reach the stage of 
development where Cape’s services are 
required. Demand for maintenance services 
remained steady.
Demand across the UK, Europe and CIS  
region was variable with the UK market flat and 
a marked reduction in activity in Kazakhstan  
as key projects completed early in the year  
and investment by our clients in new projects 
was deferred. Activity levels were also subdued 
in Sakhalin due to the timing of shutdown 
related maintenance work. We anticipate that 
activity levels in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan  
will increase as we move through 2014, with 
major project activity increasing into 2015.
Market conditions across the Middle East 
varied significantly country by country with 
increasing investment in new downstream oil 
and gas infrastructure in Saudi Arabia, but 
lower levels of construction service work in 
Qatar and UAE. The maintenance market 
remains robust across the region. Both the 
construction and maintenance services 
markets have become more competitive with 
domestic and overseas competitors targeting 
market share growth, putting downward 
pressure on pricing.
The Asian construction services market  
has been subdued throughout 2013, but  
is anticipated to grow over the medium to 
long-term with a number of large oil and gas 
projects planned in order to meet the growing 
demand for energy and industrial expansion in 
the region. We have recently appointed a new 
Group Business Development Director who will 
be based in the region and will have a particular 
focus on securing a significant share of this 
growth opportunity. The Australian market 
continued to have weak demand from the 
mining and oil and gas maintenance sectors 
throughout the year, but a number of the  
major LNG new build projects are now moving 
forward. Whilst the opportunity to secure 
construction work on a number of these LNG 
projects such as QCLNG, GLNG and APLNG 
has been limited as the main contractors  
chose to self-deliver many of the services  
Cape provide, over the medium and long term  
these facilities represent an opportunity for 
maintenance support contracts.
2013 operating performance
Order intake during the year was marginally 
higher than the previous year at £625 million 
(2012: £619 million), with a significant 
contribution from the project awards on the 
Wheatstone LNG project in Australia which in 
aggregate comprised approximately £190 
million of the total Group order intake.
Adjusted revenue from continuing operations 
was 7% lower than the previous year driven by 
completion of a number of major projects in the 
first half such as Kipper Tuna in Australia and 
the SPT project in Singapore, and weak market 
conditions in Kazakhstan and Asia Pacific, 
partly offset by growth in the Middle East and 
UK offshore markets.
We have made significant progress in installing 
operational rigour and establishing a platform  
for future growth.
Chief Executive’s  
review
28
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Performance review Adjusted operating profit grew by 48% to  
£41.0 million (2012: £27.7 million) with solid 
performances from the UK, MENA and Asian 
businesses offsetting weak performances from 
our Kazakhstan and Australian businesses. The 
performance in Kazakhstan was driven by a 
reduction in the size of the available market  
due to the completion of the Kashagan Field 
Development project. The Group’s Australian 
business returned to profitability at the end of 
the second half as the non-core divestments  
and Performance Improvement Plan were 
successfully concluded.
Following a change in leadership on the  
Arzew project in Algeria and implementation  
of improved operational processes and 
controls, I am pleased to report that we 
completed our work on this contract during 
2013 in line with the revised plan and within  
the existing provision.
The divestment of non-core operations in our 
Australian business, a process which started  
in 2012, was essentially completed in 2013.  
We also carried out a root-and-branch 
restructuring of our remaining core industrial 
services business to ensure it has an 
appropriate cost base for the future. This 
restructuring reduced overhead cost by over 
50% as we streamlined the branch network 
and optimised the back-office functions. In 
addition to the overhead reduction, the 
management team has focused on improving 
the operating performance of existing 
contracts, thus improving gross margins.  
The restructuring programme is now complete 
and all major milestones have been met, 
leaving the business on a sound footing for  
the future.
The MENA regional margin was negatively 
affected by a loss provision taken against an 
onerous contract in Qatar. This project had 
been bid and secured in early 2012 with 
operations commencing in 2013. Whilst it 
is disappointing to report this issue, it was 
encouraging that the new operating 
environment resulted in the difficulties being 
identified early in the project lifecycle and the 
necessary corrective actions being taken 
swiftly to contain the losses on the project.
The Group achieved strong cash flow through 
tight management of working capital and 
capital expenditure, with operating cash flow  
of £49.7 million (2012: £41.5 million). As a result, 
year-end adjusted net debt improved to  
£60.2 million (2012: £65.2 million) after having 
made an additional early payment into the 
IDC fund of £6.0 million.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
29
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Strategic delivery
Last year we established our new Group 
strategy which consists of two phases: the 
first to stabilise the business and establish our 
platform for growth; and the second to grow 
and optimise the business. We have made 
substantial progress on the implementation  
of the first phase by focusing on operational 
excellence and our aim is to lead our industry  
in operational efficiency and performance. This 
creates value both for our clients by delivering 
our services safely, on-time, to cost and quality, 
and for our shareholders by delivering more 
reliable earnings.
We set out three key goals for our Operational 
Excellence programme: to attract, retain and 
develop the best people; to simplify and 
standardise our business systems and 
processes; and to ensure that knowledge and 
best practice are shared around the Group.  
We have made good progress on all three of 
these goals. High quality management is a 
scarce resource in our industry and our 
long-term success is dependent upon being 
able to develop our people so that they can 
perform to the best of their ability. We are 
committed to investing in our people and have 
introduced a broad range of management 
development programmes across the Group 
which cover all levels of management from 
supervisors and new graduates through to the 
senior executives. The first cohort has started 
on each of these programmes during the year.
We now have an easy to use, common 
management system that defines and  
captures all of the key operational processes 
for the Cape Group. This system means  
we have consistent operating policies and 
processes throughout the Group. We are  
also implementing a standardised project 
delivery process and an industry leading site 
management system that enables us to both 
manage our work effectively and share key 
performance information with clients.
We have made early progress on enhancing 
our relationships with a number of our key 
clients through initiatives such as “Voice of the 
Customer” where we engage with key decision 
makers of our clients in a structured way to 
ensure we understand their concerns and 
requirements. We have decided to delay the 
development of our global key account 
management system to ensure we fully 
understand the needs of our major clients,  
for whom local delivery and relationships can 
often be more important than global ones.  
Our long-term ambition remains to be the 
primary supplier of critical industrial services  
to our key clients.
Whilst continuing our drive for operational 
excellence remains a key priority for the  
Group, we are now progressing into the  
second phase of our strategy; to deliver  
growth through a combination of broadening 
our service portfolio and targeted geographic 
expansion. Our initial focus has been to ensure 
that we secure the key opportunities in our 
existing markets. Whilst a number of our larger 
opportunities have been subject to delay, we 
have been successful in winning contracts in 
our target areas of Australia, Saudi Arabia and 
Azerbaijan. Looking forward to 2014, we will 
continue to drive growth through a combination 
of capturing opportunities in our existing 
markets such as Australia, CIS and parts of  
the Middle East, expanding our service offering 
through the addition of related specialist 
services and extending our geographical reach 
in a selected way.
Of equal importance to the process 
improvements we are making is the cultural 
change that we are driving across the Group. 
We have defined our core values that describe 
the behaviours that we are striving to instil 
across the Group. Driving cultural change 
through these values will be a key element to 
ensuring we can sustain a high level of 
performance over the long term.
Acquisition
In line with our strategy to broaden our portfolio 
of related critical industrial services, on  
11 March 2014 we announced the acquisition 
of Motherwell Bridge, a leading provider of 
storage tanks, gasholders and heat exchangers 
to the energy and steel markets. Motherwell 
Bridge has tremendous expertise, reputation 
and brand recognition in the oil and gas 
storage tank market, including a market leading 
position in the UK and we expect to accelerate 
Motherwell Bridge’s overseas growth through 
Cape’s international footprint. By combining the 
strengths of Cape and Motherwell Bridge we 
are uniquely qualified to provide a complete 
tank maintenance solution to clients in the oil 
and gas market.
Organisation and people
I am delighted to have appointed Steve 
Connolly as Chief Operating Officer, effective 
from 1 January 2014. Steve was previously 
responsible for the UK, Europe & CIS region 
and will be focused on both the day to day 
management of the business and the 
implementation of our Operational Excellence 
programme throughout the Group.
Chief Executive’s  
review continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 30
Strategic report: Performance review Cape has over 18,000 people working across 
21 countries and every employee acts as an 
ambassador for the Company wherever they 
go. We will continue to build on our reputation 
for being a great employer and we are 
committed to both providing development  
for our people and ensuring their wellbeing.  
I would like to thank all of our employees for the 
commitment and dedication they have shown 
to the Company over the past year.
Safety
Cape is a people business and we often work 
in hazardous environments where our 
employees are exposed to potential dangers  
to their health and safety. Ensuring the safety  
of our people is our highest priority and 
everyone within the Group has responsibility  
for not only their own safety, but also that of 
their colleagues. We have put increased  
energy into improving our safety culture and 
performance during 2013 and I am pleased  
to see that improvement demonstrated in a 
significant fall in our accident and injury rates 
compared to 2012. Nonetheless, we continue 
to strive to improve our safety performance 
towards a goal of zero harm which remains  
at the heart of everything we do at Cape.
Outlook
2013 was a year of consolidation for Cape 
where our focus has been on stabilising the 
business. We made good progress on our 
objectives for 2013 and enter 2014 with a  
stable platform for future growth. Improved 
operational performance drove enhanced 
margins and we expect that trend to continue 
in 2014. Order intake was marginally higher 
than the prior year but continued to be 
subdued, in part due to a slowdown in some  
of our key markets such as CIS and Asia and 
in part due to the timing of key long-term 
maintenance contract renewals. As a result,  
we entered 2014 with an order book of  
£648 million, 10% lower than at the equivalent  
point in the previous year (31 December  
2012: £720 million). At current rates, foreign 
exchange effects represent a material 
headwind to the Group.
We expect market conditions in the UK, Europe 
and CIS region to be variable with flat demand 
from the UK and a slight increase in activity 
towards the end of 2014 within the CIS. We 
anticipate that the UK business will feel the 
effect of increasing competition, but, with a 
continued focus on efficiency improvement and 
the on-going development of our joint venture 
activities in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, we are 
targeting to deliver an improvement in operating 
margin for the region compared to 2013.
Market conditions in the MENA region are 
expected to remain mixed through 2014 with 
increased demand in countries such as Saudi 
Arabia offsetting a reduction in demand in UAE 
and lower construction market activity in Qatar. 
We expect competition to continue to exert 
downward pressure on pricing, but that the 
Group will be able to mitigate the effect of this 
through improvements in operating efficiency.
Improved market conditions in the Asia  
Pacific region, largely driven by increased 
demand from the LNG projects in Australia, 
combined with the successful restructuring of 
our Australian business, are expected to deliver 
a significant improvement in the performance  
of this business with both top-line growth and 
improvement in operating margins.
Beyond 2014 we expect to see improvement  
in market conditions across the Group with the 
emergence of the nuclear new build program  
in the UK, a number of major projects in Asia, 
growth in new construction activity in the CIS 
and continued development of the Middle 
Eastern market.
The long-term demand for the Group’s services 
is expected to continue to grow, driven by 
increasing investment in both the oil and gas 
and power industries. Through our strategy of 
delivering growth through a combination of 
focused expansion into new geographies and 
extension of the range of critical industrial 
services we provide for our clients, we believe 
Cape can deliver a long-term growth rate  
above that of our core markets. The Board is 
confident in the continued improvement of 
operating performance and in the future 
prospects of the Group.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive 
18 March 2014
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
31
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Cape is committed to streamlining its management 
systems to improve efficiency, reporting and customer 
experience. One of our goals in 2013 was to simplify  
and standardised our business systems.
We successfully developed a number of new systems 
including an enhanced Cape Management System that 
captures all of our key processes in one group-wide 
system; a common project delivery system; and ‘OnSite’. 
Cape’s OnSite system provides timely and relevant 
information to enable efficient management of the 
day-to-day operations on our sites. It is tailored to each 
client and allows us to share key performance 
information with our clients. When rolled-out, these 
systems will ensure common standards across  
our entire business for all processes and controls. 
Standardising our way of working and sharing best 
practice will improve the consistency, quality and 
effectiveness of what we do around the world.
Industry leading  
business systems
Strategic delivery
32
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Performance review Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
33
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Cape understands the benefit of being intimate with its 
customers and the value that creates for all stakeholders. 
Encouraging an open and honest dialogue sets us apart 
in the market.
Having a deeper understanding of our customers’ needs  
helps us deliver a better service. In 2013 we ran ‘Voice of 
the Customer’ events with several key customers which 
formalised feedback into a process for improvement. 
Cape has been a provider of platform services to BP in 
the North Sea for over 20 years. In July, Cape held a 
Voice of the Customer event with senior representatives 
from BP which identified a number of opportunities for 
adding value in processes, procedures, people, systems 
and services. Action plans were put in place and by 
December over 50% of the improvements were realised. 
The success of this initiative has led to similar sessions 
with BP including ‘Efficiency 2014’, a joint review of other 
projects on which Cape and BP can work together.
Creating value 
through customer 
intimacy
Strategic delivery
34
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Performance review Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
35
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Creating an environment in which our people can be 
successful, realise their full potential and gain the trust of 
our clients is a key element of our strategy – it’s this trust 
that keeps clients coming back to Cape.  
Our training and development programmes are in  
place across all levels in the business and courses  
are accredited to national or international standards. 
The capability of our leaders is critical to our overall 
business success and in 2013 we introduced a 
comprehensive suite of leadership development 
programmes for executive, senior, supervisory, future 
leaders and graduates. Our supervisor and future 
leaders’ programmes, in particular, instil excellence  
in project management and value creation. People 
development will be a key focus in 2014 and beyond.
Attracting, retaining 
and developing the 
best people
Strategic delivery
36
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Performance review Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
37
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Our aim for 2014 is to continue our drive to optimise 
the effectiveness and efficiency of our operations 
whilst shifting our focus towards the growth phase 
of our strategy.
Strategic goals  
for 2014
38
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Performance review 1.  Embed the newly developed operational 
processes across the Group through a structured 
roll-out programme. Our target is to have our 
priority projects operating to the new Cape 
standards and processes during 2014 with the 
roll-out completed in 2015.
2.  Continue to improve our management 
development programme and expand its  
reach across the organisation.
3.  Enhance our customer intimacy and business 
development through formal account 
management and capture planning processes.
4.  Grow market share in key territories in order to  
move towards our goal of local market leadership. 
 
Establish and execute market entry plans to enter 
targeted new geographies.
5.  Extend the Group’s service offering by developing 
new, specialist services both organically and  
by acquisition. 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
39
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Order intake was £228 million, 17% lower  
than prior year (2012: £274 million), reflecting 
the timing of major long-term maintenance 
contract renewals in the UK and low levels of 
construction activity in Kazakhstan. As a result 
of the subdued order intake, the order book 
shortened with key UK maintenance contract 
renewals expected in late 2014 and early 2015. 
The business secured key multidisciplinary 
service contract renewals with Total E&P in the 
Netherlands and Eggborough Power Station, a 
key environmental services contract at Sullom 
Voe as well as a number of scope extensions 
on existing contracts across both the UK 
onshore and offshore market segments.
Adjusted revenue for the region, which 
represented 52% of the Group’s 2013  
revenue, fell slightly to £361.1 million  
(2012: £367.2 million) largely driven by lower 
activity in Kazakhstan, where our work on the 
Kashagan Field Development Experimental 
Phase project completed in the period. This 
was partially offset by the expansion of the 
region’s fabric maintenance and campaign 
work in the UK Continental Shelf.
The UK business continued to deliver  
industry-leading levels of service to its  
clients both onshore and offshore including  
BP, Total, EDF and SABIC. It maintained its 
market leading position in the UK onshore 
market segment winning awards at the EDF 
Energy Nuclear Generation Challenge for 
’Contract Partner Safety’, ’Contract Partner 
Quality’ and ’Outstanding Collaboration’. In 
addition, the UK business won the CIPD 
‘People Management Award for Innovation’, 
further recognition of Cape’s commitment to its  
people through its development programmes.
Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan represent strong 
growth opportunities for the Group as these 
countries continue to invest heavily in the 
development of their oil and gas resources  
with combined investment in new oil and gas 
infrastructure over the medium term anticipated 
to be in excess of US$150 billion. The Group’s 
joint venture with State Oil Company of the 
Azerbaijan Republic (SOCAR) secured an 
important maintenance contract in the period 
and Cape has made a significant investment  
in the establishment and development of this 
business. There is a substantial pipeline of 
opportunities available in Azerbaijan and we are 
continuing to work with SOCAR to achieve a 
satisfactory resolution of the commercial and 
financing arrangements of the joint venture in 
order to access those opportunities.
The business continues to be largely 
maintenance driven with 84% of revenues 
(2012: 80%) derived from maintenance and 
shutdown activities. Looking forward, it is 
expected that the proportion of revenue derived 
from new construction activity over the longer 
term will rise, supported by the new build 
power generation sector in the UK and new  
oil and gas infrastructure investment in 
Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan.
The Adjusted operating profit margin 
decreased from 10.9% to 8.8% driven by  
both a change in mix, with lower volumes in 
Kazakhstan and Sakhalin offset by increased 
volumes in the lower margin UK offshore 
market sector, and reduction in the margin in 
the Kazakhstan business as the Kashagan 
Field Development Experimental Phase  
project was completed early in the period.
As a result of the lower margins, Adjusted 
operating profit decreased by 20% to  
£31.9 million (2012: £40.0 million) with all  
of this reduction attributable to the CIS.
£m 2013 2012 Change
Order intake
1
228 274 (16.8%)
Order book
1
320 453 (29.6%)
Adjusted revenue 361.1 367.2 (1.7%)
Adjusted operating profit 31.9 40.0 (20.3%)
Adjusted operating profit margin 8.8% 10.9% -210bps
1 
Excludes value in respect of joint ventures
UK, Europe & CIS
Construction 
Maintenance 
Revenue by type (%)
1
16%
84%
Oil and Gas 
Power generation
Chemical/Steel
Other
Revenue by market (%)
1
52%
25%
10%
13%
Business  
review
40
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Performance review EDF Energy, UK
EDF Energy owns and operates 15 nuclear 
reactors at eight nuclear power stations in the 
UK. These stations have a combined capacity 
of just under 8.8 teraWatts. EDF Energy 
operates the majority of the UK’s nuclear 
power stations and require a service partner 
with substantial resources to support it. Cape 
has a contract to provide industrial services 
across all eight stations and has created a 
national ‘Continuous Improvement Team’ to 
share best practice. 
In the first-year of the contract, Cape delivered 
on all of the strategic objectives resulting in 
savings of over £2.5 million. Between 2009 
and 2012, Cape enabled a reinvestment of 
£14.5m which was recognised through the 
receipt of the ‘Contract Partner Quality’, 
‘Contract Partner Innovation’ and the 
‘Outstanding Collaboration’ awards.
Sullom Voe Terminal, Scotland
Sullom Voe Terminal is an oil and liquefied gas 
terminal at Sullom Voe in the Shetland Islands 
of Scotland. It handles production from oilfields 
in the North Sea and East Shetland Basin. 
Cape has been a trusted supplier of critical 
services at the Sullom Voe Terminal for over  
20 years. Over the life of the relationship with 
BP, Cape has provided a broad range of 
environmental services including industrial 
cleaning, drain refurbishment and waste 
management resulting in significant life 
extension of assets and recovered inventory.  
In total, Cape has supplied over 1.2 million  
man-hours without a Lost Time Incident.
Pictured: Surge Crude oil tank at Sullom Voe 
Terminal post cleaning.
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 41
Governance Financial statements Order intake grew by 19% compared to prior 
year to £161 million (2012: £135 million). The 
growth in order intake was largely due to a 
strong performance from Saudi Arabia with 
increasing demand for construction services  
for new oil and gas projects in the country.  
This strong order intake in Saudi Arabia  
offset a relatively weak order intake 
performance in Qatar and UAE where  
there were few significant new oil and gas 
construction project awards. The business  
was successful in securing a significant 
multidisciplinary services contract on the 
Rabigh II petrochemical complex being 
constructed on the west coast of Saudi  
Arabia and won further important contracts 
with customers such as SADARA, BAE 
Systems, GS engineering, Hyundai, Technip, 
Vale and Occidental.
The MENA region, which represented 29%  
of the Group’s 2013 revenue, achieved record 
revenue of £202.8 million (2012: £163.3 million), 
24% higher than 2012. Revenue in each of 
Cape’s largest countries in the region, Saudi 
Arabia, UAE, and Qatar, grew compared to the 
previous year. In the UAE growth was driven  
by increased activity as works were completed 
on a number of large projects including the 
NGL4 plant where the business provided 
multidisciplinary services on the construction  
of train 4, and the Borouge III petrochemical 
plant where we are delivering insulation 
services for the project to expand production 
capacity. Growth in Saudi Arabia was 
particularly strong, driven by a range of new 
construction projects as the country ramps up 
investment in downstream oil and gas facilities.
Middle East &  
North Africa (MENA)
Whilst the proportion of revenue from new 
construction grew to 67% of total revenue  
for the region (2012: 63%), largely driven by  
the high volume of new construction projects  
in UAE and Saudi Arabia, the business 
continued to develop its maintenance business, 
growing maintenance and shutdown volumes 
by 11% compared to prior year. The business 
achieved particularly strong performance from 
maintenance contracts in Qatar with successful 
completion of shutdown work with Ras Gas, 
Qatar Gas and Dolphin Energy.
The business successfully achieved the  
revised plan for the completion of the Arzew 
GNL3-Z LNG plant in Algeria within the  
£19.8 million loss provision that had been  
taken in 2012 with cash receipts from the client 
within the agreed commercial terms. During the 
second half of 2013 a project was identified in 
Qatar that was not performing to expectations. 
The project had been bid and secured in early 
2012, but on-site work did not commence until 
2013. The underperformance was identified 
early in the project life cycle and the necessary 
corrective actions have been taken swiftly to 
minimise future losses on this contract.
Adjusted operating profit margin improved 
substantially compared to prior year to 9.8% 
(2012: nil), with substantial effects from the loss 
provisions taken on the Arzew project in 2012 
and on the Qatar project in 2013. Excluding the 
effects of these two projects, the underlying 
business delivered a substantial improvement 
in performance compared to prior year with 
both better operating margins and higher 
volumes. The business continues to experience 
increasingly competitive market conditions 
which are exerting downward pressure on 
pricing. The effect of this pressure is expected 
to be mitigated by the Group’s drive for 
improved operational efficiency through  
the Operational Excellence programme.
 
Construction 
Maintenance 
Revenue by type (%)
Oil and Gas 
Power generation
Chemical/Steel
Other
Revenue by market (%)
1
67%
33%
1
68%
2%
23%
7%
£m 2013 2012
1
Change
Order intake 161 135 19.2%
Order book 98 140 (30.0)%
Adjusted revenue 202.8 163.3 24.2%
Adjusted operating profit 19.8 (1.1)
Adjusted operating profit margin 9.8% 980bps
1 
Excludes discontinued operation in India
Business  
review continued
42
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Performance review RasGas, Qatar
Ras Laffan Industrial City is an industrial hub 
located 80 kilometres north of Doha, Qatar.  
 
The city provides infrastructure, facilities and 
services to enable the establishment and 
functioning of industries to exploit the State  
of Qatar’s vast gas reserves.  
 
Cape secured a five-year maintenance  
contract from RasGas Company Limited 
(RasGas) to provide thermal sprayed  
aluminium coating services, a newly added 
capability for the Group. Cape delivered  
over 88,000 man hours in 2013.
GASCO, Abu Dhabi
Ruwais 4 NGL (Natural Gas liquid) is part of an 
integrated gas development project adding 
new onshore and offshore gas processing 
facilities in the region to meet the growing 
demand for energy. 
 
During 2013, Cape delivered a comprehensive 
range of multidisciplinary services to the project 
including access systems, specialist coatings, 
insulation, fire protection, refractory linings and 
manpower. Cape’s significant scale in the 
region enabled it to supply 850 people at the 
peak of demand. Since the start of the project 
in December 2011, Cape has safely supplied 
over 3,298,340 man hours with no Lost Time 
Incidents (LTIs).
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 43
Governance Financial statements The business achieved strong growth in order 
intake of £236 million, 12% higher than prior 
year (2012: £210 million) of which organic 
growth contributed 25%, partly offset by a  
12% reduction from the effect of adverse 
currency movement. The main contributor  
to this performance was the securing of  
the strategically important contracts for the 
Wheatstone LNG project in Western Australia 
which contributed approximately £190 million  
of the total order intake for the region. The 
Chevron-operated Wheatstone Project is one 
of Australia’s largest resource projects. Located 
in Western Australia, the project will consist of 
two LNG trains with a combined capacity of  
8.9 million tonnes per annum and a domestic 
gas plant. This is the Group’s largest ever 
construction contract award on a single site 
and underscores Cape’s considerable LNG 
construction experience and expertise. The 
project is expected to mobilise during 2014  
and extend over the following three years.  
The maintenance market in Australia  
remained subdued with little new contracting 
activity. The business also secured the main 
access contract for the LNG modules being 
fabricated in Thailand for the Ichthys LNG 
project in Australia.
Revenue from continuing operations  
decreased 38% to £133.2 million  
(2012: £215.5 million). The reduction in  
revenue was driven by a slowdown in the 
construction services market across the  
region with the major projects in Singapore  
and Australia completing in the first half of  
2013 and not being replaced by any significant 
new construction service work. As a result of 
this, the proportion of revenue derived from 
new construction activities reduced to 46%  
of total regional revenue (2012: 70%). Revenue 
from maintenance activities increased by 12% 
to £72.5 million (2012: £64.8 million) despite 
weak market conditions as the business put 
increased focus on expanding this area. 
Following the divestment of non-core 
operations in our Australian business, a 
process which started in 2012 and was 
essentially completed in 2013, we also 
implemented a performance improvement  
plan for the remaining core industrial services 
business. This plan involved a rationalisation  
of our branch network to key strategic 
locations, streamlining our overhead structure 
and offshoring back office functions to the 
Group’s facility in Manila, Philippines. In 
addition to the overhead reduction, the 
management team has focused on improving 
the operating performance of existing contracts 
whilst targeting key project awards. This 
restructuring programme is now complete and 
all major milestones have been met with the 
business returning to profitability during the 
final quarter of 2013. The business is now on a 
sound footing for the future and is expected to 
generate profit during 2014 as it gains the full 
year benefit of the restructuring programme 
and an increase in volume from the Wheatstone 
LNG project during the second half of the year.
Operational completion of the SPT project  
was achieved in the first-half of 2013 and we 
resolved all outstanding commercial issues  
with the client to close the final account in the 
second half of the year with all outstanding 
payments received in the period.
Adjusted operating profit margin improved 
slightly to 1.1% (2012: 0.6%) as we began to see 
the effects of the turnaround in our Australian 
business towards the end of the year. This 
improved margin offset the volume reduction  
in the region, resulting in an 25% increase in 
operating profit for 2013 to £1.5 million  
(2012: £1.2 million). We anticipate that  
margins will continue to improve through  
2014 as we enjoy the effects of both  
increased volume and the full-year effect of  
the improvement in our Australian business. 
Asia Pacific
00%
Construction 
Maintenance 
Revenue by type (%)
Oil and Gas 
Power generation
Mining
Other
Revenue by market (%)
1
46%
54%
1
55%
6%
28%
11%
£m 2013 2012 Change
Order intake 236 210 12.4%
Order book 230 127 81.7%
Adjusted revenue 133.2 215.5 (38.2)%
Adjusted operating profit 1.5 1.2 25.0%
Adjusted operating profit margin 1.1% 0.6% 50bps
Business  
review continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 44
Strategic report: Performance review Wheatstone LNG, Australia
The Chevron-operated Wheatstone 
Project is one of Australia’s largest 
resource projects. Located at Ashburton 
North, 12 kilometres west of Onslow in 
Western Australia, the project will consist 
of two LNG trains with a combined 
capacity of 8.9 million tonnes per annum 
and a domestic gas plant. Cape secured 
two contracts in November 2013 to 
supply multidisciplinary services to the 
project including access, insulation, 
painting and fireproofing, all supported  
by our on-site integrated project 
management team. The contracts,  
at a combined value of at over  
AUD$355 million, are expected to  
create in excess of 600 Australian jobs 
located onsite at Ashburton North.
Daewoo SHWE, Offshore Myanmar 
Offshore Myanmar represents a significant oil 
and gas reserve. Cape was awarded a ‘one 
stop shop’ service contract by Daewoo to 
support an offshore gas production platform  
in the area, and the associated onshore gas 
terminal and jetty located on the west coast  
of Myanmar.  
 
This type of contract is a first for Cape – an 
evolution in the way Cape operates and the 
services it provides. The contract included a 
range of new specialist services including 
logistics, security, mechanical, electrical, 
instrumentation, fabrication support, 
engineering services, industrial cleaning,  
SAP support, EX surveying and other  
specialist services. 
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 45
Governance Financial statements Other items
Other items increased to £15.3 million 
(2012: £10.5 million) relating, in the year,  
entirely to IDC costs.
Exceptional items
The charge for Exceptional items of £15.5 
million (2012: £150.4 million) consists entirely of 
the performance improvement programme 
initiated in Australia in the first half of the year, 
with £7.9 million non-cash relating to the 
impairment of assets, £2.5 million relating to the 
future liability associated with onerous leases 
and the balance to the cash cost of 
restructuring. This programme has been 
essentially completed and has generated the 
anticipated gains in operational performance. 
There was no new exceptional charge in the 
second half of the year.
A summary income statement with explanatory 
discussion of the key items provided below:
2013
 Total 
£m
2012
 Total 
£m
Adjusted revenue 697.1 746.0
Adjusted operating profit 41.0 27.7
Adjusted operating profit % 5.9% 3.7%
Other items (15.3) (10.5)
Exceptional items (15.5) (150.4)
Operating profit/(loss) 10.2 (133.2)
Adjusted revenue
Adjusted revenue from continuing operations 
decreased overall by 7% to £697.1 million  
(2012: £746.0 million) driven by lower activity 
levels in the Asia Pacific, notably Australia, which 
were partially offset by strong volume growth in 
the MENA region. The organic volume decrease 
in revenue of 5% was compounded by the effect 
of currency translation which reduced the 
adjusted revenue by a further 1%.
Adjusted revenue was 12% down in the second 
half compared to the first half of the year driven 
by a number of major projects completing in  
the first half, including Kipper Tuna (Australia), 
Kashagan Field Development (Kazakhstan), 
Arzew (Algeria) and the SPT project in Singapore.
Adjusted revenue from continuing operations 
derived from maintenance contracts was 
£442.1 million (63%) (2012: £418.7 million, 56%) 
and adjusted revenue from construction 
support services projects was £255.0 million 
(37%) (2012: £327.3 million, 44%).
Cape’s largest client represented 11% of total 
Adjusted revenue in 2013 (2012: 11%), relating 
to activities in the UK and CIS and Asia Pacific 
regions. The Group’s top 10 clients represented 
38% of adjusted revenue (2012: 40%).
Adjusted operating profit
Adjusted operating profit from continuing 
operations increased to £41.0 million  
(2012: £27.7 million) reflecting the strong  
growth in MENA, the benefit of the divestments 
and profit improvement plan in Australia,  
the comparative benefit of the Arzew provision 
in the previous year, offset by weaker market 
conditions in Kazakhstan and the requirement 
to provide against an operationally problematic 
legacy contract in Qatar.
We concluded the significant contracts in 
Singapore and Algeria in the year and have 
recovered the working capital invested in them 
according to the respective contractual terms. 
Head office costs were marginally lower at 
£12.2 million (2012: £12.4 million) as increased 
investment in the Operational Excellence 
programme was offset by savings in other 
central activities.
Revenue split by half and full year and geography
£m
UK, Europe 
and CIS MENA
Asia
Pacific Total
2013
H1 184.8 109.5 76.8 371.1
H2 176.3 93.3 56.4 326.0
FY 2013 361.1 202.8 133.2 697.1
2012
H1 174.3 76.7 108.7 359.7
H2 192.9 86.6 106.8 386.3
FY 2012 367.2 163.3 215.5 746.0
Michael Speakman 
Chief Financial Officer
Chief Financial  
Officer’s review
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 46
Strategic report: Performance review *
 
At average rates
**
 
2012 includes £4.3 million relating to current year acquisitions and £1.0 million deferred consideration on prior year acquisitions.
Operating profit
Operating profit for continuing operations  
was £10.2 million (2012: operating loss of 
£133.2 million) reflecting an Adjusted operating 
profit of £41.0 million (2012: £27.7 million),  
Other items of £15.3 million (2012: £10.5 
million), and Exceptional items of £15.5 million 
(2012: £150.4 million). 
Finance costs
Net finance costs amounted to £10.0 million 
(2012: £10.0 million) reflecting the annual  
£4.0 million (2012: £4.0 million) non-cash 
charge relating to the unwinding of the discount 
on the long-term IDC liability, the £1.2 million 
non-cash charge relating to the unamortised 
fees relating to the previous facility, and interest 
income in the IDC scheme funds in the period 
of £0.7 million (2012: £1.0 million).
Adjusted finance costs reduced to  
£6.3 million (2012: £7.6 million) with interest 
cover (calculated by dividing adjusted operating 
profit by the adjusted finance costs) increasing 
to 6.5 times (2012: 3.6 times). This compares  
to the minimum of 3.0 times required by the 
covenant in Cape’s old unsecured £220 million 
revolving credit facility as at 31 December  
2013 which has been replaced with the recently 
announced £295 million revolving credit facility.
Taxation
The tax charge on Adjusted profit before tax 
excluding Exceptional and Other items, 
discontinued operations and joint ventures was 
£7.2 million (2012: £3.7 million) representing an 
average tax rate of 20.3% (2012: 17.9%). The 
increase compared to the previous year 
predominately relates to a change in the mix of 
source of profit generation. The cash tax  
paid during the period was £9.4 million  
(2012: £11.9 million) which is slightly higher  
than the current year charge due to some 
advance payments made on account. 
Discontinued operations
As part of the review of the Australian 
operations the Group announced in  
November 2012 its intention to divest its 
residential and commercial scaffolding 
business in Melbourne and Perth, and the 
stand alone blasting and painting workshop  
in Perth. The two divestments in Perth were 
completed during 2013; the Melbourne 
disposal is well advanced and will complete 
during Q1 2014. In the period the Board also 
decided to discontinue the Group’s activities  
in India and Japan. The combined revenue  
of these operations totalled £8.6 million  
(2012: £24.8 million) with losses after tax of 
£4.8 million (2012: £42.6 million) including a  
tax credit of £0.8 million (2012: £9.2 million).
Earnings per share
For continuing operations the Adjusted diluted 
earnings per share (EPS) was 23.6 pence 
(2012: 12.7 pence) and Adjusted basic earnings 
per share was 23.8 pence (2012: 12.9 pence). 
The diluted weighted average number of share 
increased to 122.0 million (2012: 120.9 million).
Dividend
Taking account of the 2013 financial results, 
current market conditions and the underlying 
prospects of the Group, the Board is proposing 
a final dividend for 2013 of 9.5 pence  
(2012: 9.5 pence) per share in line with 
the 2012 final dividend. In addition to the  
interim dividend of 4.5 pence per share  
(2012: 4.5 pence) paid on 11 October  
2013, the total dividend for the year will be  
14.0 pence per share (2012: 14.0 pence) 
subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual 
General Meeting on 14 May 2014 the final 
dividend will be payable on 6 June 2014 to 
shareholders on the register as at 9 May 2014.
Acquisition of Motherwell Bridge
Cape announced its acquisition of UK based 
Motherwell Bridge, a leading provider of 
storage tanks, gasholders and heat exchangers 
to the energy and steel markets, on 11 March 
2014. The total consideration for the acquisition 
amounted to £37.7 million on a cash  
free basis, comprising of an initial cash 
consideration of £34.0 million, acquired  
debt of £0.9 million, deferred consideration  
of £1.3 million contingent on a key contract  
win and up to £1.5 million related to future 
performance. The acquisition will be  
funded from the Group’s existing debt facilities 
and is expected to be earnings enhancing  
in the current financial year ending  
31 December 2014.
Motherwell Bridge, headquartered in 
Lanarkshire, Scotland, is recognised 
internationally as a leader in the specialist 
storage tank market. The business has an 
excellent global brand reputation and has 
historically delivered a significant number of 
storage tanks around the world. In addition, 
Motherwell Bridge also provides and maintains 
gasholders for the global steel industry, and 
maintains and refurbishes heat exchangers 
primarily in the UK continental shelf. Motherwell 
Bridge has a strong management team, all  
of whom will remain with the business  
post acquisition.
Motherwell Bridge employs approximately  
300 people, primarily located in the UK. For  
the year ending 31 December 2012, Motherwell 
Bridge generated EBITA of £4.8 million on 
revenue of £34.6 million.
Operating and free cash flow
 2013 Total
 (£m)
2012 Total
(£m)
Adjusted operating profit 41.0 27.7
Depreciation and amortisation – continuing operations 17.8 15.0
Adjusted EBITDA 58.8 42.7
Non-cash items (3.4) (3.6)
Decrease/(increase) in working capital* 9.8 11.9
Net capital expenditure (15.5) (9.5)
Operating cash flow 49.7 41.5
Operating cash flow to operating profit 121% 150%
Net interest (6.1) (7.9)
Tax (9.4) (11.9)
Free cash flow 34.2 21.7
Dividends paid (17.7) (18.9)
Acquisition** – (5.3)
Transfer to restricted cash (6.0) –
Discontinued operations (5.6) (3.9)
Other movements in adjusted net debt 0.1 0.4
Movement in adjusted net debt 5.0 (6.0)
Opening adjusted net debt (65.2) (59.2)
Closing adjusted net debt (60.2) (65.2)
 
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 47
Governance Financial statements Working capital
Trade and other receivables and inventories 
decreased by £56.1 million to £182.8 million 
(2012: £238.9 million) which along with  
a decrease in trade and other payables  
of £42.0 million to £109.1 million (2012:  
£151.1 million) resulted in an overall decrease  
in net working capital of £14.1 million (at 
balance sheet rates) to £73.7 million. Working 
capital, as expected, reduced by £42.4 million 
in the second half of 2013. A very strong year 
end performance in the UK, the realisation  
of working capital from Arzew and the SPT 
contract and decreased volumes in Australia all 
contributed to the overall Group performance.
Capital expenditure
The Group continues to manage its capital 
expenditure carefully whilst investing in 
upgrading and replacing equipment where 
appropriate. The Asset Replacement Ratio 
(calculated by dividing gross capex spend  
by the depreciation charge) increased to  
100% (2012: 65%).
Financing and banking facilities
The Group’s adjusted net debt decreased  
year on year by £5.0 million to £60.2 million 
(2012: £65.2 million) including finance lease 
obligations of £0.2 million (2012: £0.5 million). 
Balance sheet gearing, excluding ring-fenced 
IDC scheme funds, increased marginally to 
45.2% (2012: 38.3%).  
The ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted 
EBITDA decreased to 1.0 times (2012: 1.5 
times). A reconciliation of Adjusted net debt  
and Adjusted EBITDA can be found in Note 7, 
Adjusted measures.
On 12 February 2014 the Group agreed a 
refinancing of its banking facilities. The new 
facility of £295 million has been arranged with 
eight banks, broadening the Group’s lender 
base and developing potential for growth in the 
future, and in anticipation of that, the facility 
incorporates a £50 million accordion feature. 
The new facility expires in April 2018.
Provision for pension
The defined benefit pension schemes had a  
net surplus of £15.8 million as at 31 December 
2013 (2012: £15.3 million) that continues to be 
restricted to nil in the accounts under IFRIC 14.  
The Trustees are currently overseeing the 
completion of the triennial valuations for both 
UK schemes.
IDC
The triennial actuarial valuation of the provision 
relating to historical asbestos liabilities was 
completed as at 31 December 2013, the results 
of which have been included in the financial 
results for the year. The valuation benefited 
from both a statistically larger claim population 
on which to base the actuarial projection and 
also improvements in the analytical process. 
The overall pattern of claims experienced in  
the three years since the time of the last full 
valuation has not changed significantly from  
the expectations established at that time. The 
actuarial range of reasonable estimates has 
been assessed by the independent actuaries 
as being between £89 million and £123 million. 
The valuation incorporates the Board’s latest 
judgements on technical and economic 
assumptions as well as the impact of changes 
in case law and certain management actions  
to reduce legal costs associated with claims. 
The discounted provision increased to  
£94.3 million (2012: £79.9 million) reflecting  
an unwinding of the discount of £4.0 million in 
the year (2012: £4.0 million), £3.8 million cash 
settlements during the year (2012: £4.4 million) 
and a charge in the period of £14.2 million 
(2012: £nil) reflecting the changes noted above. 
The level of cash settlements remains broadly 
in line with historic cash payments. The 
ring-fenced IDC scheme funds increased to 
£31.3 million (2012: £27.4 million) benefitting 
from a cash injection of £6.0 million from  
the Group’s funds, interest received of  
£1.0 million (2012: £1.1 million), offset by the 
cash settlements on scheme claims in the  
year of £3.1 million (2012: £3.8 million).
Currencies
Nearly all operating costs are matched with 
corresponding revenues of the same currency 
and as such there is very little transactional 
currency risk in the Group. Currency translation 
had a small positive impact on the results for 
the year, principally due to weakening of the 
Australian dollar which was partly offset by the 
strengthening of the US dollar across the year.
 
In 2013, 35.1% (2012: 23.4%) of Adjusted 
revenues were contracted in US dollars or US 
pegged currencies and 11.6% (2012: 18.7%)  
in Australian dollars.
The following significant exchange rates 
applied during this year:
Significant exchange rates applied 
during the year:
2013 2012
Closing Average Closing Average
AUD 1.85 1.63 1.57 1.53
USD 1.66 1.57 1.63 1.59
Treasury policies
Cape has a centralised Treasury function 
whose objectives are to monitor and manage 
the financial risks of the Group and to ensure 
that sufficient liquidity is available to meet the 
requirements of the business. Group Treasury 
is not a profit centre and operates within a 
framework of policies and procedures. All 
hedging is carried out centrally and speculative 
trading is specifically prohibited by Group 
Treasury policy.
Principal risks
Cape operates globally in the energy and 
natural resources sectors and in varied 
geographic markets. Cape’s performance  
and prospects may be affected by risks and 
uncertainties in relation to the industry and  
the environments in which it undertakes its 
operations around the world. Those risks  
range from external geopolitical, economic  
and market risks to operational risks including  
HSE, contracting, project execution and 
generic financial risks.
The Group is alert to the challenges of 
managing risk and has systems and 
procedures in place across the Group to 
identify, assess and mitigate major business 
risks. The directors have reviewed the principal 
risks and uncertainties and are satisfied that 
they are relevant. The Group continues to 
improve its process of project risk identification 
and mitigation from tender through to project 
completion. A full review of the Group’s 
principal risks and uncertainties are given  
on pages 16 to 23. 
Michael Speakman
Chief Financial Officer 
18 March 2014 
 
Chief Financial  
Officer’s review continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 48
Strategic report: Performance review We firmly believe that acting responsibly makes 
good business sense. Through integrity, honesty 
and strong employee engagement we build 
lasting relationships with our clients and deliver 
safe, consistent and timely operations. This 
supports our strategic intent to be the leading 
provider of critical industrial services in our 
chosen geographic markets.
People People are at the heart of our business.  
We seek to create a culture that supports  
the long-term success of the business,  
as set out by our core values.
Health  
and safety
Community
Business 
ethics
It is our responsibility to create a safe  
and healthy environment to protect  
our employees, other workers on site  
and the general public.
Our operations are not energy intensive  
nor do they create large amounts of waste. 
However, we recognise that we have our  
part to play in protecting the environment  
for future generations. We aim to minimise 
our impact wherever possible.
We provide critical services to clients who 
supply some of the vital building blocks of  
our society, such as energy and raw materials.  
We therefore contribute both to the community 
at large as well as the local communities in 
which we operate.
Operating with the highest degree of integrity 
is one of our core values. We recognise that 
we need to set the standard for business 
ethics in many of the jurisdictions in which  
we operate.
Environment
Cape’s success is built on delivering consistently high 
performance to our clients by operating in a culture 
driven by our values.
Corporate 
and Social 
Responsibility
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
49
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Our Values
Our values describe the culture and underlying 
behaviours that we strive to create through the 
Group. We believe that having the right culture 
in our business is fundamental to the long-term 
success of the Company.
Integrity
Acting with integrity is fundamental to  
the way in which we want to do business. 
Operating with a culture of openness and 
honesty means that issues are surfaced 
early and we can trust each other to work  
in the best interests of the Company and its 
stakeholders. We will not only be compliant 
with all local laws and regulations but  
also aim to set the standard for ethical 
behaviour wherever we work. 
Commitment to deliver
We recognise the importance to our  
clients of delivering in line with our promises 
and we strive to embed a culture where 
every employee is committed to deliver.  
Our people across the globe are held 
accountable and take personal responsibility 
for delivering successful results. Our 
employees are passionate about our 
business and driven to create value  
for our clients.
Relentless pursuit of excellence
For Cape to achieve its ambition of being the 
leader in our chosen markets we recognise 
that we must continuously seek new, better 
and more efficient ways to deliver our 
services to our clients. It is this relentless 
pursuit of excellence and drive for continuous 
improvement that will enable us to achieve 
market leadership and sustain that position 
for the long term.
Commitment to our people
Cape is a business built on its people. We 
recognise our responsibility to ensure all of 
our employees have a safe environment in 
which to work. We invest in our people to 
both give them the tools to do their jobs 
effectively and also to develop and grow their 
skills. We aim to provide a supportive work 
environment in which all of our employees can 
enjoy their work and achieve their full potential.
High performing team
Cape has great diversity, capability and 
knowledge spread across its business around 
the world. We aim to work together as one 
high performing team both across our regions 
and across our functions to share knowledge 
and resources in order to deliver the best 
result for our clients and shareholders.
Attract
The ability to rapidly deploy high quality skilled 
and qualified staff to meet our clients’ demands 
is one of the key success factors for Cape.
Through a multi-tiered approach, Cape’s 
recruitment strategy ensures that the 
organisation attracts talented employees from 
diverse backgrounds, and wide-ranging 
experience levels:
 – Cape’s Graduate programme is an 
international scheme aimed at bringing the 
best talent from the world’s top universities 
into the Industrial Services sector
 – The Internship scheme provides 
opportunities for 18-24 year olds,  
currently suffering from the worst 
employment prospects in recent history
 – Cape continues to be the leading provider  
of Apprenticeships in the sector
 – Adult Apprenticeships for Military Leavers 
attracts people who share our values and  
are excited by the opportunities Cape can 
present. This scheme has produced over 50 
outstanding, highly qualified professionals 
during the last 3 years. 
 
Develop
Developing the capability of our employees 
is a core element of our people development 
strategy.
Our training and development programmes are 
in place across the business and cover all of 
our disciplines with many of these programmes 
accredited to national or international 
standards. 2013 saw us significantly strengthen 
our Leadership Development programme 
across all levels in the business.
People
Corporate and Social 
Responsibility continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 50
Strategic report: Performance review Cape Management Development  
Programme (CMDP)
The capability of our leaders is critical and in 
2013 we introduced a comprehensive suite of 
leadership development programmes across  
all levels within the business:
1.  Executive Leadership Development 
Programme – This programme is based on  
a model of individually tailored development 
including executive coaching and specific 
skills development.
2.  Senior Leader Development Programme 
– covering leadership, value creation, strategy, 
project leadership, risk management and 
safety leadership along with specific on the 
job development support.
3.  Future Leader Development Programme – 
The programme modules were developed  
to mirror those of the senior leadership 
programme but at a level reflective of the 
reduced amount of experience of our  
future leaders.
4.  Supervisory Management Development 
Programme – a new global programme  
for all supervisors was launched to ensure 
that Cape has the same high standard  
of supervision around the world. The 
programme includes usage of the key 
systems and processes and site safety 
management. This programme will be  
further enhanced in 2014 to include project 
management and management skills.
HR technology
Cape has embraced the use of technology to 
both enhance and simplify its human resource 
activities. Examples of systems in use within 
the Group are:
 – A careers portal that attracts over 2.4 million 
visitors per annum, with regional applications 
for employment in excess of 17,000.
 – Intuitive workforce planning software to 
allocate the right people, to the right place,  
at the right time.
 – e-PDR systems that give employees  
online access to a formal appraisal and 
development process, whilst allowing the 
organisation mass-scale development of 
training talent management plans through 
intelligent training needs analysis.
 – Regional social media platforms that act as 
communications networks, enabling the 
accelerated sharing of information and also 
act as a forum for employee engagement. 
Employees
Description
UK, Europe 
& CIS
 Middle East
and North
Africa (MENA) 
Asia 
Pacific
Head
Office
Group
total
Female 282 12 524 13 831
Male 4,789 10,161 2,226 37 17,213
2013 5,071 10,173 2,750 50 18,044
Board
Female 0
Male 6
Senior managers
Female 1 0 1 2 4
Male 22 10 22 11 65
2012 Employees 4,897 11,315 4,368 39 20,618
Changes 174 (1,142) (1,618) 11 (2,574)
Case study – Attraction
Faced with a demanding requirement for a 
large-scale mobilisation arising from a fabric 
maintenance programme on a North Sea 
platform, the UK recruitment function designed 
and implemented a social media campaign to 
attract sufficient volumes of high quality 
applicants. 
The programme, launched in February 2013, 
utilised a range of online social media tools and 
networks to publicise the opportunity and 
vacancies available – ensuring quick, efficient 
and low-cost publication of the roles to a 
targeted pool of potential applicants. Within  
48 hours nearly 4,000 potential applicants  
had been reached and the programme had 
generated discussions amongst c.1000 users  
of online social media including: ‘proper 
Company’; ‘I worked with Cape for a year... 
great employer’; ‘Great news to hear. I’ll keep  
an eye on your website’; and ‘...it’s so good to 
see employers replying to the lad’s questions, 
fair play to you Cape’.
Use of digital media did not stop at the initial 
attraction process, but was extended  
throughout the end-to-end recruitment process 
with use of electronic communications, offer 
letters and employment documentation.  
Whilst this provided a more efficient and 
responsive recruitment service it also resulted  
in a substantial cost saving, reduced paper 
wastage, and freed-up operational management 
from fielding application calls and managing  
the application process. 
In recognition of the success of this programme 
Cape was short-listed by the CIPD Recruitment 
Marketing Awards for the ‘Best In-house 
Recruitment Team’ award and won the CIPD 
2013 award for ‘HR Innovation Through 
Technology’.
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 51
Governance Financial statements Health and safety
Security
We recognise the importance of security  
for our employees as we have continued to 
develop business opportunities in emerging 
markets often linked to geographical regions 
where there are heightened security concerns 
our Group Security function assesses all  
such activities and provides guidance and 
recommendations for appropriate security 
precautions based on robust risk assessment 
systems and intelligence sources. We are 
committed to creating a secure working 
environment for all our personnel while 
ensuring the security of our physical assets  
and we are pleased to report that we have  
had no significant security issues during the 
reporting period.
Accommodation
We ensure that the welfare facilities, such  
as accommodation, that we provide to our 
workers are to a standard which ensures  
that we treat everyone with dignity and care.  
Cape has over 9,000 employees living in 
accommodation supplied to them by the 
Company predominantly in the Middle East  
and Asia. Cape has audited the quality of these 
facilities against the international standard for 
welfare SA8000 and can confirm that no 
significant non-conformities were identified 
during the year. We will be investigating  
ways for continuous improvement taking into 
account new aspirational standards identified 
by interested bodies around the world such  
as the ‘Qatar Foundation’.
Health and welfare
Cape continues to promote high standards of 
staff health and welfare and as such has 
strengthened its medical assessment and 
rehabilitation process to ensure that individuals’ 
health is not being adversely affected by the 
work we are asking them to do. Our remote 
and offshore facilities have on-site medical 
teams and occupational health support which 
is freely offered to our employees. Where 
possible we provide recreational resources to 
promote healthy living and support local 
initiatives that focus on health matters, such as 
fun runs and healthy eating.
Cape runs comprehensive programmes to 
monitor the health of our employees. This 
health screening monitors the general health  
of our employees as well as industry specific 
medical conditions such as: HAVS, loss of 
hearing, lung-related diseases, muscular and 
skeletal deterioration.
Safety
Wherever we operate, we aim to provide a safe 
and secure environment for everyone who 
comes in contact with our workplaces and 
operations. Many of our people work in 
challenging locations and environments, 
carrying out potentially hazardous activities.  
It is our vision to create a work environment 
where everyone can work safely and healthily 
with zero harm.
It is our belief that:
–  An excellent health and safety culture and is 
not only essential for the welfare and morale 
of employees, but is also crucial to the future 
development and success of the Company.
–  All unsafe acts, injuries and work-related ill 
health are preventable.
–  Nothing we do is so urgent or so important 
that we cannot make the time to ensure that  
it is done safely.
Our safety performance remains ahead of 
industry norms and we received a number of 
awards from our blue chip clients during the 
year that are a testament to the commitment  
of all of our employees to our safety culture.  
We continue to focus the business towards  
the ultimate goal of zero injuries and accidents.  
We continue to examine areas for potential 
improvements to ensure we deliver safe and 
reliable operations.
In 2013, the Group achieved a TRIR frequency 
rate of 0.920 per 1,000,000 hours worked 
compared with 1.656 in 2012. This dramatic 
reduction in incident rate equates to a 44% 
improvement in performance from the previous 
period.
We reported in 2012 that an incident occurred 
on a clients site during 2012 that tragically 
resulted in the fatality of a Cape employee. We 
have been informed by the Health and Safety 
Executive that a decision has been taken that 
legal proceedings should commence against 
his employer, Cape Industrial Services Ltd and 
whilst we will continue to assist with the 
ongoing investigation, the Company will also 
present a robust defence of its position should 
such legal proceedings move forward. 
0
1
2
3
4
5
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR) 2008-2013 per 1,000,000 hours worked
Corporate and Social 
Responsibility continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 52
Strategic report: Performance review Ensuring that our people are fully trained and 
competent to undertake their duties continues 
to be fundamental to supporting our excellent 
health and safety performance. Therefore, our 
work in 2013 to achieve this goal continued 
with increased levels of behavioural safety 
training, strengthened supervisor training and 
improved competence programmes with 
specific emphasis on the development  
of enhanced Blaster and Painter training and 
competency assessment. We have also 
increased our practical, on-the-ground, trade 
skills training of our workforce.
Audit
All of our operations are subject to external 
independent audits against the international 
OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety standard. 
This benchmark measure is further supported 
by rigorous internal audits and inspections to 
provide assurance that our policies, procedures 
and the resultant delivery of performance is  
to the appropriate standard. Our external 
auditors SGS UK have identified no major 
non-conformities against the international 
standard and continue to support our 
accreditation.
Internal Performance Indicators
Performance is benchmarked against available 
internal and external data monitoring our overall 
health, safety, environmental and welfare 
performance with a range of key indicators. 
These have been designed to look at factors 
such as training, competency assessment, 
near miss reporting, quality system non 
conformities, and delivery of audit and 
inspection programmes. The results of these 
measures are regularly reported to the 
executive Committee and to the Board.
CapeSafe
CapeSafe is our internal brand created to help 
us meet our ultimate objective of no injuries. 
Using CapeSafe we seek to communicate the 
level of safety we are aiming for in a clearly 
relevant and distinctive way. 
The CapeSafe brand creates safety standards 
applicable across our entire organisation.  
It conveys the clear message of ‘look after 
yourself, look out for others and return  
home safely’, and that we never compromise 
on safety. 
CapeSafe means everyone at Cape is working 
towards the same Health, Safety and 
Environmental (HSE) goals, designed to protect 
the well-being of all our people and the 
communities where we work. The brand 
ensures we all understand and uphold Cape’s 
core values and observe the ‘Golden Rules’ 
which describe the minimum performance 
Cape expects.
Health and Safety awards 
Cape’s commitment to deliver superior 
execution with an uncompromising approach to 
safety remains paramount. The Cape brand 
provides our clients with the reassurance that 
critical support services for their plant 
maintenance and construction needs will be 
provided efficiently and safely. This was again 
acknowledged by our clients with many 
prestigious awards including:
Our safety performance in 2013
Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Total Man Hours Worked 41,632,374 41,209,332 50,232,770 54, 966,914 62,207,917 61,924,383
Restricted Work Cases 23 33 28 23 34 19
Medical Treatment Cases 113 90 51 47 48 26
Lost Work Day Cases 60 53 16 16 20 12
Fatalities 0 0 0 1 1 0
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 4.71 4.27 1.89 1.58 1.656 0.920
Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) 1.44 1.28 0.32 0.3 0.338 0.194
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 53
Governance Financial statements Case Study – Dropped object 
management 
Analysis of incidents throughout the Group 
indicated that the vast majority of our ‘high 
potential’ incidents were related to dropped 
objects. The study not only identified risks due 
to objects being accidentally dropped during 
the execution of our work, but also issues of 
tools and equipment being displaced by others 
working in close proximity to Cape personnel.
With the extreme potential for serious injury,  
a global initiative for the control and mitigation 
of ‘Dropped Objects’ was instigated and 
executed throughout the year.
To emphasise the significance of this issue,  
it was included in the Group objectives for  
the year and a Key Performance Indicator  
was introduced with the results being reported 
on a regular basis to the main Board.
A global workshop was held to share 
experience and develop a formal Group-wide 
industry leading prevention strategy. This was 
swiftly followed by a global safety campaign, 
including posters, video, magazine articles and 
enhanced induction training, to raise everyone’s 
awareness of the prevalent hazards.
A new Group procedure was introduced, 
designed to control risks due to falling objects:
 – A renewed focus on risk assessment to 
identify specific hazards and suitable controls.
 – The introduction of structured ‘Hazard 
Hunts’ specifically designed to identify  
and mitigate any risks due to potential 
dropped objects.
 – Enhanced manual handling instruction  
and training, with re-emphasis on the 
specific measures required for scaffolding 
operations, has now been introduced  
for operatives and supervision.
 – Reinforcement of existing requirements  
for lifting operations.
 – Additional precautions where ‘third parties’ 
risks exist.
 – Safe measures for the storage of materials 
and equipment at height.
 – Where primary retention of materials and 
equipment cannot be achieved, specific 
guidance has been produced for the setting 
up and maintenance of ‘exclusion zones’.
In addition, Cape has introduced an industry 
leading initiative for the mandatory retention  
of scaffold spanners and primary tools. This  
is a significant financial commitment, but in  
our opinion it sets the standard for the  
industry as a whole.
We are pleased to state that we have already 
seen a 13% reduction in the incidence of dropped 
objects in 2013 from previous years. The initiative 
is to remain a high priority over the coming year 
with the objective of achieving a continuous 
reduction of events involving dropped objects  
and thus improving site safety for all.
Region Date Award Site Client
United Kingdom February 2013 Nuclear Generation Challenge Awards 2012 
Winners of the ‘Contract Partner Safety Award’.
National EDF
Middle East February 2013 Superior Safety Performance & Significant  
Contribution to the achievement of 30 million  
Man-Hour Lost Time Injury Free.
RRE Project, 
Ruwais
SK Engineering/ 
TAKEER 
Asia Pacific April 2013 3.4 million Manhours without LTI Project Aurora,  
Central Queensland
Dyno Nobel/Incitec  
Pivot Limited
Asia Pacific May 2013 80 million Manhours without LTI SPT Project ExxonMobil
Middle East May 2013 ‘Contractor of the Year Award’ and ‘Best HSE Performer 
of the Year‘
Abu Dhabi Borouge
Middle East July 2013 Winner of the 2012 ‘Safety award for contractors  
serving BAPCO’
Bahrain BAPCO
Middle East December 2013 2013 ‘Contractor of the Year’ with recognition for 
continued HSE performance over many years 
and as best participant in EHS week
TATWEER 
OILFIELD
Banagas
Further details of awards can be found at: www.capeplc.com/
corporate-responsibility/health-and-safety/awards
Corporate and Social 
Responsibility continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 54
Strategic report: Performance review Environment
Impact on the environment
We continued to concentrate on minimising  
our impact on the environment. Although Cape 
is not a large user of energy or generator of 
waste we recognise we have a role to play in 
safeguarding the environment for future 
generations. We are reviewing our operations 
to identify potential initiatives to improve our 
performance such as:
 – On a number of our work tender submissions 
we have utilised our strong capabilities in  
the specification and installation of insulating 
materials to aid our clients in optimising their 
planned works to provide the “best whole 
life” costs solutions. Often the most efficient 
solution is installations that minimise energy 
wastage throughout their lifetime by the 
installation of modern materials and 
techniques.  
 – This year for the first time we commenced  
a new focus on measurement of fugitive 
emissions of CFC from air conditioning units 
utilised through all our operations, which 
equates to approximately 2% of our global 
emissions in terms of tonnes of CO
2
e.  
As would be expected given the harsh 
environments in which our people work and 
live we have a large number of such units 
which require maintenance and renewal.  
We will be evaluating our replacement 
programme of such units to minimise 
their CFC content.
Through our Environmental Services business 
we provide specialist industrial cleaning and 
waste management services to our clients  
that allow them to minimise the impact of  
their waste streams on the environment.
Environmental reporting
We are pleased to report Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions (GHG) in a manner consistent with 
UK legislation for the period 1 January to 
31 December 2013.
The emission categories captured within the 
definitions which are applicable to the Group 
and which are material are:
 – Scope 1 – Direct GHG Emissions. The scope 
applicable for the Group focuses on directly 
purchased fuel for our transport fleet, ancillary 
equipment fuel usage (compressors and 
generators), heating oil or gas for space 
heating boilers and process emissions from 
our polyisocyanurate (PIR) foam production 
facility in Abu Dhabi.
 – Scope 2 – Electricity Indirect Emissions. The 
applicable scope covers electricity purchased 
from the respective local suppliers for site, 
office or accommodation camp usage.
 – Scope 3 – Other indirect GHG Emissions.  
The significant scope applicable to the 
Group includes provided services, goods 
and raw materials. The largest material  
GHG emissions factor is the worldwide 
transport of personnel by air.
Throughout the year we capture the relevant 
data on the Company’s Health, Safety, Security 
and Environment web-based system MyOsh. 
These data are captured at a local country level 
inputted into our global system in line with the 
UK Government’s guidance on how to measure 
and report greenhouse gas emissions. The 
results are reported below.
Methodology 
We have reported on all of the emission  
sources required under the Quoted Companies 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013. 
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised 
edition), data gathered to fulfil our requirements 
under the CRC, and emission factors from 
Defra/DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting. Emissions for year 2012 
have been recalculated utilising the current 
recommended Defra(2013) conversion factors 
to ensure that comparisons can be made on a 
consistent basis.
The 23% increase in intensity factor is largely  
due to the increase in activity in the MENA region 
where a significant proportion of the workforce  
is recruited from the Indian subcontinent with a 
resultant increase in air travel to Middle East and 
the day to day transport for which the Company 
has responsibility from accommodation camps  
to project locations.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
CO
2
e, tonnes rounded to the nearest 10,000
2013 CO 2 2012 CO 2
Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions) 31,947,881 22,005,223
Scope 2 (Electricity Indirect Emissions) 5,703,138 7,560,900
Scope 3 (other indirect GHG emissions) 20,329,672 17,816,702
Total gross emissions (TGE) 57,980,691 47,382,825
Intensity Ratio 0.936 0.762
Notes: 
The Intensity Ratio is defined as: Tonnes Equivalent CO
2
/million man hours worked, as this measure is deemed the  
most relevant to the Group’s operations. 
 
Scope 1 includes fuel vehicles (litres), fuel other (litres), units electricity (kWh) and units of gas (kWh). All major geographies  
within the Group’s international operations are included in the reported data. The data was converted into the CO
2
  
equivalent using calculations provided within the ‘2013 Guidelines to Defra/DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for  
Company Reporting’.
Overview Strategic report
55
Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Scope 1 includes fuel vehicles (litres), fuel other 
(litres), units electricity (kWh) and units of gas 
(kWh). All major geographies within the Group’s 
international operations are included in the 
reported data. The data were converted into the 
CO
2
 equivalent using calculations provided within 
the ‘2013 Guidelines to Defra/DECC’s GHG 
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting’.
External accreditation
Within each region, senior management 
regularly review their environmental 
performance. The Group Health, Safety and 
Environmental function monitors these systems 
to ensure compliance to the Group’s aspirations. 
The majority of the Group’s operations are 
certified to ISO 14001, or its equivalent.
Audit and internal inspections are a key 
element of managing our environmental risks, 
as a consequence we have a comprehensive 
programme of audits and inspections 
undertaken by SGS (our external ISO 14001 
accreditor), the Group HSE department and  
the local management teams.
In the summer of 2013, Cape was subject to  
the triennial re-accreditation process against  
the standard suite of recognised international 
standards. The Company was again successful 
and re-awarded certificates of conformity for  
all three standards, namely ISO 9001 (quality 
systems), 14001 (environment) and OSHA 
18001 (health and safety).
Asbestos management and  
operating licences
Cape continues to offer asbestos removal 
services to the highest recognised international 
standards. In all operational areas where 
asbestos management can only be undertaken 
under licence from legislative enforcement 
bodies, Cape continued to hold the appropriate 
approvals. 
 
Quality 
In 2013, Cape continued to build on our 
extensive work to develop, extend and improve 
our health, safety, environmental and quality 
management system. Our Cape Management 
System (CMS) is currently available to all 
employees worldwide, via the intranet and 
provides support, guidance and instruction  
as to how to conduct the Group’s activities.
Community
In 2013 we have continued to show support to 
both our people and the communities in which 
they live. Wherever practicable we aim to 
support the use of local labour. In addition to 
meeting local requirements regarding minimum 
levels of national content, we believe, where 
possible, that through the use of local labour 
we can address skills shortages within the 
industry, and provide assistance to local people 
in finding meaningful employment. We operate 
comprehensive training schools across the 
international footprint of the Group which aim to 
provide new recruits with the skills required to 
operate safely and effectively in our industry.
In the UK we aim to strengthen our ties with 
local communities by recruiting locally through 
apprenticeships, internships and our military 
leavers programmes
 
We have continued our longstanding 
relationship with two charities in the Philippines, 
the Children’s Joy Foundation and The 
Springboard Foundation, in particular working 
with the latter in the wake of the Super Typhoon 
Haiyan.
Human rights
The Group has a policy to operate in 
accordance with the Universal Declaration  
of Human Rights and take account of other 
internationally accepted human rights 
standards. 
Case Study – Cape provides 
assistance in the Haiyan relief 
operation
In response to the Typhoon Haiyan disaster in 
the Philippines, Cape launched a fundraising 
initiative to raise money to help those affected 
by the disaster. Cape has around 700 
employees based in the Philippines.
Cape employees in all regions donated 
money to the cause, and the amount was 
fund-matched pound for pound by Cape plc. 
The total amount raised was over £50,000. 
This money was donated to the Springboard 
Foundation and the Red Cross to ensure it 
reached those directly impacted by the 
disaster. In addition to our financial support 
we also supplied HGV transport to deliver 
food, medicine and clothing packages to 
areas affected by the disaster. 
Corporate and Social 
Responsibility continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 56
Strategic report: Performance review Business ethics
Cape operates in a wide range of countries 
across the globe and, whilst it is the Group’s 
policy that it always conducts business in 
accordance with applicable local laws and 
regulations, the Group also seeks to ensure 
that there is a common standard of business 
integrity and ethics across all its businesses 
and operations. This will, in many instances, 
result in Cape operating well above local law 
and regulatory standards in certain 
jurisdictions.
Business integrity and ethics, particularly with 
regards to anti-bribery and anti-corruption 
policies, are increasingly important to 
regulators, clients and other stakeholders, 
including employees, who rightly require 
assurance that the Group operates a safe and 
sustainable business. Maintaining its good 
reputation is therefore of critical importance  
to the Group. 
The Board, its Committees, the executive 
directors and the Executive Committee all play 
key roles in the promotion and monitoring of 
the Group’s business integrity and ethics and  
in safeguarding the Group’s reputation.
Compliance training is provided to employees 
to support their understanding of, and 
commitment to, Group policies in order to 
ensure that employees adhere to the commons 
standards of business integrity and ethics. The 
training includes the training of managers in 
their responsibilities for employees, commercial 
contracts and structures and for the protection 
of Group assets and is delivered across the 
Group’s operations through online training 
programmes as well as face to face seminars 
and individual training. The Group’s anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption policy applies to all Group 
entities, employees and third parties engaged 
by the Group and adheres to the standards set 
out in the UK Bribery Act 2010. Employees are 
required to complete online anti-bribery and 
ant-corruption training.
The Group has taken steps to further 
strengthen its stance in relation to business 
integrity and ethics including the recruitment  
of a General counsel with specific responsibility 
for delivering the Group’s business integrity  
and ethics policies and monitoring compliance  
with such policies, the establishment of a 
stand-alone compliance and investigations 
function, and the re-launch of the Group’s 
business and integrity policies and whistle-
blower structures.
  Directors’ approval 
statement
 
  The strategic report, as set out on pages  
9 to 57. has been reviewed and approved  
by our Board of directors.
    
Joe Oatley 
Chief Executive 
18 March 2014 
 
 
Overview Strategic report
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 57
Governance Financial statements 58
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Governance Governance
60  Introduction from the Chairman
6 1  C o r p o r a t e g ov e r n a n c e 
compliance
62  Leadership: the Board  
and its Committees
66 Effectiveness
67  Nomination Committee report
68 Accountability
70 Audit Committee report
73  Relationship with shareholders  
and share capital
75 Other statutory information
76 Directors’ responsibilities
77  Directors’ remuneration report
Governance
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 59 “ During 2013, in conjunction with a  
new senior management team, we  
have focused on further strengthening 
our corporate governance controls  
and embedding a culture of  
corporate integrity.”
Dear Shareholder,
We now have a well-balanced Board, with experienced and capable 
executive directors who are driving significant improvements to Group 
performance and governance controls and a non-executive team that 
adds value through their industry-specific knowledge and functional 
experience.
One of the key roles for the Board of directors of Cape is to provide 
leadership for our over 18,000 employees; your Board is committed  
to provide the leadership to deliver a consistent and positive financial 
performance with the highest integrity and strong governance. 
This section, the directors’ governance report, includes the Nomination 
Committee report, the Audit Committee report and the directors’ 
remuneration report. In these reports we set out for our stakeholders  
the governance structures that we have embedded at Cape as we strive 
to achieve the high standards of corporate governance and corporate 
integrity that we believe will provide a secure future for our customers 
and employees, and the best prospects of long-term financial 
performance for our shareholders. 
I look forward to the year ahead, confident in the knowledge that the 
Company is led by a highly motivated and competent team. I also look 
forward to the continued support of you, the shareholders, as our new 
senior management team drive the changes needed in the business to 
deliver long-term consistent financial performance.
Tim Eggar
Chairman
18 March 2014
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 60
Directors’ governance report
Introduction from the Chairman Introduction 
Cape plc is a holding company. The main activities of its subsidiary 
undertakings during the year were the provision of a range of critical 
industrial services including access systems, insulation, painting, 
coatings, blasting, industrial cleaning, training and assessment to 
both industrial plant operators and major international engineering 
and construction companies. Further details on the development and 
the performance of the Group during the year are provided in overview 
and strategic report sections of this annual report.
Cape seeks to deliver all those activities in a safe, ethical and 
professional manner across all of its operations and is committed to  
high standards of corporate governance, details of which are given in 
this directors’ governance report. The Board seeks to deliver long term 
shareholder value and views good governance combined with the 
effective identification, analysis and management of risk within defined 
parameters as the cornerstone to achieving this aim.
Applicable law and regulations
Where any sections of this report contain references to the Company’s 
current articles of association (the ‘Articles’) and the Companies (Jersey) 
Law 1991 (the ‘Law’), these are references only and the relevant 
provisions of the Articles or the Law should be consulted if further 
information is required.
As a Jersey incorporated Company with shares premium listed on the 
Official List of the London Stock Exchange, certain UK statutory and 
regulatory requirements do not apply to Cape. However, in the interests 
of transparency, the Company has chosen to voluntarily comply with 
such disclosure requirements set out in applicable UK statutes. The 
Company is, however, required by the United Kingdom Listing Authority 
to adopt the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) issued by  
the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’). The FRC has issued a revised 
version of the Code which applies to financial years commencing on  
or after 1 October 2012. 
Code compliance statement
As set out above the Company is required to comply with the Code. 
The Code is available at http://www.frc.org.uk. The Company’s policy 
is to achieve the best practice in our standards of business integrity in 
all our operations around the world, including conducting its business in 
accordance with the Code and by applying the principles set out in the 
Code. This includes a commitment to follow the highest standards of 
corporate governance throughout the Group. This directors’ governance 
report describes how we have complied with the provisions of the Code  
and applied its main principles during the year. 
The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of the  
Code through the financial year ending 31 December 2013. In forming 
this opinion the Board has, in particular, considered whether Brendan 
Connolly meets the test of independence of character and judgement  
as a non-executive director:
 – Principle B.1 of the Code sets out that the Board and its committees 
should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to 
discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
 – Code provision B.1.1 indicates the Board should identify in the annual 
report each non-executive director it considers to be independent. 
The Board should determine whether the director is independent  
in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect,  
the director’s judgement. The Board should state its reasons if it 
determines that a director is independent notwithstanding the 
existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear 
relevant to its determination, including if the director has been an 
employee of the Company or Group within the last five years.
 – On 29 March 2012, Martin May, then the Company’s Chief Executive, 
stepped down from the Board. Brendan Connolly, who was then 
serving as an independent non-executive director agreed to fulfil the 
role of acting Chief Executive until a suitable replacement could be 
found. In order to do so, Brendan stepped down as a member of  
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
 – Brendan was re-appointed to such committees on 29 June 2012, 
following the appointment on the same date of Joe Oatley as  
Chief Executive. 
 – Despite the fact that Brendan Connolly has served as an employee of 
the Company during the last 5 years (for a period of just 92 days in 
2012), the Board considers that: (a) the highly unusual and particular 
circumstances of his service as an employee; (b) the short duration of 
the relevant period; and, (c) the passage of time since the short period 
of employment; means that the fact of such employment has not 
impinged (during the 2013 financial year), and continues not to, 
impinge upon his independence of character and judgement. 
 – Accordingly, the Board regards Brendan Connolly as truly 
independent in character and judgement and as satisfying the  
test of independence as set out in Code provision B.1.1.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 61
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Corporate governance compliance 1. Tim Eggar
Chairman; Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of  
the Remuneration Committee; age 62. Tim joined Cape on 1 May 2011. 
He had a distinguished parliamentary career from 1979 to 1997 which 
included the key Government appointment of Minister for Energy from 
1992 to 1996. He has extensive international experience including  
being Global Head of Integrated Energy Corporate Finance at ABN 
AMRO, Chief Executive of Monument Oil and Gas, Chairman of  
Harrison Lovegrove and Chairman of Indago Petroleum. Tim Eggar  
is currently Chairman of 3 Legs Resources plc, MyCelx Technologies 
Corporation and Haulfryn Limited. 
2. Brendan Connolly
Independent non-executive director; Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees;  
age 57. Brendan joined Cape as a non-executive director on 16 
November 2011. Brendan Connolly is currently a director for two 
portfolio companies of the private equity company AEA Investors and  
a non-executive director of Synthomer plc. Brendan was previously 
regional president for the Middle East at Intertek and CEO of Moody 
International (acquired by Intertek in May 2011). Prior to Moody 
International, Brendan was the UK Managing Director of the Sema 
Group and subsequently Atos Origin, an IT integrator, for three years, 
and previously spent more than 25 years of his career in the oil &  
gas sector with Schlumberger, in senior International roles over  
three continents. 
3. Joe Oatley
Chief Executive; age 45. Joe joined Cape as Chief Executive on  
29 June 2012. Joe was previously Chief Executive of Hamworthy plc,  
a global engineering business serving the oil & gas industry, which he 
joined in 2007 and led until its takeover by Wartsila. Prior to this, his 
experience was predominantly in the engineering sector in a variety  
of roles including managing director, strategy development and 
acquisitions. Joe Oatley has no external appointments. 
4. Michael Merton
Independent non-executive director; Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees; Senior 
Independent Director; age 62. Michael is a Chartered Accountant with 
significant experience in the international resources industry, having 
spent the majority of his executive career at Rio Tinto, where he held 
senior operational roles around the world. Michael is currently a 
non-executive director of BlackRock Commodities Income Investment 
Trust plc, Chairman of the J Sainsbury Pension Scheme and its 
investment committee, and a trustee of the Universities Superannuation 
Scheme, the Rio Tinto Pension Fund and the HALO Trust. 
5. Michael Speakman
Chief Financial Officer; age 49. Michael has 30 years of experience  
with public and private companies across a range of industries, holding 
senior operational, divisional and corporate roles, within TI Group plc 
and Smiths Group plc between 1982 and 2004, before being appointed 
as CFO for the oilfield services company Expro International Group plc. 
In this position he played a key role in the development of the company 
from a FTSE small cap company to one on the verge of breaking into the 
FTSE 100 when it was successfully auctioned and taken private in 2008. 
Michael holds a BSc in engineering and he is a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants. Michael is currently a director of 
WellCentric Limited and FrontRow Energy Partners Limited and a 
non-executive director of ElectroFlow Controls Limited.
6. Leslie Van de Walle
Independent non-executive director; member of the Audit and 
Remuneration committees; age 57. Leslie joined Cape on 22 August 2012 
with a wealth of international and corporate experience having been a 
director of various companies within the Shell International Petroleum 
and United Biscuits (where he also served as CEO from 1999-2000) 
groups of companies and more recently for Rexam plc where he served 
as CEO from 2007-09. He has also served as a non-executive director 
for Aegis Group plc from 2003-09, for Aviva plc from 2009-12, and was 
Senior Independent Director for the Spanish based listed company La 
Seda de Barcelona from February 2011 until June 2013. Leslie is 
currently a non-executive director for the Irish based DCC plc and is 
non-executive Chairman for SIG plc and Robert Walters plc.
4. Michael  
Merton
5. Michael  
Speakman
6. Leslie  
Van de Walle
3. Joe  
Oatley
1. Tim  
Eggar
2. Brendan  
Connolly
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 62
Director’s governance report
Leadership: the Board and its Committees Board Chairman
Tim Eggar
The Chairman’s role (and division of responsibility with the CEO) is  
formally set out and includes:
 – Leadership and effectiveness of the Board
 – Board agenda setting, adequacy of information flow to the Board,  
and adequacy of consideration of strategic issues
 – Promoting culture of openness of debate at Board level and  
between non-executive and executive directors/members of  
the Executive Committee
Chief Financial Officer
Michael Speakman
 – Responsible for the financial stewardship, navigation and control 
activities of the Group
 – Supporting the Chief Executive in the execution of the  
Group’s strategy 
 
 
Committee Chairmen
Tim Eggar, Michael Merton, Brendan Connolly
 – Leadership and effectiveness of the relevant committee
 – Committee agenda setting, adequacy of information flow to the Committee 
and adequacy of consideration of issues before the Committee
 – Discharge of the duties of the Committee as set out in the relevant 
Committee terms of reference
Chief Executive
Joe Oatley
The Chief Executive’s role (and division of responsibility with the 
Chairman) is formally set out and includes:
 – Management of the Group’s business and implementation of  
the Company’s strategy and policies 
 – Maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman
 – Chairing the Executive Committee 
 
 
The Senior Independent Director
Michael Merton
 – Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and as  
an intermediary with the other Board directors
 – Available to shareholders to air concerns which have  
not been addressed through other formal channels
 – Conducting review of performance of the Chairman
Non-executive directors
 – Scrutiny of management performance in meeting agreed objectives
 – Monitoring of performance reporting
 – Monitoring the integrity of financial information, financial and  
non-financial controls and systems of risk management 
Cape’s governance structures
Chairman
Tim Eggar
Board of directors of Cape plc
Chairman, 2 executive directors, 3 non-executive directors (including the Senior Independent Director)
Nomination Committee
Tim Eggar (Chairman) 
and 3 independent  
non-executive directors 
Audit Committee
Michael Merton (Chairman) 
and 2 independent  
non-executive directors
Remuneration Committee
Brendan Connolly (Chairman) 
and 2 independent  
non-executive directors 
and Tim Eggar
Executive directors
Joe Oatley (CEO) 
Michael Speakman  
(CFO)
Key director and senior management roles and responsibilities:
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 63
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Role of the Board
The Board is responsible for the overall conduct and performance of the Group’s business. Its powers and duties are set out in the Company’s 
articles and in the relevant laws of its place of incorporation, Jersey. The Board is responsible for the setting of, and overseeing the execution of, 
Group strategy and for the overall management, control and performance of the Cape business. It is accountable to shareholders for the proper and 
successful conduct of the business, taking into account the interests of all relevant stakeholders. The Board is also responsible for the effectiveness 
and reporting of the Group’s system of internal controls and its system of corporate governance. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its own decision. A copy of this schedule can be found on the Group’s website at: 
www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility/corporate-governance. The formal schedule of reserved matters is replicated in internal delegation of 
authorities within the Group that enable the operating businesses to operate with flexibility whilst ensuring that strategic matters are always considered 
and decided up by the Board. The schedule is reviewed annually. Matters delegated by the Board to its standing committees are set out below.
The Board has also appointed a standing subcommittee comprising any two directors to attend to routine administrative issues. The sub-committee may 
only be convened in exceptional circumstances and with prior notification to the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director. 
The Board receives regular reports on performance against budget, the general economic climate, market conditions and competitor activity. Directors 
receive papers distributed in advance of Board and Committee meetings and also receive periodic business reports from senior managers regarding their 
area of the business. The briefing papers comprise a detailed health, safety and environment report, CEO report which addresses key issues facing the 
Group and a CFO report which records performance in the period since the last meeting, on an annual basis and as against the previous year, all 
measured against defined performance indicators and budget. Open and frank dialogue is encouraged and all directors have the opportunity to challenge 
and seek further information or clarification as appropriate. In addition to routine Board meetings, the Board meets at least annually to consider the Group’s 
strategy. Members of the Executive Committee attend strategy and Board meetings by invitation.
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense. An agreed procedure exists for the taking of such advice. During 2013, no director sought independent legal advice pursuant to the policy.
Composition of the Board
The directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements (all of whom were directors 
for the entirety of such period) were:
Role Comments Non-executive director tenure
Tim Eggar Chairman Appointed 4/5/2011 32 months
Brendan Connolly Non-executive director Appointed 16/11/2011 
Acting CEO 29/3/2012 to 29/6/2012
26 months 
Michael Merton Non-executive director and 
Senior Independent Director
Appointed 4/5/2011. Senior Independent  
Director since 29/6/2012
32 months
Joe Oatley Executive director (CEO) Appointed 29/6/2012 NA
Michael Speakman Executive director (CFO) Appointed 6/12/2012 NA
Leslie Van de Walle Non-executive director Appointed 22/8/2012 17 months 
As at 31 December 2013, the Board consisted of the non-executive Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and two executive 
directors. Biographical details of the directors appear on page 62. The Board regards each of the three non-executive directors as being fully 
independent in character and judgement (see page 61). The non-executive directors bring a broad range of business and commercial experience to 
the Company. They also have particular responsibility to challenge independently and constructively the performance of the executive management 
team in the delivery of the agreed objectives and targets. A comprehensive list of the Committee’s responsibilities can be found in the Committees 
Terms of References which are on the Group’s website at www.capeplc.com.
Board committees
The Board has established a number of formal committees to assist in the discharge of its duties. The composition of the Board committees is 
summarised below:
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee
Tim Eggar Chairman Invited to attend Member
Brendan Connolly Member Member Chairman
Michael Merton Member Chairman Member
Joe Oatley Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items Invited to attend on certain items
Michael Speakman – Invited to attend on certain items –
Leslie Van de Walle – Member Member
The three formal committees of the Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, have formally delegated duties and 
responsibilities. These terms of reference can be found at www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility/corporate-governance/board-committees.aspx. 
The terms of reference of the Committees are reviewed annually to ensure that they comply with changes in legal and regulatory requirements, 
reflect developments in best corporate practice and improvements in the way the Committees are managed. The chairmen of these committees 
report formally to the Board after each meeting of a committee. In addition, the Board receives reports and recommendations from the committees 
from time to time on any matter which it considers significant to the Group. In 2012 an Executive Committee was formed. This is not a formal 
committee of the Board, but an advisory committee managed by the Chief Executive and established to improve the effectiveness of strategic, 
operational and financial performance.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 64
Directors’ governance report
Leadership: the Board and its Committees
continued The structure of each committee and their terms of reference are summarised below. Further details of the work of each of the committees are  
given in the respective reports of those committees on pages 67, 70 and 77.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee
Summary of 
responsibilities  
(see terms of  
reference, as  
above, for  
full details)
 – Review of Board balance 
and composition of the  
Board and committees. 
 – Advice to Board on appointment/
removal of executive and 
non-executive directors and 
Committee membership. 
 – Succession planning.
 – Financial reporting – the integrity of reported financial information  
and reviewing reporting issues and judgements.
 – Risk analysis – review the adequacy of the six monthly risk analysis 
process along with the procedures to identify new risks as they arise.
 – Internal control and risk management – consider the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control process in relation  
to risks identified.
 – Internal audit – monitoring and reviewing effectiveness of internal  
audit function, reviewing annual audit plan and internal audit reports.
 – Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud – reviewing the adequacy & 
security of whistle-blower procedures, the procedures for detecting 
fraud and Anti-Bribery Compliance.
 – External audit – consideration and recommendations for appointment, 
removal and re-appointment of external auditors; overseeing relationship 
with external auditor; assessing independence of external auditor and 
fee recommendations; review of audit plan; developing and 
implementing policy on non-audit services from the auditor; meeting 
regularly with the external auditor.
 – Determine and agree with  
Board framework/policy for 
remuneration of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive, executive 
directors and 1st layer of senior 
management below the Board
 – Determine total package and 
structure for the Chairman and 
executive directors
 – Selection and recruitment  
of remuneration consultants
 – Design and structure of 
performance-related Group 
remuneration schemes  
& share plans
 – Determine vesting for 
performance related  
and share schemes.
Membership 2 of the independent non-executive 
directors and the Board Chairman
All the independent non-executive directors All of the independent non-executive 
directors and the Board Chairman
Chairman Board Chairman, Tim Eggar Michael Merton Brendan Connolly
Attending by  
invitation
The Company Secretary and 
the Chief Executive (when 
appropriate)
The Board Chairman, Company Secretary and the Chief Executive, CFO, 
Director of Group Internal Audit and external auditor (when appropriate). 
The Company Secretary and the 
Chief Executive and the external 
remuneration adviser (when 
appropriate)
Quorum 2 independent non-executive 
directors
2 independent non-executive directors 2 non-executive directors
Number of  
meetings per year
At least 2 time per year At least 3 times per year At least 3 times per year
Committee report Page 67 Page 70 Page 77
Other Committee Chairman to be 
available at AGM to shareholders.
– Remuneration of non-executive 
directors is a matter for the  
Chairman and executive  
members of the Board.
Board and Board Committee attendance
The Board generally meets formally not less than eight times a year and, informally, on other occasions. Non-executive directors are also available 
throughout the year and are available to attend additional Board meetings, as necessary. The table below shows attendance by directors at 
meetings of the Board and the Board committees during the year ended 31 December 2013:
Board Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee
Director
Number  
attended
Number of 
meetings
Number  
attended
Number of 
meetings
Number  
attended
Number of 
meetings
Number  
attended
Number of 
meetings
Tim Eggar 8 8 N/A 6 2 2 5 5
Brendan Connolly 8 8 6 6 2 2 5 5
Michael Merton 8 8 6 6 2 2 5 5
Joe Oatley 8 8 N/A 6 N/A 2 N/A 5
Michael Speakman 8 8 N/A 6 N/A 2 N/A 5
Leslie Van de Walle 8 8 5 6 N/A 2 4 5
Directors’ interests, indemnity arrangements and other significant agreements
Each Director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and liabilities incurred whilst 
in the proper performance of his duties. The Company also maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against directors of the 
Company and its subsidiaries.
Other than the deed of indemnity referenced above, or as noted in the Remuneration Committee report, no director had a material interest at any 
time during the year in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that 
occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Board has reviewed the interests of each non-executive director and the potential impact of any such interests on director independence. 
None of the non-executive directors have had any material business interests with the Group with the exception of Brendan Connolly who, as set 
out on page 61 stepped in as an interim Chief Executive for a period of 92 days in 2012. As set out on page 61, the Board and the Committee have 
satisfied themselves that Brendan Connolly remains independent in character and judgement and accordingly the Board considers that there are no 
agreements in place between the Group and any non-executive director that impacts the independence of the non-executive directors.
The Board recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the Group, of executive directors taking on external appointments. Accordingly, directors  
are permitted to accept external appointments subject to the approval of the Board and the Remuneration Committee and provided that the additional 
appointments do not interfere with the directors’ ability to discharge their duties effectively. The commitments outside the Group of the executive 
directors are detailed in the report of the Remuneration Committee on page 77.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 65
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board evaluation/effectiveness review and review  
of directors
The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group. 
Accordingly the sub-committee undertakes an annual exercise to evaluate 
the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors.  
The Committee met to plan the evaluation process in detail. It considered  
Code provision B.6.2 which requires that evaluation of Board effectiveness 
should be externally facilitated every three years. The committee noted 
that the Company was not FTSE350 listed and that external facilitation  
was therefore a matter of discretion for the committee.
The Committee considered the size of the Board and the relatively  
recent appointment of all members of the Board and determined that  
an internal evaluation would be appropriate for the 2013 financial year. 
Accordingly, the review was undertaken internally, with the Chairman 
being responsible for the evaluation of the Board as a whole, each  
of the respective Committee chairmen being responsible for their own 
Committee and the Senior Independent Director being responsible for  
the review of the Chairman’s effectiveness.
The reviews took the form of discussions between the participants, 
based upon detailed pre-circulated questionnaires. The outcomes from 
completion of the questionnaires and from face to face interviews were 
collated and a report on the performance of the Board and each of its 
committees was presented to the Board and each relevant committee in 
the first quarter of 2014. These reports formed the basis of a discussion, 
the conclusion of which was that the Board was broadly effective and 
well balanced. Recommendations to enhance Board effectiveness 
arising from the review will be actioned during the 2014 financial year.
As required by provision A.4.2 of the Code, during the course of the year 
the chairman held a number of meetings with the non-executive 
directors in the absence of the executive directors and the Senior 
Independent Director held meetings with the non-executive directors in 
the absence of the chairman. 
Selection, appointment and support of directors
There have been no new search processes initiated and conducted for 
directors in 2013. The last search process conducted was in respect of 
Michael Speakman who was appointed as CFO on 6 December 2012.
As set out on page 64, directors are provided, in a timely manner, with 
the quality and depth of information appropriate to enable them to 
discharge their duties. New directors receive a formal induction on 
joining the Board.
Rules on appointment and removal of directors
Subject to applicable law, a director may be appointed by an ordinary 
resolution of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by 
the Board or a member (or members) entitled to vote at such a meeting, 
or following retirement by rotation if the director chooses to seek 
re-election at a general meeting. A director may be removed by the 
Company as provided for by Jersey law, in certain circumstances set  
out in the Company’s articles of association, or by resolution of 
the Company.
Re-election of directors
All the directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to be  
held on 14 May 2014. The Nominations Committee has confirmed  
to the Board that the contributions made by the directors offering 
themselves for re-election at the AGM in 14 May 2014 continue to  
be effective and that the Board should support their re-election. The 
election or re-election of each director is recommended by the Board. 
The Board is satisfied that all the directors will continue to be able to 
devote sufficient time to their duties as directors.
Directors engagement terms
With effect from 1 January 2013 the Board adopted a policy that 
non-executive directors terms of engagement should provide for a 
maximum initial term of three years terminable at any time by three 
months’ notice from either party. It is the Board’s policy not to extend  
the aggregate period of service of any non-executive director beyond 
nine years and, any proposal to extend a non-executive director’s 
aggregate period of office beyond six years will be the subject of a 
rigorous review and will take into account the need for progressive 
refreshing of the Board. The Chief Executive and the CFO are employed 
under service agreements which are terminable on twelve months’ 
written notice by either party. Copies of the letters of appointment will  
be on display at the AGM, together with the executive directors’ service 
agreements and are generally available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office. Further details of the service contracts for the executive 
directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are 
set out on page 83.
Significant commitments of the Chairman
Tim Eggar is currently Chairman of 3 Legs Resources plc, MyCelx 
Technologies Corporation and Haulfryn Limited, none of which cause 
any conflict, potential conflict, nor impact upon the time commitment 
required to act as Chairman for the Group.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 66
Directors’ governance report
Effectiveness Tim Eggar
Chairman, Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee’s role and objectives
The Committee’s terms of reference are summarised on page 65 and 
can be found in full in the corporate responsibility section of our website. 
The Committee remains focused on overseeing the effectiveness and 
composition of the Board and in ensuring robust succession planning 
at Board and senior management levels.
The Nomination Committee’s composition and meetings
The Committee is comprised of the Board Chairman and two 
independent non-executive directors. It is chaired by Tim Eggar. All three 
members meet the Group’s criteria for independence. The membership 
of the Committee is set out on page 64. The Committee met formally on 
2 occasions in 2013. An attendance summary is provided on page 65. 
The Nomination Committee’s main activities during  
the year
The Committee performed three main activities during the year being:  
the annual evaluation of Board effectiveness, where the Committee met  
to plan and to review the outcome of the Board effectiveness review, 
succession planning and renewal of director appointments; the Board’s 
diversity policy – the Committee twice considered the Board diversity 
policy within the context of a recruitment exercise and renewal of the 
terms of a non-executive director; and, the review of Committee 
effectiveness and structure. 
Matters considered at the Committee’s meetings during 2013 are 
summarised below:
Recruitment of 
new CFO
Finalisation of search and selection process for  
the new CFO (Michael Speakman), including review 
of performance of external search consultant.
Committee 
performance
Annual review of effectiveness of committee’s 
performance and review of the Committee’s  
terms of reference.
Director 
performance
Annual review of director performance and 
recommendation for re-election at AGM.
Board 
performance
Review and consideration of Board diversity with 
specific reference to gender diversity. 2013 Board 
evaluation process including planning of evaluation 
process and review of evaluation findings – key  
areas of focus including: process for use of external  
search consultants; Board composition and  
diversity; non-executive director time commitment; 
membership and composition of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees.
Board diversity
The Board recognises the very considerable advantages that can flow 
from diversity in challenging embedded practices, refreshing Board and 
organisational culture and improving Board effectiveness in the broadest 
sense. In this context the Board views diversity as encompassing diversity 
of experience, background, perspective, psychological type and personal 
attributes and believes that this can be provided, though not exclusively, 
through ethnic and gender diversity. Not withstanding this position, 
the Board takes the view that an overly prescriptive approach through 
setting targets or announcing aspirational goals is not desirable, and 
that recruitment processes need to take account of the specific nature 
of the potential recruitment pool and the relevant industry.
Whilst acknowledging the fact that there are relatively few women in 
the industry within which the Group operates (and thus with specific 
experience of the challenges of the Group’s operating environment) the 
Committee recognises that appointments for outside a specific industry 
can bring diversity benefits in their own right as well as new ideas 
and competencies. Accordingly the board has established a policy to 
ensure that the proportion of women on the board will be one of the 
considerations for future board and senior management appointments. 
The nomination Committee has taken this policy into account in respect 
of recent appointments and will continue to observe the policy in relation 
to future appointments to the board.
Re-election of directors & appointments
The Committee met on 12 March 2014, following the completion of the 
2013 Board evaluation process, and determined that all of the directors 
who are the subject of annual re-election will retire at the forthcoming 
AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
The evaluation of the Board described on page 66 concluded that the 
directors offering themselves for re-election continue to demonstrate 
commitment to their particular role and perform effectively. Whilst no 
non-executive director has served for more than 6 years, the Nomination 
Committee would conduct a particularly rigorous review of the relevant 
non-executive director’s performance in such circumstances before 
recommending his reappointment to the Board.
Following a period of considerable change in 2012, there have been  
no new appointments to the Board during the year. The Committee and 
the Board have, however, been involved in the selection and approval 
process for the appointment of the new Company Secretary (who  
also serves as General counsel and sits on the Executive Committee)  
in October 2013. 
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive directors’ 
letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior arrangement 
during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office. They 
will also be available for inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, details 
of which are contained in the AGM meeting notice.
The Committee considers that the Company has made considerable 
progress during 2013 in strengthening effectiveness and depth of the 
senior management team and governance structures at Cape and is 
committed to overseeing further progress during 2014.
Tim Eggar 
Chairman, Nomination Committee  
18 March 2014
“ 2013 has been a year of consolidation 
after a period of considerable change 
for the Board in 2012. The Committee  
has continued to monitor the 
effectiveness of the Board and has 
noted a considerable improvement 
over the last year.”
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 67
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Nomination Committee report Internal control
The respective responsibilities of the directors in connection 
with the annual report are set-out on page 63.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s internal control systems 
and ensuring that they are implemented and operated effectively. These 
controls are designed to identify, mitigate and manage risks within the 
business rather than eliminate them. They are not designed to guarantee 
the achievement of business objectives, but are aimed at providing 
reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the reporting period the Company has operated a process for 
the identification, evaluation and management of material risks faced by the 
Group. This process is kept under regular review and amended, as and 
when appropriate. 
During the period the directors undertook a review of the Group’s systems 
of internal control utilising the Financial Reporting Council’s Turnbull 
guidance (‘Internal Control – Revised Guidance for Directors on the 
Corporate Governance Code’). The assessment included a joint report from 
the CFO and the Director of Group Internal Audit to the Audit Committee, a 
discussion on the key elements of the Group’s overall internal control 
system and an analysis of the appropriateness and effectiveness of the 
control measures. In reviewing the effectiveness of the control systems, the 
directors took into account the nature and quality of regular and annual 
reporting undertaken during 2013.
Based on their review, the directors concluded that whilst overall systems of 
internal control had been enhanced over the year and still remained 
appropriate, there was further scope for more effective standardisation of 
process across all geographic territories and further emphasis needed to be 
placed to ensure that existing controls were operating effectively. A number 
of new management appointments including the appointment of a Chief 
Operating Officer, General counsel and a Chief Information Officer have 
been made to continue to improve internal control.
Key features of the Group’s systems of internal control include:
 – strategic and financial planning – the Group produces annual 
budgets and objectives, which are closely monitored and against 
which regular reports are prepared for consideration by the Board;
 – investment appraisal – material contracts and capital expenditure 
are reviewed in advance by senior management and, when 
appropriate, approved by the Board;
 – financial monitoring – profitability, margin return, cash-flow, capital 
expenditure and return on capital are all closely monitored and key 
financial information reported to the Board on a regular basis, along 
with explanations of variances between actual and budgeted 
performance and action plans to rectify any such variances;
 – delegated authority matrix – there is a clearly defined system of 
approval limits for key business decisions, including contract 
approvals, material transactions, acquisitions, disposals, capital 
purchases and operating expenditures; and,
 – structure – the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the 
Board also review the integrity of the financial and consolidation 
processes and the completeness and accuracy of financial information. 
Principal internal control/risk management mechanisms
The Board has overall responsibility for managing risk within the business 
and delegates responsibility for review of the adequacy of the risk 
management systems to the Audit Committee. The principal internal control 
mechanisms used to identify, assess and manage and control risk are:
 – risk registers – every six months the internal audit function assists all 
business units, including the Group functions, in assessing the risk in 
each area of business, across the Group and updating the risk 
registers accordingly; material changes to the risk registers are 
reported to the audit Committee and the Board on a regular basis;
 – risk appraisal – before any decisions are taken which could have  
a significant impact upon the Group’s business, the related risks  
are assessed in advance and kept under review prior to finalisation  
of any decision;
 – financial controls – regional financial controllers are required to 
certify monthly whether within their business, defined key financial 
controls and other established procedures are operating effectively; if 
not, they are expected to alert senior management to any deficiency 
and propose a strategy for overcoming any such challenge;
 – six-monthly certification process – detailed questionnaire certified 
by senior managers within each of the Group’s business units relating 
to amongst other things, the conduct of business and regulatory 
compliance;
 – internal audit – this function operates a risk-based audit approach; 
the Director of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee; the internal audit team reports its proposed scope of 
work for the following year, to the Audit Committee, which reviews the 
plan and assesses the effectiveness of the internal audit function 
against those agreed objectives; the internal audit team also provides 
objective assurance on risk and controls to senior management, the 
Audit Committee and the Board;
 – whistle-blowing – the Group operates a confidential whistleblowing 
procedure which encourages employees, workers or any other 
persons to disclose concerns relating to any forms of malpractice 
such as danger, fraud or other illegal or improper conduct; the policy 
and procedure were reviewed and updated during the course of the 
year; any whistleblowing allegations are routed directly to the General 
counsel, who independently, investigates the matter and reports 
findings and actions taken directly to the Audit Committee;
 – anti-bribery and anti-corruption – the Group’s anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption policy applies to all Group employees and to any 
agents or other third party acting for, or on behalf of, the Group. This 
policy includes a clear statement on the Group’s commitment to 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption practices.  
The Audit Committee and the Board have oversight function of all internal 
control and risk management issues.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 68
Directors’ governance report
Accountability Risk framework
The Board is committed to the enhancement of the Group’s risk 
management capability. Effective management of risk and opportunity is 
essential to the delivery of the Group’s strategy, achievement of sustainable 
shareholder value and the protection and enhancement of its reputation. 
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the oversight of the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Board’s 
objective is to ensure the Group has appropriate systems in place for the 
identification and management of risks, while ensuring that within an agreed 
risk tolerance, the business is able to optimise enterprise value. 
The executive directors lead the focus on the identification of risk and its 
remediation. This continues through the strengthening of internal controls, 
internal financial reporting and the direction of the internal audit function. 
The senior management team is promoting a culture where, as a matter  
of good business practice, both risk and opportunity are identified and 
managed, thereby ensuring more informed and effective business decisions 
are made and that the Group achieves its objectives and targets. The Board 
reviews risk appetite to ensure that it is calibrated to the Group’s strategic 
objectives. Risk is assessed formally at business segment level through  
risk workshops and via the maintenance of risk registers. The updating  
of the risk registers is a continuous process, formalised every six months, 
involving the effective identification, evaluation and management of risks  
by individual managers. 
To support the Board and Audit Committee in discharging their 
responsibilities, the internal audit function delivers a comprehensive 
risk-based assurance plan and regularly advises the Board of the 
effectiveness of the design and operation of the control environment.  
During the reporting year management, the internal audit function and  
the newly appointed external auditors have all made control improvement 
recommendations. This process of controls improvement is on-going  
and will continue to be closely monitored by the Audit Committee.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 69
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Audit Committee’s role and objectives
The Committee’s terms of reference are summarised on page 65 and 
can be found in full in the corporate responsibility section of our website. 
The Committee remains focused on overseeing the integrity of the 
Group’s financial statements and the effectiveness of its internal risks 
and financial controls.
The Audit Committee’s composition and meetings
The Committee is comprised of the three independent non-executive 
directors and is chaired by Michael Merton. All three members meet the 
Group’s criteria for independence. The Chairman of the Committee is 
deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience, 
as required under the Combined Code. The membership of the 
Committee is set out on page 64. 
The Committee met formally on 6 occasions in 2013. An attendance 
summary is provided on page 65. The Chairman of the Committee has 
also met during the year separately with the Director of Group Internal 
Audit and with the external auditor without management being present.
The Audit Committee’s main activities during the year
The Committee focused on three main activities during the year: review 
of the effectiveness of the external auditor; review of the Company’s 
critical accounting policies and judgements made in applying them; and, 
monitoring of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial 
controls.
 – Review of the effectiveness of the external auditor 
The Committee and the Board are committed to maintaining the 
highest standards of audit quality. Each year the Committee reviews the 
findings from the previous audit cycle and receives feedback from the 
business and the Chief Financial Officer on the effectiveness of the 
external audit process. The Committee is required to review annually 
the quality and cost effectiveness of the external audit, and the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors. In 2013 the 
Committee determined, bearing in mind the requirements of the Code 
and the considerable change experienced by the Group in the previous 
two years, to discharge this duty through a formal, committee-led, open 
and transparent tender process for external audit services. A structured 
and rigorous tender process was carried out, which involved tenders by 
four accounting firms and a systematic consideration, among other 
things, of each firm’s audit approach, control philosophy, medium term 
aspiration, cost effectiveness and industry familiarity. Tendering firms 
were asked to advise and demonstrate, in particular, how they would 
progressively transition from a substantive to a controls based audit. 
 
“ We have worked closely with both  
the new Chief Financial Officer, and  
the new external auditor, to oversee  
an upgrading of Cape’s control 
environment.”  
 
 Michael Merton 
Chairman, Audit Committee
As a result, Ernst & Young LLP (‘EY’) were appointed as external auditor 
in place of the previous auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , (‘PWC’), 
commencing with the 2013 audit and half-year review. The Committee 
would like to thank PWC for its support to the Group over many years. 
Based on the Committee’s recommendation to the Board, a resolution  
will be put to shareholders at the 2014 AGM re-appointing EY as auditors 
for the financial year ending 31 December 2014.  
 
Notwithstanding the appointment of new auditors during 2013, the 
Committee is required to assess their independence. It discharges 
this duty through: obtaining confirmation from the auditors that they 
are, in their professional judgement, independent of the Group; 
periodic assessment of relevant developments within the audit firm; and, 
its formal policy regarding the provision by the external auditor of 
non-audit services. EY have confirmed to the Committee that they 
remain independent and maintain internal safeguards to ensure their 
objectivity. No contractual obligations exist that restrict the Group’s 
choice of external auditor, and the Audit Committee is satisfied that  
the external auditors remain independent. Additionally, the Committee 
reviewed the most recent report from the Financial Reporting Council 
on the quality of EY’s audit practices. During the year EY have 
charged the Group £920,000 for audit and audit related work. Further 
details of the fees paid to EY for both audit and non-audit work can  
be found in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.  
 
Following EY’s appointment, we worked closely with both the Chief 
Financial Officer, and the new external auditor, to oversee an upgrading 
of Cape’s control environment.  
 – Review of the Company’s critical accounting policies  
and associated judgements 
In considering the integrity of the Group’s 2013 financial statements, 
the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of its critical accounting 
policies, and the judgements made in applying them. In particular:
 – The outcome of the triennial actuarial valuation of future industrial disease 
(‘IDC’) claims against the Company was considered and discussed. Prior 
to the valuation, the Board was briefed by management on the history of 
the IDC scheme and the appropriate methodology for valuing the liability 
was discussed with EY as well as the principal factors which would 
influence the outcome. After the valuation, the Committee reviewed, in 
particular, the appropriateness of the assumptions made and changes 
to such assumptions since the last valuation in relation to: the historic 
claims experience; the probable amounts of future awards; recent 
judicial determinations; the employee liability insurance position; the 
dispersion of probable outcomes; the discount rate used to quantify the 
present value of the future cash outflows; and, the recoverability of tax 
deductions against future claims. The Committee debated and 
challenged a number of underlying assumptions during its financial 
statements review process.
 – The Committee considered carefully the adequacy of balance sheet 
provisions against possible onerous contracts. In particular the 
prospects and assumptions underlying the provision for the 
challenging project in the Middle East were considered.
 – A material proportion of the Groups earnings are derived from long 
term contracts whereby revenue is recognised in accordance with  
the Groups revenue recognition policy. The Committee reviewed both 
the appropriateness of that policy and the controls that are in place  
to ensure compliance with it as well as key contracts entered into  
in 2013.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 70
Directors’ governance report
Audit Committee report  – Monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s internal financial controls 
During 2013 the Committee promoted and monitored progress from 
the following internal control improvement programmes:
 – Upgrading of the internal control questionnaire. The new 
six-monthly questionnaire (which requires regional management to 
confirm compliance or non-compliance with a prescribed list of 
regulatory and internal policies) is much more extensive than before. 
The number of required confirmations has been expanded 
considerably, as has the breadth of subject matter. The Committee 
obtained assurance that the necessary rigour and diligence were 
applied by management in completing this group-wide process. 
 – Improved risk analysis. The Committee monitored and, with 
assistance from the Director of Group Internal Audit, reviewed 
changes to the risk register (which itemises the relative significance 
of perceived risks). The Committee particularly considered whether 
the risk register properly reflected the Group’s actual experience in 
the preceding few years, as well as the adequacy of mitigating 
controls. 
 – New anti-fraud and anti-bribery procedures. The Committee asked 
management to upgrade the Group’s process for recording, reporting 
and responding to employee allegations of improper activities. In 
particular an external firm was appointed to receive and report on such 
allegations. During the year the Committee reviewed the adequacy of 
the Company’s response to, investigation of and resolution of several 
allegations of fraud. The Committee was satisfied with the rigour of the 
ensuing investigations and management’s conclusion.
 – Greater standardisation of internal accounting practices. During 
the year management introduced guidance on implementing internal 
accounting policies. These reflected concerns that greater consistency, 
and less scope for individual regional judgement, was required in 
applying certain of the Group’s accounting policies. In particular, 
the Group focused on accounting policies for scaffold depreciation, 
debtor provisioning and monthly contract estimation were adopted. 
The Committee reviewed and, where appropriate, challenged them 
before guidance implementation. 
Upgrading of the finance function. The Committee encouraged, 
endorsed and monitored management’s upgrading and empowerment 
of the Group’s finance function. This particularly affected the regional 
finance functions, which experienced a number of personnel changes 
and recruitment of some higher calibre individuals. The Committee 
obtained further reassurance in this regard from the Company’s 
holding formal group-wide training for finance managers. 
 – Internal audit. The internal audit function is responsible for the review of 
the Group’s risk and control processes according to an annual internal 
audit plan that is agreed with the audit Committee in advance. As part of 
this review process the Committee considers the adequacy of internal 
audit resources and the scope of the audit plan. The Committee 
monitors the scope, effectiveness and findings of the activities of internal 
audit through formal reporting by the Director of Group Internal Audit, 
and reviews remediation plans where appropriate. The Director of Group 
Internal Audit regularly reports to Committee meetings on the findings 
and progress of any investigations into fraudulent or potentially fraudulent 
activities. Periodic reports are also provided on changes to material 
identified risks.
Matters considered at the Committee’s meetings during 2013 are summarised below:
Meeting date Main activities
2012 FY reporting Reviewed and, where appropriate, approved: (1) audit report and opinion from the external auditors (PWC) including 
consideration of judgements; (2) management letter and managements response to the findings and recommendations of the 
external auditor; (3) draft operating and financial report, Code compliance statement and draft report statements relating to 
internal controls and risk management; (4) framework draft preliminary announcement; (5) auditors objectivity, effectiveness and 
independence and considered recommendation on reappointment of external auditor; (6) the proposed final dividend; (7) reports 
from the internal auditor in internal controls and related matters, material changes to the Group risk register, and responses to 
the internal control questionnaires; (8) external auditor’s report upon the audit process and updated report on the 2012 audit 
including accounting policies and areas of judgement; (9) Group’s preliminary announcement and draft report and accounts for 
2012; (10) reports from the internal auditor on internal controls and related matters; and, (11) updated Group risk register.
Periodic reporting Reviewed report from external auditors on the half-year audit (including judgements and effectiveness). Reviewing and 
approving: (1) draft interim announcement and associated investor presentation; and, (2) the interim dividend. Reviewed and 
approved the Group’s Q3 interim management statement
2013 FY reporting Received presentation form the external auditor on the external audit plan. The Committee also met during 2014 to review the 
2013 FY audit Committee report from the external auditor and to review and approve the 2013 FY annual report and accounts to 
ensure that they were fair, balanced and understandable.
External auditor 
review
Reviewed and approved the effectiveness of the external auditor tender process and the tenders submitted, and presentations 
made, in respect of such tender process. Recommended the appointment of the new external auditors, EY, to the Board. 
Reviewed policy on non-audit fees payable to the external auditor.
Implementation 
process for new 
external auditor
Received reports, and reviewed and approved such reports, from EY upon appointment as external auditor.
Risk reporting 
& management
Reviewed and approved periodic risk reporting including updated Group risk registers.
Internal controls Received and reviewed, at each meeting, reports from the internal auditor in relation to Group internal controls and related 
matters. Received reports relating to whistle-blower allegations, fraud investigations and other related matters. Reviewed and 
approved the internal audit plan.
Effectiveness of 
Group processes
Reviewed: (1) Group treasury policy (including forex exposure); (2) Group finance function; (3) internal audit function and 
management responsiveness; (4) control measures relating to delegated authorities; (5) Group risk management systems; (6) 
control measures relating to control of inside information; (7) adequacy and effectiveness of Group ABC, whistle-blowing and 
fraud investigation processes; and (8) effectiveness of system of internal controls.
The Committee considers that the Company has made considerable progress during 2013 in strengthening its internal financial controls, and is 
committed to overseeing further progress during 2014.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 71
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Auditor Independence
The Audit Committee has established policies determining the non-audit 
services that the external auditors can provide and the procedures 
required for pre-approval of any such engagement. These policies provide 
for the auditors to be engaged only for work that is not prohibited by 
professional or other regulatory requirements. This essentially limits work 
to tax services and assurance services that are essentially of an audit 
nature, but excludes internal audit, internal audit services and assignments 
that present a potential self-review threat, such as valuation services. Even 
where the policy allows for the external auditor to be engaged to provide 
non-audit services, prior approval is required with assignments over 
£25,000 being approved by the Audit Committee and all others approved 
by the Group’s Chief Financial Officer. These approvals operate in addition 
to the Group’s general procurement policies which require contracts over 
a certain level to be subject to a formal tender process. Annually the Chief 
Financial Officer submits an annual report of fees charged and services 
provided by the auditors and this is reviewed by the Committee to ensure 
policies have been complied with. The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
reports to the Board identifying any matters where procedures could be 
improved. 
 
The Audit Committee received a report from EY describing the 
arrangements that had been made to identify, report upon, and manage 
any conflict of interest that might arise and to ensure the maintenance of 
external auditor independence. The Committee also reviewed the report 
by the Financial Reporting Council’s audit inspection unit on EY. On  
the basis of the matters outlined above, and notwithstanding that EY 
provided non-audit services of £0.4 million during the reporting year,  
the Committee considers that EY’s objectivity was not impaired.
Michael Merton 
On behalf of the Audit Committee 
18 March 2014
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 72
Directors’ governance report
Audit Committee report
continued Shareholder engagement
The Board is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with the 
Company’s shareholders based on a mutual understanding of respective 
objectives. Whilst the Chairman assumes overall responsibility for the 
effective communication of shareholder views and concerns to the Board, 
shareholder communications are primarily maintained by the Chief 
Executive and CFO. The Chief Executive reports to the Board on a regular 
basis regarding feedback from institutional investors (including key market 
issues raised by shareholders) and on investor relations objectives and 
activities, share price performance and the share register profile. The 
Chairman is available to meet with institutional investors generally. The 
Senior Independent Director and the remaining non-executive directors 
are available to meet with shareholders on request.
The Company’s investor relations program includes: formal presentations 
of full-year and half-year results (available to all shareholders to download 
from the Group’s website at www.capeplc.com/investors/financial-results-
and-presentations.aspx; briefing meetings with major institutional 
shareholders in relation to those results; dialogue between the  
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and shareholders; publication  
of the Company’s Annual Report and other regulatory reports as 
appropriate; and, a section dedicated to investors on our website at  
www.capeplc.com/investors which includes all formal reports and 
announcements by the Company and any analyst or investor  
presentations that have been held. 
This Annual Report together with other public announcements is designed 
to present a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Group’s 
activities and prospects. The performance review, on pages 28 to 57, 
provides an assessment of the Group’s business. This annual report is 
despatched to eligible shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
AGM and the accompanying proxy form provides for a shareholder to  
vote in favour or against, or to indicate abstention as an alternative on 
each separate resolution. The annual report, together with trading 
updates, significant contract wins and health and safety achievements  
are published via a Regulatory Information Service, where applicable,  
and on the Company’s website at www.capeplc.com/investors.
Dividends 
Details of the final dividend proposed by the Board are given on 
page 140.
Substantial holdings
As at 31 December 2013, the Company had been notified pursuant to 
DTR5 of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued Ordinary 
Share capital of the Company:
Institution No. of shares % holding
Prudential plc group of companies 18,604,313 15.36
Artemis Investment Management LLP 6,106,730 5.04
Schroders plc 6,077,557 5.00
JO Hambro Capital Management Group Ltd 5,914,876 4.88
Henderson Global Investors 5,082,196 4.20
Legal and General 4,165,951 3.40
Norges Bank 4,121,201 3.40
Aviva plc 3,671,989 3.03
As at 18 March 2014, the Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of 
the following interests of 3% or more in the issued Ordinary Share capital 
of the Company’s total voting rights:
Institution No. of shares % holding
Prudential plc group of companies 18,604,313 15.36
Schroders plc 12,124,827 10.02
Artemis Investment Management LLP 6,106,730 5.04
Ruffer LLP 6,179,968 5.00
JO Hambro Capital Management Group Ltd 5,914,876 4.88
Henderson Global Investors 5,082,196 4.20
Legal and General 4,165,951 3.40
Norges Bank 4,121,201 3.40
The Company has not received notification of any other interests held 
by persons acting together which at 18 March 2013 represented 3% 
or more of the issued ordinary share capital.
Share capital
Ordinary shares of 25 pence. The Company’s ordinary shares, together 
with the £1 Scheme Share referenced below, represent 100% of the 
Company’s issued share capital. At a meeting of the Company every 
member present in person or by proxy shall, have one vote for every 
ordinary share of which they are the holder. Holders of ordinary shares are 
entitled to receive dividends. On a winding-up or other return of capital, 
holders are entitled to a share in any surplus assets pro rata to the amount 
paid up on their ordinary shares. The ordinary shares are not redeemable 
at the option of either the Company or the holder. There are no restrictions 
on the transfer of ordinary shares. Further details of the issued share 
capital of the Company are given at note 30 to the accounts on page 125.
Scheme Share of £1. The Company has one ‘Scheme Share’ in  
issue (the ‘Scheme Share’), issued to the trustees of a Scheme of 
Arrangement entered into by the Company in 2006 (the ‘Scheme’).  
The Scheme Share carries two votes for every vote which the holders  
of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise on any 
resolution proposed during the life of the Scheme to engage in certain 
activities specified in the Articles. The Scheme Share is held by the 
scheme trustees on behalf of the Scheme creditors. The Company  
will not be permitted to engage in certain activities specified in the 
Company’s articles of association without the prior consent of the holder 
of the Scheme Share. The rights attaching to the Scheme Share are 
designed to ensure that Scheme assets are only used to settle Scheme 
claims and ancillary costs. The Scheme Share does not confer any right 
to receive a distribution or any right to receive a return of surplus capital. 
The Scheme Shareholder has the right to require the Company to redeem 
the Scheme Share at par value on or at any time after the termination of 
the Scheme. Further details are in note 30 to the accounts on page 125.
Treasury shares
The Company currently holds no ordinary shares in treasury, however 
the Group has an employee benefit trust holding shares to satisfy the 
exercise of share options.
Issue of shares
Subject generally to Jersey law relating to authority and pre-emption 
rights, and specifically to any requirements for a resolution of the 
Company in a general meeting, all unissued shares of the Company  
shall be at the disposal of the directors and they may allot with or  
without conferring a right of renunciation), grant options over or 
otherwise dispose of them to such persons, and at such times, and  
on such terms as they consider appropriate. Throughout the year the 
following allotments were made to the Company Chairman pursuant  
to his standing instruction to receive shares as part of his annual 
director’s fees (see page 87):
Date No. of Shares Allotted
25/2/2013 4,114
29/5/2013 3,323
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 73
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Relationship with shareholders and share capital Authority to purchase own shares
At the Company’s AGM held on 15 May 2013, shareholders approved a 
resolution to authorise the Company to make one or more market 
purchases of the issued ordinary shares of the Company up to a 
maximum aggregate number of 12,107,280 ordinary shares (representing 
10% of the Company’s then issued share capital). No shares were 
purchased under this authority during the year. No purchases have been 
made pursuant to this authority and a resolution will be put to 
shareholders to renew this authority for a further year at the 2014 AGM.
Annual General Meetings (‘AGM’)
The Board considers that the AGM is an important opportunity for 
effective communications between the Board and shareholders. The 
2014 (‘AGM’) of the Company will be held at the offices of Lawrence 
Graham LLP, 4 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AU, United 
Kingdom at 11.00 on Wednesday 14 May 2014 for eligible shareholders. 
Further details of the AGM venue and the resolutions to be proposed 
together with explanatory notes, will be set out in a notice of meeting 
which will be issued to eligible shareholders at least 20 working days 
prior to the AGM and are also published on the Company’s website at 
www.capeplc.com/investors. All resolutions at the AGM are each on 
separate substantive issues and are decided on a poll in accordance 
with best practice and will be voted upon separately. The proxy votes 
cast (including details of votes withheld) are disclosed to those in 
attendance at the meeting. In accordance with Code provision E.2.2 the 
voting results, including the number of shares in respect of which proxy 
appointments have been validly made, all votes cast for or against each 
resolution and those withheld, will be announced to the London Stock 
Exchange and made available on the Company’s website as soon as 
practicable after the meeting. As in previous years, the form of proxy will 
make it clear that a ‘vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and will not be 
counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a 
resolution. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
 – The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set  
out in the Articles. 
 – The Articles may only be changed by the shareholders by  
special resolution. 
 – Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any 
class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders 
of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of 
that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed 
at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares. 
 – At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two 
persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal 
value of the issued shares of the class (calculated excluding any 
shares held as treasury shares). 
 – The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless 
otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, 
be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares 
ranking pari passu with them.
 – Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or 
restrictions as to voting attached by, or in accordance with, the 
Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every member 
who is present in person at a general meeting shall have one vote and, 
on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall 
have one vote for every share of which he/she is the holder. 
 – Where shares are held by trustees/nominees in respect of the Group’s 
employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares are 
not directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Company’s practice 
that such rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee/nominee.
 – Members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member 
of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to 
speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting. 
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general 
meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to 
exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that 
member. A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more 
individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings 
as a corporate representative.
 – No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be 
entitled in respect of any share held by him/her to vote either 
personally or by proxy at a shareholders’ meeting or to exercise any 
other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders’ 
meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him/her to the 
Company in respect of that share remains unpaid. In addition, no 
member shall be entitled to vote if he/she has been served with a 
notice after failing to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under 
the Law.
The Articles require that any shares issued wholly for cash must be 
offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing 
shareholding unless authorised to the contrary by a resolution of  
the shareholders.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 74
Directors’ governance report
Relationship with shareholders and share capital
continued Employees
Cape recognises that the quality of our people is fundamental to our 
success. We operate in many diverse cultures and environments and 
this is reflected in the diversity of our workforce. The Board firmly 
believes in the equality of opportunity and inclusivity regardless of an 
individual’s age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religious belief, 
disability or family status and this is reflected in our Group diversity and 
inclusivity policies. Fairness and mutual respect are paramount in the 
decision making process at Cape and judgements about employees are 
made based on aptitudes, skills, competencies, qualifications, attitude 
and fitness to work in the relevant environment. Accordingly, applications 
from disabled persons would always be fully considered on this basis.  
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and 
promotion of disabled persons (including those who become disabled 
whilst employees of the Group) should, as far as reasonably possible, be 
identical to that of other employees. The Board remains committed to 
fostering and developing a culture of employee involvement in the 
Group’s business through pro-active communication with employees 
and appropriate consultation with employees embedded within general 
good management practice. The Group operates various incentive 
schemes to encourage employee participation in the performance of the 
Group and ensures that employee communications contain relevant 
information about the on-going performance of the Group. 
Political donations
There were no political donations (2012: £nil).
Post balance-sheet events
On the 11 February 2014 Cape signed a new £295 million revolving 
credit facility and a £50 million accordion for the Group. The new facility 
replaces the Group’s existing £200 million and AUD$30 million facilities 
which were due to expire in July 2015. The new facility has been 
arranged with a group of 8 banks and provides the Group with greater 
covenant flexibility supporting both organic and acquisitive growth. 
The new facility will terminate in April 2018. 
 
On 11 March 2014, Cape announced its acquisition of UK-based 
Motherwell Bridge, a leading provider of storage tanks, gasholders  
and heat exchangers to the energy and steel markets. The total 
consideration for the acquisition amounts to £37.65 million on a cash 
free, debt free basis, comprising of an initial cash consideration of  
£34.0 million, debt of £0.9 million, deferred consideration of £1.25 million 
contingent on a key contract win and up to £1.5 million related to future 
performance. The acquisition will be funded from the Group’s existing 
debt facilities and is expected to be earnings enhancing in the current 
financial year ending 31 December 2014. 
Principal subsidiaries and branches 
Details of the Company’s principal subsidiaries are listed in note 38 on 
page 130. The Group also has material branches located in Algeria, 
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Kazakhstan, The Netherlands and New Caledonia.
Research and development 
Given the nature of the Group’s activities it does not carry out any 
material research and development work.
Significant agreements – change of control 
There are a number of agreements with provisions that may take effect, 
alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as 
bank facility agreements and employee share scheme rules. None of 
these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact  
on the normal course of the business for the Group.
Treasury policy and risk 
The Group’s policy on treasury and financial risk (see note 25 ‘Financial 
instruments’) is set by the Board and is subject to regular reporting and 
review. The main risks faced by the Group relate to foreign currency risk 
and liquidity risk. A significant proportion of the Group’s business is 
conducted overseas. The Group is therefore subject to exchange rate 
risk when translating the results and assets of its overseas subsidiaries 
into GBP. Where significant transactional exchange rate risks are 
identified, then appropriate currency contracts are used to hedge these 
transactions. The Group’s committed facilities all carry interest rates 
based on LIBOR and therefore the Group is exposed to interest rate 
movements. As at 31 December 2013, 4.9% of the Group borrowings 
were hedged (2012: 21.1%).
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
CO
2
e, tonnes rounded to the nearest 10,000
2013 CO 2 2012 CO 2
Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions) 31,947,881 22,005,223
Scope 2 (electricity indirect emissions) 5,703,138 7,560,900
Scope 3 (other indirect GHG emissions) 20,329,672 17,816,702
Total gross emissions 57,980,691 47,382,825
Intensity Ratio 0.936 0.762
Notes: 
The Intensity Ratio is defined as: Tonnes Equivalent CO
2
/million man hours worked, as this 
measure is deemed the most relevant to the Group’s operations. 
 
Scope 1 includes fuel vehicles (litres), fuel other (litres), units electricity (kWh) and units of gas 
(kWh). All major geographies within the Group’s international operations are included in the 
reported data. The data was converted into the CO
2
 equivalent using calculations provided 
within the ‘2013 Guidelines to Defra/DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting’.
Please see page 55 within the Corporate and Social Responsibility 
section for further details of the Group’s GHG emissions.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
performance review on pages 28 to 57. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described on pages 46 to 48. The performance review includes a 
description of the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its: capital; financial risk management objectives; financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
The Group has adequate financial resources together with long-term 
relationships with a number of customers and suppliers in different 
countries and industries. As a result, the directors believe that the Group 
is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the 
current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the 
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
Auditors 
The Company, as at 18 March 2014 confirms that:  
–  so far as each director is aware (taking account of their individual 
capacity), there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware; and, 
–  each director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a 
director (taking account of their individual capacity) in order to make 
himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
For and on behalf of the Board
Richard Allan 
Group Company Secretary
Cape plc 
47 Esplanade, St Helier 
Jersey JE1 0BD 
Channel Islands 
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 75
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Other statutory information The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
The directors are also responsible for the preparation of the Directors’ 
remuneration report, which they have chosen to prepare, being under no 
obligation to do so under Jersey law. The directors are also responsible 
for the preparation of the Directors governance report under the  
Listing Rules.
Jersey company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial period in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles prescribed for the purposes of the law.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the group consolidated 
financial statements and the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company at the period end and also the 
profit or loss of the Company for the period then ended. In preparing 
those financial statements, the directors should:
 – select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 – make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 – state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and,
 – prepare the financial statements on the ‘going concern’ basis unless  
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or 
qualifications as necessary.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
which are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and as such to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the law. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement under the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
Each of the current directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
page 62 confirms that, to the best of his knowledge:
 – the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and,
 – the Directors’ governance report (including the corporate governance 
report and the Audit Committee report ) on pages 60 to 89 and the 
Regional and Chief Financial Officer’s reviews on pages 40 to 48 
include a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face as set out in the 
risks and uncertainties review on pages 16 to 23.
 
Directors statement under the corporate  
governance code
The strategic report and this directors’ governance report (including the 
remuneration report) were reviewed and approved by the Board on 18 
March 2014. The Board confirms that, taken as a whole, these reports 
represent a fair, balanced and understandable report on the Group.
By order of the Board
Michael Speakman
Chief Financial Officer
18 March 2014
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 76
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ responsibilities Chairman’s statement 
2013 has been a year of consolidation following the recruitment of Joe 
Oatley and Michael Speakman, respectively the new Chief Executive  
and new CFO, in 2012. The Committee invested considerable time and 
effort in structuring director remuneration on the recruitment of the 
executive directors in the previous year – ensuring that it was well 
balanced and structured to enable the Group to attract, motivate and 
retain the executive talent required to deliver the business strategy and 
accordingly there have been no material changes in director’s 
remuneration during the year. The Committee believes that the current 
structure continues to deliver the required balance between that need 
and the delivery of long-term value to shareholders.
In practical terms, the Committee has assisted the Chief Executive  
in structuring the senior management group’s remuneration to align it 
with that of the executive directors, and has refreshed the Committee’s 
terms of reference to ensure improved coordination with the Audit 
Committee. 
We recognise that the remuneration of senior executives is under  
more scrutiny than ever before and we are mindful of the principles  
of remuneration published by stakeholder representatives such as the 
Association of British Insurers (‘ABI’) and others, and of the potential 
revisions to governance outlined by the Department of Business, 
Innovation and Skills. We believe that this report seeks to be open and 
transparent in reporting on the Company’s and the Groups remuneration 
structures.
There has been good argument and discussion during the Remuneration 
Committee meetings, and I am satisfied that we continue to ensure that 
the interests of the shareholders are met.
Brendan Connolly 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee  
18 March 2014 
Remuneration Committee report
Voluntary adoption of UK reporting regulations
New regulations (The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendments) Regulations 2013 (the 
‘Regulations’)) came into force in the UK on 1 October 2013 in relation to 
companies incorporated in the UK and with effect from 13 December 
2013, the UK Listing Authority’s ‘Listing Rules’ were also amended in the 
case of premium listed companies incorporated in the UK to reflect such 
regulations. The effect of the changes is that all premium listed 
companies incorporated in the UK are required to offer shareholders (i) a 
binding vote on the Company’s forward-looking remuneration policy (i.e. 
the remuneration policy) at least every three years and (ii) a separate 
advisory vote on the implementation of the Company’s existing 
remuneration policy in terms of the payments and share awards made to 
directors during the year (i.e. the annual remuneration report). Although 
as a Jersey-incorporated Company, the Company is not subject to such 
regulations or amended requirements of the Listing Rules in this regard, 
in line with best practice for overseas listed companies, the Company 
intends to comply with the new regulations as if it were a premium listed 
Company incorporated in the UK (to the extent that such requirements 
differ from the provisions of the Listing Rules which it is required to 
comply with in any event). Accordingly, this report contains the Company 
remuneration report containing details of the remuneration and share 
interests of each director for the year ended 31 December 2013 and 
details on the structure and operation of the Remuneration Committee 
and the Company’s remuneration policy. The sections and tables of this 
report dealing with Directors’ emoluments and share interests labelled 
as ‘audited’ have been audited by the Group’s external independent 
auditors, EY. This report has been approved by the Board and the 
Company’s Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) and will be put 
to Shareholders for a binding vote in respect of the remuneration policy 
and an advisory vote in respect of the remuneration report in terms of 
the payments and share awards made to directors at the AGM on  
14 May 2014.
The remuneration committee’s role and objective
The Committee’s terms of reference are summarised in the Corporate 
Governance report on page 65 and can be found in full in the corporate 
responsibility section of our website. The Committee remains focused 
on ensuring that remuneration structures for executive directors and 
senior managers both enable the Group to attract, motivate and retain 
the executive talent required to deliver the business strategy and align 
the interests of the executive team with delivering long-term value  
to shareholders.
The remuneration committee’s composition and meetings
The Committee is comprised of the Board’s three non-executive 
directors and is chaired by Brendan Connolly. The membership of the 
Committee is set out on page 64. The Committee met formally on 5 
occasions in 2013 and an attendance summary is given on page 65. 
The Committee liaises closely with the Audit Committee to ensure that 
remuneration targets are appropriate and sufficiently challenging. 
“ The Committee has worked closely  
with our external advisers and with  
the senior management team to  
further improve the alignment of 
management and shareholder interests 
through implementing challenging 
remuneration structures.”
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 77
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Directors’ remuneration report External advisers to the Committee
The Committee has appointed independent remuneration consultants, 
New Bridge Street (‘NBS’), to advise on all aspects of senior executive 
remuneration. NBS has no other connection with the Group other than 
in the provision of advice on executive and employee remuneration. 
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such 
voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive 
remuneration consulting in the UK. The terms of the engagement for 
NBS are available from the Company Secretary on request. Aon plc (the 
ultimate parent of NBS) provides insurance brokering services to the 
Group. The Committee is comfortable that this relationship does not 
impair the independence of its advisors due to the internal controls in 
place within Aon plc and through the Committee’s own monitoring of 
existing cross-relationships. The total cost for advice received from 
New Bridge Street during the 2013 financial year was £9,000, 
charged on a time and materials basis.
The executive directors and other senior management may attend 
Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman. 
However, no director takes part in any discussion directly concerning 
their own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary 
to the Committee.
Responsibilities of the Committee
The key responsibilities of the Committee remain to: determine the 
remuneration policy and elements for the remuneration of the executive 
directors and the key group managers; determine all individual elements 
of the remuneration of the executive directors; select and appoint any 
remuneration consultants who advise the Committee; and, approve the 
design of, and determine the targets for, the performance-related 
remuneration schemes operated by the Company. Non-executive 
director remuneration is a matter for the Chairman and the executive 
members of the Board. The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by 
the Committee in consultation with the executive directors. No director 
or manager is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration. 
Details of non-executive director fees are set out on page 84. There has 
been no change to the level of non-executive director’s fees during 2013.
The committee’s main activities during the year
The Committee invested considerable time and effort in structuring 
director remuneration on the recruitment of the executive directors in the 
previous year – ensuring that it was well balanced and structured to 
enable the Group to attract, motivate and retain the executive talent 
required to deliver the business strategy – and accordingly, there have 
been no material changes in director’s remuneration during the year. The 
Committee considered the following items of business during 2013:
 – executive directors’ and senior executives’ salary levels;
 – annual bonus performance measures and targets;
 – out-turn of bonus for 2012; and
 – 2013 long-term incentive award levels.
External appointments 
The Company recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the 
Group, of executive directors taking on external appointments as 
non-executive directors. Subject to the approval of the Committee and 
to such conditions as the Committee may, in its discretion, an executive 
director may accept such appointments at other companies or similar 
advisory or consultative roles. Whether the executive director is 
permitted to retain any fees paid for such services or whether such fees 
are remitted to the Company will be determined on a ‘case by case’ 
basis. Joe Oatley currently has no such external appointments. Michael 
Speakman has external appointments and is currently a director of 
Wellcentric Limited and FrontRow Energy Partners Limited and a 
non-executive director of ElectoFlow Controls Limited.
Shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM
At the AGM on 15 May 2013, 98.4% of votes cast were in favour  
of approving the directors’ remuneration report for 2012, which the 
Committee believes illustrates the strong level of shareholder support  
for the Company’s executive remuneration framework.
Total number
of votes
% of
votes cast
For 88,343,673 98.4
Against 1,441,948 1.6
Total votes cast (for and against) 89,785,621 98.5
Votes withheld* 1,383,424 1.5
Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 91,169,045
* A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of 
votes cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 78
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued The directors’ remuneration policy
This part of the directors’ remuneration report sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Company. 
Policy overview
The directors’ remuneration policy (the ‘Remuneration Policy’) is based 
on the following broad principles set by the Committee to: provide a 
competitive remuneration package to attract, motivate and retain high 
quality individuals; align remuneration to drive the overall objectives of 
the business; align the interests of management with the interests of 
shareholders; and, set the remuneration of the executive directors and 
Chairman with due account taken of: (1) pay and conditions throughout 
the Group; and, (2) corporate governance best practice.
This policy will be put to shareholders at the Company’s 2014 AGM for  
a binding vote. If such a resolution is adopted, the policy will apply to 
executive directors from 14 May 2014. Thereafter the policy will be 
re-presented to shareholders for approval every three years or sooner 
where there is a material change to the policy.
The objective of this policy is aligned with the recommendations of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code as they relate to directors’ remuneration. 
That is to provide a level of remuneration to attract, retain and motivate 
directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, but 
avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose. As explained 
below, a significant proportion of executive directors’ remuneration is 
structured to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
The Committee ensures that account is taken of environmental, social 
and governance (‘ESG’) risks when setting remuneration and is 
comfortable that remuneration packages do not raise any ESG risks. 
The Committee review performance measures and targets on annual 
basis to ensure they do not encourage of motivate irresponsible 
behaviour. Furthermore, the performance review will take into account 
any ESG events when determining variable out-turn. 
The Committee is cognisant of its overall responsibility to ensure the 
Remuneration Policy operates within a sound risk framework. The 
Committee will review incentive arrangements regularly to ensure they 
comply with the risk management systems and that controls are 
operating effectively. The Committee also ensures that inappropriate 
operational/financial risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded 
through the Company’s remuneration policies and that instead, a 
sensible balance is struck between fixed and variable pay, short and 
long-term incentives and cash and equity. The Committee has access to 
the audit Committee and its members to discuss any matters of risk 
assessment as and when required. 
The Committee uses aspects of policy align executives with long-term 
shareholder interests and are consistent with our focus on structuring 
remuneration so that it does not encourage undue risk-taking. The table 
below summarises our policy for the three-year period, effective as of 
14 May 2014.
Executive director policy table
Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Salary
To provide a competitive 
base salary which 
recognises the skills  
and experience of the 
individual and the scope 
and responsibilities of the 
role they perform.
Reviewed annually.
Positioned at a market 
competitive level for similar roles 
within comparable companies.
Takes periodic account against 
companies with similar 
characteristics and sector 
comparators.
The review also considers pay 
and employment conditions in the 
wider group, other inflationary 
pressures and internal relativities.
Salaries from 1 January 2014 are:
Chief Executive – £441,000
CFO – £328,000
The above salary levels will be eligible 
for increases during the three year 
period that the Remuneration Policy 
operates from the Effective Date.
–  During this time, salaries may be 
increased each year (in percentage of 
salary terms) in line with those of the 
wider workforce (after taking into 
account of the annual salary budget 
and performance related increases 
within the overall salary budget). 
–  Increases beyond those linked to the 
workforce (in percentage of salary 
terms) may be awarded in certain 
circumstances such as where there is 
a change in responsibility, experience 
or a significant increase in the scale of 
the role and/or size, value and/or 
complexity of the Group.
The Committee considers both individual and Company 
performance in a broad context when determining base 
salary increases.
Other benefits
To provide competitive 
cost-effective benefits in 
line with market 
practice.
Executive directors receive a car 
allowance, private medical 
insurance, health insurance and 
life assurance.
–  Other employment benefits 
may be offered to executive 
directors, generally on the 
same terms as other 
employees, from time  
to time.
In the 2013 year the maximum cost of 
providing benefits (based on taxable 
value of the benefits) was £36,369 for 
all executive directors.
–  The cost of providing employment 
benefits will vary from year to year as 
they are dependent on third party 
supplier charges.
We do not expect the maximum 
amount to exceed £50,000.
N/A
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 79
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Pension
To provide a competitive 
contribution towards 
making provisions for 
retirement.
Defined contribution.
Cash alternative may 
be offered.
Monthly employer contribution of  
15% of base salary.
N/A
Annual bonus
Incentivise delivery  
of performance 
linked to the Company’s 
business objectives.
–  Measured over a one year 
performance period.
– Paid as cash.
– Not pensionable.
–  Claw-back provisions apply, and 
are operable for three years 
following the payment of a  
bonus in any year.  
The Committee may claw back 
awards up to three years after 
vesting if the Groups accounts 
have been materially misstated 
or there has been an error in the 
calculation of any performance 
condition.
Chief Executive maximum: 120%  
of salary.
CFO maximum: 100% of salary.
The bonus is determined against a range of key performance 
indicators with the majority of the annual bonus measured 
against financial targets and a minority against strategic 
objectives. 
–  Financial targets are set around the budgeted level of 
performance for the year and may include adjusted EPS, 
cash flow and/or other key financial metrics as deemed 
appropriate by the Committee. 
–  Strategic objectives are based around the committee’s and 
executive’s view of the key objectives that need to be met in 
the current year to achieve the overall Group strategy. 
–   The committee determines the extent to which the executive 
directors have met their strategic targets by assessing the 
overall achievement in the relevant year. Achieving the 
threshold performance level against the financial metrics 
would generally result in 0% of the relevant bonus amount 
being earned. Bonus against financial metrics is generally 
earned on a straight line basis from threshold to target  
(50%) and then target to the maximum (100%) level.
–  The committee reserves the right to modify the financial 
payment.
Long-Term incentive plan
To drive long term 
performance linked to  
the Company’s strategic 
objectives.
Aid retention.
Align the interests of 
executive directors with 
shareholders.
–  Annual grant of performance 
shares with vesting condfitional 
on the Groups performance 
against challenging long term 
performance conditions.
–  The Committee may claw back 
awards up to three years after 
vesting if the Groups accounts 
have been materially misstated 
or there has been an error in the 
calculation of any performance 
condition.
Chief Executive: 140% of salary 
performance shares. 
 
CFO: 140% of salary 
performance shares.
In exceptional circumstances awards  
may be granted up to 200% of salary.
–  Performance targets are set that relate to the Company’s 
long-term key performance indicators.
–  Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to a 
majority of an award (e.g. EPS growth). 
– At threshold performance 30% of the award vests.
–  Currently, 100% of the award is based on achieving growth 
in EPS with the threshold achieving 30% of the total award.
–  The Committee reserves the right to modify the financial 
targets within the plan.
Share ownership guidelines
To provide alignment 
between executives and 
shareholders.
Executives are required to retain 
half of the shares vesting (net of 
tax) under the long-term incentive 
plan until the guideline is met. 
Vested nil cost options count 
towards the shareholding guideline 
on a notional post-tax basis.
150% of salary holding for  
Chief Executive. 
100% of salary holding 
for CFO.
N/A
Non-executive directors
Purpose and link 
to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets
Fees
To provide a  
compensation which 
reflects the skills and 
experience of the  
individual and the 
time commitments 
and responsibilities 
expected of the 
role they perform.
Reviewed on a periodic basis
Takes periodic account 
against companies with 
similar characteristics and 
sector comparators
If actual time spent is 
materially greater, then 
additional fees may be paid 
on a pro-rata basis.
Fee levels for 1 January 2014 are:
Non-executive Chairman – £150,000
Non-executive director – £35,000
Committee Chairman fee – £10,000
Committee Member fee – £5,000
The above fees may be increased during 
the three year period that the 
Remuneration Policy operates from the 
Effective Date (in percentage terms) to 
ensure that the fee level set captures the 
time commitment required of the role and/
or the responsibilities associated with 
fulfilling the non-executive duties.
N/A
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 80
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Operation of variable pay incentives
The Remuneration Committee has the responsibility for overseeing the 
operation of the above annual bonus plan and long term incentive plan 
according to the relevant plan rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules 
and HMRC rules where relevant. However, the quantum and performance 
targets set will be in accordance with the policy stated above. As part of this 
process, the Committee may be required to use judgement in a number of 
regards. These actions will typically include the following: 
 – participants of the plans;
 – timing of grant of award and/or payment;
 – size of an award and/or a payment;
 – setting performance measures for the annual bonus plan and 
long-term incentive plan from year to year, the weightings to be 
applied and the targets to be set; 
 – determination of vesting, including assessment of performance 
conditions; 
 – how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group;
 – how to determine a good/bad leaver status in accordance with the 
relevant scheme rules and ABI guidelines; and,
 – if any adjustments are required in certain circumstances (e.g.  
a capital structure change such as with a rights issue or other 
corporate restructuring).
The Committee also retains the right, in exceptional circumstances, to 
make necessary adjustments to annual bonus and long-term incentive 
plan performance measures, including the targets, weightings and/or 
setting different measures if a material event occurs (e.g. major acquisition 
or divestment of a Group business) whereby the original performance 
condition is no longer considered appropriate. Any changes would be 
made so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not 
materially less difficult to satisfy. All historic awards that were granted but 
remain outstanding (as detailed on page 87 of the remuneration report), 
remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
The charts below show how the compensation of each of the executive 
directors’ remuneration packages varies at different levels of 
performance under the policy set out above, as a percentage of total 
remuneration opportunities and as a total value. The scenarios assume 
performance below target, on-target and at the maximum.
Chief Executive
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
100%
42%
31%
32%
32%
27%
31%
494
1,177
1,586
Below target On-target Maximum
£000
 Fixed pay  Annual incentive  PSP
Chief Financial Officer
0
150
300
450
600
750
900
1050
1200
100%
43%
33%
28%
39%
24%
32%
369
849
1,137
Below target On-target Maximum
£000
 Fixed pay  Annual incentive  PSP
Notes to Graph
Total fixed pay = Base salary (as at 1 January 2014) plus benefits (as reported for 2013) plus 
pension contributions of 15% of salary.
On-target performance = for illustrative purposes the on-target bonus is included at 62.5%  
of maximum and the on-target LTIP award is shown at the mid-point of the vesting schedule 
(i.e. 62.5% of the maximum award, no share price appreciation).
Maximum = the maximum annual bonus and LTIP award (no share price appreciation).
Choice of performance metrics
As detailed in the Chief Executive’s review on page 28, the Group 
remains fully aligned with delivering profitable growth both through 
targeting organic growth and acquisition. For the annual bonus plan,  
the policy is to have a strong focus on financial measures, with further 
reward for achieving strategic or personal targets which are each aligned 
with the Company’s short term KPIs. The remuneration Committee and 
the Board believe that the most appropriate performance metric for the 
Company to be measured against on a long term basis remains growth 
of adjusted EPS. In order to ensure that the long-term incentive plan is 
delivering significant shareholder value, the committee believes it is 
appropriate to measure growth in EPS.
Employees views and global pay and employment  
policies across the Group
The Committee does not actively consult employees for their views on 
executive remuneration policy. This is in line with standard market 
practice and reflects the Committee’s view that it will not provide 
cost-effective engagement at this stage in the Company’s development. 
However, when setting executive directors’ base salaries, annual bonus 
awards and long-term incentive plan allocations, the Remuneration 
Committee is made aware of and takes into account comparative 
data relating to the pay and benefits of other Group employees. The 
Remuneration Policy of the Group remains consistent in all countries and 
at all levels of the Company with the overriding consideration being to 
pay competitive salaries in line with the appropriate country and sector 
and to provide opportunities to increase earnings to higher levels 
through superior performance. Lower aggregate incentive quantum 
operates at below executive level with levels driven by market 
comparatives and the impact of the role and for certain senior roles that 
are compliance focused. Long-term incentives are not provided outside 
of the most senior executives with long-term incentives reserved for 
those anticipated as having the greatest potential to influence Group 
performance levels. Approximately 63 employees globally are invited 
to participate in the long-term incentive plan, being those who are in 
a position to most influence the creation of shareholder value but this 
amount will change from year to year according to the particular 
policy utilised by the Committee.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 81
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements How shareholders’ views are taken into account
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at a meeting following the AGM. This 
feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time, is then considered as part of the Company’s annual review 
of remuneration policy.
Recruitment and promotion policy
The Committee will follow the guidelines outlined below when considering a new executive appointment:
Remuneration element Policy
Base salary – Set to reflect the skills and experience of the individual. 
 – Takes account of market data against companies with similar characteristics and sector comparators.
 – Salary levels may be set below the perceived market competitive range (e.g. to reflect an individuals’ limited PLC Board 
experience), with the aim to offer phased above inflationary increase to re-position salary at the desired level over a 2-3 
year period, subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Benefits – Benefits as provided to current executive directors. 
 – Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of relocation expenses, legal fees and other allowances 
that the Committee considered appropriate.
Pension – Defined contribution or cash supplement alternative.
 – Maximum of 15% of salary, as offered to the current executives.
Annual 
bonus
 – Operate as outlined for current executives.
 – Maximum opportunity of up to 120% of salary.
 – Different performance measures and targets may be set initially, dependent on the timing of appointment. 
Long term incentives – Operate as outlined for current executives.
 – Performance shares awards will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current executive directors.
 – An award may be made shortly after an appointment (subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period). 
 – Maximum opportunity of up to 140% of salary (175% of salary in exceptional circumstances).
 – For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period, subject to their original terms and 
conditions.
Buy-out award – To facilitate an external recruitment, if may be necessary to buy-out remuneration which would be forfeited on leaving 
their previous employer. When determining the quantum and structure of any buy-out awards the Committee will 
consider, but not be limited to, the following factors:
 – the form of remuneration (cash or shares);
 – timing of expected payment/ vesting; and,
 – expected value (i.e. taking into account the likelihood of achieving the existing performance criteria). 
 – Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Company’s existing share plans to the extent possible (i.e. up to 
175% of salary under the long-term incentive plan), although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if 
necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 82
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Directors’ service contracts and non-executive directors’ terms of appointment 
The committee’s policy on service contracts for executive directors is that they should provide for 12 months’ notice of termination by the Company 
and the executive. The Chief Executive’s and the CFO’s contracts operate on a rolling basis with a 12 month notice period. There are no enhanced 
provisions on a change of control. The current executive directors’ service contracts contain the key terms shown below, and the policy for a new 
hire would be based on terms that are consistent with these provisions:
Provision Terms
Notice period  – Rolling 12 months by either Company or director
Termination payment – 12 months’ salary plus employer pension contributions in lieu of notice (excluding bonus and all other contractual benefits)
 – No special change of control provisions
Remuneration 
entitlements
 – Salary, pension and benefits
 – Company car cash allowance
 – Eligible to participate in the executive annual bonus scheme and long-term incentive plan (‘PSP’)
 – Life, private health and income protection insurance
Non-competition – During employment and for six months after leaving
Change of control – None
Under the terms of the annual bonus plan, executive directors must be in employment and not ‘under notice’ at the time the bonus is paid in order 
to be eligible to receive a bonus award. However, should they leave service as a result of certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances such as death, ill 
health, disability, redundancy, retirement, transfer or sale of the Group, or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, they may be 
eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the period of employment.
The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an executive director will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. For awards 
granted under the long-term incentive plan (introduced when Cape moved to the Official List in 2011), in certain prescribed circumstances, ‘good 
leaver’ status may be determined, such as death, illness, injury or disability, redundancy, an executive’s employment being sold out of the Group or 
any other reason determined by the Committee. If defined as a good leaver, awards will remain subject to performance conditions, which will be 
measured over the performance period from grant to date of cessation unless the Committee decides test performance as at the original vesting 
date in which case the performance period shall be the original performance period of three years. A pro-rata reduction to the number of shares 
initially granted will also apply. The Committee retains the discretion to dis-apply time pro-rating in exceptional circumstances. 
Non-executive directors
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office, but are 
appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment. In January 2012 all non-executive terms of appointment were amended to fixed terms of three years 
(normally renewable for two three-year terms if both parties agree) and subject to annual re-election by shareholders. The terms of appointment are 
terminable either by the non-executive director or the Company on three months’ written notice.
The Company may invite non-executive directors to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms subject to a particularly 
rigorous review of performance and taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board. Under the Company’s articles of 
association, all directors are required to stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years. However, in line with accepted best 
practice, the Board has agreed that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the current non-executive directors:
Engagement date Appointment date Date of expiry of current 3-year term
Tim Eggar (Chairman) 1/5/2011 4/5/2011 4/5/2014
Brendan Connolly 16/11/2011 16/11/2011 16/11/2014
Michael Merton 10/1/2011 4/5/2011 4/5/2014
Leslie Van de Walle 22/8/2012 22/8/2012 22/8/2015
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 83
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report on remuneration
Single total figure of remuneration (executive directors)
This section provides the details of the actual payments and awards made to directors who served during the year. Information which required the 
Company’s external independent auditors to report on can be found on pages 84 to 89 unless otherwise stated.
Base salary Taxable benefits
1
Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Pension Other
2
Total 
remuneration 2013
Audited £’000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 420.0 211.6 15.8 11.3 299.0 206.6 – – 63.0 31.7 6.8 – 804.6 461.2
Michael Speakman 320.0 23.0 11.5 1.0 201.1 – – – – 3.5 50.3 – 582.9 27.5
1 
Taxable benefits include a company car and private insurance. 
2 
Other includes income protection insurance and life assurance, as well as a payment in lieu of pension for the CFO.
The maximum level of bonus award for the Chief Executive of 120% of salary remains unchanged. For the Chief Financial Officer the maximum 
bonus payable of 100% also remains unchanged.
Single total figure of remuneration (non-executive directors)
Fees Taxable benefits Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Pension Other
Total 
remuneration 2012
Audited £’000 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Non-executive directors
Brendan Connolly
1
55.0 52.5 – – – – – – – – – – 55.0 52.5
Tim Eggar
2
150.0 150.0 – – – – – – – – – – 150.0 150.0
Michael Merton
3
55.0 55.0 – – – – – – – – – – 55.0 55.0
Leslie Van de Walle
4
45.0 16.3 – – – – – – – – – – 45.0 16.3
1
 Member of the audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 
2
 Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee. 
3
 Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination committees. 
4
 Member of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
There were no changes to Board memberships in 2013.
Details of fixed remuneration for executive directors
Salary
In accordance with the Group’s Remuneration Policy, the base salary of executive directors reflects the size and scope of their responsibilities. Base 
salaries for the Chief Executive and CFO were set by the committee upon the appointment of Joe Oatley and Michael Speakman in the context of 
the median of a peer group of companies with which the Company should properly be compared. As a result, the CEO’s salary was re-based (on 
appointment) at £420,000 per annum a reduction of £80,000 from his predecessor, whilst the CFO’s salary was set at £320,000 (on appointment), a 
reduction of £13,000 from his predecessor. In accordance with Group policy for the majority of Group staff the review of base salary for executive 
directors was limited to a flat indexation amount of 2.5% with effect from 1st January 2014. In addition to the flat 2.5% increase, Joe Oatley was 
additionally awarded (on a non-cumulative basis) the 2.5% salary increase that he had elected to defer in 2013.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 84
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued The base salary, as at 31 December 2013, for the executive directors are shown in the table below. 
Audited
£’000 Position
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Executive directors
Joe Oatley CEO 420.0 420.0
Michael Speakman CFO 320.0 320.0
Benefits
Benefits in kind provided for executive directors are principally a car allowance, private medical and income protection insurance and life assurance. 
Benefits in kind are not pensionable and are not taken into account when determining base salary for performance-related remuneration. Further 
details are provided in the tables on page 84. 
Pension
Executive directors are entitled to become members of one of the Group’s pension schemes or to receive a payment of a fixed percentage  
of salary. The current Chief Executive receives Company contributions at 15% of salary into his chosen arrangement. The current Chief Financial 
Officer receives a payment of 15% of salary each month in lieu of pension. The total cost to the Company this year amounted to £111,000  
(CEO: £63,000 and CFO: £48,000). Further information about this pension scheme is provided in note 19 ‘Retirement benefit obligation’.
Details of variable remuneration for executive directors
Annual bonus
The Committee believes that it is important to incentivise executive directors, by ensuring that a significant portion of their total remuneration is 
conditional on achievement of business objectives across both annual and longer-term time periods. An annual cash bonus may be earned for the 
attainment of stretching performance targets. These targets are set by the Committee at the start of the financial year or upon appointment. The 
maximum annual bonus opportunity is determined by the Committee from time to time, taking account of the internal and external business and 
market context.
The annual bonus awarded to executive directors are shown in the table below. Bonuses were awarded on a pro-rata basis for the relevant period of 
the year served.
Audited Maximum bonus potential
2013 2012
£’000 % salary £’000 % salary
Executive directors
Joe Oatley Chief Executive 120% 299.0 71 206.6 98%
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer 100% 201.1 63 –  –
In a challenging year, where stabilisation of the Group remained a key objective, the Remuneration Committee set the CEO’s bonus targets against 
specific strategic objectives: 
The strategic targets set for the Chief Executive in 2013 remain commercially sensitive if highlighted specifically but included key organisational 
changes, preparation for new country expansion, country and project specific recovery plans and the development of M&A targets. The strategic 
objectives also included a safety target performance of >5% year on year improvement in TRIR which was fully achieved. Achievement of strategic 
targets was measured at 78%.
The strategic targets for the CFO are commercially sensitive if highlighted specifically but included specific process related improvement, a 
Management Information System and IT strategy formulation, policy updates, legal entity changes in the Group and financial and control 
improvement. Achievement of strategic targets was measured at 89%.
Details of bonus calculation (Chief Executive):
Proportion of total 
bonus available
Resulting bonus 
out-turn
% of maximum % of salary Actual performance achieved % of maximum % of salary
EPS of between 25.7p (0% pay-out) and 29.7p
(full pay-out) 33.3% 40% Actual EPS result was 23.6p – –
Cash flow of between £39.2m (0% pay-out)
and £45.3m (full pay-out) 33.3% 40% Actual cash flow result was £49.7m 33.3% 40%
Strategic objectives (scored from zero
(zero pay-out) to 100% (full pay-out)) 33.3% 40% Strategic objectives were 78% met 26% 31.2%
Total 100% 120% 59.3% 71.2%
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 85
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Details of bonus calculation (CFO):
Proportion of total 
bonus available
Resulting bonus 
out-turn
% of maximum % of salary Actual performance achieved % of maximum % of salary
EPS of between 25.7p (0% pay-out) and 29.7p
(full pay-out) 33.3% 33.3% Actual EPS result was 23.6p – –
Cash flow of between £39.2m (0% pay-out)
and £45.3m (full pay-out) 33.3% 33.3% Actual cash flow result was £49.7m 33.3% 33.3%
Strategic objectives (scored from zero
(zero pay-out) to 100% (full pay-out)) 33.3% 33.3% Strategic objectives were 89% met 29.5% 29.5%
Total 100% 100% 62.8% 62.8%
Long-term incentive plan awards granted in the year
Under the Company’s Performance Share Plan, the Company is permitted to make annual awards of up to 200% of salary over shares. In 2013 the 
Company made awards of 140% of salary to executive directors, the number of shares awarded determined according to the average of the 
mid-market price of the Company’s shares at the close of business for the six month immediately preceding the award date. The details of awards 
made to executive directors in the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out below:
Scheme
Date of 
Grant
Number 
of shares 
awarded
Basis 
of award
Face value
of shares 
awarded
Vesting
period
Performance
conditions
Executive directors
Joe Oatley PSP 31/03/2013 248,942 Award of nil-cost options over 
248,942 ordinary shares. The  
actual award being equivalent  
to 140% of annual salary using  
6 month average share price prior  
to date of award 31/03/2013;  
share price on date of award  
236.2p
£588,000 Awards were  
made in the form of 
performance shares 
which, subject  
to performance 
conditions, will  
vest on the third  
anniversary of grant
30% vesting 
achieved at a 2015 
eps of 29p, with 
100% vesting 
achieved at a 2015 
eps of 36p.
Michael Speakman PSP 31/03/2013 189,670 Award of nil-cost options over 
189,670 ordinary shares. The  
actual award being equivalent  
to 140% of annual salary using  
6 month average share price prior  
to date of award 31/03/2013; share 
price on date of award 236.2p
£448,000 Awards were made in 
the form of performance 
shares which, subject  
to performance 
conditions, will vest on 
the third anniversary  
of grant 
30% vesting 
achieved at a 2015 
eps of 29p, with 
100% vesting 
achieved at a 2015 
eps of 36p
Further details regarding the award, exercising and vesting of share awards by executive directors who served during the year is provided on page 87.
Directors’ shareholdings and share interest 
To reinforce the linkage between senior executives and shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted a shareholding policy that applies 
to directors and other executives eligible to receive awards conditional on performance under its long-term incentive arrangements. Such executives 
are required to build up and retain a personal shareholding worth an equivalent of a minimum of 150% of their prevailing base salary, in the case of 
the Chief Executive and 100% in the case of other executive directors. It is expected that the required shareholding will be built up over a number of 
years by the relevant director retaining a specified percentage of shares vesting under a long-term incentive arrangement (net of tax liability arising 
upon vesting) until the required shareholding level is met. The Committee has discretion to waive the requirement in exceptional circumstances. 
Once attained, a subsequent fall below the required level may be taken into account by the Committee when determining the grant of future awards. 
Subject to performance conditions under the PSP
Executive directors
Director personal 
shareholding  
31 Dec 2013
Market price per share
 (pence) 31 Dec 2013
£k
Total
% of salary held
 in shares
Shareholding
guideline met?
Target shares
to be retained
to meet threshold
Joe Oatley 55,000 276 151.8 36 No 152,174
Michael Speakman 35,352 276 97.6 30 No 115,942
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 86
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Performance Share Awards 
Details of the awards made under the Performance Share Plan are set out below. Details of the performance conditions that have applied to PSP 
awards are shown on page 86.
During 2013
Audited Grant date
Market price
at date
of grant 
At 
31 December
2012 Granted Exercised Lapsed
 At 
31 December 
2013
Market price
 at date
 of exercise
Date from which 
exercisable/ 
awards vest
Expiry
 date
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 31/3/2013 236.2 – 248,942 – – 248,942 – 31/3/2016 31/3/2018
29/6/2012 263.3 96,522 – – – 96,522 – 19/4/2015 18/4/2017
Michael Speakman 31/8/2013 236.2 – 189,670 – – 189,670 – 31/3/2016 31/3/2018
Notes: 
These awards under the PSP are subject to a three-year EPS performance target, with 30% of awards vesting for annual EPS growth of RPI +3%, rising on a pro-rata basis to full vesting for 
annual EPS growth of RPI +10%. The share price at 31 December 2013 was 276p, with the minimum and maximum share price during the financial year being 215p and 326.75p respectively.
Non-executive directors
The annual rates of non-executive director fees for the year ended 31 December 2013 are shown in the table below:
Audited position
Audited fees
£’000
Chairman
1
150
Non-executive director 35
Additional fee for Committee Chairman 10
Additional fee for Committee member 5
1 
The Chairman has elected to receive 25% of the value of his fees per quarter in the form of Cape ordinary shares at the prevailing share price on the date of allotment. During 2013, 
the Chairman received 2.5% of his annual fee in shares representing 7,437 shares or 0.006% of the Company’s issued share capital. This election ceased with the final award in May 2013.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment and do not receive compensation for loss of office. 
Effective from 23 January 2012, fixed terms of three years, non-executive directors are normally appointed for two three-year terms if both parties 
agree and subject to annual re-election by shareholders, and terminable either by the non-executive director or the Company on three months’ 
written notice.
The Company may invite non-executive directors to serve for a further period after the expiry of two-three year terms subject to a particularly 
rigorous review of performance and taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board. Under the Company’s articles of 
association, all directors are required to stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years. However, in line with accepted best 
practice, the Board has agreed that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the current non-executive directors:
Appointment date
Date most recent 
term commenced
Expected date of 
expiry of current term
Tim Eggar (Chairman) 1/5/2011 4/5/2011 4/5/2014
Brendan Connolly 16/11/2011 16/11/2011 16/11/2014
Michael Merton 10/1/2011 4/5/2011 4/5/2014
Leslie Van de Walle 22/8/2012 22/8/2012 22/8/2015
Directors’ interests and transactions in the ordinary shares of the Company
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in office as at 31 December 2013 and at 18 March 2014 are shown below:
Number of ordinary shares
As at 
18 March
 2014
As at  
31 December 
2013
Executive directors
Joe Oatley 55,000 55,000
Michael Speakman 35,352 35,352
Non-executive directors
Tim Eggar 66,807 66,807
Brendan Connolly 19,625 19,625
Michael Merton 10,000 10,000
Leslie Van de Walle 10,000 10,000
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 87
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements External appointments
The Company recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the Group, of executive directors taking on external appointments as non-executive 
directors. Subject to the approval of the Committee and to such conditions as the Committee may, in its discretion, an executive director may 
accept such appointments at other companies or similar advisory or consultative roles. Whether the executive director is permitted to retain any 
fees paid for such services or whether such fees are remitted to the Company will be determined on a case by case basis. Joe Oatley currently has 
no such external appointments. Michael Speakman has external appointments and is currently a director of Wellcentric Limited and of FrontRow 
Energy Partners Limited. During the year, Michael Speakman has served as a non-executive director of Electro Flow Controls Limited he has 
retained his earnings in respect of this service of £20,000. 
Total Shareholder Return performance (‘TSR’)
The graph below shows the TSR for holders of Cape plc £0.25 Ordinary Shares over the last five financial years, measured against the FTSE AIM 100 
and the FTSE All Share Index. These indices are seen as the most appropriate to represent the Company’s relative performance over the last five 
financial years given the Company’s move to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange from AIM during 2011. The calculation of TSR follows the 
provisions of the Regulations and is broadly the change in market price together with reinvestment of dividend income.
This graph shows the spot value of £100 invested in Cape plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE AIM 100 
and the FTSE All-Share Index. The intermediate points are the spot values on the Company’s financial year ends.
Table of historic performance
Year Chief Executive
Chief Executive Single  
figure of total remuneration
(£’000)
Annual bonus payout
against maximum opportunity
 %
Long-term incentive vesting
rates against maximum opportunity 
%
2013 Joe Oatley 804.6 59% n/a
2012
1
Joe Oatley 461.2 81% n/a
Brendan Connolly 137.3 n/a n/a
Martin May 831.7 Nil 100%
2011 Martin May 930.2 57% 100%
2010 Martin May 1,151.4 100% 100%
2009 Martin May 1,066.0 100% 100%
Note: Martin May stood down 29 March 2012. Brendan Connolly served as Acting Chief Executive for the period 29 March 2012 to 29 June 2012. Joe Oatley appointed 29 June 2012
Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of Chief Executive
% change year on year
Chief Executive All employees
1
Base salary – 5.8
Taxable benefits 39.8
2
8.8
Short-term incentives 12.2 45.8
3
1 
UK employees were selected as the appropriate comparator group. Base salary increases have been skewed by the offshore business, 
 the average increases awarded were 2.5% of base salary.
2 
In 2012 CEO taxable benefits are a mix of Joe Oatley, Brendan Conolly and Martin May. Joe Oatley’s benefits year on year are unchanged.
3 
2012 was a difficult year with few bonuses awarded; 2013 bonuses were partially awarded.
Total shareholder return
Source: Datastream
Cape plc
31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 13 31 Dec 12
FTSE AIM 100
FTSE ALL-Share (Excluding investment trusts)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1 ,000
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 88
Directors’ governance report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued Relative importance of spend on pay
The following chart sets out the change dividends and total employee remuneration costs in 2013 compared to 2012.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Year on year change
%
Dividend
1
16.9 16.8 0.6
Employee remuneration costs
2
364.2 393.1 -7.4
1 
Dividend are the interim and final dividends paid to Group shareholders in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and the interim dividend paid and the final dividend 
recommended to Group shareholders in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
2
 Employment benefit expense by continuing operations.
Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2014 (unaudited)
The Remuneration Policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the 2014 AGM to be held on 14 May 2014. The Committee believes the 
policy is aligned with the interests of shareholders and therefore recommends to shareholders that they approve the Remuneration Policy as 
presented. The Committee anticipates implementing the approved policy, effective 14 May 2014. The table below provides details of the 
remuneration for executive directors for the current financial year and highlights any changes to the implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
Element
Expected maximum in
current financial year Performance targets Changes for 2014
Salary
(see page 79)
Chief Executive: 
£441,000 
 
CFO: £328,000
N/A 2.5% deferred salary increase 
and 2.5% for 2013
2.5% salary increase
Short-term Incentive 
(see page 80)
Chief Executive: 
maximum  
120% of salary
CFO: maximum  
100% of salary
Adjusted EPS targets, cash flow targets and strategic objectives 
Financial targets are set around the budgeted 
level of performance for the year
Strategic objectives vest based on the Committee’s  
assessment of the extent to which executive directors have 
met the range of targets set for them at the start of the year
Amended to 40% awarded on 
adjusted EPS targets. 25% 
awarded on cash flow targets 
and 35% on strategic objectives
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
(see page 80)
Chief Executive:  
140% of salary  
performance shares 
CFO: 140% of salary  
performance shares
Performance measured over three years 
For 2013, range of adjusted EPS between 29p to 36p  
for the Plan vesting in 2016
Based on EPS growth against RPI.
At threshold (30% vests): EPS growth at least RPI + 3% p.a  
over specified EPS At maximum: EPS growth at least RPI + 10% p.a. 
over specified EPS 
Pro-rata on a straight line basis between these points
No change to % award. 
For 2014, range of adjusted EPS 
for the plan vesting in 2017 
achieved.
Base will be set as the reported 
adjusted EPS for 2013.
At threshold 30% vests: 
reported EPS growth 
at least RPI +3%.  
At maximum: reported 
EPS growth at least 
RPI +10%.
Pension
(see page 80)
Monthly employer 
contribution of 15%
of base salary
N/A No change
Other benefits
(see page 79)
N/A N/A No change
Share ownership 
guidelines
(see page 80)
150% of salary
holding for Chief 
Executive
100% of salary
holding for CFO
N/A No change
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Brendan Connolly
Chairman Remuneration Committee 
18 March 2014
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 89
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements We have audited the group financial statements of Cape plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
and the related notes 1 to 40. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and 
our engagement letter dated 23 July 2013. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 76, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
In addition the Company has also instructed us to:
 – report as to whether the information given in the Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Governance Report are consistent with the group 
financial statements;
 – report as to whether the information given in the Corporate 
Governance Statement with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and 
about share capital structures is consistent with the financial 
statements; and
 – review the directors’ statement in relation to going concern as set 
out on page 75, which for a premium listed UK incorporated 
company is specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In 
addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2013 and of its loss for the year then ended;
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European 
Union; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the 
overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and 
directing the efforts of the engagement team:
 – Industrial disease claim provision
 – Revenue recognition
 – Asset impairment and existence
 – Uncertain taxation positions
 – Other provisions
Our application of materiality
Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit strategy. 
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the magnitude 
of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, 
in  light of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be 
expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the 
financial statements.
As we developed our audit strategy, we determined materiality at the 
overall level and at the individual account level. Performance materiality 
is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
Planning the audit solely to detect individually material misstatements 
overlooks the fact that the aggregate of individually immaterial 
misstatements may cause the financial statements to be materially 
misstated, and leaves no margin for possible undetected misstatements. 
Performance materiality is set to reduce to an appropriately low level 
the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected 
misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as 
a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £2.1 million, which is 
approximately 5% of pre-tax profit for the year, adjusted to take account 
of unusual or exceptional transactions which would have a non-recurring 
impact on profit. On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our 
assessment of the overall control environment, our judgement is that 
performance materiality was 50% of our materiality, namely £1.05 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all 
corrected and uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.1 million, 
as well as differences below that threshold that in our view warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the 
Group financial statements, we have scoped in 22 components, across 
11 countries, with 7 full scope and 15 specific scope. Specific scope 
is where the extent of audit work was based on our assessment of 
the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of those 
components to the Group business operations. These represent 
the principal business units within the Group’s three reportable 
geographically-based segments and account for 78% of the 
Group’s total net assets and 82% of the Group’s operating profit.
The audit work at the 22 components was performed at a materiality 
level calculated by reference to a proportion of group materiality 
appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
The group audit team followed a programme of planned visits that has 
been designed to ensure that the Engagement Partner or his designate 
visit certain material or high risk locations. All material or high risk 
locations have been visited during the current year. All in-scope locations 
attended a global planning event hosted by the group audit team which 
included a discussion of fraud and error.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 90
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Cape plc The way in which we scoped our response to the risks identified above 
was as follows:
Industrial disease claim (‘IDC’) provision
 – Upon finalisation of the IDC actuarial report, prepared by management 
and their external actuarial advisors, our EY specialists met with 
management’s external advisers and undertook a comprehensive 
review of the report including thorough challenge on the range of 
estimates, the sensitivities applied to the model and their assessment 
of reserve uncertainty. We assessed the competence and capability of 
the experts utilised in this area of the audit.
 – We have challenged management’s assessment of the best estimate 
of the liability within the range calculated by the actuarial advisers. 
This included determining the risks posed by changes in the claims 
and legal environment as well as management’s view of macro 
assumptions such as inflation rates and a risk-free discount rate 
appropriate to the expected length of the liability.
 – We have completed independent testing of the underlying data used 
in the actuarial model in order to validate the reliability of the source 
claims information.
Revenue recognition
 – We performed detailed analytics on disaggregated revenue data to 
identify which contracts to focus our detailed audit testing on.
 – For the contracts selected, we performed the following key procedures:
 – Walked through the contract acceptance and authorisation procedures 
to determine the robustness of the overall risk assessment;
 – Tested the process undertaken to determine percentage of 
completion, where applicable;
 – Assessed variation orders and the appropriateness of recognition of 
additional revenue or cost; and
 – Assessed costs to complete, including contingency provisions and 
liquidated damages.
Asset impairment and existence
Fixed assets
 – We understood management’s processes for estimating and counting 
fixed assets and attended counts in all key locations to understand 
the process, identify controls, perform independent sample counts 
and assess the level of impairment for lost, obsolete or missing 
assets; and
 – We tested management’s assessment of impairment of assets, 
focusing on potential impairment of older scaffold due to the 
acquisition of more modern scaffold modules in the UK.
Goodwill
 – We evaluated the annual impairment testing performed by 
management on goodwill.
 – We challenged the appropriateness of key assumptions used by 
management in the value-in-use calculation, namely: cash flow 
forecasts, forecast period, discount rate(s), foreign exchange rates 
and long term growth rate. We performed sensitivity analysis in order 
to assess key assumptions and available headroom, including the use 
of EY internal experts.
Uncertain taxation positions
 – We evaluated the adequacy, consistency and robustness of tax 
provisions, in light of tax assessments received in various jurisdictions.
 – We challenged management on their best estimate of the likelihood of 
outflows occurring and validating those assessments in light of the 
relevant tax legislation; and
 – We have challenged management’s assessment of future profit 
forecasts and the underlying assumptions, and assessed the 
utilisation of unrecognised brought forward losses to calculate the 
recognition of deferred tax assets.
Other Provisions
 – We verified that the other provisions recognised in the accounts are 
accounted for correctly and have challenged management on the 
assumptions and estimates used in arriving at their conclusion.
Opinion on other matters
In our opinion:
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Governance Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial 
statements; and
 – the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out 
on pages 61 to 66 with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share 
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, information in the annual report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
 – is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and 
the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, 
balanced and understandable and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the 
Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
 – proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
 – the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified 
for our review.
The Company has voluntarily complied with, and has instructed us to 
review, the directors’ statement, set out on page 75, in relation to going 
concern. This statement is specified for review by the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority for premium listed UK incorporated companies.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Cape plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on 
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described 
as having been audited.
Kevin Harkin
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
Reading
18 March 2014
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Cape plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; 
the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to 
the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2.  Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 91
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2013 2012
Note
Business
performance
£m
Exceptional
and
other items
£m
Total
£m
Restated*
Business
 performance
£m
Restated*
Exceptional
and
other items
£m
Restated*
Total
£m
Revenue from continuing operations 5 697.1 – 697.1 746.0  (9.0)  737.0 
Operating profit before other items 40.5 – 40.5 27.6  –  27.6 
Other items 8 – (15.3) (15.3) –  (10.5) (10.5)
Operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items 6 40.5 (15.3) 25.2 27.6  (10.5) 17.1 
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 18 0.5 – 0.5 0.1 –  0.1
Exceptional items 8 – (15.5) (15.5) –  (150.4) (150.4)
Operating profit/(loss) 6 41.0 (30.8) 10.2 27.7  (160.9) (133.2)
Finance income 11 0.8 0.7 1.5 0.6  1.0  1.6 
Finance costs 11 (6.3) (5.2) (11.5) (7.6) (4.0) (11.6)
Net finance costs (5.5) (4.5) (10.0) (7.0) (3.0) (10.0)
Profit/(loss) before tax 35.5 (35.3) 0.2 20.7  (163.9) (143.2)
Income tax (expense)/credit 12 (7.2) 4.5 (2.7) (3.7) (15.5) (19.2)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 28.3 (30.8) (2.5) 17.0  (179.4) (162.4)
Loss from discontinued operations 13 (4.8) – (4.8) (3.4) (39.2) (42.6)
Profit/(loss) for the year 23.5 (30.8) (7.3) 13.6  (218.6) (205.0)
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc (6.8) (206.6)
Non-controlling interests (0.5) 1.6 
(7.3) (205.0)
Earnings per share attributable to the owners of Cape plc
Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic
Continuing operations 23.8 (1.6) 12.9 (136.9)
Discontinued operations (3.9) (4.0) (2.9) (35.6)
Total operations 14 19.9 (5.6) 10.0 (172.5)
Diluted
Continuing operations 23.6 (1.6) 12.7 (136.9)
Discontinued operations (3.9) (4.0) (2.8) (35.6)
Total operations 14 19.7 (5.6) 9.9 (172.5)
* Certain amounts shown here do not correspond to the 2012 consolidated financial statements and reflect the adjustments detailed in notes 2 and 40.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 92
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2013 Note
2013
£m
2012
Restated*
£m
Loss for the year (7.3) (205.0)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Other comprehensive (expense)/income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Currency translation differences (11.1) (7.8)
Tax effect – –
(11.1) (7.8)
Cash flow hedges – fair value gains 0.1 0.8
Tax effect 20 (0.6) (0.8)
(0.5) –
Net other comprehensive (expense)/income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (11.6) (7.8)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Re-measurement of defined benefit pension plan 19 (0.5) (1.2)
Tax effect – –
(0.5) (1.2)
Movement in restriction of retirement benefit asset in accordance with IFRIC 14 19 (0.5) 0.6
Tax effect – –
(0.5) (0.6)
Tax effect on share options 20 (0.2) (1.9)
Net other comprehensive (expense)/income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (1.2) (2.5)
Other comprehensive expense for the year (12.8) (10.3)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (20.1) (215.3)
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc (19.7) (216.9)
Non-controlling interests (0.4) 1.6
(20.1) (215.3)
* Certain amounts shown here do not correspond to the 2012 consolidated financial statements and reflect the adjustments detailed in notes 2 and 40.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 93
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2013 Note
2013
£m
2012
Restated*
£m
As at
1 January
 2012
Restated*
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15 113.9 117.2 246.7
Investment property 16 2.0 2.0 2.0
Property, plant and equipment 17 81.3 91.3 158.8
Investments accounted for using the equity method 18 0.7 0.2 0.1
Deferred tax assets 20 24.2 21.5 44.3
Total non-current assets 222.1 232.2 451.9
Current assets
Inventories 21 12.7 20.2 9.9
Trade and other receivables 22 170.1 218.7 234.6
Cash and cash equivalents (including restricted funds) 23 104.9 100.2 99.7
Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale 13 3.7 11.4 –
Total current assets 291.4 350.5 344.2
Total assets 513.5 582.7 796.1
Equity 
Share capital 30 30.3 30.3 29.7
Share premium account 1.0 0.9 0.5
Special reserve 30 1.0 1.0 1.0
Other reserves 30 9.3 10.0 11.9
Translation reserve 30 96.6 107.8 115.6
Retained earnings (7.6) 16.5 241.6
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 130.6 166.5 400.3
Non-controlling interests 2.6 3.8 4.3
Total equity 133.2 170.3 404.6
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 24 133.5 135.7 126.2
Retirement benefit obligations 19 9.5 8.2 7.8
Deferred tax liabilities 20 4.7 6.5 19.7
IDC provision 28 88.3 75.9 83.2
Other provisions 28 0.7 4.5 10.0
Total non-current liabilities 236.7 230.8 246.9
Current liabilities
Borrowings 24 0.3 0.3 2.6
Derivative financial instruments 25 0.6 1.1 2.2
Trade and other payables 26 109.1 151.1 122.5
Current income tax liabilities 27 7.1 8.3 17.3
IDC provision 28 6.0 4.0 –
Other provisions 28 20.5 16.8 –
Total current liabilities 143.6 181.6 144.6
Total liabilities 380.3 412.4 391.5
Total equity and liabilities 513.5 582.7 796.1
The consolidated financial statements on pages 92 to 132 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Joe Oatley Chief Executive 
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer
* Certain amounts shown here do not correspond to the 2012 consolidated financial statements and reflect the adjustments detailed in notes 2 and 40.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 94
Consolidated statement of financial position 
at 31 December 2013 Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
attributable
to parent
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2013 30.3 0.9 1.0 10.0 107.8 16.5 166.5 3.8 170.3
Loss for the year – – – – – (6.8) (6.8) (0.5) (7.3)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Currency translation differences – – – – (11.2) – (11.2) 0.1 (11.1)
Cash flow hedges – fair value gains – – – 0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
Deferred tax on hedges/options – – – (0.8) – – (0.8) – (0.8)
Re-measurement of defined benefit pension plan – – – – – (0.5) (0.5) – (0.5)
Movement in restriction of retirement benefit asset in 
accordance with IFRIC 14 – – – – – (0.5) (0.5) – (0.5)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – – (0.7) (11.2) (7.8) (19.7) (0.4) (20.1)
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – – (16.9) (16.9) (0.8) (17.7)
Share options
– value of employee services – – – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
– proceeds of shares issued – 0.1 – – – – 0.1 – 0.1
– 0.1 – – – (16.3) (16.2) (0.8) (17.0)
At 31 December 2013 30.3 1.0 1.0 9.3 96.6 (7.6) 130.6 2.6 133.2
for the year ended 31 December 2012 Restated*
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
attributable
to parent
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2012 (restated*) 29.7 0.5 1.0 11.9 115.6 241.6 400.3 4.3 404.6
(Loss)/profit for the year – – – – – (206.6) (206.6) 1.6 (205.0)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Currency translation differences – – – – (7.8) – (7.8) – (7.8)
Cash flow hedges – fair value gains – – – 0.8 – – 0.8 – 0.8
Deferred tax on hedges/options – – – (2.7) – – (2.7) – (2.7)
Re-measurement of defined benefit pension plan – – – – – (1.2) (1.2) – (1.2)
Movement in restriction of retirement benefit asset in 
accordance with IFRIC 14 – – – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – – (1.9) (7.8) (207.2) (216.9) 1.6 (215.3)
Transactions with owners
Dividends – – – – (16.8) (16.8) (2.1) (18.9)
Share options
– proceeds/(costs) of shares issued 0.6 0.4 – – – (0.7) 0.3 – 0.3
– value of employee services – – – – – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4)
0.6 0.4 – – – (17.9) (16.9) (2.1) (19.0)
At 31 December 2012 30.3 0.9 1.0 10.0 107.8 16.5 166.5 3.8 170.3
* Certain amounts shown here do not correspond to the 2012 consolidated financial statements and reflect the adjustments detailed in notes 2 and 40.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 95
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2013 Note
2013
£m
2012
Restated*
£m
Operating activities
Cash generated from operating activities – continuing operations 32a 57.0 52.7
Interest received 0.3 0.2
Interest paid (6.3) (8.2)
Tax paid (9.4) (11.9)
Net cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations 41.6 32.8
Net cash flows from operating activities – discontinued operations (5.6) (3.8)
Net cash flows from operating activities 36.0 29.0
Investing activities
Continuing operations
Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 2.2 1.3
Purchases of property, plant and equipment 17 (17.7) (10.8)
Transfer to restricted funds 32b (6.0) –
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired 34 – (5.3)
Net cash used in investing activities – continuing operations (21.5) (14.8)
Discontinued operations
Proceeds from sales of assets held for disposal 6.9 –
Net cash realised from investing activities – discontinued operations 6.9 –
Financing activities
Continuing operations
Net proceeds from the issue of ordinary share capital 0.1 0.4
Movement on revolving facility 33 (2.0) 12.6
Drawing on borrowings 2.3 –
Finance lease principal payments (0.3) (3.4)
Dividends paid to shareholders (16.9) (16.8)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (0.8) (2.1)
Net cash flows used in financing activities – continuing operations (17.6) (9.3)
Net cash flows used in financing activities – discontinued operations – –
Net foreign exchange difference (3.0) (1.7)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 33 0.8 3.2
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 72.8 69.6
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 73.6 72.8
* Certain amounts shown here do not correspond to the 2012 consolidated financial statements and reflect the adjustments detailed in notes 2 and 40.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 96
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2013 1 Corporate information
The consolidated financial statements of Cape plc and its subsidiaries, 
collectively ‘the Group’, for the year ended 31 December 2013 were 
authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 
18 March 2014. Cape plc, ‘the Company’ or ‘the Parent’, is a limited 
company incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Singapore and Jersey 
whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. The 
registered office is located at 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE1 0BD.
The Group is principally engaged in the provision of critical industrial 
services focussed on the energy and natural resource sectors.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 
consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless 
otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 
(‘IFRS’). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of 
land and buildings, available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets 
and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value 
through profit or loss.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with 
IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of 
applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher 
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and 
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are 
disclosed in note 3 ‘Group specific accounting measures’ and note 4 
‘Significant judgements and estimates’.
Changes to accounting policies and disclosures
a)  New and amended standards and interpretations adopted by 
the Group
The following amendments to existing standards and interpretations 
were effective for the year, with effect from 1 January 2013, but 
either they were not applicable to or did not have a material impact on 
the Group:
IFRS 1 Government Loans — Amendments to IFRS 1
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets 
and Financial Liabilities (Amendments)
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009–2011 Cycle
The following amendments to existing standards and interpretations, 
effective from 1 January 2013, which have had an impact on the 
consolidated financial statements, are outlined below:
IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income – 
Amendment to IAS 1
The amendments to IAS 1 introduce a grouping of items presented in 
Other comprehensive income (‘OCI’). Items that will be reclassified 
(‘recycled’) to profit or loss at a future point in time (e.g. exchange 
differences arising on the translation of foreign operations) have to be 
presented separately from items which will not be reclassified. The 
amendments affect presentation only and have no impact on the 
Group’s financial position or performance.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair 
value measurements. IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is 
required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to 
measure fair value under IFRS. IFRS 13 defines fair value as an exit price. 
IFRS 13 also requires additional disclosures which have been provided 
where required in the individual notes relating to the assets and liabilities. 
The fair value hierarchy is provided in note 25.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised)
The revised standard includes a number of amendments that range from 
fundamental changes to simple clarifications and re-wording. As revised, 
amounts recorded in the income statement are limited to current and 
past service costs, gains or losses on settlements, and net interest 
income (expense). All other changes in the net defined benefit asset/
liability, including actuarial gains and losses, are recognised in OCI with 
no subsequent recycling to profit or loss. Expected returns on plan 
assets are no longer recognised in the income statement. Expected 
returns are replaced by recording interest income in profit or loss, which 
is calculated using the discount rate used to measure the pension 
obligation. Objectives for disclosures of defined benefit plans are 
explicitly stated in the revised standard, along with new and revised 
disclosure requirements. These new disclosures include quantitative 
information about the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to a 
reasonably possible change in each significant actuarial assumption.
The Group has applied IAS 19 (Revised) retrospectively in the current 
period in accordance with the transitional provisions set out in the 
revised standard. The impact of the application of the revised standard 
on the prior period is shown in the table included in note 40.
b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The following standards and interpretations in issue are not yet effective 
for the Group and have not been adopted by the Group:
 
Effective
dates
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation – Offsetting 
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments)
1 January
 2014
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets – Recoverable Amount 
Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets (Amendments)
1 January 
2014
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement – Novation of Derivatives and Continuation 
of Hedge Accounting (Amendments)
1 January
 2014
Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10,  
IFRS 12 and IAS 27)
1 January
 2014
IFRIC 21 Levies
1 January 
2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle 1 July 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
No earlier
than 
1 January
 2017
The directors do not expect the adoption of these standards and 
interpretations to have a material impact on the consolidated or 
company financial statements in the period of initial application.
c) Prior period restatements
The Group identified a number of prior period adjustments during 
the year resulting in a restatement of the comparative period in the 
2013 financial statements. The prior year restatements are in the 
following categories:
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 97
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Discontinued operations
During the year the directors decided to discontinue activities in India 
and Japan. The results from these operations have been classified 
within discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement 
both in the current year and, by way of prior period restatement, in the 
prior year.
Employee benefits
The Group applied IAS 19 (Revised) retrospectively in the current period 
in accordance with the transitional provisions set out in the revised 
standard. The interest cost and expected return on defined benefit 
pension plan assets used in the previous version of IAS19 are replaced 
with net interest amount under IAS 19 (Revised), with restatement of 
prior period information.
Additionally, liabilities have been established in the statement of financial 
position with charges made to prior period results to reflect contractual 
and legal obligations owing to employees in the Asia Pacific region.
Reclassifications
Reclassifications between financial statement line items reported in the 
prior year have been made to reflect correct presentation. The most 
significant items are in respect of the presentation of the provision for 
industrial disease claims, including an offset of associated insurance 
receivables and recognition of the current portion of the liability as well 
as separate disclosure of work in progress within inventories.
De-recognition of tax losses
Tax assets largely representing UK losses arising from non-trading 
activities have been derecognised on the basis that they have no 
economic benefit to the Group as it is unlikely that they can be offset 
against trading profits. As there would have been no future economic 
benefit associated with the losses in previous years, a prior year 
adjustment has been made.
Other items
Other items include recognition of liabilities on legal dispute and trading 
expenses that were not recognised at the time of the prior period 
statement of financial position as well as a change in the profit and 
carrying values attributable to non-controlled interests.
The impact of the prior period adjustments on the previously reported 
2012 results, showing the financial statements line items affected, is 
included in note 40. The effect of the restatement was to increase the 
basic loss per share attributable to Cape shareholders by 4.9 pence 
in 2012.
d) Changes to segmental reporting in 2013
For management and reporting purposes, the Group is organised into 
regions, which are representative of its principal activities. In order to 
reflect organisational and management changes, with effect from 1 
January 2013, the Group reports the following three regional segments 
in a manner consistent with the revised internal reporting provided to the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’).
UK, Europe & CIS region which encompasses the existing ‘UK’ 
business, and ‘Europe and the CIS’ where Europe (formerly called 
Mediterranean) and CIS were formerly part of the ‘CIS, Mediterranean & 
North Africa’ region.
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region which encompasses 
the former ‘Gulf/Middle East’ region and ‘North Africa’, which was 
formerly part of the ‘CIS, Mediterranean & North Africa’ region.
Asia Pacific region remains unchanged in composition, encompassing 
the onshore and offshore businesses in the Far East and Australia.
Basis of consolidation
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over 
which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies and in which the Group generally holds a shareholding of more 
than one half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential 
voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered 
when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. The Group 
also assesses existence of control where it does not have more than 
50% of the voting power but is able to govern the financial and operating 
policies by virtue of de-facto control.
De-facto control may arise in circumstances where the size of the 
Group’s voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of 
other shareholders give the Group the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that 
control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business 
combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities 
incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests 
issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair 
value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at 
their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition 
basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date 
carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the 
acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date; any gains 
or losses arising from such re-measurement are recognised in profit 
or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is 
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to 
the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an 
asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit 
or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured, 
and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest 
over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If 
this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of 
the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in the 
income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Profits and 
losses resulting from intercompany transactions that are recognised in 
assets are also eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been 
changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the Group.
All subsidiary undertakings have year-end dates of 31 December except 
Cape Industrial Services Group Limited which prepares accounts to 31 
March and last prepared annual accounts to 31 March 2013.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 98
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
b)  Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries without change 
of control
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of 
control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as transactions 
with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair 
value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the 
carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. 
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also 
recorded in equity.
c) Disposal of subsidiaries
When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the 
entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with 
the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. The fair value 
is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently 
accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or 
financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if 
the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This 
may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income are reclassified to profit or loss.
d) Joint ventures
The consolidated financial statements incorporate a share of the results, 
assets and liabilities of jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) using the 
equity method of accounting, whereby the investment is carried at cost 
plus post-acquisition changes in the share of net assets of the joint 
venture, less any provision for impairment. A joint venture is an entity 
established to engage in economic activity which the Group jointly 
controls with its fellow venturers. Losses in excess of the consolidated 
interest in joint ventures are not recognised except where the Group has 
a constructive commitment to make good those losses. The results of 
joint ventures acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or 
up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested whenever there is an event which indicates that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable or, as a minimum, annually, for 
impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit for the 
purpose of impairment testing. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately through the consolidated income statement and is not 
subsequently reversed. The allocation is made to those cash generating 
units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. The Group therefore continues to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currencies
a) Functional and presentational currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities 
are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the entity operates (functional currency). The consolidated 
financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the parent 
company’s functional and presentation currency.
b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation at period end exchange rates of 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when deferred 
in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment 
hedges. Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings 
and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the consolidated 
income statement within operating profit. All other foreign exchange 
gains and losses are included in operating profit. Changes in the fair 
value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified 
as available for sale are analysed between translation differences 
resulting from changes in the amortised cost of the security and other 
changes in the carrying amount of the security. Translation differences 
related to changes in amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss, and 
other changes in carrying amount are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of their historic cost in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date of 
their initial transaction.
c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a 
functional currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
 – assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate at the 
date of the statement of financial position;
 – income and expenses for each income statement are translated at 
average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the 
transaction dates, in which case the income and expenses are 
translated at the rate on the dates of the transaction); and
 – all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate 
component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of 
the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other 
currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are 
taken to other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is 
partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised 
in equity are recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of 
the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing exchange rate. Exchange differences arising are 
recognised in other comprehensive income.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and machinery and fixtures and fittings are stated at 
cost net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment. 
Cost comprises purchase cost together with any incidental costs of 
acquisition. Interest is capitalised on qualifying assets as defined by IAS 
23R. Certain land and buildings are held at previous revalued amounts 
less accumulated depreciation as these amounts have been taken as 
their deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRS in accordance with 
the exemption under IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of IFRS’.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual 
value of tangible fixed assets by equal instalments over their estimated 
useful economic lives with the exception that no depreciation is provided 
on freehold land. The assets’ residual values and useful economic lives 
are reviewed, and adjusted as appropriate, at the date of each statement 
of financial position. The following rates are applied:
 – freehold buildings – 50 years;
 – leasehold land and buildings – the shorter of 50 years and the period 
of the lease;
 – plant and machinery – 3 to 15 years; and
 – fixtures and fittings – 3 to 10 years.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 99
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within operating 
profit before other items in the consolidated income statement. When 
re-valued assets are sold, the amounts included in other reserves are 
transferred to retained earnings.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether its property, plant 
and equipment may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the Group 
makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell 
and its value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows attributable to the asset are discounted to their present value using 
a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Investment property
The Group applies the cost model in accounting for investment property. 
The investment property relates to land held at cost less any provision 
for impairment.
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of 
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received 
from the lessor) are charged to the consolidated income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. Leases of 
property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. 
Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the 
lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the 
minimum lease payments.
Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance 
charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, 
are included in borrowings. The interest element of the finance cost is 
charged to the consolidated income statement over the lease period so 
as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability for each period. Property, plant and equipment 
acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the term of the lease.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation, 
either legal or constructive, as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a 
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures 
expected to be required to settle the obligation applying a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current risks specific to the liability. Where 
there is appropriate insurance in place, the benefit of any insurance 
reimbursement is recognised only when virtually certain.
There is a history of claims being made against the Group for 
compensation arising from alleged exposure to products previously 
manufactured which contained asbestos. Where the Group has deemed 
that it is appropriate to do so, settlement has been made. Provision has 
been made for the costs which the Group is expected to incur in respect 
of lodged and future industrial disease claims to the extent that such 
costs can be reliably estimated. The provision includes the cost of claims 
that are made under the Scheme of Arrangement (see note 36) and 
other industrial disease claims.
Contingent consideration arising on a business combination is initially 
measured at its fair value. Subsequent re-measurement is to the value 
determined in accordance with the requirement for provisions, above, or 
the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation in accordance 
with the requirements for revenue recognition, whichever is higher.
Inventories
Inventories which include raw materials and finished goods are stated at 
the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the 
first-in first-out method. The cost of finished goods comprises raw 
materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production 
overheads (based on normal operating capacity).
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course 
of business less selling expenses. Allowance is made for obsolete and 
slow moving items based on annual usage.
Revenue recognition
The revenue recognition policy in relation to construction contracts and 
maintenance contracts is shown below. Revenue is shown net of value 
added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales 
within the Group. Claims on customers are claims made for work outside 
of contractual terms and, as such, are only recognised in revenue once 
accepted by the customer.
Construction contracts
Construction contracts relate to services provided to customers 
undertaking construction projects either on a short or long-term basis.
For short-term contracts, revenue is recognised where persuasive 
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services 
have been rendered, the risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can be reliably 
measured and collection of the related receivable is reasonably assured.
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised under the percentage of 
completion method, based upon the percentage of costs to date 
compared to the total estimated contract costs, contractual milestones 
or performance. An expected loss on the construction contract is 
recognised as an expense immediately. When the outcome of a 
construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is 
recognised only to the extent that contract costs are probable of being 
recoverable, and contract costs are recognised as an expense in the 
period in which they are incurred.
Maintenance contracts
Revenues from maintenance contracts are recognised where persuasive 
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services 
have been rendered, the risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can be reliably 
measured and collection of the related receivable is reasonably assured.
Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) 
using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted and are expected to apply to the accounting period.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on 
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial 
statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they 
arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; deferred income tax is not 
accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred 
income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the date of the statement of 
financial position and are expected to apply when the related deferred 
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable 
that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 100
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of 
the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it 
is probable that the temporary difference will not be reversed in the 
foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a 
legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate 
to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same 
taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to 
settle the balances on a net basis.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount 
will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through 
continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is 
highly probable and the disposal group is available for sale in its present 
condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be 
expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year 
from the date of classification.
The losses and cash flows that relate to the businesses that have been 
classified as held for resale and which meet the definition of 
discontinued operations as per IFRS 5 are presented separately from 
continuing operations as discontinued operations within the 
consolidated income statement and consolidated cash flow statement.
Employee benefits
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution 
pension schemes.
Defined contribution pension schemes
A defined contribution pension scheme is a scheme to which the Group 
makes fixed contributions with no legal or constructive obligation to pay 
further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to settle 
its post-employment benefits. The pension expense for defined 
contribution schemes represents contributions payable in the year.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 
in respect of the defined benefit scheme is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the period end date less the fair value of the 
plan assets. The defined benefit scheme is closed to new participants. 
The defined benefit obligation is calculated tri-annually by independent 
actuaries using the projected unit method and this valuation is updated 
at the date of the statement of financial position. The present value of the 
defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds 
that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid 
and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related 
pension liability.
Current and past service costs and finance costs are charged to 
operating profit. In addition, interest on the net defined benefit pension 
obligation is recognised in profit or loss calculated using the discount 
rate used to measure the pension obligation. Actuarial gains and losses 
arising from new valuations and from updating the latest actuarial 
valuation to reflect conditions at the date of the statement of financial 
position are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income.
The pension schemes’ deficits or surpluses (to the extent that any 
surpluses are considered recoverable) are recognised in full and 
presented on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position.
Under IFRIC 14 the recoverability of a surplus must be assessed against 
the minimum funding requirements of the pension scheme.
The Group operates gratuity schemes in certain overseas countries. 
These are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 and accounting 
follows the same principles as for a defined benefit scheme.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs 
incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost; any 
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the 
redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income statement 
over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. 
Issue costs together with finance costs are charged to the consolidated 
income statement over the term of the borrowings and represent a 
constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an 
unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 
months after the date of the statement of financial position.
General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are 
assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready 
for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, 
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended 
use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific 
borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted 
from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in 
which they are incurred.
Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or 
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are 
included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months 
after the date of the statement of financial position date. These are 
classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables 
comprise ‘trade and other receivables’ and cash and cash equivalents in 
the consolidated statement of financial position.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised and carried at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any provision for 
impairment. The amount of the provision is the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash flows.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call 
with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank 
overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the 
consolidated statement of financial position unless a cash pooling 
arrangement is in place.
Restricted funds, being cash balances held for the purpose of settling 
costs of industrial disease claims made under the Scheme of 
Arrangement (see note 36) are excluded from cash and cash equivalents 
for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 101
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and 
hedging activities
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate 
swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest 
rate fluctuations. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the 
date the contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at 
their fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market 
values of similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
 – net investment hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in 
the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign 
operations; and
 – cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows 
that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The Group formally designates and documents the relationship between 
the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the inception of the 
transaction, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for 
undertaking various hedge transactions. The documentation also 
includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item 
or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the Group 
will assess the effectiveness of the hedging instruments in offsetting the 
exposure to changes in the fair value of the hedge or the cash flows 
attributable to the hedged risk. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at inception and on an on-going basis, of whether the 
derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective 
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the consolidated 
income statement. The treatment of gains and losses arising from 
revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the 
nature of the hedging relationship, as follows:
a) Net investment hedges
For net investment hedges, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised directly in 
equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the consolidated 
income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of 
or sold.
b) Cash flow hedges
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective 
portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement. Amounts 
taken to equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement 
when the hedged transaction affects the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised 
without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is 
revoked, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time 
remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is 
ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement. When a 
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain 
or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the 
consolidated income statement.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares 
or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from 
the proceeds.
Share based payments
The Group issues equity settled share based payments to certain 
employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as an 
expense in the consolidated income statement with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The fair values of these payments are measured at the 
dates of grant using option pricing models, taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the awards are granted. The fair value is 
recognised over the period during which employees become 
unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the Group’s estimate of 
the number of awards which will lapse, either due to employees leaving 
the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market based performance 
conditions not being met.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of 
the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-
market vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to 
original estimates, if any, in the consolidated income statement, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity. When the options vest, the 
Company issues new shares which are then held in an employee benefit 
trust account until the options are exercised. Proceeds received on the 
exercise of share options, if any, are credited to share capital and share 
premium. Where the exercise price of an option is lower than par value of 
the issued share the difference is funded by debiting the Company’s 
retained earnings.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of 
the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and 
the charge will be treated as a cash settled transaction.
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the 
internal reporting provided to and regularly reviewed by the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’). The CODM, who is responsible for 
allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating 
segments, has been identified as the Board.
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market 
risk (including currency, cash flow interest rate and fair value interest 
rate risks), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk 
management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial 
markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s 
financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury department 
under policies approved by the Board of Directors. Group treasury 
identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with 
the Group’s operating units. The Board provides written principles for 
overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific 
areas, such as foreign exchange, interest rate and credit risks, use of 
derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, 
and investment of excess liquidity. A summary of the Group’s financial 
risk factors is given on pages 22 and 23.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 102
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Foreign exchange
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in two key currencies. 
The movements in exchange rates for these two currencies are detailed 
below:
Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012
Closing Average Closing Average
AUD 1.85 1.63 1.57 1.53
USD 1.66 1.57 1.63 1.59
3 Group specific accounting measures
To be able to provide readers with clear, meaningful and consistent 
presentation of financial performance, the Group reflects its underlying 
financial results in the ‘business performance’ column within the 
consolidated income statement. Business performance excludes ‘Other 
Items’ and ‘Exceptional Items’, which are considered non-operational in 
their nature and which are reported separately in a different column 
within the consolidated income statement.
a) Other items
Other items are those items which the directors believe are relevant to 
the understanding of the results for the year and which are excluded 
from the adjusted measures. Included in Other items are costs 
associated with industrial disease claims and in 2012 contract claims, 
where revenue had previously been accrued without the agreement of 
the customer. Customer claims are now only recognised when the claim 
is accepted by the customer.
b) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items which are of a non-recurring nature 
and, in the judgement of the directors, need to be disclosed separately 
by virtue of their nature, size or incidence. Items which may be 
considered exceptional in nature include significant write-downs of 
goodwill and other assets, significant changes in asset values as a result 
of changes in accounting estimates and Group restructuring costs.
4 Significant judgements and estimates
Certain of the Group’s accounting policies described in note 2 require 
critical accounting estimates that involve subjective judgements and the 
use of assumptions, some of which may relate to matters that are 
inherently uncertain and susceptible to change.
a) Judgements
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements are:
(i)  Revenue recognition and assessment of long term 
contract performance
The Group generally accounts for long-term construction contracts using 
the percentage of completion method as performance of the contract 
progresses. This method requires judgement to determine accurate 
estimates of the extent of progress towards contract completion and may 
involve estimates of the total contract costs, remaining costs to 
completion, total revenues, contract risks and other judgements.
(ii) Carrying value of property, plant and equipment
Assessing whether property, plant and equipment may be impaired 
requires a review for indicators of impairment and, where such indicators 
exist, an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount by reference to 
value in use. Management are required to exercise significant judgement 
in reviewing for and identifying asset indicators of impairment and 
subsequently calculating value in use. During 2012 reduced revenue and 
operating margin in Australia highlighted an impairment indicator which, 
under IAS 36 triggered an impairment review of scaffold comparing the 
recoverable amount, determined from a basis of value in use, against the 
carrying amount. The impairment review resulted in an impairment 
charge of £13.0 million during 2012. A reorganisation of the Australia 
business during 2013 required a write down of property, plant and 
equipment to value in use and gave rise to a charge to profit of £4.2m.
(iii) Trade and other receivables
The Group provides for likely non-recovery of receivables to the extent 
that the carrying value is less than the present value of expected future 
cash flows. Assessing the value of the provision requires significant 
management judgement and review of individual receivables based 
upon individual customer creditworthiness, current economic trends and 
analysis of historical bad debts. The value of trade receivables at 31 
December 2013 is £119.4 million (2012: £158.8 million) and the provision 
is £11.0 million (2012: £8.3 million).
(iv) Deferred tax assets
The Group recognises deferred tax assets on all applicable temporary 
differences where it is probable that future taxable profits will be 
available for utilisation. This requires management to make judgements 
and assumptions regarding the amount of deferred tax that can be 
recognised based on the magnitude and likelihood of future taxable 
profits. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets at 31 December 
2013 is £24.2 million (2012: £21.5 million).
(v) Defined benefit pension plans
The cost and the obligation of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans 
are based on a number of selection assumptions, these include, the 
discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth, longevity and expected return 
on the assets of the plans. Differences arising from actual experience or 
future changes in assumptions will be reflected in future periods. The 
effect of changing these assumptions is described in note 19.
b) Estimates
The key assumptions affected by future uncertainty that have a 
significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying value of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year are:
(i) Onerous contracts
Provision is made for future losses on long-term contracts where it is 
considered that the contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future 
years. Estimating future losses involves assumptions of contract 
performance targets and likely levels of future cost escalation over time. 
A provision for onerous contracts of £8.9 million (2012: £5.4 million) is 
recorded at 31 December 2013.
(ii) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. This requires 
estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the 
goodwill is allocated. Calculation of value in use requires estimation of 
expected future cash flows from each of the cash-generating units and 
also to determine a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value 
of those cash flows. The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 
2013 was £113.7 million (2012: £117.1 million). There was no goodwill 
impairment recognised during 2013. An impairment charge of 
£129.8 million was recognised in 2012 on writing down goodwill held 
in the Australian cash-generating unit to its recoverable amount.
(iii) Provision for industrial disease claims
To the extent that such costs can be reliably estimated, a provision has 
been made for the costs which the Group is expected to incur in respect 
of lodged and future industrial disease claims arising on alleged 
exposure to previously manufactured asbestos products. The provision 
has been determined as at 31 December 2013 based on advice from 
independent professional actuaries. The amount of the provision is 
based on historic patterns of claim numbers and monetary settlements 
as well as published tables of projected disease incidence. Key 
assumptions made in assessing the appropriate level of provision 
include the period over which future claims can be expected, the rate at 
which claims will be filed, the rate of successful resolution as well as 
future trends in both compensation payments and legal costs. The value 
of the provision at 31 December 2013 is £94.3 million (2012: £79.9 
million) and the range of reasonable estimate determined as being 
between £89 million and £123 million.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 103
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 4 Significant judgements and estimates (continued)
(iv) Income tax
Group entities can be subject to routine tax audits and also a process whereby tax computations are discussed and agreed with the appropriate 
authorities. Whilst the ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot be determined with certainty, management estimates the level of 
required tax provisions on the basis of professional advice and the nature of current discussions with the tax authority concerned.
5 Segment information
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board (Chief Operating Decision Maker ‘CODM’) that 
are used to make strategic decisions. The CODM considers the business from a geographic perspective. As set out in note 2 under ‘Basis of 
preparation’, with effect from 1 January 2013 the Group reports three regional segments. The main profit measure used by the CODM in its review is 
adjusted operating profit.
The segment information for the year ended 31 December 2013 is as follows:
2013
UK, Europe
 & CIS
 £m
MENA
 £m
Asia
 Pacific
 £m
Central
 £m
Group
£m
Continuing operations
Adjusted revenue 361.1 202.8 133.2 – 697.1
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 32.5 15.1 (3.8) (3.3) 40.5
Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 0.2 – 0.3 – 0.5
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 32.7 15.1 (3.5) (3.3) 41.0
2012
UK, Europe
 & CIS
 £m
MENA
 £m
Asia
 Pacific
 £m
Central
 £m
Group
£m
Continuing operations
Adjusted revenue 367.2 163.3 215.5 –  746.0 
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 39.4 (5.5) (8.7) 2.4 27.6 
Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures – – 0.1 – 0.1
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 39.4 (5.5) (8.6) 2.4 27.7
Segmental adjusted operating profit/(loss) in the table above is shown after charging franchise fees. Adjusted operating profit before franchise fees 
is set out in note 7.
There were no significant sales between segments in either year.
Other segment items included in the consolidated income statement are as follows:
2013
UK, Europe
 & CIS
 £m
MENA
 £m
Asia
 Pacific
 £m
Central
 £m
Group
£m
Depreciation 6.4 6.7 4.6 – 17.7
Amortisation 0.1 – – – 0.1
2012
UK, Europe
 & CIS
 £m
MENA
 £m
Asia
 Pacific
 £m
Central
 £m
Group
£m
Depreciation 5.0  4.4 5.4 0.2 15.0
Amortisation 0.1 – 0.2 – 0.3
The geographical origin of adjusted revenue based on location of the entity is analysed as follows:
2013
£m
2012
 £m
Continuing operations:
United Kingdom 325.1 314.7
Australia 79.7 140.0
Abu Dhabi 59.4 55.7
Qatar 58.4 43.6
Saudi Arabia 54.8 35.9
Rest of the world 119.7 156.1
Adjusted revenue from continuing operations 697.1 746.0
Discontinued operations 8.6 24.9
Total adjusted revenue 705.7 770.9
The Performance review section in this Annual Report provides an analysis of adjusted revenues between maintenance support services (being services 
to plant operators to assist with their maintenance and production support activities) and construction support services (being services to engineering and 
contracting companies to support major construction projects). This split in customer base and revenue does not represent an operating segment as 
multi-discipline services are provided to all customers and as such the segmental analysis is only presented by geographic segments.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 104
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 5 Segment information (continued)
Adjusted revenue from continuing operations derived from maintenance support services was £442 million (63%) (2012: £419 million (56%)) and 
adjusted revenue derived from construction support projects was £255 million (37%) (2012: £327 million (44%)).
Revenue from the largest client represented 11% of total adjusted revenue (2012: 11%) relating to activity across all geographic segments and the 
top 10 clients represented 38% of adjusted revenue (2012: 40%).
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2013 and capital expenditure for the year are as follows:
2013
UK, Europe
& CIS
 £m
MENA
£m
Asia
Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Unallocated
£m
Group
£m
Assets – continuing 119.9 161.0 99.3 0.5 129.1 509.8
Assets – discontinued – – 3.7 – – 3.7
Total assets 119.9 161.0 103.0 0.5 129.1 513.5
Non-current assets included in total assets
Goodwill and intangibles – continuing 24.9 47.1 41.9 – – 113.9
Other – continuing 26.2 27.7 30.0 0.1 24.2 108.2
Total – continuing 51.1 74.8 71.9 0.1 24.2 222.1
Non-current assets – discontinued – – – – – –
Total non-current assets 51.1 74.8 71.9 0.1 24.2 222.1
Liabilities – continuing 46.2 64.1 26.2 97.7 146.2 380.3
Liabilities – discontinued – – – – – –
Total liabilities 46.2 64.1 26.2 97.7 146.2 380.3
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment 7.2 8.5 1.8 0.2 – 17.7
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 December 2012 and capital expenditure for the year are as follows:
2012
UK, Europe
& CIS
£m
MENA
£m
Asia
Pacific
£m
Central
£m
Unallocated
£m
Group
£m
Assets – continuing 124.4 163.5 157.2 2.7 121.5 569.3
Assets – discontinued 2.0 – 11.4 – – 13.4
Total assets 126.4 163.5 168.6 2.7 121.5 582.7
Non-current assets included in total assets
Goodwill and intangibles – continuing 24.9 47.1 45.2 – – 117.2
Other – continuing 18.6 29.9 45.1 – 21.3 115.0
Total – continuing 43.5 77.0 90.3 – 21.3 232.2
Discontinued – – – – – –
Total non-current assets 43.7 77.0 90.3 – 21.3 232.2
Liabilities – continuing 54.5 60.7 58.0 76.9 151.8 401.9
Liabilities – discontinued 4.9 – 5.6 – – 10.5
Total liabilities 59.4 60.7 63.6 76.9 151.8 412.4
Capital expenditure – property, plant and equipment 3.5 4.4 2.5 0.2 – 10.6
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, investments, intangible assets, inventories and trade and other receivables. 
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities.
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise:
2013 2012
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Deferred tax 24.2 4.7 21.5 6.5
Current tax – 7.1 – 8.3
Cash 73.6 – 72.8 –
Restricted funds 31.3 – 27.4 –
Current borrowings – 0.3 – 0.3
Non-current borrowings – 133.5 – 135.7
Derivatives – 0.6 – 1.1
Total unallocated 129.1 146.2 121.7 151.9
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 105
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6 Operating profit
2013
 £m
2012
£m
Analysis of operating profit
Continuing operations
Revenue 697.1 737.0
Contract claims – 9.0
Adjusted revenue 697.1 746.0
Cost of sales (594.1) (659.4)
Gross profit 103.0 86.6
Operating expenses (62.5) (59.0)
Operating profit before joint ventures and Other and Exceptional items 40.5 27.6
Other items (see note 8a) (15.3) (10.5)
Exceptional items (see note 8b) (15.5) (150.4)
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 0.5 0.1
Operating profit/(loss) 10.2 (133.2)
Cost of sales consists principally of direct labour, materials and other direct costs which include foreign exchange gains and losses and operating 
lease payments.
The following items have been charged to the consolidated income statement:
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Employee benefit expense 9 397.0 427.8
Depreciation 17 17.7 16.2
Operating lease payments 16.1 23.9
Foreign exchange (gains) (0.7) (0.6)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.4 8.3
Auditors’ remuneration 10 1.3 1.1
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 106
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 7 Adjusted measures
The Group seeks to present a measure of underlying performance which is not impacted by exceptional or other items, both considered non-
operational in nature. These measures are described as ‘adjusted’ and are used by management to measure and monitor performance. Other 
items and exceptional items have been excluded from the adjusted measures:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit/(loss) before tax 0.2 (143.2)
Other items (see note 8a) 15.3 10.5
Exceptional items (see note 8b) 15.5 150.4
Interest income on restricted funds (0.7) (1.0)
Unwind of discount on provision for industrial disease claims 4.0 4.0
Write off of unamortised borrowing arrangement costs 1.2 –
Adjusted profit before tax 35.5 20.7
Operating profit/(loss) 10.2 (133.2)
Other items (see note 8a) 15.3 10.5
Exceptional items (see note 8b) 15.5 150.4
Adjusted operating profit 41.0 27.7
Adjusted operating profit margin 5.9% 3.7%
Adjusted operating profit 41.0 27.7
Depreciation and amortisation – continuing operations 17.8 15.0
Adjusted EBITDA 58.8 42.7
Revenue 697.1 737.0
Contract claims – 9.0
Adjusted revenue 697.1 746.0
Net debt 28.9 35.8
Unamortised borrowing arrangement costs – 2.0
Restricted funds (see note 23) 31.3 27.4
Adjusted net debt 60.2 65.2
Finance costs (11.5) (11.6)
Unwind of discount on provision for industrial disease claims 4.0 4.0
Write off of unamortised borrowing arrangement costs 1.2 –
Adjusted finance costs (6.3) (7.6)
In 2011 the Group centralised certain operations and management functions under a new International Headquarters (‘IHQ’) to better support 
growth across its international operations. IHQ responsibilities include the management and development of the Group’s non-UK intellectual 
property and, as part of these arrangements, IHQ entered into franchise agreements to support the Group’s non-UK trading companies. The 
segmental adjusted operating profit before franchise fee charges is as follows:
2013
UK, Europe
& CIS
£m
MENA
 £m
Asia
Pacific
£m
Central
Costs
£m
Group
£m
Adjusted revenue 361.1 202.8 133.2 – 697.1
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 31.7 19.8 1.2 (12.2) 40.5
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 0.2 – 0.3 – 0.5
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 31.9 19.8 1.5 (12.2) 41.0
2012
UK, Europe
& CIS
£m
MENA
 £m
Asia
Pacific
£m
Central
Costs
£m
Group
£m
Adjusted revenue 367.2 163.3 215.5 – 746.0
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) before joint ventures 40.0 (1.1) 1.1 (12.4) 27.6
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures – – 0.1 – 0.1
Adjusted operating profit/(loss) 40.0 (1.1) 1.2 (12.4) 27.7
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 107
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 8 Other items and exceptional items
a) Other items
2013
£m
2012
 £m
Continuing operations
In revenue
 Contract claims – 9.0
In operating profit
 Amortisation of intangibles – 0.3
 Actuarial charge to provision for industrial disease claims 14.3 –
 Other industrial disease claims expenses 1.0 1.2
Other items included within operating profit 15.3 10.5
b) Exceptional items
2013
 £m
2012
£m
Continuing operations
Impairments on non-current assets in Australia
 Goodwill – 110.7
 Property, plant and equipment 4.2 13.0
Other changes in accounting estimates
 Standardisation of receivables provisioning methodology – 2.2
 Assessment of other non-current assets 1.8 16.6
Other 9.5 7.9
Exceptional items from continuing operations included within operating profit 15.5 150.4
During 2012 impairment testing on goodwill within the Australia cash-generating unit resulted in an impairment charge of £129.8 million, allocated 
between continuing operations and discontinued operations.
The charge arising on the assessment of other non-current assets relates to provisions made against the carrying value of certain scaffold assets 
held outside of the Australia business.
‘Other’ primarily comprises restructuring costs including onerous leases and the write off of irrecoverable current assets.
9 Employee benefit expense
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 363.2 394.4
Social security costs 24.6 24.1
Share options granted and awarded to directors and employees 30 0.6 (0.4)
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 19 8.0 9.7
Pension costs – defined benefit plans 19 (0.8) (0.4)
Other employee benefit costs 1.4 0.4
Total 397.0 427.8
Average monthly number of employees including executive directors 18,044 20,621
The remuneration paid to directors of the Group is disclosed in note 37 ‘Related party transactions’ and the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 84 and 89.
10 Auditors’ remuneration
2013
 £m
2012
£m
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor and associates for: 
The audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.2
The audit of the Company’s subsidiary company financial statements 0.6 0.8
Tax compliance and advisory services 0.4 0.1
Total 1.3 1.1
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 108
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 11 Finance income and costs
Note
2013
£m
2012
 £m
Interest income
Short-term bank deposits – 0.2
Interest on pension assets 0.8 0.4
Interest on restricted funds 0.7 1.0
Finance income 1.5 1.6
Interest expense
Bank borrowings (6.3) (7.4)
Finance leases – (0.2)
Unwind of discount on provision for industrial disease claims 28 (4.0) (4.0)
Write off of unamortised borrowing arrangement costs (1.2) –
Finance costs (11.5) (11.6)
Net finance costs (10.0) (10.0)
12 Income tax
2013
 £m
2012
£m
Current tax
Overseas 6.7 8.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.2 (5.4)
Deferred tax
Overseas (5.4) 11.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.8) 4.6
Income tax expense 2.7 19.2
The difference between the actual tax charge and the charge that would have arisen using Jersey’s standard corporation tax rate of 0% (2012: 0%) 
is explained in the table below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit/(loss) before tax 0.2 (143.2)
Tax calculated at the standard rate of corporation tax in Jersey of 0% (2012: 0%) – –
Adjustments in respect of prior year 1.4 (0.8)
Adjustments in respect of overseas tax rates (2.0) (40.8)
Tax losses not recognised 0.4 0.7
Expenses non-deductible 3.3 1.1
Income not taxable (1.4) (0.8)
Exceptional items
 Impairment of goodwill – 33.2
 Derecognised losses – 25.9
Change in tax rates 1.0 0.7
Tax charge 2.7 19.2
Factors affecting current and future tax charges
The Group has worldwide operations and is subject to several factors that may affect future tax charges, principally the levels and mix of profitability 
in different jurisdictions, tax rates imposed and tax regime reforms.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 109
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 13 Discontinued operations
Analysis of the result of discontinued operations and the result recognised on the re-measurement of assets of the disposal group is as follows:
2013
 £m
2012
£m
Revenue 8.6 24.8
Expenses (14.2) (29.8)
Loss before tax of discontinued operations (5.6) (5.0)
Deferred income tax credit 0.8 1.6
Loss after tax of discontinued operations before Exceptional items (4.8) (3.4)
Exceptional items
 Goodwill on Australian CGU – (19.1)
 Property, plant and equipment – (17.4)
 Disposal costs – (7.6)
 Other – (2.7)
Deferred tax credit on exceptional items – 7.6
Loss after tax of discontinued operations (4.8) (42.6)
Discontinued operations relate to the termination of operations in India and Japan and the disposal of certain businesses following the restructuring 
of the Australian operations.
The assets of the disposal group classified as held for sale of £3.7 million at 31 December 2013 were all part of the disposal group assets of 
£11.4 million at 31 December 2012.
14 Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) for the year equals the loss after tax attributable to the Company’s ordinary shareholders of £6.8 million (2012: loss 
of £206.6 million) divided by the weighted average number of issued ordinary shares of 120,825,623 (2012: 119,808,799).
When the Group makes a profit, diluted EPS equals the profit attributable to the Company’s ordinary shareholders divided by the diluted weighted 
average number of issued ordinary shares. When the Group makes a loss, diluted EPS equals the loss attributable to the Company’s ordinary 
shareholders divided by the basic (undiluted) weighted average number of issued ordinary shares. This ensures that EPS on losses is shown in full 
and not diluted by unexercised share options or awards.
Share options and awards are considered dilutive when the average share price during the year is higher than the average exercise price of the 
option or award.
2013
Shares
2012
Shares
Basic weighted average number of shares 120,825,623 119,808,799
Adjustments:
Weighted average number of outstanding share options 1,109,048 1,088,764
Diluted weighted average number of shares 121,934,671 120,897,563
The basic weighted average number of shares excludes shares that the Company holds in an employee benefit trust. The weighted average number 
of shares held in the trust during the year was 266,653 (2012: 418,574).
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 110
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 14 Earnings per ordinary share (continued)
2013 2012
Earnings
£m
EPS
pence
Earnings
£m
EPS
pence
Basic loss per share
Continuing operations (2.0) (1.6) (164.0) (136.9)
Discontinued operations (4.8) (4.0) (42.6) (35.6)
Basic loss per share (6.8) (5.6) (206.6) (172.5)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share
Continuing operations (2.0) (1.6) (164.0) (136.9)
Discontinued operations (4.8) (4.0) (42.6) (35.6)
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (6.8) (5.6) (206.6) (172.5)
Adjusted basic earnings per share – continuing operations
Loss from continuing operations (2.0) (1.6) (164.0) (136.9)
Amortisation of intangibles – – 0.3  0.3 
Non recurring costs – – 9.0 7.5 
Exceptional items 15.5 12.7 150.4 125.5
Industrial disease related costs and interest income 18.6 15.4 4.2  3.5 
Write off of unamortised borrowing arrangement costs 1.2 1.0 – –
Tax effect of adjusting items (4.5) (3.7) 15.5  13.0 
Adjusted basic earnings per share 28.8 23.8 15.4  12.9 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share – continuing operations
Earnings from continuing operations (2.0) (1.6) (164.0) (135.7)
Amortisation of intangibles – – 0.3  0.3 
Non recurring costs – – 9.0 7.4 
Exceptional items 15.5 12.7 150.4 124.4
Industrial disease related costs and interest income 18.6 15.2 4.2  3.5 
Write off of unamortised borrowing arrangement costs 1.2 1.0 – –
Tax effect of adjusting items (4.5) (3.7) 15.5  12.8 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 28.8 23.6 15.4  12.7 
The adjusted earnings per share calculations have been calculated after excluding the impact of amortisation of intangibles, non-recurring costs, 
Exceptional items, industrial disease claims related costs, interest income and the tax impact of these items. Options are dilutive at the level of 
adjusted profit from continuing operations and so, in accordance with IAS 33, have been treated as dilutive for the purpose of adjusted diluted 
earnings per share.
15 Intangible assets
Goodwill
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2012 246.4 10.4 256.8
Additions 3.1 0.1 3.2
Impairments (129.8) – (129.8)
Exchange adjustments (2.6) – (2.6)
At 31 December 2012 117.1 10.5 127.6
Additions – 0.1 0.1
Disposals – (3.9) (3.9)
Exchange adjustments (3.4) (1.0) (4.4)
At 31 December 2013 113.7 5.7 119.4
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2012 – 10.1 10.1
Amortisation charge – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2012 – 10.4 10.4
Amortisation charge – 0.1 0.1
Disposals – (3.9) (3.9)
Exchange adjustments – (1.1) (1.1)
At 31 December 2013 – 5.5 5.5
Net book amount
At 1 January 2012 246.4 0.3 246.7
At 31 December 2012 117.1 0.1 117.2
At 31 December 2013 113.7 0.2 113.9
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 111
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15 Intangible assets (continued)
Impairment tests for goodwill
As required by IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’, the Group tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. The recoverable amounts of each 
cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is based on a value in use calculation.
Each CGU’s value in use was calculated by taking the Group’s five year cash flow forecasts and then applying a long-term growth rate to the 
periods beyond the fifth year, discounted back using a pre-tax discount rate. These present values were then compared to the combined carrying 
value of the CGU’s assets (goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment). The key assumptions used in preparing the discounted 
cash flows were as follows:
EBITDA and cash flow projections
EBITDA and capital expenditure in the five year forecast commenced with the most recently approved annual budget, years two to five were 
prepared on a country by country basis by considering past performance, long-term market share and estimates of market growth by sector. All 
cash flows associated with future capital expenditure that would enhance the performance of the CGU’s were then removed from the discounted 
cash flows.
Discount rate
The discount rate reflects the estimated post-tax rate of return that would be expected from a rational investor over the period of the forecast, which 
is then adjusted to a pre-tax discount rate by reference to the Group’s five year cash tax forecast. The post-tax discount rate was calculated using 
the Capital Asset Pricing Model approach, with the risk free rate based on UK Government gilts, the beta derived via weekly observations over a five 
year period and the risk premium based on a consistent long-term average return on shares. Adjustments were then made to the discount rate of 
each CGU to reflect different risks associated with those CGU’s (both specific risk premiums and in respect of local risk free rates). The pre-tax 
discount rates applied are set out in the table below.
Long-term growth rates
Long-term growth rates were also applied to each CGU separately. Considerations to derive the growth rates included long-term GDP growth and 
projected growth rates in the supply and demand for energy. The long-term growth rates applied are also set out below.
The assumptions used in the value in use calculations were as follows:
Goodwill
£m
Discount
rate
Long-term
growth rate
Headroom
£m
UK 18.7 12.8% 2.7% 281.1
CIS 6.1 13.0% 2.7% 46.8
MENA 47.1 15.0% 2.7% 138.0
Australia 20.6 14.6% 2.7% 18.8
Asia 21.2 14.3% 2.7% 49.8
113.7 534.5
Sensitivities
The table below discloses what changes in the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the CGU’s to exceed their recoverable amounts:
Discount
rate to reach
 impairment
Long-term
growth rate
to reach
 impairment
UK 104.2% n/a
CIS 63.3% n/a
MENA 40.4% n/a
Australia 19.5% (8.4%)
Asia 38.5% n/a
Sensitivities were also applied to the five year EBITDA compound annual growth rates, again there was sufficient headroom in each of the CGU’s 
with flat or negative growth rates still providing headroom.
* n/a – while the level of headroom is significant, it is not practicable to calculate.
16 Investment property
The investment property is an area of freehold land with a carrying value of £2.0 million (2012: £2.0 million) being cost less provision for impairment 
and a fair value of £2.8 million. No significant rent is received from the property.
The fair value of the investment property is based upon a valuation as at 31 December 2013 performed by an accredited independent valuer, who is 
a specialist in valuing investment properties.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 112
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 17 Property, plant and equipment
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group acquired assets with a cost of £17.7 million (2012: £10.8 million) and received proceeds from 
asset sales of £2.2 million (2012: £1.3 million) as shown in the consolidated cash flow statement representing the actual cash outflow.
Land and
 buildings
£m
Fixtures and
fittings
£m
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Total
 £m
Cost
At 1 January 2012 25.6 9.6 228.9 264.1
Exchange adjustments (0.5) (0.2) (4.9) (5.6)
Additions 1.3 0.5 8.8 10.6
Assets transferred to disposal group (6.3) (0.5) (28.3) (35.1)
Reclassification of inventory to fixed assets – – 2.1 2.1
Disposals – (0.1) (15.1) (15.2)
At 31 December 2012 20.1 9.3 191.5 220.9
Exchange adjustments (0.7) (0.4) (11.9) (13.0)
Additions 2.5 0.8 14.4 17.7
Disposals (2.1) (0.3) (26.6) (29.0)
At 31 December 2013 19.8 9.4 167.4 196.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 5.9 7.9 91.5 105.3
Exchange adjustments (0.2) (0.2) (2.3) (2.7)
Charge for the year 1.2 0.7 14.3 16.2
Assets transferred to disposal group (3.1) (0.5) (20.1) (23.7)
Impairments 1.2 – 38.9 40.1
Disposals – – (5.6) (5.6)
At 31 December 2012 5.0 7.9 116.7 129.6
Exchange adjustments (0.4) (0.3) (6.9) (7.6)
Charge for the year 1.0 0.8 15.9 17.7
Disposals (1.2) (0.3) (22.9) (24.4)
At 31 December 2013 4.4 8.1 102.8 115.3
Net book amount
At 1 January 2012 19.7 1.7 137.4 158.8
At 31 December 2012 15.1 1.4 74.8 91.3
At 31 December 2013 15.4 1.3 64.6 81.3
Depreciation expense of £17.7 million (2012: £16.2 million) has been charged to cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
Exchange adjustments relate to the translation of assets held by foreign operations into the presentation currency.
The Group leases plant and machinery under finance lease agreements. At 31 December 2013 the net carrying amount of plant and machinery held 
under finance lease was £1.4 million (2012: £4.5 million).
18 Investment in joint ventures
The Group holds interests in several joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method. The Group’s principal joint ventures are set out 
below. All have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares which are indirectly held and their country of incorporation is also the principal 
place of operation.
Country of
incorporation
%
interest held
Resa-Cape Joint Venture SL Spain 50%
SOCAR Cape LLC Azerbaijan 49%
Ship Support Services Limited UK 50%
Cape Caspian LLP Kazakhstan 50%
Cape Civmec Insulation Group Australia 50%
The aggregated impact of joint ventures on the consolidated financial statements is as follows:
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
Carrying amount at 1 January 0.2 0.1
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures 0.5 0.1
Carrying amount at 31 December 0.7 0.2
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 113
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 18 Investment in joint ventures (continued)
Under the equity method of accounting the Group does not recognise its share of post-tax losses from a joint venture to the extent that these 
cumulative losses exceed the carrying amount of the investment in that joint venture. During the year losses of £1.3m (2012: £0.4m) have been 
derecognised from the share of post-tax result reported above. The cumulative value of such derecognised losses at the statement of financial 
position date is £2.2m (2012: £0.9m).
Summarised financial information for the joint ventures, as reconciled to the consolidated financial statements of the Group, is as follows:
Carrying amount of investment
2013
£m
2012
 £m
Current assets 24.2 11.1
Non-current assets 1.3 1.1
Current liabilities (23.3) (12.5)
Non-current liabilities (5.3) (1.1)
Equity (3.1) (1.4)
Proportion attributable to group (1.5) (0.7)
Less cumulative losses derecognised 2.2 0.9
Carrying amount of the investment 0.7 0.2
Share of post-tax result
2013
£m
2012
 £m
Post-tax result of joint ventures (1.7) (0.5)
Proportion attributable to group (0.8) (0.3)
Less losses derecognised 1.3 0.4
Share of post-tax result 0.5 0.1
19 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a final salary defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme for employees within the UK and provides pensions 
for employees of overseas companies in accordance with local requirements and practices. The assets of both the defined benefit and defined 
contribution schemes are held in trustee administered funds. The latest full valuation of the defined benefit scheme was assessed by independent 
qualified actuaries as at 6 April 2010 using the projected unit method. The valuation showed that the assets of the defined benefit scheme had a 
market value of £125.1 million and was 100% funded. Included within the assets balance is an amount of £81.3 million in respect of insurance 
policies covering pensioner liabilities. The next full valuation will take place during 2014.
Some of the Group’s overseas subsidiary undertakings operate leaving indemnity schemes as required by local laws and regulations. These 
schemes are unfunded. The provision for leaving indemnities is based on the number of years’ service and the current salary of the employee.
The pension expense in the year for the defined contribution pension scheme is £1.9 million (2012: £1.5 million). The expense equalled the Group 
contributions to the scheme.
The Group incurred an expense in the year for non-group operated defined contribution schemes of £6.1 million (2012: £8.2 million).
The defined benefit scheme disclosures of the Group in this note also include figures relating to a small scheme held by a subsidiary undertaking.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Consolidated statement of financial position:
Pension benefit assets 0.1 0.1
Pension benefit liabilities (0.3) (0.4)
(0.2) (0.3)
Leaving indemnities (9.3) (7.9)
(9.5) (8.2)
Consolidated income statement charge for:
Leaving indemnities charged through cost of sales 1.1 0.4
1.1 0.4
2013
£m
2012
£m
Re-measurements of net defined benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in 
the year (before tax) (0.5) (1.2)
Cumulative re-measurement gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
(before tax) (50.1) (49.6)
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 114
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 19 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
Pension benefits
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are determined as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Present value of funded obligations (123.8) (127.3)
Fair value of plan assets 139.6 142.6
15.8 15.3
Restriction of surplus (16.1) (15.6)
Net liability in the consolidated statement of financial position (0.3) (0.3)
In accordance with IFRIC 14, the Group must consider the minimum funding requirements of the pension scheme. This has resulted in the 
recognised surplus on the main scheme being reduced to £nil at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil).
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement are as follows:
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Interest expense 5.7 5.8
Interest income on plan assets (6.4) (6.2)
Total (0.7) (0.4)
The actual return on plan assets was £11.9 million (2012: £11.4 million).
The movement in the fair value of plan assets over the year is as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Beginning of year 142.6 136.4
Interest income on plan assets 6.4 6.2
Re-measurement of plan assets (4.5) 5.3
Employer contributions 0.2 0.1
Benefits paid (5.1) (5.4)
End of year 139.6 142.6
The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows:
2013
 £m
2012
£m
Beginning of year 127.3 120.5
Current service cost – –
Interest expense 5.7 5.8
Actuarial losses – experience adjustments (6.2) (0.8)
Actuarial losses – changes in financial assumptions 2.1 7.3
Benefits paid (5.1) (5.5)
Curtailments – –
End of year 123.8 127.3
Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis and the current agreed monthly contribution rate is £14,600. The next triennial valuation as at 
6 April 2013 is currently in progress. The estimated duration of the liabilities is 20 years.
Expected contributions to defined benefit schemes for the year ended 31 December 2014 are £0.2 million.
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
2013 2012
Discount rate 4.40% 4.60%
Future salary increases 4.40% 4.45%
Future pension increases 3.25% 3.25%
Inflation rate 2.20% 2.45%
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 115
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for these significant assumptions as at 31 December 2013 is as shown below:
Assumption Discount rate Future salary increases Future pension increases Inflation rate
Sensitivity level
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
1% increase
£m
1% decrease
£m
Impact on defined benefit obligation 16.3 (19.4) (0.8) 0.7 (11.0) 9.9 (3.7) 3.3
Impact on plan assets (14.4) 16.6 – – – – (4.8) 4.0
Impact on net pension asset 1.9 (2.8) (0.8) 0.7 (11.0) 9.9 (8.5) 7.3
The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation and the plan 
assets as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The sensitivities of changes in any of the 
principal actuarial assumptions are calculated in isolation holding all other assumptions constant.
Mortality rate
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice in accordance with published statistics and scheme experience.
The average remaining life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date is as follows:
2013 2012
Male 22.9 22.8
Female 25.3 25.2
The average remaining life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date is as follows:
2013 2012
Male 24.4 24.3
Female 26.9 26.8
Pension benefits
Plan assets are comprised as follows:
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Quoted
Diversified growth funds 3.5 3.2
Index-linked gilts 19.4 19.3
Bonds 17.1 17.2
Equities 11.2 9.5
51.2 49.2
Unquoted
Insurance annuities 84.8 89.9
Property 3.4 3.3
Cash 0.2 0.2
88.4 93.4
Total 139.6 142.6
Risk exposure to the Group
Since the pension liability is adjusted to inflation rate, the pension plan is exposed to the UK inflation, interest rate risks and changes in the life 
expectancy for pensioners. As the plan assets include investments in quoted equity shares of entities in manufacturing and consumer products 
sector, the Group is also exposed to equity market risk. More than 60% of the plan’s assets are invested in insurance annuities. Insurance annuities 
effectively mitigate the risk from changing inflation rates. Any asset investment carries a counter party risk.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 116
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 20 Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The net movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
2013
 £m
2012 
£m
Beginning of year 15.0 24.6
Exchange adjustments (1.7) –
Consolidated income statement charge:
Continuing operations 6.2 (16.1)
Discontinued operations 0.8 9.2
Tax credited directly to equity (0.8) (2.7)
End of year 19.5 15.0
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2013
 £m
2012
 £m
Property, plant and equipment 6.0 3.7 (3.1) (5.8) 2.9 (2.1)
Other 0.6 – – – 0.6 –
Retirement benefits – – (0.9) (0.7) (0.9) (0.7)
Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.9 – – 0.1 0.9
Provisions 5.6 5.5 (0.7) – 4.9 5.5
Employee share options 0.2 0.4 – – 0.2 0.4
Tax losses carried forward 11.7 11.0 – – 11.7 11.0
24.2 21.5 (4.7) (6.5) 19.5 15.0
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax 
jurisdiction, is as follows:
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m
Provisions
£m
Tax
losses
£m
Pension
£m
Hedging
£m
Share
options
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 (16.8) 17.9 20.0 (0.6) 1.4 2.8 (0.1) 24.6
(Charged)/credited to the consolidated 
income statement 14.4 (12.3) (8.5) (0.1) – (0.5) 0.1 (6.9)
Credited directly to the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income – – – – (0.8) (1.9) – (2.7)
Exchange differences 0.3 (0.1) (0.5) – 0.3 – – –
At 31 December 2012 (2.1) 5.5 11.0 (0.7) 0.9 0.4 – 15.0
Deferred tax assets 3.7 5.5 11.0 – 0.9 0.4 – 21.5
Deferred tax liabilities (5.8) – – (0.7) – – – (6.5)
At 31 December 2012 (2.1) 5.5 11.0 (0.7) 0.9 0.4 – 15.0
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Accelerated
capital
allowances
£m
Provisions
£m
Tax
losses
£m
Pension
£m
Hedging
£m
Share
options
£m
Other
 £m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2013 (2.1) 5.5 11.0 (0.7) 0.9 0.4 – 15.0
(Charged)/credited to the consolidated 
income statement 4.4 – 2.5 (0.2) (0.2) – 0.5 7.0
Credited directly to consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income – – – – (0.6) (0.2) – (0.8)
Exchange differences 0.6 (0.6) (1.8) – – – 0.1 (1.7)
At 31 December 2013 2.9 4.9 11.7 (0.9) 0.1 0.2 0.6 19.5
Deferred tax assets 6.0 5.6 11.7 – 0.1 0.2 0.6 24.2
Deferred tax liabilities (3.1) (0.7) – (0.9) – – – (4.7)
At 31 December 2013 2.9 4.9 11.7 (0.9) 0.1 0.2 0.6 19.5
The Group has a deferred tax asset of £11.1 million (2012: £7.7 million) relating to Australian tax losses. The Group fully expects to offset these losses 
against future profits following successful contract wins in Australia and therefore no de-recognition is deemed necessary.
Deferred taxation has not been provided in the event of the distribution of the un-appropriated profits or reserves of certain overseas subsidiary 
undertakings as the Group does not currently intend to make such distributions.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 117
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 20 Deferred income tax (continued)
At the date of the statement of financial position, the Group has unrecognised tax losses of £24.8 million (2012: £30.3 million) available for offset 
against future profits, subject to agreement with the tax authorities. The losses carried forward in certain entities can only be utilised against 
future profits of those entities. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as there is uncertainty in respect of its 
future recoverability. 
Legislation has been enacted in the UK to reduce the corporation tax rate to 21% from 1st April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015. Any UK deferred 
tax balances have therefore been measured at 20%. 
21 Inventories
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
Materials 5.0 6.8
Work in progress 7.1 12.4
Finished goods 0.6 1.0 
12.7 20.2
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense has been charged to cost of sales in the consolidated income statement and amounted to 
£40.8 million (2012: £38.2 million).
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
Contract revenue recognised as revenue in the period 172.5 135.0
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
Gross amount due from customer for contract work (presented as an asset) 14.9 12.9
Gross amounts due to customers for contract work (presented as a liability) (2.9) –
12.0 12.9
Contract costs incurred and recognised profits (less recognised losses to date) 118.9 48.3
Less progress billings (106.9) (35.4) 
12.0 12.9
Advances received during the year to 31 December 2013 amounted to £2.9m (2012: £nil). Customer retentions in the year under review amounted to 
£9.0m (2012: £7.3m). Trade receivables arising from construction contracts are all due for settlement within one year.
22 Trade and other receivables
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
Trade receivables 119.4 158.8
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (11.0) (8.3)
Trade receivables – net 108.4 150.5
Amounts recoverable on contracts 41.5 47.7
Receivables from joint ventures 3.4 1.8
Other receivables 9.7 14.1
Prepayments and accrued income 7.1 4.6
170.1 218.7
The fair values of trade and other receivables equal the carrying amounts, as the impact of discounting is not material.
Receivables from joint ventures are repayable on demand and bear no interest.
As of 31 December 2013, trade receivables of £21.6 million (2012: £21.7 million) were partially impaired. The calculation of impairment was based on 
the Group’s accounting policy in respect of trade receivable balances together with any specific circumstances relating to the balance. The amount 
of the provision was £11.0 million (2012: £8.3 million). The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to contracts within the Asia and MENA 
regions. It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. The ageing of these receivables is as follows:
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Less than 3 months 13.3 5.9
3 to 6 months 3.0 11.9
7 to 12 months 2.0 1.8
Over 12 months 3.3 2.1
21.6 21.7
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 118
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 22 Trade and other receivables (continued)
Provision for impairment of trade receivables:
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
At 1 January 8.3 0.9
Provisions charged 4.0 7.8
Provisions utilised (0.7) (0.4)
Provisions released (0.6) —
At 31 December 11.0 8.3
Provisions for impaired receivables are included in cost of sales in the consolidated income statement. Amounts charged to the bad debt provision 
account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
23 Cash and cash equivalents and restricted funds
2013
 £m
2012 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 73.6 72.8
Restricted funds 31.3 27.4
104.9 100.2
Note 36 sets out the key features of the Scheme of Arrangement that was put in place in 2007 to provide for the long-term financing of asbestos 
related industrial disease claims. Cape Claims Services Limited (‘CCS’) is the group company against which claims made under the Scheme of 
Arrangement are enforceable and in which Scheme funding is accounted for. Funds held by CCS are restricted for use in settling the 
asbestos-related Scheme liabilities. The cash held by CCS at the date of the statement of financial position of £31.3 million (2012: £27.4 million) is 
classified as restricted funds.
24 Borrowings
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
Non-current
Finance leases – 0.3
Bank loans 133.5 135.4
Total non-current borrowings 133.5 135.7
Current
Finance leases 0.2 0.2
Bank loans 0.1 0.1
Total current borrowings 0.3 0.3
Total borrowings 133.8 136.0
Bank borrowings
The Group’s bank loans of £133.6 million (2012: £135.5 million) are stated net of unamortised issue costs of £nil (2012: £2.0 million).
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
Carrying amount Fair value
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Finance leases – 0.3 – 0.3
Bank loans 133.5 135.4 133.4 121.7
133.5 135.7 133.4 122.0
The fair value of non-current borrowings excludes unamortised borrowing arrangement costs. 
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 119
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 24 Borrowings (continued)
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2013
 £m
2012
 £m
Australian dollar 23.6 27.5
GB pound 110.2 107.9
133.8 135.4
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
Floating rate:
– Expiring beyond 1 year 36.3 32.3
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Future
 minimum
lease 
payments 
2013 
£m
Interest
2013 
£m
Present
value of
minimum
lease
payments 
2013
 £m
Future 
minimum
lease
 payments 
2012 
£m
Interest 
2012 
£m
Present
value of
minimum
lease
payments 
2012
 £m
In one year or less 0.2 – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Between one and five years – – – 0.3 – 0.3
0.2 – 0.2 0.5 – 0.5
Financial liabilities: Interest bearing loans and borrowings:
Effective
interest rate % Maturity
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Obligations under finance leases 7.2 Mar-14 0.2 0.2
Bank overdraft AUD LIBOR On demand 0.1 0.1
Total current interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.3 0.3
Non-current
Obligations under finance leases – 0.3
Loans:
£101,000,000 GBP LIBOR + 2.25 Jun-15 101.0 –
£6,447,861 6.29 Jun-15 6.5 –
AUD$13,100,000 AUD LIBOR + 2.25 Jun-15 7.1 8.3
AUD$30,000,000 AUD LIBOR + 2.5 Jun-15 16.2 19.1
£109,500,000 GBP LIBOR + 2.25 Jun-15 – 109.5
Loan from insurance provider 6.4 Nov-14 2.5 –
Other third party loan 5.29 May-17 0.2 0.5
Unamortised borrowing costs – – – (2.0)
Total non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings 133.5 135.7
Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 133.8 136.0
25 Financial instruments
Details of financial instruments are set out below.
2013
Loans and
receivables
£m
Fair value
through
income
statement
 £m
Other
financial
liabilities at
amortised
cost 
£m
Total
 £m
Assets per the consolidated statement of financial position
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 163.0 – – 163.0
163.0 – – 163.0
Liabilities per the consolidated statement of financial position
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) – – (133.6) (133.6)
Finance lease liabilities – – (0.2) (0.2)
Derivative financial instruments – (0.6) – (0.6)
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) – – (93.2) (93.2)
– (0.6) (227.0) (227.6)
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 120
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 25 Financial instruments (continued)
2012
Loans and
receivables
£m
Fair value
through
income
statement
 £m
Other
financial
liabilities at
amortised
cost 
£m
Total
 £m
Assets per the consolidated statement of financial position
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 214.1 – – 214.1
214.1 – – 214.1
Liabilities per the consolidated statement of financial position
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) – – (135.5) (135.5)
Finance lease liabilities – – (0.5) (0.5)
Derivative financial instruments – (1.1) – (1.1)
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) – – (124.9) (124.9)
– (1.1) (260.9) (262.0)
Disclosures in respect of the Group’s financial risks are set out below.
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange, cash flow interest rate and fair value interest 
rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and 
seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to offset certain 
risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury function under policies approved by the Board of Directors. Group treasury identifies, 
evaluates and where appropriate uses derivative financial instruments to offset financial risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units. 
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange, 
interest rate and credit risks, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the 
functional currency of its operating units. The Group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to GB pounds which is 
the reporting currency of the Group. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2013 2012
£m % of total £m % of total
Australian dollar 13.6 8.0 35.6 16.3
Euro 3.1 1.8 11.0 5.0
GB pound 58.3 34.3 59.6 27.3
Qatari riyal 23.0 13.5 17.1 7.8
Saudi Arabian riyal 22.0 12.9 16.6 7.6
Singapore dollar 1.2 0.7 19.4 8.9
UAE dirham 16.1 9.5 22.5 10.3
US dollar 22.6 13.3 31.5 14.4
Other currencies 10.2 6.0 5.4 2.4
170.1 100.0 218.7 100.0
(ii) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from the possible changes in interest rates on borrowings drawn under the Group’s syndicated debt facility. 
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group reviews its interest rate exposure, taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions and alternative financing. The 
Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The Group’s cash and bank balances are at floating rates 
of interest.
The Group has entered into transactions to exchange, at specified intervals (primarily quarterly), the difference between fixed contract rates and 
floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
Management perform a sensitivity analysis on the impact of reasonable movements in interest rates on Group profit and equity. The impact of a 1% 
increase in interest rates was determined as an additional charge to profit and reduction in equity of £1.3 million.
b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and 
arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and deposits with financial institutions.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 121
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 25 Financial instruments (continued)
The Group’s exposure to credit risk (see note 22 ‘Trade and other receivables’ for additional information) is influenced mainly by the individual 
characteristics of each customer. The Group has an established credit policy under which each new customer is analysed for creditworthiness 
before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes external ratings, and in some 
cases bank references.
The Group’s largest customer accounted for 11% of Adjusted revenue in 2013 (2012: 11%).
c) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due (see note 26 ‘Trade and other payables’ for 
additional information). The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when 
due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group has 
estimated its anticipated contractual cash outflows including interest payable in respect of its bank borrowings and finance leases. The principal 
assumptions are based on conditions prevailing at the date of the statement of financial position. These cash flows can be analysed by maturity 
as follows:
2013
Within
1 year
 £m
Between
 1 and
2 years
£m
Between
 2 and
5 years
£m
Total
£m
Liabilities per the consolidated statement of financial position
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) 0.1 140.3 – 140.4
Finance lease liabilities 0.2 – – 0.2
Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.2 – 0.6
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) 93.2 – – 93.2
93.9 140.5 – 234.4
2012
Within 
1 year 
£m
Between 
1 and
2 years
 £m
Between 
2 and
5 years
 £m
Total
£m
Liabilities per the consolidated statement of financial position
Borrowings (excluding finance lease liabilities) 0.1 0.1 142.2 142.4
Finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.2 – 0.5
Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.4 0.2 1.1
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) 124.9 – – 124.9
125.8 0.7 142.4 268.9
d) Capital management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value. In order to maintain or adjust the 
capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends payable to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell 
assets to reduce debt. The Group defines capital as the equity attributable to shareholders of £130.6 million (2012: £166.5 million) and adjusted net 
debt (this adjusted measure is defined in note 7 ‘Adjusted measures’). The Group complied with covenants in place under the unsecured £220 
million syndicated credit facility during the year. There was no breach of borrowing covenants after the year end up to the date of signing of this 
report either under the facility in place at the year end or the new facility entered into from 11 February 2014 (note 39 ‘Post balance sheet events’).
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of Adjusted net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio.
2013 
Ratio
2012 
Ratio
Ratio of Adjusted net debt to Adjusted EBITDA 1.0:1 1.5:1
e) Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
On inception derivatives are accounted and measured at fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement 
is taken to the consolidated income statement.
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and other borrowings with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book 
values. In the case of the bank loans and other borrowings due in more than one year, the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is 
estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments. 
The fair value of the interest rate swaps (cash flow hedges) are calculated using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
At 31 December 2013 the main floating rates were GBP LIBOR and AUD LIBOR. Interest rate swaps were in place which swapped floating GBP 
LIBOR amounts for a weighted average fixed rate of 6.29% (2012: 5.40%) on £6.4 million (2012: £28.9 million) of the GB pound debt. During the year 
a fair value gain of £0.4 million (2012: £0.3 million) was recognised through the consolidated income statement.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 122
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 25 Financial instruments (continued)
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s assets and liabilities.
Recurring fair value measurements:
At 31 December 2013
Quoted prices
in active
markets
(Level 1)
 £m
Significant
other
observable
inputs
(Level 2)
 £m
Significant
unobservable
inputs
(Level 3) 
£m
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value
Discontinued operation (note 13) – – 3.7
Derivative financial liabilities – (0.6) –
– (0.6) 3.7
Assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed
Investment property – – 2.8
Bank loans – (133.4) –
– (133.4) 2.8
At 31 December 2012
Quoted
prices in
active markets
(Level 1)
 £m
Significant
other
observable
inputs
(Level 2)
 £m
Significant
unobservable
inputs
(Level 3) 
£m
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value
Discontinued operation (note 13) – – 11.4
Derivative financial liabilities – (1.1) –
– (1.1) 11.4
Assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed
Investment property – – 2.0
Bank loans – (121.7) –
– (121.7) 2.0
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the period.
The fair value of the investment property is based upon a valuation as at 31 December 2013 performed by an accredited independent valuer, who is 
a specialist in valuing investment properties. 
Fair values of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings and loans are determined by using a DCF method with a discount rate that reflects the 
issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period.
26 Trade and other payables
2013
 £m
2012 
 £m
Payments received on account 13.1 16.9 
Trade payables 31.1 50.5 
Social security and other taxes 15.9 26.2 
Other payables 16.1 29.5 
Accrued expenses 32.9 28.0 
109.1 151.1 
27 Current income tax liabilities
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Overseas taxation 7.1 8.3
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 123
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 28 Provisions
Onerous
contracts
£m
Legal
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Industrial
disease
claims
£m
Total
Group
£m
At 1 January 2013 5.4 6.4 9.5 21.3 79.9 101.2
Utilised (2.7) – (8.1) (10.8) (3.8) (14.6)
Charged to the income statement 7.3 0.6 5.3 13.2 14.2 27.4
Discount unwind – – – – 4.0 4.0
Released to the income statement (1.1) – (1.4) (2.5) – (2.5)
At 31 December 2013 8.9 7.0 5.3 21.2 94.3 115.5
2013
Current provisions 8.9 7.0 4.6 20.5 6.0 26.5
Non–current provisions – – 0.7 0.7 88.3 89.0
8.9 7.0 5.3 21.2 94.3 115.5
2012
Current provisions 5.4 6.4 5.0 16.8 4.0 20.8
Non-current provisions – – 4.5 4.5 75.9 80.4
5.4 6.4 9.5 21.3 79.9 101.2
Onerous contracts
Provision is made for onerous contracts where it is considered that the contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years. 
Legal
The Group is involved in a number of legal and other disputes, including notification of possible claims. The directors, having considered the facts 
and circumstances of each item, including legal advice where appropriate have established provisions to cover the costs of future settlement. 
Other
Other provisions comprise various other provisions including disposal costs on businesses being divested, restructuring provisions, property related 
provisions and contingent consideration on acquisitions. 
Industrial disease claims 
To the extent that such costs can be reliably estimated, a provision has been made for the costs which the Group is expected to incur in respect of 
lodged and future industrial disease claims arising from alleged exposure to previously manufactured asbestos products. The provision has been 
determined as at 31 December 2013 based on advice from independent actuaries. The provision for industrial disease claims is discounted at 
3.75% (2012: 5%) being the appropriate risk free rate over the term of the liabilities.
There is uncertainty associated with the future level of asbestos related industrial disease claims and of the costs arising from such claims. There 
can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be 
incurred. As such, the provision may be subject to potentially material revisions from time to time if new information becomes available as a result of 
future events.
The directors anticipate that, assuming no material deterioration in trading performance, the Group will (i) be able to sufficiently fund its subsidiary 
Cape Claims Services Limited to satisfy all claims that will be settled under the Scheme of Arrangement and (ii) be sufficiently funded to satisfy all 
other UK claims settled outside of the Scheme of Arrangement. 
29 Commitments
a) Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the date of the statement of financial position but not yet incurred:
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 1.1 2.0
b) Operating lease commitments
The Group enters into leases of varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights in respect of property and items of plant and machinery. Total 
obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are due:
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
In one year or less 1.7 3.6
Between one and five years 2.7 4.2
Over five years 0.8 1.5
5.2 9.3
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 124
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 30 Share capital and reserves
Ordinary shares of 25p each 
2013 
Number 
of shares
2013 
£m
2012 
Number of
 shares
2012 
£m
Authorised 200,000,000 50.0 200,000,000 50.0
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 121,068,690 30.3 118,631,888 29.7
Issue of shares 7,437 – 14,927 –
Exercise of share options 27,810 – 2,421,875 0.6
At 31 December 121,103,937 30.3 121,068,690 30.3
plc Scheme share
Authorised, issued and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December 1 – 1 –
As at 31 December 2013, 225,630 (2012: 347,444) shares were held in an employee benefit trust. 
Special reserve
The special reserve was created in 2008 by court order upon cancellation of the share premium and retained earnings. The special reserve is not 
distributable and restrictions exist over its use.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of financial statements of foreign operations.
Other reserves
Other reserves relates to hedging reserves held in respect of cash flow and net investment hedges.
plc Scheme Share
The plc Scheme Share is held by the Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc on behalf of the Scheme creditors.
The rights attaching to the share are designed to ensure that Scheme assets are only used to settle Scheme claims and ancillary costs and do not 
confer any right to receive a distribution or return of surplus capital save that the holder will have the right to require the Company to redeem the 
share at par value on or at any time after the termination of the Scheme.
The share carries two votes for every vote which the holders of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise on any resolution 
proposed during the life of the Scheme to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association.
The Company will not be permitted to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association without the prior consent of the 
holder of the share.
Share based payments
The Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) is the conditional award of ordinary shares granted at no cost to the participant employees or executive 
directors of the Group. Awards are made upon the terms set out in the plan and such other additional terms as the Board shall determine. 
Depending on the scheme, vesting of these awards is subject to Cape plc adjusted diluted or basic Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) meeting the specified 
performance criteria over a three-year vesting period. 
The performance criteria for awards until 2011 were, adjusted diluted EPS growth of the Retail Price Index (‘RPI’) plus 3% for the minimum of 30% of 
the shares awarded to vest, and EPS growth of RPI plus 10% for all of the shares awarded to vest, calculated on an annually compounded basis. 
The performance criteria for the 2012 awards were, adjusted diluted EPS growth of RPI plus 3% for employees and RPI plus 5% for executive 
directors for the minimum of 30% of the shares awarded to vest, and EPS growth of RPI plus 10% for employees and RPI plus 12% for executive 
directors for all of the shares awarded to vest, calculated on an annually compounded basis. 
For the 2013 award specific EPS targets for the final year of the vesting period were set to 29 pence for the minimum of 30% of the shares 
awarded to vest and 36 pence for all of the shares awarded to vest. The contractual life of the award is three years and is subjected to 
continued employment.
The shares issued under the PSP have an exercise price of £nil and under the fair value model used by the Company are deemed to have a fair 
value equivalent to the share price on the day of grant. Therefore, the shares granted in March 2013 have a fair value of 313.5 pence.
The Group operated a savings related share option scheme (‘Sharesave plan’) which entitled employees of the Group to buy shares in the Company. 
Grants of share options under this scheme were offered to employees periodically and the options were usually awarded at a 20% discount to the 
market price at the date the options were offered to employees. The last tranche on this scheme vested in December 2012. These options were 
exercisable within six months of the vesting date and all options have either been exercised or have lapsed. 
The Employee Incentive Plan (‘EIP’) allows the Group to grant options to directors and senior employees. The last tranche of this scheme was 
awarded in 2008. The EIP carries a non-market based performance criteria. The contractual life of the options is 10 years. The options become 
exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to a growth in earnings per share over that period exceeding an average 
3% compounded annually above the growth in the consumer price index over the same period. Exercise of an option is subject to 
continued employment.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 125
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 30 Share capital and reserves (continued)
Options are valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation for 
the current year are as follows:
Employee
Incentive
 Plan
5-year
Sharesave
Plan
Weighted average fair value at measurement date 80.9p 110.0p
Share price at grant date 269.0p 266.0p
Exercise price 269.0p 230.0p
Vesting period 3 years 5 years
Expected option life 3.95 years 5.25 years
Risk free interest rate 2.18% 2.18%
Expected share price volatility 28% 28%
The expected share price volatility is based on historic volatility. The expected option life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free 
rate of return is the yield on a five-year zero coupon UK Government bond. The assumed dividend yield is zero.
The number and weighted average exercise price of the share options under the PSP plan, the Sharesave plan and the share awards under the EIP 
plan are as follows:
Performance Share Plan
Number of 
share options
 2013
Number of 
share options
 2012
Outstanding at 1 January 1,520,576 4,016,950
Exercised (132,079) (1,969,274)
Granted 1,163,449 521,944
Forfeited (548,691) (1,049,044)
Outstanding at 31 December 2,003,255 1,520,576
Out of the 2,003,255 outstanding PSP awards (2012: 1,520,576) 225,623 shares were exercisable (2012: 357,702). No awards vested in 2013 (2012: 
2,326,976). All PSP share options are at no cost to the participant.
Sharesave plan
Weighted
average
exercise
price 2013 
pence
Number
of
share
options
 2013
Weighted
average
exercise
price 2012
pence
Number
of
 share
options
 2012
Outstanding at 1 January 230.0 156,145 227.8 187,791
Exercised 230.0 (27,810) 202.5 (9,899)
Forfeited 230.0 (128,335) 223.7 (21,747)
Outstanding at 31 December – – 230.0 156,145
There were no options outstanding under the Sharesave plan at the date of the statement of financial position (2012: 156,145 options). Options 
exercised in 2013 resulted in 27,810 shares being issued at £2.30 each (2012: 9,899 shares).
Employee Incentive Plan
Weighted
average
exercise
price 2013 
pence
Number
of
share
options
 2013
Weighted
average
exercise
price 2012
pence
Number
of
 share
options
 2012
Outstanding at 1 January 257.8 125,000 258.6 222,500
Exercised – – 258.0 (85,000)
Forfeited 234.1 (40,000) 269.0 (12,500)
Outstanding at 31 December 269.0 85,000 257.8 125,000
All of the options outstanding at 31 December 2013 were exercisable (2012: all were exercisable). No options were exercised in the year 
(2012: 85,000).
Share options and awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and exercise prices:
Performance Share Plan expiry date 2013 2012
30 April 2014 212,441 254,199
29 July 2014 13,182 103,503
17 March 2015 – 422,151
13 April 2015 323,592 353,014
28 September 2016 12,903 12,903
20 April 2017 251,921 278,284
29 June 2017 96,522 96,522
31 March 2018 1,092,694 –
2,003,255 1,520,576
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 126
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 30 Share capital and reserves (continued)
On 31 March 2013 1,163,449 share options were awarded to executive directors and employees under the Performance Share Plan which vest after 
three years subject to performance criteria being met (2012: 521,944). If the criteria are met, the awards vest at no cost to the employees and 
executive directors.
Sharesave plan expiry date
Exercise price
per share
pence 2013 2012
1 June 2013 230.0 – 156,145
Employee Incentive Plan expiry dates
Exercise price
per share
pence 2013 2012
7 July 2016 176.0 – 15,000
16 October 2014 269.0 85,000 110,000
85,000 125,000
The total charge for the year relating to employee share based payment plans was £0.6 million (2012: credit of £0.4 million), all of which related to 
equity settled share based payment transactions.
31 Dividends per share
An interim dividend was paid in October 2013 amounting to 4.5 pence per share (2012: 4.5 pence per share). Interim dividends are recognised when 
paid. A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 of 9.5 pence per share, amounting to £11.5 million, is to be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting convened for Wednesday 14 May 2014 making a total dividend of 14.0 pence per share for the year (2012: 14.0 pence 
per share). 
These consolidated financial statements do not reflect this final dividend payable.
32 Cash generated from operations
a) Reconciliation of Group profit/(loss) before tax to cash generated from continuing and discontinued operations
2013
 £m
2012 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Continuing operations
Profit/(loss) before tax 0.2 (143.2)
Finance costs – net 10.0 11.0
Share of post-tax result of joint ventures (0.5) 0.2
Other items 9.3 8.7
Exceptional items 11.2 150.4
Share option (credit)/charge 0.6 (0.4)
Depreciation and amortisation 17.8 15.0
Difference between pension charge and cash contributions 0.9 (0.2)
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.3
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 7.3 (7.4)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 36.3 (2.9)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (33.9) 24.9
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (2.7) (3.7)
Cash generated from continuing operations 57.0 52.7
Discontinued operations
Loss before tax (5.6) (51.8)
Exceptional items – 46.8
Depreciation – 1.2
Cash used in discontinued operations (5.6) (3.8)
In the consolidated cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise:
2013
 £m
2012 
£m
Net book amount 2.7 1.1
Gain/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.5) 0.2
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.2 1.3
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 127
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 32 Cash generated from operations (continued)
b) Analysis of cash flows relating to restricted funds
2013
 £m
2012 
£m
At 1 January 27.4 30.1
Payment of Scheme creditors (3.1) (3.8)
Interest received 1.0 1.1
Receipt of funds 6.0 –
At 31 December 31.3 27.4
Restricted funds relate to scheme cash which is used to fund industrial disease claims.
33 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt (excluding restricted funds)
2013
£m
2012 
£m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.8 3.2
Movement in obligations under finance leases 0.3 3.4
Repayment/(draw) on revolving facility 2.0 (12.6)
Drawing on borrowings (2.3) –
Foreign exchange movements 4.2 –
Movements in adjusted net debt during the year 5.0 (6.0)
Adjusted net debt excluding restricted funds – opening (65.2) (59.2)
Adjusted net debt excluding restricted funds – closing (60.2) (65.2)
Adjusted net debt excluding restricted funds is calculated by deducting current and non-current borrowings from cash and cash equivalents.
34 Business acquisitions
In March 2012 the Group acquired an 80% equity interest in Hong Kong Fuji Technology Co., Limited, a market leader in the provision of thermal 
insulation, refractory linings, painting, blasting and access services to the Hong Kong power industry. Maximum purchase consideration, including 
deferred consideration contingent upon future business performance, was £4.7 million. The fair value of acquired assets was £1.6 million and 
goodwill arising on acquisition was £3.1 million. During the year the business contributed £7.7 million (2012: 9 months £4.9 million) to revenue and 
£1.1 million (2012: 9 months £1.3 million) to operating profit. In 2013 the remaining £0.3 million of deferred consideration was released to the 
consolidated income statement. 
35 Contingent liabilities
The provision for industrial disease claims has been determined as at 31 December 2013 based on advice from independent actuaries. As reported 
in note 28 ‘Provisions’, the value of the provision is £94.3m (2012: £79.9m) and the actuarial range of reasonable estimates assessed at the date of 
the statement of financial position date is between £89 million and £123 million. There is uncertainty associated with the future level of asbestos 
related industrial disease claims and of the costs arising from such claims. As such, the provision may be subject to potentially material revisions 
from time to time if new information becomes available as a result of future events. 
Further to an incident that occurred on a client’s site during 2012 that tragically resulted in the fatality of a Cape employee, the Health and Safety 
Executive notified Cape Industrial Services Limited, the employing company, in early 2014 of their decision that legal proceedings should 
commence. At the date of the statement of financial position no amounts have been provided in respect of this matter. 
The Group is required to issue trade finance instruments to certain customers. These include tender bonds, performance bonds, retention bonds, 
advance payment bonds and standby letters of credit. At 31 December 2013 the Group’s bank facilities relating to the issue of bonds, guarantees 
and letters of credit amounted to £45.1 million (2012: £47.0 million).  
36 The Scheme of Arrangement
On 14 June 2007, the Scheme became effective and binding upon the following 13 companies:
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited (formerly Cape Intermediate Holdings plc)
Cape Building Products Limited
Cape Calsil Systems Limited
Cape Contracts International Limited
Cape Durasteel Limited
Cape East Limited
Cape Industrial Services Limited
Cape Industries Limited
Cape Insulation Limited
Cape Specialist Coatings Limited
Predart Limited
Somewatch Limited
Somewin Limited
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 128
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 36 The Scheme of Arrangement (continued)
The detailed terms of the Scheme are set out in the Scheme itself (a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of Companies), the Articles of 
Association of Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited (‘CIH’), Cape Claims Services Limited (‘CCS’) and Cape plc and a number of other ancillary 
agreements. The effect of the Scheme as a whole can be summarised as follows:
(a)  While Scheme creditors retain their rights against Scheme companies, and may bring proceedings against Scheme companies for declaratory 
relief to determine whether they have a claim and, if so, of what amount, their rights, subject as provided in sub-paragraphs (k) and (m) below 
are only enforceable against CCS under the terms of the Scheme guarantee.
(b)  CCS was funded in the first instance with a sum of £40 million which represented what was considered to be a sufficient sum to discharge 
CCS’s liabilities to Scheme creditors payable over at least eight years from 1 January 2007. The use of these funds is restricted to the payment 
of established Scheme claims and Scheme creditor costs.
(c)  The sum of £40 million was not calculated by reference to an estimate of the likely amount of Scheme claims. It simply represented the 
aggregate of the amount that Cape was able to raise from its shareholders and the level of debt which Cape could reasonably maintain for the 
purposes of the Scheme. Of fundamental importance to the Scheme are the provisions as to topping up of that sum described below.
(d)  Every three years an assessment of the projected Scheme claims against Scheme companies payable by CCS over the following nine years is 
undertaken, by reference to which there will be established the Funding Requirement.
(e)  In the event that an assessment reveals a shortfall between the Scheme assets and the Funding Requirement, Cape will top up CCS’s funding 
over the following three years provided that sufficient cash is available, Cape’s obligation being limited to 70 per cent of the Cape Group’s 
consolidated adjusted operational cash flow (including, for example, adjustments to take account of acquisitions, an element of capital 
expenditure and repayment of borrowing facilities). During 2013 an advance top up of £6 million was made to the Scheme.
(f)  Should Cape not be able to meet its top up obligation in any one year, it will be required to make good the shortfall in the next year, again 
subject to sufficient cash being available.
(g)  Alongside the Funding Requirement there is the Scheme Funding Requirement which will be assessed every year by reference to projected 
Scheme claims against Scheme companies payable by CCS over the next six years.
(h)  If at any time the ratio of the Scheme assets to the Scheme Funding Requirement (the Scheme Funding Percentage) falls below 60 per cent, 
CCS will have the ability to reduce the percentage (the Payment Percentage) of each established claim which it pays to Scheme creditors until 
such time as the Scheme Funding Percentage is restored to 60 per cent.
(i)  Cape plc is permitted to pay dividends provided that at the time of payment (i) the Scheme Funding Percentage in relation to the last preceding 
financial year was certified to be not less than 110 per cent, (ii) the directors of Cape plc certify that they anticipate that the Scheme Funding 
Percentage for the current and following financial year will be not less than 110 percent and (iii) the Payment Percentage has not at any time 
within the previous 40 business days been below 100 per cent. Any distribution which Cape plc proposes to make to its shareholders may not, 
without the consent of the Scheme Shareholder, exceed the greater of (i) 50 per cent of the consolidated adjusted operating profit of the Cape 
Group for the last preceding Financial Year and (ii) the aggregate of any permitted dividends made in the preceding financial year. This restriction 
therefore places a cap on the amount of dividends that Cape plc may pay in any one year.
(j)  There have been established special voting shares (the ‘Scheme Shares’) in CCS, CIH and Cape plc which are held by an independent third 
party (the ‘Scheme Shareholder’) on trust for Scheme creditors. The Scheme Shares have special rights which are designed to enable the 
Scheme Shareholder to protect the interests of Scheme creditors.
(k)  In the case of certain Scheme creditors (Recourse Scheme Creditors), who are those Scheme creditors whose claims are in whole or in part the 
subject of a contract of insurance (Recourse Scheme Claims) their rights to enforce their Recourse Scheme Claims against a relevant Scheme 
Company will revive in certain circumstances. These circumstances are where the relevant Scheme Company is insolvent or where there has 
been a specified reduction in the Payment Percentage and if the Scheme creditor was able to bring about the insolvency of the relevant Scheme 
Company he would be able to recover greater compensation from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) or, in certain 
circumstances, from a solvent insurer than is available from CCS at that time under the Scheme. There will be a specified reduction if either (i) 
the Payment Percentage has been reduced below 100 per cent but above 50 per cent and the Scheme creditor has not been paid in full after 
12 months or (ii) the Payment Percentage is reduced to 50 per cent or below.
(l)  Each Scheme Company will agree to hold on trust for any Scheme creditor concerned the proceeds of any policy of insurance (or any 
compensation received from the FSCS) referable to that Scheme claim.
(m)  The restriction described in sub-paragraph (a) above will not apply to proceedings to enforce the right to confer under sub-paragraph (l) 
above; and
(n)  There are provisions contained in two reimbursement agreements which preserve certain rights of proof by CCS and Cape plc respectively in 
any insolvency of Cape plc or any of the other Scheme companies.
(o)  In support of the above, on 6 May 2012 CIH, Cape plc and CCS entered into a new Guarantee and Funding Agreement whereby Cape plc 
agreed to make certain additional funding available to CIH in connection with CIH’s commitments under the Funding Agreement, as well as to 
guarantee all present and future payment obligations of Cape plc and CCS under the Funding Agreement. In addition, a Scheme Share in Cape 
plc (referred to in paragraph (j) above) was issued to the Scheme Shareholder which has similar rights to the Scheme Shares in CIH and CCS 
and which will afford the Scheme Shareholder substantially the same rights to those provided by the Scheme Shares in CIH and CCS.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 129
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 37 Related party transactions
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. Other related party transactions are disclosed below.
a) Compensation of key management
2013
 £000
2012
 £000
Aggregate emoluments 1,861 2,189
Termination benefits – 1,137
Share-based payments – 3,666
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 63 87
1,924 7,079
In 2013 the key management is considered to comprise of the executive and non-executive directors. Details of the executive directors’ emoluments 
are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 84 and 89.
No directors accrued benefits under the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme (2012: none).
b) Other related party transactions
As at the year-end there was a balance of £3.4 million (2012: £1.8 million) owed by joint ventures. These amounts are unsecured, have no fixed date 
of repayment and are repayable on demand. Amounts owed by joint ventures are assessed for recoverability and, where necessary, provided for in 
line with normal commercial transactions. Revenue with joint ventures in 2013 was £17.8 million (2012: £12.4 million).
38 Principal Group undertakings
The subsidiaries which, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect Group trading results and net assets are:
Subsidiary name and principal activity
Country of
incorporation Ownership %
Industrial services
Cape Industrial Services Limited UK 100
Cape Environmental Services Onshore Limited UK 100
Cape Environmental Services Offshore Limited UK 100
Cape Industrial Services Group Limited UK 100
Cape Australia Onshore Pty Limited Australia 100
Cape East WLL Qatar 49
R B Hilton Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 100
Cape East LLC Abu Dhabi 49
Cape East Pte Limited Singapore 100
Cape East Algeria SARL Algeria 100
Holding companies
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited UK 100
Cape Australia Holdings Pty Limited Australia 100
Cape Australia Investments Pty Limited Australia 100
Cape International Holdings Private Limited Singapore 100
Other
Cape Claims Services Limited UK 100
Where ownership percentage is less than 100%, control of subsidiaries has been established through the contractual arrangements in place with 
the other shareholders. Group undertakings operate principally in the countries in which they are incorporated.
Industrial services includes access systems, insulation, painting, coatings, blasting, industrial cleaning, fire protection, refractory lining, asbestos 
removal, training and assessment, and other essential industrial services. Cape Claims Services Limited is the group company against which claims 
made under the Scheme of Arrangement are enforceable and in which Scheme funding is accounted for.
39 Post balance sheet events
On 11 February 2014 the Group entered into a new financing agreement with a syndicate of eight banks comprising existing syndicate members of 
Barclays Bank plc, Lloyds Bank plc and HSBC Bank plc and a number of new lenders, Abbey National Treasury Services plc, AIB Group (UK) plc., 
DNB Bank ASA, ICBC (London) plc, and National Westminster Bank plc. The agreement is for a £295 million revolving credit facility and a £50 
million accordion facility until April 2018 and replaces the existing £200 million and AUD$30 million facilities that were due to expire in June 2015.
On 11 March 2014, the Group announced the acquisition of 100% of the voting shares of Motherwell Bridge Limited, headquartered in Scotland, a 
leading supplier of storage tanks, gasholders and heat exchangers to the energy and steel markets. Purchase consideration of £37.7m, was made 
up of cash of £34.0 million, debt of £0.9 million and deferred consideration of up to £2.8 million contingent upon future business performance. 
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2012 was £34.6 million with earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of £4.8 million and gross 
assets at that date of £42.4 million. The investment is expected to be earnings enhancing in the first full year of Group ownership. Additional 
disclosures required under IFRS 13 are not possible at this time given the proximity of the acquisition to the date of completing this report. 
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 130
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued 40 Prior period restatements
The effect of the prior period restatements set out in note 2 on the 2012 results is analysed below: 
As reported
2012
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Tax losses
£m
Reclassifications
£m
Employee
 benefits
£m
Other
£m
Restated
2012
£m
Consolidated income statement
Revenue 740.4 (3.7) – – – 0.3 737.0
Operating profit before other items 31.7 1.0 – – (1.7) (3.4) 27.6
Other items (10.5) – – – – – (10.5)
Operating profit before exceptional items 21.2 1.0 – – (1.7) (3.4) 17.1
Share of post-tax losses from joint operations (0.2) – – – – 0.3 0.1
Exceptional items (150.4) – – – – – (150.4)
Operating loss (129.4) 1.0 – – (1.7) (3.1) (133.2)
Finance income 1.2 – – – 0.4 – 1.6
Finance costs (11.9) 0.1 – – – 0.2 (11.6)
Net finance costs (10.7) 0.1 – – 0.4 0.2 (10.0)
Loss before tax (140.1) 1.1 – – (1.3) (2.9) (143.2)
Income tax expense (16.9) (0.4) (2.3) – – 0.4 (19.2)
Loss from continuing operations (157.0) 0.7 (2.3) – (1.3) (2.5) (162.4)
Loss from discontinued operations (42.0) (0.6) – – – – (42.6)
Loss for the year (199.0) 0.1 (2.3) – (1.3) (2.5) (205.0)
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc (200.8) 0.1 (2.3) – (1.3) (2.3) (206.6)
Non-controlling interests 1.8 – – – – (0.2) 1.6
(199.0) 0.1 (2.3) – (1.3) (2.5) (205.0)
Earnings per share Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic
Continuing operations (132.6) 0.6 (1.9) – (1.1) (1.9) (136.9)
Discontinued operations (35.1) (0.5) – – – – (35.6)
(167.7) 0.1 (1.9) – (1.1) (1.9) (172.5)
Diluted
Continuing operations (132.6) 0.6 (1.9) – (1.1) (1.9) (136.9)
Discontinued operations (35.1) (0.5) – – – – (35.6)
(167.7) 0.1 (1.9) – (1.1) (1.9) (172.5)
Adjusted earnings per share
Basic
Continuing operations 16.4 0.6 (1.1) – (1.1) (1.9) 12.9
Discontinued operations (2.3) (0.5) (0.1) – – – (2.9)
14.1 0.1 (1.2) – (1.1) (1.9) 10.0
Diluted
Continuing operations 16.3 0.5 (1.1) – (1.1) (1.9) 12.7
Discontinued operations (2.3) (0.4) (0.1) – – – (2.8)
14.0 0.1 (1.2) – (1.1) (1.9) 9.9
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 131
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 40 Prior period restatements (continued)
As reported
2012
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Tax losses
£m
Reclassifications
£m
Employee
 benefits
£m
Other
£m
Restated
2012
£m
Consolidated statement of financial position
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 117.2 – – – – – 117.2
Investment property 2.0 – – – – – 2.0
Property, plant and equipment 91.8 – – – – (0.5) 91.3
Investments accounted for using the equity method 0.2 – – – – – 0.2
Deferred tax asset 20.6 – – – – 0.9 21.5
Total non-current assets 231.8 – – – – 0.4 232.2
Current assets
Inventories 14.1 – – 6.1 – – 20.2
Trade and other receivables 225.5 – – (6.8) – – 218.7
Cash – Industrial Disease Claims restricted funds 27.4 – – – – – 27.4
Cash and cash equivalents 72.8 – – – – – 72.8
Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale 11.4 – – – – – 11.4
Total current assets 351.2 – – (0.7) – – 350.5
Total assets 583.0 – – (0.7) – 0.4 582.7
Equity and liabilities
Share capital 30.3 – – – – – 30.3
Share premium account 0.9 – – – – – 0.9
Special reserve 1.0 – – – – – 1.0
Other reserves 9.3 – – 0.8 – (0.1) 10.0
Translation reserve 107.8 – – – – – 107.8
Retained earnings 25.2 – (2.3) (0.8) (1.3) (4.3) 16.5
Total equity attributable to owners of Cape plc 174.5 – (2.3) – (1.3) (4.4) 166.5
Non-controlling interests 3.5 – – – – 0.3 3.8
Total equity 178.0 – (2.3) – (1.3) (4.1) 170.3
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 137.7 – – (2.0) – – 135.7
Retirement benefit obligations 8.2 – – – – – 8.2
Deferred tax 6.4 – 0.2 – – (0.1) 6.5
Industrial Disease Claims provision 82.8 – – (6.9) – – 75.9
Other provisions 2.5 – – – – 2.0 4.5
Total non-current liabilities 237.6 – 0.2 (8.9) – 1.9 230.8
Current liabilities
Borrowings 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
Derivative financial instruments 1.1 – – – – – 1.1
Trade and other payables 143.0 – – 4.7 1.3 2.1 151.1
Current tax liabilities 5.7 – 2.1 – – 0.5 8.3
Industrial Disease Claims provision – – – 4.0 – – 4.0
Other provisions 17.3 – – (0.5) – – 16.8
Total current liabilities 167.4 – 2.1 8.2 1.3 2.6 181.6
Total liabilities 405.0 – 2.3 (0.7) 1.3 4.5 412.4
Total equity and liabilities 583.0 – – (0.7) – 0.4 582.7
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 132
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
continued We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cape plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Parent 
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Parent Company 
Statement of Financial Position, the Parent Company Statement of 
Changes in Equity, the Parent Company Cash Flow Statement and the 
related notes 1 to 12. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and 
our engagement letter dated 23 July 2013. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 76, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
In addition the Company has also instructed us to:
 – report to you our opinion on whether the section of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described as audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation 
described therein.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
 – give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended; 
 – have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European 
Union; and
 – have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
Opinion on other matter
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited, which you have instructed us to audit, has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as 
described therein.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
 – proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
 – the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Cape 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Kevin Harkin     
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP 
Reading 
18 March 2014
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Cape plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; 
the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to 
the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2.  Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 133
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report
to the members of Cape plc 2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Administrative expenses (6.8) (1.6)
Operating loss (6.8) (1.6)
Finance costs (0.2) –
Investment income 24.9 –
Profit/(loss) before tax 17.9 (1.6)
Tax expense – –
Profit/(loss) for the year 17.9 (1.6)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – –
Total comprehensive income 17.9 (1.6)
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 134
Parent company statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 Note 
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Non-current assets
Investments 4 63.3 62.7
Total non-current assets 63.3 62.7
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 5 – 0.2
Total current assets – 0.2
Total assets 63.3 62.9
Equity
Called up share capital 7 30.3 30.3
Share premium account 1.0 0.9
Profit and loss account 15.6 14.0
Total equity 46.9 45.2
Current liabilities 6 16.4 17.7
Total Equity and Liabilities 63.3 62.9
The financial statements on pages 134 to 140 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Joe Oatley Chief Executive 
 
Michael Speakman Chief Financial Officer
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 135
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Parent company statement of financial position
at 31 December 2013 Called up 
share capital
£m
Share
premium
 account
 £m
Profit and
loss account
 £m
Shareholders’
funds
total 
£m
At 1 January 2012 29.7 0.5 33.1 63.3
Profit for the financial year – – (1.6) (1.6)
Other comprehensive income – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – (1.6) (1.6)
Dividends – – (16.8) (16.8)
Share options:
– proceeds from shares issued 0.6 0.4 (0.7) 0.3
At 31 December 2012 30.3 0.9 14.0 45.2
Profit for the financial year – – 17.9 17.9
Other comprehensive income – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – 17.9 17.9
Dividends – – (16.9) (16.9)
Share options:
– proceeds from shares issued – 0.1 – 0.1
– credit in respect of share schemes – – 0.6 0.6
At 31 December 2013 30.3 1.0 15.6 46.9
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 136
Parent company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2013 2013
 £m
2012
 £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(loss) before tax 17.9 (1.6)
Dividends received from subsidiaries (24.9) –
Increase in trade and other payables – 0.4
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 0.2 0.5
(Decrease)/increase in current liabilities (1.3) 17.2
Cash generated from operating activities (8.1) 16.5
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from subsidiaries 24.9 –
Net cash used in investing activities 24.9 –
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 0.1 0.3
Dividends (16.9) (16.8)
Net cash used in financing activities (16.8) (16.5)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents – –
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year – –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year – –
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 137
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Parent company cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2013 1 Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently 
applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRS’). The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, 
as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings, available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities (including 
derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies.
Changes to accounting policies and disclosures
a) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted by the Company
The following amendments to existing standards and interpretations were effective for the year, with effect from 1 January 2013, but either they were 
not applicable to or did not have a material impact on the Company:
IFRS 1 Government Loans — Amendments to IFRS 1
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments)
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income – Amendment to IAS 1
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised) 
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009–2011 Cycle 
b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
The following standards and interpretations in issue are not yet effective for the Company and have not been adopted:
Effective dates
IAS 32  Financial Instruments: Presentation – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments) 1 January 2014
IAS 36  Impairment of Assets – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets (Amendments) 1 January 2014
IAS 39  Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of 
Hedge Accounting (Amendments)
1 January 2014
Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27) 1 January 2014
IFRIC 21 Levies 1 January 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle 1 July 2014
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle 1 July 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments no earlier than 1 January 2017
The directors do not expect the adoption of these standards and interpretations to have a material impact on the Company financial statements in 
the period of initial application.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. The Company therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the date of the statement of financial position date.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of 
goodwill; deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax 
rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the date of the statement of financial position and are expected to apply when 
the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except 
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not be 
reversed in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 138
Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a 
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Share based payments
The Company issues equity settled share based payments to certain Group employees which are measured at fair value and recognised as an 
expense in the consolidated income statement with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair values of these payments are measured at the dates 
of grant using option pricing models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards are granted. The fair value is recognised 
over the period during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the estimate of the number of awards which will 
lapse, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market based performance conditions not being met. 
At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market 
vesting conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the consolidated income statement, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity. When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. Proceeds received on the exercise of share options are 
credited to share capital and share premium. The addition to the Company’s investment in subsidiary undertakings is reduced on the issue of share 
incentives as these are recharged to the subsidiaries.
Fixed asset investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded at cost, which is the fair value of the consideration paid. Impairment reviews are performed by 
the directors when there has been an indication of potential impairment.
2 Employees and Directors
Employment costs, including directors’ emoluments amounted to £405,412 (2012: £390,612). Details of directors’ remuneration, share based 
payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 89 form part of these financial statements. Details of material 
employee share based payments are given in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements. Details of the remuneration of key management 
personnel are given in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements. 
3 Auditors’ remuneration
Fees paid to the Company’s auditor for:
2013
 £m
2012 
£m
The audit of the parent company and the consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.2
4 Investments
Subsidiary undertakings
2013 
£m
2012
 £m
Cost:
At 1 January 62.7 62.7
Additions 0.6 –
At 31 December 63.3 62.7
Net book amount:
At 31 December 63.3 62.7
At 31 December 2013 the Company had the following principal subsidiaries:
Name Country of incorporation Ownership interest % Principal activity
Cape Intermediate Holdings Limited England 100 Holding company
Cape International Holdings Private Limited Singapore 90 Holding company
The Company indirectly controls 100% of Cape International Holdings Private Limited through its 100% shareholding in Cape Intermediate 
Holdings Limited. 
5 Trade and other receivables
2013
£m
2012
 £m
Amounts owed by group undertakings – 0.2
Amounts owed by group undertakings are denominated in Singaporean dollars, are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable 
on demand. At the date of the statement of financial position £nil (2012: £nil) of amounts owed by group undertakings were impaired.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 139
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6 Current liabilities
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
Accruals and deferred income 0.3 0.4
Other creditors – 0.1
Amounts owed to group undertakings 16.1 17.2
16.4 17.7
Amounts owed to group undertakings are denominated in GBP, are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable on demand.
7 Share capital
Ordinary shares of 25p each 
2013 
Number 
of shares
2013 
£m
2012 
Number of
 shares
2012 
£m
Authorised 200,000,000 50.0 200,000,000 50.0
Issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 121,068,690 30.3 118,631,888 29.7
Issue of shares 7,437 – 14,927 –
Exercise of share options 27,810 – 2,421,875 0.6
At 31 December 121,103,937 30.3 121,068,690 30.3
plc Scheme share
Authorised, issued and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December 1 – 1 –
plc Scheme Share
The plc Scheme Share is held by the Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc on behalf of the Scheme creditors.
The rights attaching to the share are designed to ensure that Scheme assets are only used to settle Scheme claims and ancillary costs and do not 
confer any right to receive a distribution or return of surplus capital save that the holder will have the right to require the Company to redeem the 
share at par value on or at any time after the termination of the Scheme.
The share carries two votes for every vote which the holders of the other classes of shares in issue are entitled to exercise on any resolution 
proposed during the life of the Scheme to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association.
The Company will not be permitted to engage in certain activities specified in the Company’s Articles of Association without the prior consent of the 
holder of the share.
At 31 December 2013 225,630 (2012: 347,444) shares were held in an employee benefit trust.
8 Contingencies
The Company has contingent liabilities in respect of parent company guarantees entered into in the normal course of business, in respect of which 
no loss is expected.
9 Related party transactions
Details of directors’ emoluments are shown in note 37 ‘Related party transactions’ to the consolidated financial statements and in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 89.
There have been no material transactions with the Company and other related parties during the year.
10 Dividends
An interim dividend was paid in 2013 amounting to 4.5 pence per share (2012: 4.5 pence per share). Interim dividends are recognised when paid. A 
final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 of 9.5 pence per share, amounting to £11.5 million, is to be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting convened for 14 May 2014, making a total dividend of 14.0 pence per share (2012: 14.0 pence per share) for the year. These 
financial statements do not reflect this final dividend.
11 Financial risk
For details of how financial risk is managed are provided in note 25.
12 Post balance sheet events
The Company was party to a refinancing agreement as disclosed in note 39. 
Financial Statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 140
Notes to the parent company financial statements 
continued £m (unless otherwise specified)
Year 
ended 
31 December 
2013
Year 
ended 
31 December 
2012*
Year 
ended 
31 December
 2011
Year 
ended 
31 December 
2010
Year 
ended 
31 December
 2009
Consolidated income statement
Continuing operations
Revenue 697.1 746.0 698.1 650.1 655.1
Operating profit before exceptional and other items 40.5 27.6 78.5 78.2 70.6
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) from joint ventures 0.5 0.1 (0.6) (0.1) 1.6
Adjusted operating profit before exceptional and other items 41.0 27.7 77.9 78.1 72.2
Other items – Amortisation of intangibles – (0.3) (0.8) (2.6) (2.9)
Other items – Industrial disease costs (15.3) (1.2) (0.4) (0.4) (74.2)
Other items – Contract claims – (9.0) – – –
Other items – Corporate expenses – – (2.0) – –
Exceptional items (15.5) (150.4) – – –
Operating profit/(loss) 10.2 (133.2) 74.7 75.1 (4.9)
Profit/(loss) before tax 0.2 (143.2) 61.9 63.1 (15.6)
(Loss)/profit from continuing operations (2.5) (162.4) 49.7 52.3 (1.5)
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations (4.8) (42.6) – 0.3 –
(Loss)/profit for the year (7.3) (205.0) 49.7 52.6 (1.5)
Attributable to:
Owners of Cape plc (6.8) (206.6) 47.4 49.5 (4.1)
Non-controlling interest (0.5) 1.6 2.3 3.1 2.6
Consolidated statement of financial position
Non-current assets 222.1 232.2 451.9 439.1 389.3
Net current assets 147.8 168.9 199.3 154.4 117.0
Non-current liabilities (236.7) (230.8) (245.1) (224.7) (238.6)
Net assets 133.2 170.3 406.1 368.8 267.7
Earnings/(loss) per share Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
– Basic (5.6) (172.5) 40.2 42.6 (3.5)
– Diluted (5.6) (172.5) 38.8 41.0 (3.4)
Adjusted diluted EPS – continuing operations 23.6 12.7 43.8 42.6 37.5
Adjusted diluted EPS – total operations 19.7 9.9 43.8 42.6 37.5
Growth in adjusted diluted EPS – continuing operations 85.8% (71.0%) 2.8% 13.6% 25.0%
* Restated – see notes 2 and 40.
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 141
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Five-year financial summary (Unaudited) Cape’s comprehensive website gives you access to 
a wide range of information.
 – About Cape
 – Services and markets
 – Where we operate
 – Corporate responsibility
 – Investors
 – News and media
 – Careers
To find out more go to www.capeplc.com
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 142
Find out more online About Cape 
www.capeplc.com/about-cape
Services and markets 
www.capeplc.com/services-and-markets
Where we operate 
www.capeplc.com/where-we-operate
Corporate responsibility 
www.capeplc.com/corporate-responsibility
Investors 
www.capeplc.com/investors
News and media 
www.capeplc.com/news-and-media
Careers 
www.capeplc.com/careers
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 143 It is our policy to produce the document 
constituting our annual report with a minimum 
impact on the environment. To this end the 
paper used is 100% chlorine free woodpulp 
from sustainable forests, using thinnings and 
waste from the timber industry and is totally 
recyclable and biodegradable. Our printers  
are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 
environmental management system. They 
utilise vegetable-based inks and operate  
a direct computer to plate repro system, 
eliminating the need for film with its chemicals 
such as developer and acid fixers.
Design and production:  
Carnegie Orr +44(0)207 610 6140
www.carnegieorr.com
The paper used in this Report is  
derived from sustainable sources
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 144  Group Head Office
One Temasek Avenue 
#09-03 Millenia Tower 
Singapore 039192
www.capeplc.com
