 Report
& Accounts
2014 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 2
3  OUR PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE
4 IN SUMMARY
6 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
 STRATEGIC REPORT
9 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES, BUSINESS MODEL & STRATEGIC KPIS
10 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
14 FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
18 DIRECTORS’ REVIEW OF THE RISKS FACED BY THE GROUP
22 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 
24 DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
 GOVERNANCE
26 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
30 STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
34 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
36 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
53 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT
54 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
56 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
57 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
58 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
59 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
60 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
61 NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
93 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
94  NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS - CONTINUED
100 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
101 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS
101 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2014/15
102 NOTICE OF MEETING
CONTENTS
REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 2 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 3
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
£81,152
£88,645
£93,267
£86,514
£97,267
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
£4,942
£5,425
£5,981
£5,585
£6,551
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
£3,125
£4,208
£3,073
£3,217
£4,771
Revenue (£’000) Underlying Operating Profit
(£’000)
Profit Before Tax (£’000)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
£14,639
£19,102
£17,976
£9,178
£17,680
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
3.3p
5.4p
3.6p
4.3p
5.5p
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
2.00p
2.20p
2.40p
2.55p
2.65p
Net Debt (£’000) Basic Earnings Per Share (p) Dividend Per Share (p)
OUR PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE
The comparatives have been restated in respect of the revisions to IAS 19 - “Employee Benefits”. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 4
IN SUMMARY
Carclo plc is a technology group. It is a public company whose 
shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Carclo’s strategy has been to develop new technologies and 
products to drive future growth. Its investment in CIT has led to 
the introduction of a new material for use in Capacitive Touch 
Screens. Further investment has been made in Carclo Diagnostic 
Solutions, where a novel Point-of-Care hardware platform has 
been developed.
Approximately three fifths of revenues are currently derived 
from the supply of fine tolerance, injection moulded plastic 
components, which are used in medical, optical and electronics 
products. This business, Carclo Technical Plastics, operates 
internationally in a fast growing and dynamic market underpinned 
by rapid technological development.
Approximately two fifths of revenues are derived from the supply 
of specialised precision LED based systems to the premium 
automotive industry, as well as key control systems for the 
aerospace industry.
The highlights for the year to 31 March 2014 are summarised below -
Revenue
Technical Plastics
LED Technologies
Precision Engineering
Conductive Inkjet Technology
Total 
Operating profit before exceptional items
Operating profit
Profit before tax
Basic earnings per share
Total dividend per share
Net debt
Year ended 
31 March
 2014
£000
58,080
28,160
7,776
3,251
97,267
6,551
6,031
4,771
5.5p
2.65p
17,680
Year ended 
31 March 
2013
£000
55,335
23,013
7,505
661
86,514
5,585
4,915
3,217
4.3p
2.55p
9,178
Increase
%
5.0
22.4
3.6
391.8
12.4
17.3
22.7
48.3
27.9
3.9
92.6
The comparatives have been restated in respect of the revisions to IAS 19 - “Employee Benefits”
Financial Highlights REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 5
IN SUMMARY
Forward looking statements 
Certain statements made in these report & accounts are 
forward looking statements. Such statements are based on 
current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and 
uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially 
from any expected future events or results referred to in these 
forward looking statements.
•	 Revenue	increased	by	12.4%	to	£97.3	million	reflecting	strong
 sales in our traditional divisions alongside increasing sales at
 Conductive Inkjet Technology (“CIT”)
•	 Divisional	underlying	operating	profit	was	£8.6	million
 (2013 - £7.7 million) and underlying operating profit from
 continuing operations was in line with expectations at
 £6.6 million (2013 - £5.6 million)
•	 T otal	dividend	increased	by	3.9%	to	2.65	pence	per	share
•	 Conductive	Inkjet	T echnology	(“CIT”)	coating	line	operating
 well and at high yields 
•	 Increased	investment	in	Carclo	Diagnostic	Solutions	(“CDS”)
 underpinned by technological and commercial developments
•	 Strong	performance	by	LED	T echnologies,	driven	by	W ipac
 supercar lighting business
•	 T echnical	Plastics	well	placed	to	enjoy	period	of	high	growth
 and margin improvement
Commenting on the results, Michael Derbyshire, chairman said -
“The group is poised for further growth both in its traditional 
areas and in its new technology ventures. It has the resources, 
bank facilities and business prospects to drive this growth over the 
coming years and generate shareholder value.”  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 6
Overview
Carclo produced a solid financial performance and continued to 
make encouraging strategic progress during the year ended 31 
March 2014, notwithstanding the difficulties in building volumes 
in Conductive Inkjet Technology’s (“CIT’s”) touch sensor business. 
Group revenues and profits benefitted from a strong second half 
as expected and all divisions reported increased sales relative to 
the prior year. These results take account of the changes made 
following the revisions to IAS 19 – “Employee Benefits” and 
these changes have also been applied to the comparatives. The 
highlights for the year were –
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Financial highlights
 
•	 Revenue	increased	by	12.4%	to	£97.3	million	reflecting	good
 sales growth from traditional divisions alongside increasing
 sales from CIT
•	 Divisional	underlying	operating	profit	was	£8.6	million
 (2013 - £7.7 million) and underlying operating profit from
 continuing operations £6.6 million (2013 - £5.6 million)
•	 Exceptional	charge	of	£0.5	million	(2013	-	£0.7	million)	was
 due mainly to £0.4 million of litigation costs
 (2013 - £0.4 million) in respect of our claim against Uni-Pixel
 Inc. which has now been settled
•	 Profit	before	tax	increased	by	48.3%	to	£4.8	million
 (2013 - £3.2 million)  
•	 Basic	earnings	per	share	increased	from	4.3	pence	to
 5.5 pence
•	 Group	capital	expenditure	was	£7.2	million
 (2013 - £8.7 million) continuing our significant investment in
 our growth businesses
•	 Due	to	the	high	capital	expenditure	incurred,	the	cash	cost	of
 developing our technology businesses and the utilisation of
 the Atmel Corporation (“Atmel”) prepayment, net debt
 increased from £9.2 million to £17.7 million in the year 
•	 Committed	debt	facilities	increased	to	£26.0	million
•	 T otal	dividend	increased	by	3.9%	to	2.65	pence	per	share
Carclo produced a solid 
financial performance 
and continued to make 
encouraging strategic 
progress during the 
year ended 31 March 
2014 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 7
Strategic and Operational highlights
•	 Conductive	Inkjet	T echnology	(“CIT”)	commenced	volume
 sales of coated film to our partner Atmel in the year
 and, despite more challenging commercial conditions, it
 is well positioned to build a significant business to supply
 its innovative products within this large and growing market.
	 W e	have	now	created	a	standalone	business	within	CIT	tasked
 with commercialising our Printed Electronics technology and
 are working on a number of new projects
•	 Carclo	Diagnostic	Solutions	(“CDS”)	has	continued	to	develop
 its disposable Point-of-Care platforms and has now supplied
 functioning devices to EKF Diagnostics plc for testing with its
 pi-GST kidney marker. A full independent review of the market
 opportunities has been undertaken and this identified several
 additional product application areas, the most suitable of
 which have been integrated into the development plan
•	 In	T echnical	Plastics,	turnover ,	operating	profits	and	margins
 increased compared to the prior year. Business development
 has been extremely successful in the year and this will
	 support	strong	growth	in	future	revenue.	W e	have	reviewed
 our manufacturing structure which will result in the expansion
 of our Czech facility and the closure of one of our UK plants
•	 LED	T echnologies	had	an	excellent	year	and	overall	underlying
 operating profit moved ahead by £0.4 million to 
	 £2.6	million.	Our	W ipac	supercar	lighting	business	has
 benefitted from significant design wins from new and existing
 customers which will drive several years of double digit
 growth. The LED Optics business has gained new OEM
 program wins and is now also in a good growth phase
•	 Precision	Engineering	has	continued	to	generate	good	profits.
 In March 2014, the group disposed of the Birkett Cutmaster 
 bandsaw business for £0.3 million. This will have minimal
 effect on the division’s future profitability
Dividend
The proposed final dividend of 1.80 pence per share brings the 
total dividend for the year to 2.65 pence per share
(2013 – 2.55 pence). This represents an increase of 3.9% and 
further emphasises the solid financial performance for the year 
and the board’s confidence in the group’s prospects.
Employees
I would like to thank all those employed by Carclo in the year 
under review for their continuing substantial contribution.   
Outlook
Whilst	the	touch	screen	market	has	become	significantly	more	
competitive we are well positioned for our touch business to 
grow. Our partnership with Atmel Corporation remains strong and 
we	are	both	committed	to	growing	the	XSense™	business.	W e	are	
continuing to enhance our product offering and we believe our 
technical solution remains very attractive to potential customers. 
W e	are	now	investing	further	in	our	Printed	Electronics	business	
where we believe we have developed a strong product offering.
Following the commercial review of CDS we have prepared an 
aggressive development plan to drive the technology forward 
for use in several high value application areas where the overall 
market size is an estimated £2.5 billion.
Technical Plastics continues to win new business and, following a 
reorganisation of our manufacturing resources, we are now well 
positioned to drive efficiencies and increase our net operating 
margins towards our medium term target of 10%. 
Our	LED	T echnologies	division,	including	W ipac	our	niche	
supercar lighting business, has now succeeded in launching its 
LED dip beam light into the supercar segment and this continues 
to	create	additional	opportunities.	W e	are	currently	improving	
and expanding our manufacturing capabilities to cope with 
the	large	influx	of	new	work.	A	marketing	emphasis	on	optics	
clusters within LED Optics has been successful and further design 
enhancements for our optics range have recently been concluded 
to support future growth.
Precision Engineering, which now consists of our aerospace 
businesses, remains both profitable and cash generative.
In summary, the group is poised for further growth both in its 
traditional areas and in its new technology ventures. It has the 
resources, bank facilities and business prospects to drive this 
growth over the coming years and generate shareholder value. 
Michael Derbyshire
10 June 2014
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 8 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 9
STRATEGIC REPORT - PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES, BUSINESS MODEL
& STRATEGIC KPIS
Principal activities
Carclo plc is a technology group. It is a public company whose shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Approximately three fifths of revenues are currently derived from the supply of fine tolerance, injection moulded plastic components, which 
are used in medical, optical and electronics products. This business, Carclo Technical Plastics, operates internationally in a fast growing and 
dynamic market underpinned by rapid technological development.
Approximately two fifths of revenues are derived from the supply of specialised precision LED based systems to the premium automotive 
industry, as well as key control systems for the aerospace industry.
Business model
Carclo’s strategy is to develop new technologies and products to drive future growth on a global scale. The long term strategic intent is to 
achieve sustainable earnings growth for shareholders whilst providing innovative and effective solutions for our customers.
This will be achieved by these three key tenets.
Innovation
Identification of the best new technologies and methodologies to generate innovative solutions in order to introduce new products or to 
improve current production methods. 
Manufacturing
Development of the innovations alongside our existing capabilities to generate solutions and opportunities for our customers. 
Customer Service
Use of our global manufacturing network and scale to match customer requirements leading to maximised earnings for all involved.
Strategic KPIs
To enable our performance to be tracked against our growth strategy, we will focus on the following key performance indicators (“KPIs”):
Innovation
W e	are	aiming	to	expand	our	business	by	innovation	and	by	the	investment	in	new	products.	This	will	be	measured	by	the	commercialisation	
of our key development projects, Conductive Inkjet Technology and Carclo Diagnostic Solutions.
Manufacturing
W e	are	aiming	to	create	strong	business	development	through	our	core	businesses	as	well	as	new	innovations.	This	will	be	measured	by	
increased turnover within our key core businesses.
Customer Service
W e	are	aiming	to	use	our	global	manufacturing	network	to	maximise	profitability	for	the	group	and	its	customers.	This	will	be	measured	by	
an increasing operating profit margin. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 10
STRATEGIC REPORT - CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Strategy 
The commercialisation of Conductive Inkjet Technology’s (“CIT’s”) 
touch sensor business continues to have a very high focus for the 
group.  The year ended 31 March 2014 saw a significant increase 
in revenue over the previous year, albeit market conditions have 
been more challenging than initially anticipated, hindering our 
ability to predict adoption and subsequent revenue growth with 
any	accuracy .	Whilst	progress	in	commercialising	our	touch	sensor	
technology has not been at the expected pace, our commercial 
partner Atmel Corporation (“Atmel”) has, so far, announced 
three design wins with HP , a testament to the potential of this 
technology. Looking forward we believe that the success of our 
touch business is now more dependent on the ability of the 
whole supply chain to be price competitive than on the actual 
technology	itself .	W e	are	working	closely	with	Atmel	in	this	area.	
Our coating line in Cambridge is operating well and at high yields 
and we have significant available capacity to support a future 
ramp up in demand for XSense™.
As discussed last year CIT has now created a separate Printed 
Electronics business focused on commercialising and further 
developing our novel low cost printed electronic circuits. The 
addition of a pilot plant for component assembly was completed 
on schedule and a strategy has been developed to enable a 
significant push of this technology area throughout the new 
financial year. Our major focus will be the integration of circuitry 
into medical devices, however there are several other programs 
in addition to this that are providing an interesting pipeline of 
potential products.
There were significant business wins for our largest operating 
divisions, Technical Plastics and LED Technologies, and we exited 
the	year	with	a	record	value	of	new	enquiries.	W e	are	confident	
that we are entering a strong and sustainable phase of growth in 
these businesses.
Our expanded Technical Plastics operation, in Latrobe, USA, 
is now operational and this has been the catalyst for winning 
several new medical programs from new and existing customers. 
In addition we are finalising a lease for a further factory in the 
Czech	Republic,	adjacent	to	our	existing	facility ,	in	order	to	
support new business wins from a range of global customers in 
both the medical and other technical plastic markets. As well as 
our USA and Czech expansions, we expect to initiate additional 
manufacturing capacity in our facilities in Mitcham, Shanghai and 
Bangalore during this current year as we see customer demand 
increase	for	those	locations.	W e	announced	the	closure	of	our	loss	
making Harthill, UK operation in early May 2014 and we expect 
to complete our exit from this facility by the end of the year, with 
several of the existing programs planned to move to our other 
manufacturing locations.
W e	have	now	created	an	aggressive	business	plan	for	Carclo	
Diagnostic Solutions (“CDS”) focused on the development of a 
further two programs in addition to the pi-GST kidney marker 
device test which we are developing in co-operation with 
EKF Diagnostics plc (“EKF”) and our whole blood coagulation 
device. The further programs are for a cardiac marker device 
(“T roponin-l”)	and	an	infectious	disease	device	(“CRP ”)	and	these	
are both substantial potential markets. In order to support this 
new business plan we are increasing our investment through the 
creation of a Cambridge based life sciences group located in our 
CIT facility to work alongside the existing Daresbury based team. 
Our LED Technologies businesses are enjoying growth both in 
W ipac’s	supercar	lighting	sector	as	well	as	the	smaller	LED	Optics	
area.	W ithin	the	supercar	segment	we	have	secured	multiple	
new programs and we are in the final stages of negotiations for 
There were significant 
business wins for 
our largest operating 
divisions REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 11
several others. The program awards will result in significant design 
and tooling activity over the next three years leading to over five 
years	of	subsequent	manufacture.	W e	are	increasing	our	research	
investment into next generation lighting technologies as we enter 
long-term development partnerships with several of our customers 
in order to drive further growth in this business.
W e	divested	our	small	bandsaw	business	at	year	end	leaving	
our Precision Engineering business solely consisting of our UK 
and	F rench	aerospace	component	manufacturers.	Whilst	a	large	
proportion of our business is related to current aircraft build 
programs, we also supply the aerospace spares market. 
Business in detail
Conductive Inkjet Technology (Touch)
CIT commissioned its coating manufacturing facility on time 
early in the financial year and all coated film manufacturing was 
successfully migrated from the original pilot line to the new 
high-speed line ahead of schedule. Annual sales of coated film 
amounted to £3.3 million during the year, being a mix of sales for 
our partner’s production qualification and sales for end customer 
products. Two program wins were announced during the financial 
year	(HP	Omni	10™	and	the	HP	EliteBook	Revolve	810	G2™)	and	
one was subsequently announced soon after (HP ElitePad 1000 
G2™). All three program wins were for HP products with screen 
sizes in the range of 10.1” to 11.6”.
During the financial year there were significant changes within the 
touch industry as a result of new competitors entering the market 
and latterly as a result of ITO vendors both lowering ITO prices 
and also improving electrical performance of these materials. It 
has been widely reported that there are over 20 companies now 
claiming to have metal mesh technologies. In practice competition 
has come mainly from a Japanese and a Chinese metal mesh 
manufacturer. In order to gain market share our competitors have 
priced aggressively against ITO based touch sensors, in particular 
the single layer One Glass Solution (“OGS”) and the more mature 
Glass Film Film (“GFF”) versions.
A combination of lower pricing and an aggressive purchasing 
stance from the OEMs, who are looking to include touch 
functionality as a standard content into the portable computer 
segment, has reduced the effective price of touch sensors by 
around half during the last twelve months. Premiums that were 
available for larger sensors, (i.e. those over 10”), due to the 
historical difficulty in manufacturing at these sizes with ITO, are no 
longer available. The touch sensor market remains an enormous 
market and manufacturers including HP , ASUS, Lenovo, Dell and 
a number of Chinese white box manufacturers are all believed to 
be using metal mesh solutions, from various suppliers, in several 
of their products and the adoption of metal mesh remains a key 
strategic objective of the major OEMs.
CIT has continued to evolve its metal mesh technology with a 
focus on manufacturing efficiency increases, line width reductions 
STRATEGIC REPORT - CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
and substrate agnosticism. The key developments during the 
year in these areas are either in evaluation trials with our partner 
or in the final stages of scaled up testing within our Cambridge 
facility .	W e	are	well	resourced	to	scale	coated	film	output	from	
our Cambridge operation to support growth in sales of touch 
sensor materials. There are now limited needs for additional 
capital expenditure in our operation. During the year our 
manufacturing effort has been focused on continuing to drive our 
technology	to	improve	both	output	yields	and	cost	efficiency .	W e	
are working closely with our partner in order to support the cost 
competitiveness of our product and assist them to increase market 
take-up. 
Carclo Technical Plastics
Sales increased from £55.3 million to £58.1 million and 
underlying operating profit increased from £4.0 million to
£4.6 million. The sales increase came predominantly from growth 
in key medical accounts. Operating margins improved from 7.1% 
to 7.9% consistent with our target of achieving 10% margins in 
the medium term.
Our	operations	are	located	in	the	USA ,	UK,	Czech	Republic,	
China and India. Our focus on new business development has 
been very high and we have won significant new work for our 
USA and Czech facilities which both performed strongly in the 
2013/14 financial year. For the USA this new work is centred 
on our newly expanded Latrobe factory. The increase in Czech 
activity has resulted in a need for further manufacturing capacity, 
and therefore we are in the final stages of concluding a lease 
for an additional 2,800 SQM of manufacturing space in Brno 
immediately adjacent to our existing building and expect this 
facility to be active by the autumn of this year. This additional 
space will enable a significant growth in our Czech plant’s 
revenues over the coming years. 
Our Indian facility has also performed well and continues to 
service	a	major	global	A TM	customer .	W e	are	now	actively	
pursuing other work from global organisations operating within 
India and believe that this market will be strong for us in future 
years. 
As a result of our efforts, we expect to see significant 
improvements	in	plant	utilisation	over	the	next	two	years.	W e	
believe that the new programs we have secured will contribute to 
performance in the new financial year with the full effect being 
seen in 2015/16 as new programs tend to only hit efficiency 
targets after several months of manufacturing.
Our Chinese operation had a more difficult year with reduced 
schedules from its major customer.  As part of our business 
development efforts we have now focused our Chinese plant on 
targeting programs for international companies serving the local 
domestic	market.	W e	are	currently	planning	for	the	introduction	
of class 8 cleanrooms in our Chinese factory and we believe that 
this improved facility, together with our leading global quality 
procedures, will be a major growth driver for this operation.  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 12
STRATEGIC REPORT - CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Growth in the UK medical device market has been strong and we 
have secured several new programs which will deliver growth into 
our Mitcham facility. 
In order to improve our utilisation and cost effectiveness we 
recently announced the closure of our smaller non-medical 
operation in Harthill, UK. This business had been loss making for 
several years despite our best efforts and those of our dedicated 
workforce. These losses were partly attributable to the small size 
of this plant versus the overhead structure required to manage 
such a facility. This closure will enable our exit from lower margin 
work and will also allow a reallocation of the higher margin and 
more sustainable programs to our other plants.
W e	are	now	very	well	placed	to	enjoy	an	extended	period	of	high	
growth and margin enhancement across all of our remaining 
facilities over the coming years.
LED Technologies
Sales in LED Technologies increased from £23.0 to £28.2 million, 
operating profit was up from £2.2 to £2.6 million. 80.8% of our 
sales	(2013	–	81.1%)	came	from	our	W ipac	supercar	lighting	
business with the balance from LED optics.
W ipac	has	now	secured	new	lighting	programs	for	a	number	of	
leading global supercar brands. During the financial year we were 
awarded design and manufacture contracts for six new vehicles. 
W e	are	also	in	the	final	stages	of	negotiation	for	lighting	contracts	
for several other vehicles. To put this into perspective, we would 
normally have anticipated winning two or three lighting contracts 
per year. These new programs are now in the design phase and 
will	flow	through	into	manufacturing	in	around	two	to	three	
years. These new contracts represent a significant step forward 
for	our	W ipac	business,	as	whilst	the	vehicle	production	numbers	
are modest across this segment (normally lower than 10,000 
vehicles per annum per model), the number of models that we 
will be manufacturing represents a step change on any previous 
levels.	W e	are	therefore	investing	approximately	£4.0	million	over	
the next two years into our facilities to ensure that we have the 
manufacturing and efficiency capabilities to meet our customers’ 
highly demanding expectations. 
W e	aim	to	have	a	truly	world	class	manufacturing	operation	as	
we believe that we can continue to grow strongly within this 
segment.	W e	now	service	most	of	the	leading	iconic	automotive	
brands and have focused heavily during the year on building more 
strategic relationships with our key customers to ensure our own 
lighting research and development activities and theirs are well 
aligned.	Revenue	on	new	programs	is	recognised	throughout	the	
design and manufacturing start-up phase before moving to more 
traditional piece part pricing and as such we have good visibility 
over the coming years of how this business is likely to grow.
The strategy of our Carclo Optics operation has been realigned 
to provide a greater focus on developing and supplying bespoke 
‘cluster’ optics for major OEMs rather than smaller individual 
optics. This strategy has been successful and a number of OEM 
programs have been brought to market using Carclo Optics 
during the year. The business increased its turnover by 34.3% 
in	2013/14.	W e	have	completed	the	lease	on	a	larger	facility	in	
Aylesbury to relocate from our existing facility in Slough upon 
the expiry of the lease for that building. This move will combine 
the Optics design and distribution business with that of our 
W ipac	aftermarket	distribution	business	to	free	up	space	in	
W ipac’s	Buckingham	UK	facility .	In	order	to	continue	to	drive	
momentum into the growth of our optics business, we will move 
a large proportion of our manufacturing of the Optics from our 
Technical Plastics business to within our LED Technologies division 
to simplify customer interaction and increase management focus. 
W e	are	also	investing	in	new	ranges	of	innovative	optics	enabling	
both a class leading performance as well as the ability to create 
custom light clusters which utilise these optics in a low cost 
modular format.
W e	expect	our	LED	T echnologies	division	to	maintain	double	digit	
revenue growth for the coming years and this will drive year on 
year growth in margins.
Precision Engineering
Sales increased from £7.5 to £7.8 million and operating profits 
remained at £1.5 million. The year was aided by a one-time 
contract for remedial machining of a Tier 1 supplier’s parts for 
a major OEM. Adjusted for this one-off revenue the underlying 
financial	performance	was	lower	year	on	year	and	reflected	
a reduction in volumes at our French operations due to a 
combination of lower build rates for a key helicopter customer 
and lower cable assembly spares for older aircraft. 
This business will remain profitable and we will continue to 
focus the business towards OEM supply to replace the inevitable 
reduction in spares for older aircraft as they are retired.
W e	disposed	of	the	business,	assets	and	stocks	of	our	Birkett	
Cutmaster bandsaw business at the end of the year for £0.3 
million in cash; this disposal will have minimal impact on the 
division’s future profitability.
Carclo Diagnostic Solutions 
Our CDS business has developed fully disposable, novel Point-
of-Care diagnostics platforms which do not rely on a secondary 
reader for analysis and quantitative results. CDS platforms 
integrate	low	cost	electronics	from	CIT	with	microfluidic	
mouldings from our Technical Plastics business.
Earlier in the year CDS partnered with EKF Diagnostics plc (“EKF”) 
to develop its Micropoc-pro platform to be used with EKF’s 
acute kidney injury marker (“pi-GST”). Initial patient sample trials 
are now underway; the first indicative results for the platform 
are encouraging. Further sample trials with larger numbers of 
devices are planned over the coming months. Aside from the 
potential commercial rollout of a disposable point of care kidney 
injury marker device, this joint program has enabled us to rapidly  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 13
STRATEGIC REPORT - CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
develop our Micropoc-pro platform and to better understand its 
likely specificity and sensitivity. 
Having had CDS as an embryonic technology for several years, it 
was appropriate to conduct a full strategic review of this business 
and, working with a leading global medical device consultancy 
firm, we considered whether our technology was relevant to 
the industry, whether it was sufficiently unique and whether our 
market focus was appropriate. The outcome of the review was 
very positive and provided a strong recommendation on the most 
suitable market application areas for the current technology base. 
On the basis of this review, along with information we have 
received from potential partners, we are now in the process 
of increasing our investment in CDS in order to realise the 
high	potential	from	our	technology .	W e	have	commenced	the	
recruitment of a life sciences technical group based within our 
CIT Cambridge facility. This new team will work alongside our 
existing Daresbury team and focus on an aggressive development 
of our device in a total of four application areas. The first two 
applications are consistent with our previous effort, being the 
kidney injury marker (“pi-GST”) and a whole blood coagulation 
device. In addition we will develop two other devices, the first 
for a Cardiac Marker (“Troponin-l”) used to diagnose acute 
myocardial infarction (“AMI”) as well as heart muscle cell death 
and	a	second	for	an	infectious	disease	marker	(“CRP ”)	used	to	
diagnose a number of conditions including bacterial infections, 
cardiac conditions and certain cancers. In all cases we plan to 
use pre-existing third party reagents during the initial stages 
of	development.	W e	have	developed	a	detailed	work	plan	
summarised in Table 1 below.
 
Table 1. CDS Development Timelines
The markets for the four products identified have a combined value of over £2.5 billion and are growing rapidly. Our business model is 
focused on the initial development of an optimised demonstration device up until Phase 3, in collaboration with partners, and thereafter 
licensing deals would be expected to provide either one-off or recurring revenues.
This business is still in its early stages and there remains a level of technical risk associated with our platforms and their suitability for the 
chosen application areas. Progress has been sufficiently positive such that we see accelerating our investment as necessary if we are to realise 
the potential of this development.
CIT Printed Electronics
Having already created a high volume and low cost method of creating copper on film circuitry we are now focused on finding appropriate 
applications for this technology. This printed electronics technology development was the precursor to our touch screen developments and 
the	focus	on	touch	screens	left	the	simpler	lower	cost	“printed”	version	of	our	technology	sitting	in	the	background.	W e	have	now	created	
a	standalone	business	within	CIT	tasked	with	commercialising	this	technology .	W e	completed	the	installation	of	pilot	scale	production	
equipment during the year to add component assembly on to our materials so that we can demonstrate the unique capabilities of this 
technology to customers and also supply small scale production of functioning product. Our own focus will be on integrating electronics into 
medical	devices	and	as	such	we	are	working	on	several	technology	demonstrators.	W e	are	also	working	on	a	number	of	other	projects	in	
printed electronics as well as projects that utilise our fine line technology. Our strategy will be to focus on medium term revenue opportunities 
which may be supplied from our own facilities or built by external partners.  
Chris Malley
10 June 2014
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Commercial 
Partnership
Phase 4
Phase 5
Prepare Product Definition Document
Develop prototype assay
Optimisation of assay and device, R&D scale
Performance evaluation
Scale-up device and reagent manufacturing process
Performance assessment
Validation
Verification
Regulatory submissions
Launch activities
Coag
CAT
pi-GST
Pro
CRP
CAT
Troponin-I
Pro
Q4’ 2014 Q1’ 2015
Q3’ 2014 Q1’ 2014 Q3’ 2015 Q1’ 2016
Q2’ 2015 Q1’ 2015 Q1’ 2016 Q3’ 2016
Q3’ 2015 Q2’ 2015 Q2’ 2016 Q4’ 2016
12-months 12-months 12-months 12-months REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 14
STRATEGIC REPORT - FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Revenue
Divisional operating profit
Unallocated
Underlying operating profit from continuing operations
Exceptional items
Net bank interest
IAS 19 net financing charge
Profit before tax
Income tax expense
Loss on discontinued operations
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
Ordinary dividend
Surplus for the year
Divisional operating margin from continuing operations
Basic earnings per share
Underlying earnings per share
2014
£million
97.3
8.6
(2.0)
6.6
(0.5)
(0.6)
(0.7)
4.8
(1.2)
(0.0)
3.6
(1.7)
1.9
8.8%
5.5p
6.1p
2013
restated
£million
86.5
7.7
(2.1)
5.6
(0.7)
(0.6)
(1.1)
3.2
(0.4)
(0.1)
2.7
(1.6)
1.1
8.9%
4.3p
5.2p
Financial summary
The comparatives have been restated in respect of the revisions to IAS 19 - “Employee Benefits”. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 15
Group sales in the financial year were £97.3 million
(2013 - £86.5 million).  The £10.8 million increase was mainly 
due to the significant growth in turnover in LED Technologies to 
£28.2 million (2013 - £23.0 million) and an increase in sales at 
Conductive Inkjet Technology (“CIT”) to £3.3 million
(2013 - £0.7 million).  Technical Plastics also reported higher 
revenues at £58.1 million (2013 - £55.3 million) and Precision 
Engineering also saw slightly higher revenues at £7.8 million 
(2013 - £7.5 million).
As expected, the 
second half of the year 
was much stronger in 
both Technical Plastics 
and LED Technologies
STRATEGIC REPORT - FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Divisional operating profit was £8.6 million (2013 - £7.7 million) 
and underlying operating profit from continuing operations was 
£6.6 million, £1.0 million higher than in the previous year
(2013 - £5.6 million). Unallocated costs were £2.0 million 
(2013 - £2.1 million). Unallocated costs comprised central 
group administration costs and the expenditure associated 
with administrating the group pension scheme which are now 
charged directly to the income statement in line with the revised 
accounting provisions of  IAS 19 – “Employee Benefits” (“IAS 19”) 
which have also been applied to the comparatives.  As expected, 
the second half of the year was much stronger in both Technical 
Plastics and LED Technologies and both divisions reported higher 
operating profits in the second half of the year than in the first 
half.
Profit before tax was £4.8 million (2013 - £3.2 million) after an 
exceptional charge of £0.5 million (2013 – £0.7 million), and this 
predominantly related to the cost of the group’s litigation claim 
against Uni-Pixel Inc. which has now been settled.
Net bank interest at £0.6 million (2013 - £0.6 million) was at a 
similar level to the prior year.  The net pensions financing charge 
under the provisions of IAS 19 was £0.7 million
(2013	-	£1.1	million	restated	for	the	changes	to	IAS	19)	reflecting	
the decrease in the deficit in the period to 31 March 2013.  
The group tax charge for the year was £1.2 million
(2013 - £0.4 million).  This equates to an effective tax rate of 
24.8% which compares to the current UK corporation tax rate of 
23%.  The higher effective rate is due to profits earned in higher 
tax jurisdictions.
2014
£million
7.3
(1.4)
(7.5)
(1.6)
(1.0)
(0.6)
0.4
(0.9)
(1.7)
(5.4)
(3.5)
(0.0)
0.4
(8.5)
Underlying	cash	flow
Interest and tax
Capital expenditure
F ree	cash	flow
Pension payments above regular cost
Non recurring
Proceeds from issue of share capital
Performance share plan awards
Equity dividends
Cash	flow	from	corporate	activities
Development expenditure
Acquisitions and disposals
Exchange movement
(Increase)/decrease in net debt in year
2013
£million
13.1
(1.5)
(8.2)
3.4
(1.0)
(0.6)
12.8
(0.2)
(1.5)
12.9
(3.8)
(0.1)
(0.2)
8.8
Net debt and gearing
Net debt comprises interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash deposits. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 16
STRATEGIC REPORT - FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Group debt increased to £17.7 million at 31 March 2014
(2013 - £9.2 million).  This represents gearing of 23.7%
(2013 – 11.9%) after excluding the net pension surplus of
£0.2 million (2013 - net pension deficit of £11.8 million). 
The	prior	year	cash	flow	was	inflated	by	the	receipt	of	the	
US$10.0 million prepayment from our partner Atmel Corporation 
(“Atmel”) at the end of 2013 financial year and this prepayment 
partially unwound during the 2014 financial year.  On a like for 
like	basis	underlying	cash	flow	of	£8.1	million	was	£1.0	million	
higher than in the prior year (2013 - £7.1 million).  
Group capital expenditure in cash terms was £7.5 million
(2013 - £8.2 million) representing 200% of the total group 
depreciation charge (2013 – 229%).  This is the second year of 
above depreciation capital expenditure and this was due mainly to 
the capital cost of the US Technical Plastics facility expansion.
Pension contributions of £1.0 million (2013 - £1.0 million) were 
made during the year in respect of the annual deficit recovery plan 
payment.  The group also paid the pension scheme administration 
costs of £0.6 million (2013 - £0.6 million).
Development expenditure of £3.5 million (2013 - £3.8 million) 
was capitalised during the year. £2.4 million of this related to CIT 
whilst £1.1 million related to Carclo Diagnostic Solutions (“CDS”).
Group debt will increase further during the current financial 
year due to another year of high capital expenditure to fund the 
group’s significant growth prospects.
Financing
As at 31 March 2014 the group’s net debt was £17.7 million 
and the group had total bank facilities of £31.4 million, which 
included committed facilities of £20.0 million which expire in 
November 2015, and which were drawn to £17.6 million as 
at 31 March 2014.  Since the year end, we have negotiated an 
additional £6.0 million of committed facility with one of our 
lending banks.  This facility, which is priced competitively in line 
with our existing facilities, will also expire in November 2015.
This additional facility will provide the group with sufficient 
headroom in order to fulfil its capital investment plans over the 
current financial year in order to drive significant future growth.
The two main covenants in the facility agreements are interest 
cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and the group has a 
very comfortable level of headroom on both of these covenants 
as at 31 March 2014.  Under the facility agreements the group’s 
banks have security in the form of guarantees from certain group 
companies	and	fixed	and	floating	charges	over	the	current	assets	
of the group’s three main UK trading subsidiaries. 
Pensions
As at 31 March 2014 the group pension scheme showed a small 
surplus of £0.2 million (2013 – deficit of £11.8 million, net of 
deferred	tax)	as	calculated	under	IAS	19.		Whilst	the	defined	
benefit pension liability reduced slightly to £183.6 million
(2013 - £185.9 million), the fair value of the plan assets increased 
significantly to £183.8 million (2013 - £170.5 million).
The trustees of the pension scheme are in the final stages of 
revising the investment strategy to incorporate diversified growth 
funds and liability driven investment products in order to reduce 
the risk on the liability and maintain growth potential for the 
assets moving forward.
These results take account of the changes made following the 
revisions to IAS 19 and these changes have also been applied 
to the comparatives.  The amendments to the accounting 
standard result in pension scheme administration costs being 
charged directly to the income statement, within the central 
cost allocation, whilst the pension financing credit/charge is 
determined directly by applying the discount rate to the net 
defined benefit asset or liability.  The impact on the results for the 
financial year is to reduce operating profit by £0.6 million
(2013 - £0.6 million) and increase net finance expense by
£2.1 million (2013 - £1.2 million). 
The cash cost of the pension scheme to the group during the 
financial year was £1.6 million.  This includes the annual recovery 
plan contribution of £1.0 million and scheme administration costs 
of £0.6 million. The recovery plan contribution was part of the 
recovery plan agreed with the trustees subsequent to the scheme 
triennial valuation at 31 March 2012.  Under this recovery plan 
annual contributions will remain at around £1.0 million (indexed 
annually at 2.9%) for the remaining recovery plan period of
12 years from 31 March 2012.
Since the year end, 
we have negotiated an 
additional £6.0 million 
of committed facility 
with one of our lending 
banks REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 17
The next triennial valuation will be on 31 March 2015.  At 31 
March 2014 group properties with a net book value of
£6.4 million were subject to a registered charge in favour of the 
group pension scheme.
Conductive Inkjet Technology (“CIT”)
CIT reported revenues of £3.3 million (2013 - £0.7 million) and a 
small underlying operating loss of £0.2 million for the year
(2013 - £nil) after an amortisation charge totalling £0.8 million 
(2013 - £0.2 million).  This amortisation charge on the intangible 
assets of the business will be higher in the current financial year to 
reflect	a	full	year’s	charge.
CIT received the US$10.0 million prepayment from Atmel at the 
end of the 2012/13 financial year and this has reduced during the 
2013/14 financial year against sales of coated film.  
CIT incurred capital expenditure of £1.1 million
(2013 - £3.5 million) during the year. In addition, the total 
amount of development expenditure capitalised was £2.4 million 
(2013 - £2.9 million).  The group balance sheet now includes 
intangible assets totalling £21.1 million in respect of CIT
(2013 - £19.5 million), with £14.1 million (2013 - £12.5 million) 
of this amount being capitalised development costs funded 
by the group. The remaining £7.0 million represents the fair 
value assigned to the intellectual property that arose from the 
accounting treatment of the previous acquisitions of the minority 
holdings from our original joint venture partner.  The group’s 
policy is to conduct an annual impairment review in respect of the 
goodwill and to amortise the other intangible assets on a straight 
line basis over the estimated economic life of the intangible asset 
which has now been judged to be a period of up to 10 years 
from the date upon which the patent or related development 
expenditure becomes available for use. The reduction in the 
estimated	economic	life	from	12	years	to	10	years	reflects	a	more	
prudent view by the directors and this will result in higher annual 
amortisation charges going forward.  
CIT has incurred legal costs of £0.4 million in the year ended 
31 March 2014 (2013 - £0.4 million) in respect of its litigation 
against Uni-Pixel Inc.  This litigation has now been settled and 
minimal further costs are expected in the current financial year.
Carclo Diagnostic Solutions (“CDS”) and 
Platform Diagnostics (“PDL”)
In the financial year the group incurred £1.1 million of 
development costs (2013 - £0.8 million) in respect of CDS and 
these costs have been capitalised on the group balance sheet.  
This increases the total fair value of intangible assets relating to 
the group’s investment in CDS and PDL to £5.4 million.
Robert	Brooksbank
10 June 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT - FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 18
STRATEGIC REPORT - DIRECTORS’ REVIEW OF THE RISKS
FACED BY THE GROUP
The main risks faced by the group, as determined by the directors, 
are –
Global economy
The uncertainty over the global economic recovery remains and 
this continues to promote volatility and insecurity for both the 
industries and customers served by the group which raises the risk 
profile for all businesses.
Carclo has high operational gearing and a large risk currently 
faced by the group remains a sharp reduction in demand should 
global economic output reduce further. Carclo serves a number 
of markets, such as medical and supercar markets, which have 
remained mostly detached from general consumer activity and 
as such have, to date, been comparatively unaffected by the 
uncertainty in global demand. However should these markets be 
impacted then Carclo has a proven track record of acting swiftly 
to rebalance the supply base with demand.
Reliance	on	major	customers
The proportion of revenues generated from the top five customers 
in the year was 48.8% (2013 – 50.1%). One medical customer 
accounted for 22.8% of revenues (2013 – 20.4%) and one 
supercar customer accounted for 12.4% of revenues (2013 – 
12.4%). No other customer accounted for more than 10.0% of 
revenues in the year or prior year.
The major customers are blue-chip multi-nationals operating in 
the medical, electronics and automotive markets. Focusing on 
our key customers brings significant opportunities to develop in 
low cost regions and enhance the customers’ products through 
our own technologies. However, there is an associated risk in 
the potential loss of such customers either through competitive 
pressures, relocation or insolvency. Such risks are mitigated 
through	 being	 able	 to	 offer	 world-class	 quality	 and	 costs,	 flexibility	
in manufacturing location and, in the case of insolvency, through 
the application of credit insurance across the group. 
The level of bad debts experienced in the year under review, and 
the prior year, were negligible.
Raw	material	sourcing
Carclo’s businesses use engineering polymers to produce finished 
products. Polymers are produced from feedstock which is linked 
to oil and polymer prices which move in response to supply and 
demand and the underlying cost of feedstock. This potentially 
introduces volatility in the cost of raw materials processed by the 
group. Oil prices have increased from $83 dollars per barrel at 
1 April 2010 to $106 dollars per barrel at 31 March 2014. This 
risk is managed in the main by negotiating pass through pricing 
whereby our customer accepts the risk of movements in base 
polymer prices. 
The majority of our business within Technical Plastics continues to 
operate on formal or informal pass through pricing arrangements. 
On the balance of business where Carclo takes the raw material 
price risk we aim, wherever possible, to agree longer term price 
contracts to mitigate this risk.
The management of 
Carclo actively seeks to 
identify and manage 
the risks to which the 
group is exposed REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 19
Global operations
Carclo has expanded into low cost regions. The risks associated 
with this are -
i) Management control
 A centrally managed common information technology system 
 is used throughout the group, which, combined with
 standardised operating procedures and pricing models, allows
 management oversight and investigation independent of
 location.
ii) Management cultural differences 
 Local knowledge of working practises and legislation is key to
 the success of global operations.
	 W e	undertake	frequent	visits	to	our	global	locations	and
 pay particular attention to the recruitment of quality technical
 and financial staff. In low cost regions retaining staff against
 the background of a fast growing economy is a challenge.
	 W e	address	this	by	ensuring	an	effective	and	efficient	working
 environment, and by succession planning to ensure that we
 maintain continuity of trained staff.
iii)	 Regulatory	risk
 Our global operations require us to be aware of all local
 compliance issues particularly within the spheres of
 transfer pricing, tax and repatriation of profits. This risk is
 managed centrally. Carclo uses both internal and external
 auditors and good quality locally based legal advice to keep
 up to date with changes in legislation and to identify and
 mitigate any potential regulatory issues.
Energy costs
Energy costs in the UK have remained relatively stable in recent 
years following their volatility in the latter part of the last decade. 
Carclo’s operating businesses are not especially energy intensive 
and in the year ended 31 March 2014, Carclo’s electricity costs 
remained at £2.3 million (2013 - £2.3 million), with increasing 
global manufacturing capacity being offset by increasing 
operational efficiency. 
To mitigate the risk of price volatility, Carclo is part of a UK 
corporate pool which enters into fixed tariffs on rolling contracts, 
typically six months in duration. This is done in consultation 
with independent energy consultants. For the main overseas 
companies, electricity prices are established on twelve month 
contracts.
Innovation and investment in new 
technologies
Carclo invests in new technologies and proprietary know-how. 
Examples include -
•	 Conductive	Inkjet	T echnology	(“CIT”)
•	 Platform	Diagnostics	(“PDL ”)
•	 Carclo	Diagnostic	Solutions	(“CDS”)
•	 Soluble	P olymers	
These innovations and the development of new technology 
require a significant level of time and investment to advance 
the technology to a commercially viable application. The most 
advanced technology is CIT. The group currently has intangible 
assets of £21.1 million associated with the development of CIT’s 
innovative process. During the year Carclo continued to invest in 
the development of PDL and CDS.
There is an inherent risk that such development work may 
ultimately not be commercially viable or may be attacked 
by competing technologies. Carclo aims to limit its risk by 
undertaking detailed financial and commercial due diligence of 
potential	opportunities	prior	to	investing.	W e	prefer	to	co-invest	
with	partners	who	have	expertise	in	the	field.	Wherever	possible,	
development work is protected by a series of robust worldwide 
patents and non-disclosure agreements with potential partners to 
mitigate the risk of patent infringement and other unauthorised 
use of our proprietary know-how. 
Whilst	there	are	risks	inherent	with	any	development	investment	
of this nature, the potential benefits are significant and this 
investment is necessary to remain competitive and drive the 
growth of the group.
STRATEGIC REPORT - DIRECTORS’ REVIEW OF THE RISKS
FACED BY THE GROUP REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 20
Pensions
Carclo’s UK defined benefit pension scheme is very mature and is 
large compared with the size of Carclo. The scheme is backed by 
substantial assets amounting to £183.8 million at 31 March 2014 
(2013 - £170.5 million).
Small adjustments to the assumptions used to calculate the 
pension liability, or significant swings in bond yields or stock 
markets, can have a large impact in absolute terms on the net 
assets of the group. This has introduced an increased level of 
volatility to the group balance sheet and the impact of the 
net pension obligation on the level of distributable reserves 
is monitored on an ongoing basis. The group is currently 
undertaking a review of its investment strategy to consider ways 
to reduce this volatility.  
A triennial valuation of the scheme was undertaken as at
31 March 2012 and, based on this valuation, the group has 
agreed a revised recovery plan with the trustees.  The recovery 
plan requires annual, index linked, contributions of £1.0 million to 
be made for the remaining recovery plan period of 12 years from 
31 March 2012. 
The group elected to cease future accrual with effect from
1 October 2010 with all members being invited to join the 
scheme’s defined contribution scheme. All new eligible employees 
are also given the opportunity to join this scheme. 
In addition the group has in recent years offered eligible 
pensioners the option to switch from a pension with indexed 
linked pension increases to a higher fixed pension with no future 
increases.
Funding and banking covenants
Medium term committed bank facilities have been agreed which 
include a number of financial covenants which are normal for 
facilities	of	this	type.	Whilst	there	is	currently	good	headroom	
on the covenants, the board continue to monitor the forecast 
position monthly in order to ensure that adequate headroom is 
maintained. The facilities were renewed in 2011 and next fall due 
for renewal in November 2015.
Foreign exchange exposure
Carclo is a global group with revenues in pounds sterling, Euros, 
US dollars, renminbi, Czech koruna and Indian rupee. The group 
therefore	faces	a	transaction	risk	as	currencies	fluctuate.
The group aims to manage transaction risk through a natural 
hedge, whereby sales revenues and costs in each currency across 
the group as a whole are matched as far as is practicable. The 
mismatch	of	transaction	flows	is	small	in	the	context	of	the	total	
group revenues.
The group’s policy is to hedge the major overseas assets by 
equivalent currency borrowings so that the balance sheet is not 
exposed	unduly	to	significant	fluctuations	in	currency .	This	is	
balanced against any associated treasury inefficiency associated 
with excessive currency borrowings. At 31 March 2014 the group 
had term loan borrowings of US $10.6 million which are being 
used to hedge the assets held in the USA and €7.5 million which 
are	used	to	hedge	the	assets	in	F rance	and	the	Czech	Republic.
Further details on the group’s foreign currency exposures can be 
found in note 27 of the report and accounts.
Information technology
The group operates on a common, centrally managed computer 
platform. This provides common reporting and control systems 
and the ability to manage and interrogate businesses remotely. 
However, there are associated risks, such as IT security, access 
rights and business continuity, with having the entirety of the 
group IT systems on a common platform. 
These risks are mitigated by an increased focus on IT security 
through the internal audit process and investment in IT facilities 
to maintain separacy and redundancy for the hardware and 
communications infrastructure.
STRATEGIC REPORT - DIRECTORS’ REVIEW OF THE RISKS
FACED BY THE GROUP REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 21 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 22
STRATEGIC REPORT - SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
The board considers that it is paramount that the group maintains 
the highest ethical and professional standards throughout all 
its undertakings and that social responsibility should remain a 
key tenet of operations and decision making. It understands 
the importance of managing the impact that the business can 
have on employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders 
and feels this impact should be regularly reviewed to maintain 
constant improvement, which in turn supports the long-term 
performance and sustainability of the business.
Our focus is to embed the management of these areas into 
our business operations, both managing risk and delivering 
opportunities	that	can	have	a	positive	influence	on	our	business.
During the year there have been no prosecutions, fines or 
enforcement action as a result of non-compliance with safety, 
health or environmental legislation.
Employees
The group operates and is committed to a global policy of 
equality that provides a working environment that maintains a 
culture	of	respect	and	reflects	the	diversity	of	our	employees.	It	is	
absolutely committed to offering equal opportunities to all people 
regardless of their sex, nationality, ethnicity, language, age, status, 
sexual orientation, religion or disability.
W e	believe	that	all	employees	should	be	able	to	work	safely	in	
a healthy workplace without fear of any form of discrimination 
bullying or harassment.
Ethical policy
Following the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010, we have 
codified our Ethical Policy confirming our commitment to not 
tolerating bribery, corruption or other unethical behaviour on the 
part of any of our businesses in any part of the world. Compliance 
with the act has been a priority for the group and the policy 
provides guidance and instruction to employees and training has 
been performed in all areas of the business to ensure that it is 
complied with.  
Environmental policy
It is the group’s policy to seek continually to eliminate and, 
where this is not practicable, to minimise negative environmental 
impacts from the pursuit of its various business interests whilst 
continuing to produce high quality products to its customers’ 
requirements.
It is the group’s policy to comply with all statutory environmental 
legislation as a minimum and to aim to improve upon the 
standards set by the local regulatory authorities. To this end, each 
subsidiary is audited by the group’s outsourced health, safety and 
environment manager to -
•	 benchmark	performances	across	the	group;
•	 help	sites	identify	and	prioritise	issues	for	improvement;
•	 ensure	legal	compliance.
The results of audits are communicated directly to the group 
executive committee and to all subsidiary boards and appropriate 
action is taken.
It is the group’s policy to foster an informed and responsible 
approach to all environmental concerns and it encourages the 
involvement	of	employees,	customers	and	suppliers.		Regulatory	
authorities are consulted and informed at all appropriate times.
The group continues to support long term strategies to minimise, 
reuse and recycle packaging through its membership of Valpak, 
a not for profit organisation through which a large number of 
businesses work together to recover and recycle packaging. 
Health and safety
A comprehensive health and safety policy is in place to ensure a 
safe working environment at all times with a plan to ensure that 
all facilities in all countries meet the requirements of the most 
exacting location. The health and safety policy also demonstrates 
our additional responsibility to customers, suppliers and 
contractors and we maintain communication of the policy at all 
levels throughout the group.
Global social responsibility
Carclo is a global company, which drives for sustainable 
growth in partnership with local communities and we take our 
responsibilities towards those communities to maintain an ethical 
supply	chain	seriously .	W ith	full	control	over	our	manufacturing	
facilities in low cost regions we commit to being a responsible 
supplier and ensure that we at least meet local social expectations. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 23
Performance management
W e	are	developing	a	number	of	key	performance	indicators	to	
help manage and maintain our corporate responsibility risks 
and opportunities. These will cover, although not be restricted 
to, carbon monitoring and reduction, health and safety and 
community investment.
Emissions from:
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities (tCO2e)
Electricity purchased for own use (tCO2e)
Total (tCO2e)
Group revenue (£ million)
Intensity ratio (tCO2e per £1 million of revenue)
2014
1,345
15,273
16,618
97.267
170.8
Greenhouse gas emissions
The group is required to report its annual greenhouse gas 
(“GHG”) emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report	and	Directors’	Report)	Regulations	2013	(“Regulations”).	
W e	have	collated	data	during	the	year	to	31	March	2014	and	are	
reporting emissions for this period to coincide with the group’s 
financial reporting period.
The table below sets out the group’s global emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) for the year under review:
The	2014	data	forms	the	information	set	for	the	base	year	of	reporting.	In	line	with	the	requirements	of	the	Regulations	this	will	enable	us	to	
report on future changes with reference to the 2014 data. 
An operational control methodology has been used to identify material emissions sources. Data has been collated from source 
documentation or, where this has been impracticable, using estimates. Calculations of emissions for the period have been made using 
third-party, specialist software and have undergone third-party quality assurance. The method we have used to calculate GHG emmissions is 
the	GHG	Protocol	Corporate	Accounting	and	Reporting	Standard	(revised	edition),	together	with	the	rates	emission	factors	from	recognised	
public sources including, but not limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information Administration, the US 
Environmental Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
To enable meaningful comparison of GHG emissions across periods an intensity ratio has been determined based on group revenues. 
Strategic	Report	signed	on	behalf	of	the	board
Chris Malley
10 June 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT - SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 24
DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
Robert Brooksbank
Eric Cook
Bill Tame
Chris Malley
Michael Derbyshire
Robert Rickman
Directors
*  Michael Derbyshire  - chairman
    Chris Malley   - chief executive
				Robert	Brooksbank
*		Robert	Rickman
* + Bill Tame
 
* non executive
+ senior independent director
 
Secretary
 
Eric Cook  
 
Registrars
 
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer	Road
Lancing
W est	Sussex
BN99 6DA
Telephone 0871 384 2030
 
Corporate Brokers
 
N+1 Singer
One Bartholomew Lane
London
EC2N 2AX
 
Liberum Capital
Ropemaker	Place
25	Ropemaker	Street
London
EC2Y 9LY
  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 25
External auditor
 
KPMG LLP
1 The Embankment
Neville Street
Leeds  
LS1	4DW
 
Internal auditor
Mazars LLP
Mazars House
Gelderd	Road
Gildersome
Leeds
LS27 7JN
 
 
Bankers
 
HSBC Bank plc 
Lloyds Bank plc
Solicitors
Addleshaw Goddard
P O Box 8
Sovereign House
Sovereign Street
Leeds
LS1 1HQ
Registered	office
Springstone House
P O Box 88
27	Dewsbury	Road
Ossett
WF5	9WS
Telephone: 01924 268040
Facsimile:     01924 283226
W ebsite:	 	 www .carclo-plc.com
E-mail:       investor.relations@carclo-plc.com 
Registered	Company	Number:	196249
DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 26
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors submit 
their ninety first annual 
report together with 
the accounts for the 
year ended 31 March 
2014
Principal activities
The group’s activities are shown on page 9.
Review	 of	 the	 business,	 events	 since	 the	 year	
end and future developments
The statutory information required concerning the review of the 
business, key performance indicators, events since the year end 
and future developments is contained in the “Overview” and 
“Outlook” sections of the chairman’s statement, the “Strategy” 
and “Business in detail” sections of the chief executive’s review 
and the “Financial summary” section in the finance director’s 
review on pages 6 to 15. The directors’ review of risks faced 
by the group is detailed on pages 18 to 20. The chairman’s 
statement, chief executive’s review, finance director’s review, 
statement of corporate governance, directors’ remuneration 
report and directors’ review of risks faced by the group are each a 
part of the directors’ report.
Profits and earnings
The profit of the group before taxation after charging net interest 
of £1,260,000 (2013 – £1,698,000) amounted to
£4,771,000 compared with a profit of £3,217,000 for the 
previous year.  After taxation the profit per ordinary 5 pence share 
was 5.5 pence compared with 4.3 pence for the previous year.
Share capital and authority to purchase 
shares
At 31 March 2014, the company’s issued share capital comprised 
66,054,142 ordinary shares of 5p each.  Details of the changes in 
issued share capital during the year are set out in Note 25 to the 
accounts.
Each share carried equal rights to dividends, voting and return 
of capital on the winding up of the company as set out in the 
company’s articles of association.  There are no restrictions on the 
transfer of securities in the company and there are no restrictions 
on voting rights or deadlines, other than those prescribed by law, 
nor is the company aware of any arrangement between holders 
of its shares which may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities or voting rights.
At the annual general meeting in September 2013 shareholders 
gave authority to the directors to purchase up to 10% of the 
company’s issued ordinary shares in the market.  No ordinary 
shares in the company were purchased during the year under 
this authority which will expire at the annual general meeting in 
September 2014.  The directors will ask shareholders to renew the 
authority at that meeting.
Contracts of significance and related parties 
There were no contracts of significance between any member 
of the group and (a) any undertaking in which a director has 
material interest, or (b) a controlling shareholder (other than 
between members of the group).  There have been no related 
party transactions between any member of the group and a 
related party since the publication of the last annual report. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 27
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REPORT
31 March 
2014 
14.31%
8.76%
6.62%
6.52%
6.05%
5.62%
3.18%
3.12%
Ruffer	LLP
Henderson Global Investors
Legal & General Investment Management
Standard Life Investments
BlackRock	Inc
Schroder Investment Management
Redmayne-Bentley
M&G Investment Management
22 May
2014
14.32%
8.94%
5.79%
6.52%
4.83%
5.87%
3.18%
3.04% 
Substantial shareholdings
The company had been notified under Disclosure and 
T ransparency	Rule	5	of	the	following	major	holdings	of	voting	
rights associated with its issued ordinary share capital as at
22 May 2014 -
Directors and governance
The directors at the date of this report are listed on page 24.
The directors who served during the year are shown below:
Michael Derbyshire Chairman
Chris Malley Chief executive 
Robert	Brooksbank	 Finance	director
Bill Tame  Non executive director
Robert	Rickman	 Non	executive	director	
Additional information relating to directors’ remuneration and interests in the ordinary share capital of the company are included in the 
directors’ remuneration report on pages 36 to 52.
Biographical details relating to each director are shown below:
The Corporate Governance report on pages 30 to 33 provides the corporate governance statement required by Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule	7.2.1.
Biographies of directors 
Michael Derbyshire  Age 66
A non executive director from 1 January 2006 and appointed group chairman on 6 September 2012.  He is a chemical engineer and was 
previously	chairman	of	Survitec	Group	Limited,	Racal	Acoustics	Global	Limited	and	Allied	T extiles	Limited	and	chief	executive	of 
Whitecroft	plc.
Robert	Brooksbank		Age	48
Joined the group on 1 April 2004 as finance director. After obtaining an honours degree in biological sciences he qualified as a chartered 
accountant with Ernst & Young in London and Moscow.  He joined Enron Europe in 1995 before becoming a director of his family firm, 
Brooksbank Industries Limited in 1997. He is a non executive director of blur (Group) plc.
Chris Malley  Age 47
Joined the group in May 1999 and was appointed to the board on 1 July 2012. He was appointed as chief executive with effect from
27 March 2013. He has an honours degree in economics and is a chartered management accountant. Prior to joining the group he held 
several finance and commercial positions within Jefferson Smurfit Group plc. Since joining Carclo, he has held senior positions within finance, 
corporate development and general management, latterly as chief executive of Conductive Inkjet Technology. 
  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 28
Disclosure of information to auditor
In accordance with section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006, 
the directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the company’s auditor is 
unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that he ought 
to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the company’s auditor is 
aware of that information.
Explanation of business of the annual 
general meeting 2014 (“AGM”)
Resolution	1	–	to	receive	the	Annual	Report	and	Financial	
statements
The directors will present their report, the auditor’s report and the 
audited financial statements for the financial year ended
31 March 2014 to the meeting.  This gives shareholders the 
opportunity to ask questions on the contents before voting on the 
resolution.
Resolution	2	–	Approval	of	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Report	
The	directors	will	put	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Report	to	
the	meeting.		The	Report	can	be	found	on	pages	36	to	52	of	
the company’s annual report 2014.  Shareholders will have the 
opportunity to ask questions on the contents of the Directors’ 
Remuneration	Report	before	voting	on	the	resolution.		Whilst	the	
payment of remuneration to the directors is not dependent on 
the passing of the resolution, your board will take the vote into 
account when considering the future development and operation 
of the company’s remuneration policy and practice.
Resolution	3	–	Approval	of	the	Directors’	Remuneration	P olicy
The	directors	will	put	the	Directors’	Remuneration	P olicy ,	which	
can be found on pages 36 to 52 of the annual report 2014, to the 
meeting.  This is a new requirement which applies to directors’ 
remuneration reports for financial years ending on or after
30	September	2013.		The	Directors’	Remuneration	P olicy	must	be	
proposed at least every three years, or in the event of a change in 
the policy if sooner.
Resolution	4	–	Final	Dividend
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 1.80 pence be 
paid (2013 – 1.75 pence), making a total dividend for the year of 
2.65 pence (2013 – 2.55 pence).
Subject to shareholder approval, dividend payments will be paid 
on 3 October 2014 to shareholders on the register at close of 
business on 29 August 2014. The shares will be traded excluding 
the right to the dividend from 27 August 2014.
Resolution	5A	–	5E	–	Re-election	of	directors
The company’s Articles of Association state that one third of 
the directors (excluding directors appointed by the board since 
the last AGM, all of whom retire at the AGM following their 
appointment) must retire by rotation each year, though they 
may offer themselves for re-election.  However, in accordance 
with developing best practice and corporate governance, this 
year all directors are retiring and seeking re-election.  Following 
a formal evaluation process during the year,  it was determined 
that each director continues to be an effective member of the 
board and demonstrates commitment to the role.  Biographical 
details relating to each director can be found within this Directors’ 
Report.
Bill Tame  Age 59
A non executive director from 1 January 2006 and chairman of the Audit Committee and senior independent director from 1 April 2006.  He 
is currently finance director of Babcock International Group plc and formerly worked for Courtaulds plc before moving to Scapa Group plc as 
group finance director.
Robert	Rickman		Age	56
A	non	executive	director	from	1	July	2012	and	chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee	from	6	September	2012.		He	is	a	partner	in	the	
Rockley	Group,	a	private	technology	investment	organisation,	and	a	non	executive	director	of	Schroder	UK	MidCap	Investment	T rust	and	
Cambium Global Timberland Limited.  He was formerly a director of Bookham Technology plc.
Interests of directors
Details of the interests of directors in the ordinary share capital of the company are included in the directors’ remuneration report on pages
36 to 52.
Directors’ indemnities
Article 132 of the company’s articles of association includes qualifying indemnity provisions, limited by law, in respect of the directors’ 
performance of their duties as a director of Carclo plc or any associated company.  The company takes out insurance covering claims against 
the directors or officers of the company and any associated company and this insurance provides cover in respect of some of the company’s 
liabilities under Article 132.
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REPORT REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 29
Resolution	6	–	Re-appointment	and	remuneration	of	auditor
The company’s auditors must be appointed each year at the 
AGM. The board has decided to put KPMG LLP forward to 
be re-appointed as auditors and resolution 6A concerning 
their re-appointment will be put to the members at the AGM. 
Resolution	6B	authorises	the	directors	to	determine	the	auditor’s	
remuneration.
Resolution	7	–	Renewal	of	the	powers	of	the	board	to	allot	shares
The directors have the power to allot shares in accordance with 
section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, with the authority of an 
appropriate shareholders’ resolution.  Hence, resolution 7 will be 
proposed at the AGM authorising the directors to allot ordinary 
shares of up to £1,100,902 nominal amount (equivalent to one 
third of the present issued ordinary share capital as at 10 June 
2014).
Resolution	8	–	Directors’	authority	to	dis-apply	pre-emption	rights	
and to allot shares for cash
The directors have the power in accordance with section 570 of 
the Companies Act 2006, to allot shares for cash, other than by 
way of a rights issue, as if section 561 of that Act did not apply, 
with the authority of an appropriate shareholders’ resolution.  
Hence, resolution 8 will be proposed at the AGM authorising the 
directors to allot ordinary shares of up to £165,135 in nominal 
amount for cash (being approximately 5% of the current issued 
ordinary share capital as at 10 June 2014 as if section 561 of the 
Companies Act 2006 did not apply).
Resolution	9	–	Authorisation	for	the	company	to	purchase	its	own	
shares
Under section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the company may, 
with the authority of an appropriate shareholders’ resolution, 
purchase its own shares.  The directors are seeking authority 
from the shareholders for the company to effect such purchases 
(resolution 9).  Any such purchase would be made “on-market” 
(i.e., on the London Stock Exchange in the normal way). 
Any such purchase would be upon, and subject to, the following 
conditions -
i) the maximum number of ordinary shares that may be purchased 
under this authority is 6,605,414 shares (being approximately 10% 
of the present issued share capital of the company as at 10 June 
2014);
ii) the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is the 
nominal value of the ordinary share;
iii) the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 
an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market 
quotations for an ordinary share taken from the London Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List for the ten business days immediately 
preceding the day on which the share is purchased; and
iv) this authority shall expire on 1 December 2015 or, if earlier, at the 
conclusion of the company’s annual general meeting to be held in 
2015.
 There were outstanding at 10 June 2014, options to subscribe for 
225,000 ordinary shares, representing 0.3% of the current issued 
share capital.  If the full share purchase authority was utilised, the 
options outstanding would represent 0.4% of the issued share 
capital.
 Shareholders should be assured that your directors will only 
exercise the power of purchase after careful consideration and 
being satisfied that, after taking account of other investment 
opportunities, such purchase would be in the interests of 
shareholders by increasing future earnings per share. In addition, 
the	effect	of	any	share	purchase	would	be	reflected	in	any	earnings	
per share calculation used for the purposes of incentive awards.
 Shares purchased will, as required by the Companies Act 2006, be 
cancelled and will not be available for reissue or resale.  Details of 
any purchases will be notified to the London Stock Exchange and 
will appear in the next annual report of the company.  During the 
year, no shares were purchased under the authority given at the 
2013 annual general meeting.
Resolution	10	–	notice	of	general	meetings
Finally, resolution 10 will seek shareholder approval to allow the 
company to call general meetings (other than annual general 
meetings) on 14 clear days’ notice. The directors confirm that this 
shorter period will only be used where merited by the purpose of 
the meeting. The approval will be effective until the company’s 
next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar 
resolution will be proposed.
Resolutions	to	implement	the	above	authorities	will	be	found	
in the notice of general meeting on pages 102 to 104 and the 
authorities would last until the annual general meeting in 2015 or 
on 1 December 2015 whichever is the earlier.
The directors believe that the adoption of all the resolutions 
set out in the notice of meeting dated 27 June 2014 is in the 
best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole. 
Accordingly, the directors unanimously recommend that you vote 
in favour of the resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of 
their beneficial holdings.
By order of the board
Eric Cook
Secretary 
10 June 2014
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REPORT REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 30
GOVERNANCE - STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
UK Corporate Governance Code
The company remains committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance for which the board is accountable.  The 
company has complied throughout the year with the main 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) 
issued	by	the	Financial	Reporting	Council.		This	statement,	
together with the directors’ remuneration report, describes how 
the company has applied the main principles of the Code.  
Board Meetings Remuneration Audit
No. No. No. No. No. No.
Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended
MJC Derbyshire 10 10 4 4 3 3
W	T ame 10 9 4 4 3 3
RJ Rickman 10 10 4 4 3 3
CJ Malley 10 10 - - - -
RJ Brooksbank 10 10 - - - -
The board
During the year the board comprised the non executive chairman, 
the chief executive, the executive finance director and two 
other non executive directors.  Under the company’s articles of 
association, all directors must offer themselves for re-election 
at least once every three years.  However, in accordance with 
developing best governance practice, this year all directors are 
again retiring and seeking re-election.
The biographies of all the directors appear on pages 27 to 28.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are held by separate 
directors with a clear division of responsibilities between them. 
The chairman has primary responsibility for leading the board 
and ensuring its effectiveness.  He sets the board’s agenda and 
ensures that all directors can make an effective contribution.  The 
chief executive has responsibility for all operational matters and 
the development and implementation of group strategy approved 
by the board.
The chairman and each non executive director were independent 
on appointment and the board considers each non executive 
director to be independent in accordance with the Code. 
The	board	has	appointed	W	T ame	as	senior	independent	non	
executive director who is available to shareholders if they have 
concerns which have not been resolved through the normal 
channels of chairman or chief executive. 
The board meets regularly (at least nine times each year) and there 
is contact between meetings to progress the company’s business.  
During the year attendance by directors at meetings of the board 
and the various committees is set out below.
The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision (including the development of corporate strategy and 
the approval of annual budgets, major capital expenditure and potential acquisitions and disposals).  Briefing papers are distributed by 
the secretary to all directors in advance of board meetings.  All directors participate in a full induction process on joining the board and 
subsequently receive training and briefing as appropriate. The directors are authorised to obtain independent advice as required. 
The company remains 
committed to the 
highest standards of 
corporate governance 
for which the board is 
accountable REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 31
GOVERNANCE - STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Conflicts	of	interest
Under the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 each 
director must seek authorisation before taking up any position 
that	may	conflict	with	the	interests	of	the	company .		The	board	
has	not	identified	any	actual	conflict	of	interest	in	relation	to	
existing external appointments for each director which have been 
authorised by the board in accordance with its powers.  A register 
is maintained by the company secretary and reviewed on an 
annual basis.
Board evaluation
The board was engaged throughout the previous year in 
succession planning.  This year the chairman supervised an 
internal evaluation of the board’s performance and that of its 
three principal committees.  In addition, an evaluation of the 
performance of individual directors was undertaken. 
The evaluation process was based on a series of questions 
devised for the purpose and circulated to the directors.  The 
process reviewed issues such as: the assessment and monitoring 
of the company’s strategy; the monthly board meeting 
agenda	and	information	flow ,	the	evaluation	of	risk	and	social	
responsibilities including anti-bribery policies and environmental 
risks. There was also a review of the role and performance 
of the board committees.  This included an evaluation of the 
Audit Committee’s review of current financial controls and the 
outsourced	internal	audit	function	and	of	the	Remuneration	
Committee’s review of additional disclosures in the annual 
remuneration report. The results of the evaluation were collated 
by the chairman and will form the basis of board objectives for 
2014, including:
•	 refining	the	group’s	technology	business	strategy
•	 discussion	of	management	and	board	succession
•	 further	evaluation	of	business	risks
•	 development	of	environmental	policies	including	energy		 	
 minimisation strategies
The Nomination Committee recognises the benefits to the group 
of diversity in the workforce and in the composition of the board 
itself	and	supports	the	Davies	Report’s	aspiration	to	provide	a	
greater	female	representation	on	listed	company	boards.		While	
the company will continue to make all appointments based on the 
best candidate for the role, we will look to follow the procedures 
recommended	by	the	Davies	Report	and	by	the	Code	when	new	
board appointments are made.
Board committees
The	board	has	three	committees,	Nomination,	Remuneration	and	
Audit all of which have terms of reference which deal specifically 
with their authorities and duties.  The terms of reference may be 
viewed on the company’s website.  All committee appointments 
are made by the board.  Only the committee chairmen and 
members of the committees are entitled to be present at 
committee meetings, but others may attend by invitation.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises the non executive 
directors.  The Committee is chaired by the group chairman and 
is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the 
board, having regard to the balance and structure of the board. 
In the last year the full Committee has met once to discuss 
succession planning and board performance.
Remuneration	Committee
The	company	has	established	a	Remuneration	Committee	
consisting entirely of independent non executive directors 
including	the	group	chairman.		The	Remuneration	Committee	
met	four	times	during	the	year	and	is	chaired	by	RJ	Rickman.	The	
Committee recommends to the full board the company’s policy 
on executive director and executive management remuneration 
and continues to determine individual remuneration packages for 
executive	 directors.	 	 The	 Remuneration	 Committee	 is	 authorised	 by	
the board to obtain independent professional advice if it considers 
this necessary.  The directors’ remuneration report on pages 36 to 
52 sets out the group’s remuneration objectives and policy and 
includes full details of directors’ remuneration in accordance with 
the provisions of the Code. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises all the non executive directors 
including the group chairman and meets not less than three times 
annually .		The	Committee	is	chaired	by	W	T ame	who,	as	current	
finance director of Babcock International Group plc, has both 
recent and relevant financial experience. The Committee provides 
a forum for discussions with the group’s external and internal 
auditors. Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the chief 
executive and finance director.
  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 32
The Audit Committee has terms of reference which follow closely 
the recommendations of the Code and include the following main 
roles and responsibilities:
•	 T o	monitor	the	financial	reporting	process.
•	 T o	review	the	effectiveness	of	the	group’s	internal	financial
 controls, internal control and risk management systems and
 internal audit function.
•	 T o	review	the	independence	and	effectiveness	of	the	external
 auditor, including the provision of non-audit services.
The Committee has reviewed whistleblowing arrangements 
whereby employees can report concerns about financial 
irregularities, health and safety and environmental or legal 
matters.  A dedicated whistleblower email address has been set 
up, details of which are included in new employee induction 
material and advertised at operating sites.
The Audit Committee assists the board in observing its 
responsibility for ensuring that the group’s financial systems 
provide	accurate	information	which	is	properly	reflected	in	the	
published accounts.  It reviews half year and annual accounts 
before their submission to the board and reviews reports from the 
internal auditor and computer department.  The Audit Committee 
report is set out on pages 34 to 35.
Certain operational and administrative matters are delegated by 
the board to the following executive committees:
Group executive committee
The group executive committee is chaired by the chief executive 
and comprises all the executive directors together with the 
group financial controller and selected managing directors from 
operating companies.  The committee meets each month and is 
responsible to the board for running the ongoing operations of 
the group’s businesses.
Finance, administration and risk 
management committee
The finance, administration and risk management committee is 
chaired by the finance director and comprises the secretary, group 
financial controller and group accountant.  The committee meets 
at least quarterly and is custodian of the group finance manual 
and is responsible for setting accounting and risk management 
policies and ensuring overall compliance with Turnbull guidance 
on internal controls.
Accountability and audit
Internal control
The board confirms that it has established the procedures 
necessary to implement the guidance “Internal Control: Guidance 
for	Directors	on	the	Combined	Code”	(the	T urnbull	Report).		These	
procedures provide for a continuous process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the material business risks faced by the 
group.  This process has been in place throughout the year under 
review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and 
accounts.  The process has been reviewed by the board and is in 
accordance	with	the	guidance	given	in	the	T urnbull	Report.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, the board has reviewed 
the effectiveness of the group’s system of internal control and 
risk management, for which it retains overall responsibility.  
Responsibility	for	operating	the	system	is	delegated	to	the	group	
executive committee and responsibility for monitoring the system 
is delegated to the finance, administration and risk management 
committee.  The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the 
group’s internal control system, the scope of work undertaken 
by the internal auditor and its findings, the group’s accounts and 
the	scope	of	work	undertaken	by	the	external	auditor .		Reviews	
are undertaken regularly and cover each accounting year and the 
period up to the date of approval of the accounts.
The internal control system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.  
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss, the group’s 
system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that problems 
are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.  The 
principal features of the group’s internal control structures can be 
summarised as follows –
a)   Matters reserved for the board
 The board holds regular meetings and has a number of matters 
reserved for its approval, including major capital expenditure, 
treasury and dividend policy.  The board is responsible for overall 
group strategy and for approving all group budgets and plans.  
Certain key areas are subject to regular reporting to the board 
including treasury operations, capital expenditure, corporate 
taxation and legal matters.  The Audit Committee assists the board 
in its duties regarding the group’s financial statements and liaises 
with the external auditors.
GOVERNANCE - STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 33
b)   Organisational structure
 There is a clearly defined organisational structure with lines of 
responsibility and delegation of authority to divisional executive 
management.  Divisional responsibility is supplemented by a group 
finance manual which dictates policies and practices applicable 
across the group and includes accounting, purchasing, capital 
expenditure and codes of business conduct.  These are reviewed 
by the internal auditor and are reported to the Audit Committee.  
This process forms part of the Audit Committee’s review of the 
effectiveness of the group’s system of internal control.
c) Financial control and reporting 
 There is a comprehensive group wide system of planning and 
budgeting with frequent reporting of results to each level of 
management as appropriate, including monthly reporting to 
the	board.		Reviews	involving	executive	directors	and	divisional	
executives include the annual identification and assessment of 
business and financial risks inherent in each division.
d) Internal auditor
 Mazars LLP continues to provide the outsourced internal audit 
function.  The internal auditor monitors and reports on the system 
of internal control.  The internal auditor reports to the Audit 
Committee and works to an agreed programme. 
 
Relations	with	shareholders
The company recognises the importance of communication with 
its	shareholders.	Regular	meetings	are	held	between	directors	
of the company and major institutional shareholders including 
presentations after the company’s preliminary announcements of 
the half year and full year results and discussions on performance 
and strategy.  Major shareholders have been advised that the 
chairman and the non executive directors are available for 
separate discussions if required.  The chairman held meetings 
with several major shareholders during the year. The board 
uses the annual general meeting to communicate with private 
and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.  
Shareholders have the opportunity to raise questions with the 
board during the meeting.  Directors also make themselves 
available before and after the annual general meeting to talk 
informally to shareholders, should they wish to do so.  The level 
of proxies received for each annual general meeting resolution 
is declared after the resolution has been dealt with on a show 
of hands providing no poll has been called for.  Details of the 
resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting on
4 September 2014 can be found in the notice of meeting on 
pages 102 to 104.
Structure of company’s capital
Details of the structure of the company’s capital are set out in the 
director’s report on pages 26 to 29.
Approved by the board on 10 June 2014
and signed on its behalf by
Eric Cook
Secretary
GOVERNANCE - STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 34
GOVERNANCE - AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Annual statement by the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee has continued its detailed scrutiny of the 
group’s system of risk management and internal controls, the 
robustness and integrity of the group’s financial reporting and the 
scope, effectiveness and results of both the internal and external 
audit processes.
There have been a number of significant changes for Audit 
Committees during the year under review.  The revisions to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code took effect during the year and 
contain several new provisions relevant to the Audit Committee:
•	 the	board	is	required	to	make	a	statement	that	the	annual
 report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides
 the information necessary for shareholders to assess the
 group’s performance, business model and strategy.  It is
 expected that most boards will ask the Audit Committee to
 advise them on this statement;
•	 the	Audit	Committee	report	should	provide	more	information
 on the significant issues considered in relation to the
 accounts; and
•	 the	Audit	Committee	is	required	to	explain	how	it	has
 assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee will continue to keep its activities under review in 
the light of developing regulations and best practice.
Composition
The Audit Committee comprises all the non executive directors 
including the group chairman and meets not less than three times 
annually .		The	Committee	is	chaired	by	W	T ame	who,	as	current	
finance director of Babcock International Group plc, has both 
recent and relevant financial experience.
Meetings
Only Audit Committee members are entitled to attend a meeting.  
However, the chief executive, finance director and the external 
Audit Engagement Partner are normally invited to attend 
meetings.
Three meetings were held during the year, two of which were 
scheduled to coincide with the board’s review and approval 
of the group’s Interim Statement and of its preliminary results 
announcement based on the annual report and accounts.  A 
section of at least one meeting during the period took place 
without management present.
Internal Control and risk management
The group has an established system of internal control and a risk 
management framework that the board considers appropriate in 
the context of the group’s reporting requirements and strategic 
objectives.  Internal controls are subject to internal and external 
audit and the outputs of the risk management process are 
actively reviewed by the board.  All these activities are periodically 
reviewed by the Committee and their effectiveness assessed 
through oral and written reports from both internal and external 
auditors.	In	addition,	a	Risk	Assurance	Review	is	conducted	
annually	by	the	full	board,	in	addition	to	a	T urnbull	Report	Review .	 	
Further details of the group’s risks and uncertainties together with 
the mitigating actions are set out on pages 18 to 20 of the annual 
report and accounts.
Internal Audit
The Committee reviews annually the arrangements for internal 
audit and during the year re-appointed Mazars LLP to provide the 
outsourced internal audit function.  The internal auditor monitors 
and reports on the system of internal control and works to an 
agreed programme.  The internal and external audit plans are set 
in the context of a developing assurance reporting process, are 
flexed	to	deal	with	any	change	in	the	risk	profile	of	the	group	and	
are approved by the Committee.
Mazars LLP attended an Audit Committee meeting to present their 
reports on internal audit work during the year.
Significant issues related to the financial 
statements
The Committee reviews accounting papers prepared by 
management that provide details of significant financial reporting 
issues, together with reports from the external auditor prepared 
in conjunction with the interim and full year results, and assesses 
whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and 
appropriate estimates and judgements have been made.  These 
matters are also discussed with the external auditor together 
with anything else that the auditor brings to the Committee’s 
attention.
In the year to 31 March 2014, such issues included the impact of 
changes in accounting standards,  the treatment of exceptional 
items and other financial reporting disclosures. 
The Committee also considered changes in corporate governance 
and the need for the annual report to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and to contain sufficient information on the 
group’s performance. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 35
The significant judgement considered by the Committee where 
there was potential risk of material misstatement was:
•	 the	balance	sheet	carrying	value	of	Conductive	Inkjet	T echnology ,	
Carclo Diagnostic Solutions and Platform Diagnostics and the 
capitalisation and amortisation policies applied in respect of 
patents and development costs.  The group has established policies 
for capitalising development costs and appropriate amortisation 
policies which the Audit Committee reviews to ensure that these 
policies continue to be appropriate, robust and consistently 
applied.  An impairment review on the balance sheet carrying value 
of Conductive Inkjet Technology, Carclo Diagnostic Solutions and 
Platform	Diagnostics	utilising	discounted	cash	flow	forecasts	is	also	
considered.                
Other areas of judgement reviewed by the Committee, but 
where it was concluded that there was not a risk of material 
misstatement included:
•	 The	group	balance	sheet	value	of	goodwill.		The	balance	of	
goodwill on the group balance sheet as at 31 March 2014 is 
£20.5 million  and the Audit Committee seeks to gain assurance 
through the executive management’s and the external auditor’s 
review	of	discounted	cash	flow	analyses	that	there	are	no	potential	
impairment or recoverability issues. 
•	 The	IAS19	pensions	position.		The	company	has	a	large	defined	
benefit pension scheme with liabilities of approximately
 £183.6 million and assets of approximately £183.8 million as at
 31 March 2014.  These numbers are sensitive to the main 
assumptions utilised to calculate the deficit or surplus on the 
scheme and the Audit Committee seeks confirmation that these 
assumptions are appropriate.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by 
management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures 
have been included in the annual report and financial statements.
External audit
The Committee has responsibility for making a recommendation 
on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the 
external auditor. The external auditor’s appointment is reviewed 
periodically and the lead audit partner is rotated at least once 
every five years. KPMG LLP has been the group’s external auditor 
since September 2005, when the last audit tender took place, and 
the current audit partner has completed four annual audits. The 
Committee is aware of the relevant proposals for auditor rotation 
and will monitor any legal or regulatory developments. There is no 
present intention to conduct an audit tender. 
The Committee reviews reports from KPMG LLP as part of the 
annual audit process. These cover the scope, approach and results 
of the external audit and include the procedures adopted for 
safeguarding the firm’s independence and objectivity. The quality 
and content of these reports, together with the performance and 
behaviour of the audit teams during the exercise of their duties, 
inform the Committee’s assessment of audit effectiveness.
The Committee has an established policy for determining the non-
audit services that the external auditor can provide where justified 
on grounds of cost and related expertise and where not impacted 
by	potential	conflicts	of	interest.	This	allows	the	Committee	
to satisfy itself that auditor objectivity and independence are 
safeguarded. The analysis of audit and non-audit fees for the 
year to 31 March 2014 and the nature of the non-audit services 
provided appear in Note 3 on the accounts. Non-audit fees 
totalled £0.02 million. Given the type of non-audit services 
provided, they are not considered by the Committee to affect the 
objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, KPMG LLP 
will be proposed for re-appointment as auditor by shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting on 4 September 2014.
Bill Tame
Chairman of the Audit Committee
10 June 2014
GOVERNANCE - AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 36
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Annual Statement
Dear Shareholder
The	Remuneration	Committee	strives	to	operate	and	demonstrate	
best practice in the area of executive remuneration and disclosure.  
This year, we have adopted the new disclosure requirements under 
the UK Government’s reforms on directors pay.  
Our report has three sections as follows:
•	 This	Annual	Statement,	which	summarises	and	explains	the	major	
decisions and changes in respect of directors’ remuneration;
•	 a	Directors’	Remuneration	P olicy	setting	out	the	forward-looking	
remuneration policy for  the company’s directors, which will 
operate from 1 April 2014; and
•	 An	Annual	Report	on	Remuneration,	providing	details	of	the	
remuneration earned by the company’s directors in relation to the 
year ended 31 March 2014 and how the policy will be operated for 
the year to 31 March 2015.
At the forthcoming AGM on 4 September 2014, the Directors’ 
Remuneration	P olicy	will	be	subject	to	a	binding	shareholder	
vote	and	the	Annual	Report	on	Remuneration	will	be	subject	
to an advisory shareholder vote. In future years, the directors’ 
remuneration will be subject to a binding vote every three years 
(sooner	if	changes	are	made	to	the	policy)	and	the	Annual	Report	
on	Remuneration	will	be	subject	to	an	annual	advisory	vote.
2014 – Performance and Pay
W e	believe	in	rewarding	our	executives	based	on	their	individual	
performance and on the value created for our shareholders.  The 
variable elements of executive remuneration are focused on 
simple and transparent measures of profit before tax, EPS growth 
and key individual strategic objectives.  Previous peer company 
comparisons and advice from Kepler Associates, remuneration 
consultants, had shown that executive director salaries and 
bonus arrangements were not market competitive.  This was 
addressed in 2013 in the service contract agreed on CJ Malley’s 
appointment	as	chief	executive	and	by	above	inflation	increases	
in	RJ	Brooksbank’s	salary	at	both	1	April	2013	and	2014.		Annual	
bonus potential was also increased for 2014 from 50% to 100% 
for the chief executive and from 40% to 75% for the finance 
director.  For 2014 all of the increase in bonus potential was 
subject to achieving personal business and strategic objectives.
Our executives performed well against their own stretching 
individual performance targets and earned a bonus for their 
performance.  However, they offered to waive that bonus 
entitlement in the current year, as the group’s targeted profit 
growth was not achieved.  The Committee accepted this offer.  No 
annual bonus was earned in respect of the 2013/14 results and 
there was zero vesting in relation to the 2011 Carclo PSP award.
Remuneration	policy	for	2015
The	Remuneration	Committee	continually	reviews	the	senior	
executive remuneration policy to ensure it promotes the 
attraction, motivation and retention of high quality executives to 
deliver sustainable earnings growth and shareholder return.  
The Committee’s most recent conclusions are that the senior 
executive remuneration policy is appropriate and should continue 
to operate for 2015 without major changes.  
Specifically, the Committee concluded that
•	 Basic	salary	levels	are	appropriately	positioned	in	the	market;
•	 The	structure	and	quantum	of	the	annual	bonus	is	appropriate	
and aligned to shareholders’ interests. For 2015 the proportion 
of the annual bonus potential to be measured against individual 
performance targets will be reduced from 50% to 37.5%; and
•	 the	long-term	incentive	grant	policy ,	whereby	conditional	awards	
of shares are granted annually under the Carclo PSP with vesting 
after three years based on earnings per share and relative total 
shareholder return performance conditions, provides a strong 
alignment between the senior executive team and shareholders.
At the forthcoming 
AGM on 4 September 
2014, the Directors’ 
Remuneration	P olicy		
will be subject to a 
binding shareholder 
vote REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 37
Alignment with shareholders
W e	are	mindful	of	our	shareholders’	interests	and	are	keen	to	
ensure a demonstrable link between reward and value creation.  
In addition to the matters set out in this report, alignment and 
shareholder interest is further demonstrated by the operation 
of share ownership guidelines and the inclusion of claw back 
provisions for both annual bonus and LTIP awards.
W e	acknowledge	the	support	we	have	received	in	the	past	from	
our shareholders and hope that we will continue to receive your 
support at the forthcoming AGM.
Robert	Rickman
Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee
10 June 2014
Compliance Statement
This	Report	has	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	
requirements of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and 
Groups	(Accounts	and	Reports)	(Amendment)	Regulations	2013,	
the	UK	Listing	Authority	Listing	Rules	and	applies	the	principles	set	
out in the UK Code on Corporate Governance (the “Code”).
The	following	parts	of	the	Annual	Report	on	Remuneration	Report	
are audited: the single total figure of remuneration for directors, 
including annual bonus and LTIP outcomes for the financial year 
ending 31 March 2014; scheme interests awarded during the 
year; and, directors’ shareholdings and share interests. 
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Directors’	Remuneration	P olicy
This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for 
executive directors which shareholders are asked to approve at the 
2014 AGM.  The Committee intends that this policy will formally 
come into effect from the date of the approval by shareholders. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 38
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Element of Remuneration
Purpose and link to 
Strategy
Operation Maximum Performance Targets
SALARY
OTHER
BENEFITS
BONUS
LONG TERM 
INCENTIVE
PLAN
PENSION
SHARE OWNERSHIP 
GUIDELINES
NON EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS FEES
To provide an appropriate, 
competitive level of basic fixed 
income avoiding excessive risk 
arising from over reliance on 
variable income
To attract and retain executive 
directors of superior calibre in 
order to deliver business growth
Reflects individual skills and 
experience and role
Provides market competitive 
benefits 
Provides insured benefits to 
support the individual and their 
family during periods of ill health, 
accident or death
Incentivises annual delivery of 
short-term financial and strategic 
goals and business strategy
Maximum bonus only payable for 
achieving demanding targets
To motivate and retain executives, 
reward delivery of the company 
strategy and long-term goals 
and to help align executive and 
shareholder interests
Aligned to main strategic 
objectives of delivering sustainable 
profit growth and shareholder 
return
Provides modest market 
competitive retirement benefits
Opportunity for executives to 
contribute to their own retirement 
plan
To provide alignment between 
executives and shareholders
Reflects time commitments and 
responsibilities of each role
Reflects market competitive fees
Reviewed annually by the 
Remuneration Committee, 
normally effective 1 April 
Takes periodic account of similar 
roles at companies with similar 
characteristics and sector 
comparators, individual experience 
and performance, company 
performance and wider pay 
levels and salary increases across 
the group
Benefits provided through third 
party providers 
Includes car allowance, life 
insurance, private medical 
insurance and permanent disability 
insurance.  Other benefits may be 
provided where appropriate
Performance measures, targets 
and weightings are set at the 
start of the year.  Payments are 
calculated based on an assessment 
of performance at the end of the 
year.  Paid in cash
Not pensionable 
Clawback provisions apply in the 
event of material misstatement 
of results and/or an error in the 
calculation of the bonus outcome
Annual grant of nil cost options 
or performance shares which 
normally vest after at least 3 
years subject to continued service 
and performance targets.  At the 
start of each performance cycle, 
the Committee sets performance 
targets which it considers to be 
appropriately stretching.
Clawback provisions apply in the 
event of material misstatement 
of results and/or an error in the 
calculation of the vesting outcome
Executive directors receive a 
contribution to HMRC approved 
personal pension arrangement 
or a salary supplement in lieu of 
pension contributions
Executive directors are required to 
build and maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to one year’s base 
salary through the retention of 
vested share awards or through 
open market purchases until the 
guideline is met
Reviewed annually by the 
Remuneration Committee, 
normally effective 1 April.  
Chairman and non executive 
directors receive a basic fee for 
their respective roles.  Additional 
fees are paid to non executive 
directors for additional services 
such as chairing the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees
Fee levels are benchmarked with 
reference to sector comparators 
and FTSE-listed companies of 
similar size and complexity.  The 
required time commitment and 
responsibilities are taken into 
account when reviewing fee levels.  
All fees are paid in cash
No prescribed maximum annual 
increase, but will normally be in 
line with general increase for the 
wider workforce
In exceptional circumstances, the 
Committee may decide to award 
a lower increase for executive 
directors or indeed exceed this to 
recognise, for example, an increase  
in the scale, scope or responsibility  
of the role and/or to take account 
relevant market movements
Benefits may vary by role and 
individual circumstance and are 
reviewed periodically.  Benefits 
have not exceeded  10% of salary 
in the last 3 financial years and 
are not anticipated to exceed 
this over the next three financial 
years.  The Committee retains the 
discretion to approve a higher cost 
in exceptional circumstances (e.g. 
relocation) or in circumstances 
where factors outside of the 
Company’s control have materially 
changed (e.g. increases in medical 
premiums)
100% of salary CEO
75% of salary FD
100% of salary normal limit
200% of salary exceptional limit - 
e.g., recruitment or retention
The maximum employer 
contribution is 20% of salary
100% of salary holding for 
executive directors
No prescribed maximum annual 
increase, but  it is expected that 
fee increases will normally be 
in line with general increase for 
the wider workforce.  However, 
in the event that there is a 
material misalignment with the 
market or change in complexity, 
responsibility or time commitment 
required to fulfil a non-executive 
director role, the board has 
discretion to make an appropriate 
adjustment to the fee level
N/A
N/A
Performance is assessed on an annual basis by reference to 
financial measures as well as the achievement of personal/
strategic objectives. The current financial performance measure is 
Underlying Profit, however the Committee has discretion to adjust 
the performance measures and weightings each year according to 
strategic priorities, although the weighting on financial measures 
will be at least 50%
The bonus for personal/strategic performance is payable only 
if, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, there was 
an improvement in the underlying financial and operational 
performance of the group during that financial year.  The 
Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic outcomes to 
ensure that payments accurately reflect business performance 
over the performance period.  Adjustments may be upwards or 
downwards
LTIP performance measured over three years.  Performance 
measures are currently EPS and TSR weighted equally, however 
the Committee has discretion to adjust the performance measures 
and weightings to ensure they continue to be linked to the delivery 
of company strategy.  The Committee has discretion to adjust the 
formulaic outcomes to ensure that payments accurately reflect 
business performance over the performance period.  Adjustments 
may be upwards or downwards
N/A
N/A
Non executive directors do not participate in variable pay 
arrangements
Policy table
The Policy Table summarises the key components of remuneration for executive directors: REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 39
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Notes to the policy table
A	description	of	how	the	company	intends	to	implement	the	policy	set	out	in	this	table	for	2015	is	set	out	in	the	Annual	Report	on	
Remuneration	on	page	36	.
Payments from existing awards
The company will honour any commitment entered into, and executive directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award 
made, prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this report. Details of any such awards are 
disclosed	in	the	Annual	Report	on	Remuneration.
Performance measurement selection
The	choice	of	the	performance	metrics	applicable	to	the	annual	bonus	scheme	reflect	the	Committee’s	belief	that	any	incentive	
compensation should be appropriately challenging and tied to both the delivery of profit growth and specific individual objectives.
The	 TSR	 and	 EPS	 performance	 conditions	 applicable	 to	 the	 Carclo	 PSP	 (further	 details	 of	 which	 are	 provided	 on	 page	 48	 were	 selected	 by	
the	Remuneration	Committee	on	the	basis	that	they	reward	the	delivery	of	long	term	returns	to	shareholders	and	the	group’s	financial	
growth and are consistent with the company’s objective of delivering superior levels of long term value to shareholders.
The	Committee	operates	share	plans	in	accordance	with	their	respective	rules	and	in	accordance	with	the	Listing	Rules	and	HMRC	where	
relevant.  The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and 
administration of certain plans.
As highlighted above, the company has a share ownership policy which requires the executive directors to build up and maintain a 
target holding equal to 100% of base salary.  Details of the extent to which the executive directors had complied with this policy as at 
31 March 2014 are set out on page 51.
F or	the	avoidance	of	doubt,	in	approving	this	Directors’	Remuneration	P olicy ,	authority	is	given	to	the	company	to	honour	any	
commitments entered into with current or former directors (such as the payment of a pension or the vesting/exercise of past share 
awards).	Details	of	any	payments	to	former	directors	will	be	set	out	in	the	Annual	Report	on	Remuneration	as	they	arise.	
Remuneration	policy	for	other	employees
The following differences exist between the company’s policy for the remuneration of executive directors as set out above and its 
approach to the payment of employees generally:
i) A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity (or zero bonus opportunity) may apply to employees other than the executive  
 directors and certain senior executives.
ii) Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise provision of healthcare and company car benefits where required for the role  
 or to meet market norms.
iii) The majority of employees participate in local defined contribution pension arrangements.
iv) Participation in Carclo PSP is limited to the executive directors and certain selected senior managers.
In general these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various 
categories	of	individuals.		They	also	reflect	the	fact	that,	in	the	case	of	the	executive	directors	and	senior	executives,	a	greater	emphasis	
tends to be placed on performance related pay. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 40
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Remuneration	P olicy	for	the	chairman	and	non	executive	directors
The board determines the remuneration policy and level of fees for the non executive directors, within the limits set out in the Articles of 
Association.	The	Remuneration	Committee	recommends	the	remuneration	policy	and	level	of	fees	for	the	chairman.	
 
The Policy Table summarises the key components of remuneration for the chairman and non-executive directors. 
Pay scenario charts
The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the two current executive directors, and 
the potential split between different elements of remuneration under three different scenarios; “Minimum”, “Target” and “Maximum” 
performance.
336
548
902
241
336
507
100% 61% 37% 100% 69% 46%
26%
13%
31%
32%
21%
10%
28%
26%
Remuneration	£’000
Minimum
On target
Maximum
Minimum
On target
Maximum
1,000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
Chief Executive Finance Director
Basic Salary, benefits & pension
Bonus
LTIP REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 41
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
Minimum
Fixed pay comprising base salary, benefits and pension
Base salary is the current base salary effective 1 April 2014
Benefits measured as paid in 2014 as set out in the single figure table
Pension entitlement measured as 20% of base salary subject to £40,000 cap
On target
Based on remuneration if performance was in line with expectations
Annual 	 performance 	 bonus 	 50% 	 of 	 maximum 	 – 	 i.e 	 CJ 	 Malley 	 50%, 	 RJ 	 Brooksbank	
37.5% of base salary
LTIP 	 consists 	 of 	 threshold 	 PSP 	 vesting 	 (25% 	 for 	 both 	 TSR 	 and 	 eps 	 performance	
measures)
Maximum
Based on maximum remuneration receivable
A n n u a l 	 p e r f o r m a n c e 	 b o n u s 	 1 0 0 % 	 o f 	 m a x i m u m 	 - 	 i . e . , 	 C J 	 M a l l e y 	 1 0 0 % , 	 R J	
Brooksbank 75% of base salary
LTIP 	 assumes 	 maximum 	 PSP 	 vesting 	 (100% 	 for 	 both 	 TSR 	 and 	 eps 	 performance	
measures)
  Base salary  Benefits  Pension  Total fixed
Name  £’000  £’000  £’000  £’000
CJ Malley  283  13  40  336
RJ Brooksbank 190  13  38  241
Assumptions underlying each element of pay are provided in the table below. The projected value of the Carclo PSP excludes the impact of 
share	price	growth	and	dividend	accrual.	Actual	pay	delivered,	however ,	will	be	influenced	by	these	factors.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The remuneration package for a new executive director – i.e., 
basic salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long term 
incentive awards – would be set in accordance with the terms 
of the company’s prevailing approved remuneration policy at 
the	time	of	appointment	and	would	reflect	the	experience	of	
the individual.  The salary for a new executive may be set below 
the normal market rate, with phased increases over the first few 
years, as the executive gains experience in their new role.  Annual 
bonus potential will be limited to 100% of salary and long term 
incentives will be limited to 100% of salary (200% of salary in 
exceptional circumstances).  
In addition to normal remuneration elements, the Committee 
may offer additional cash and/or share based elements when 
it considers these to be in the best interests of the company 
(and therefore shareholders) to take account of remuneration 
relinquished when leaving the former employer (‘buyout’ awards) 
and would be made on a like-for-like basis, where possible 
reflecting	the	nature,	time	horizons,	performance	requirements	
attaching to that remuneration and the likelihood of those 
conditions being met.  Any such ‘buy-out’ awards will typically 
be made under the existing annual bonus and LTIP schemes, 
although in exceptional circumstances the Committee may 
exercise	the	discretion	available	under	Listing	Rule	9.4.2	R	to	
make awards using a different structure.  Any ‘buy-out’ awards 
would have a fair value no higher than the awards forfeited.  
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time 
of appointment.    REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 42
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
F or	an	internal	executive	director	appointment,	the	Remuneration	
Committee will be consistent with the Policy for external 
appointees detailed above.  Any variable pay element awarded 
in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according 
to	its	terms.		Where	an	individual	has	contractual	commitments	
made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the 
company will continue to honour these arrangements. As 
reported last year, a Growth Share Plan (“GSP”) was introduced at 
Conductive Inkjet Technology Limited (“CIT”) in 2010 to incentivise 
three of the subsidiary’s senior executives to maximise CIT’s value. 
Proceeds from the GSP would be based on the value of CIT as 
crystallised by a sale or listing event or when triggered by the 
company exercising its call option to acquire the participants’ CIT 
shares. The company is keeping under review when to exercise 
this call option. One of the three CIT participants is CJ Malley, 
now chief executive of Carclo plc. Under the terms of the GSP , he 
will receive nil proceeds for a CIT value below £30 million (to be 
determined by an independent valuation).  Proceeds will increase 
on a sliding linear scale to a maximum of £1,350,000 if CIT’s value 
exceeds £120 million. On his appointment as chief executive, the 
Remuneration	Committee	stipulated	that	any	proceeds	from	the	
GSP will be paid one third in cash and two thirds in Carclo shares, 
of which half the shares must be held for at least one year after 
the valuation date and the remaining half must be held for at 
least two years.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree 
that the company will meet certain relocation and/or incidental 
expenses as appropriate.  
In the case of hiring or appointing a new non-executive director, 
the Committee will follow the policy as set out in the table on 
page 38.  A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would 
be payable for board membership, with additional fees payable 
for additional services, such as chairing a board committee.
 
External appointments
The executive directors may accept outside appointments, with 
prior board approval, provided these opportunities do not 
negatively impact on the individual’s ability to perform his duties 
at	the	company .		Whether	any	related	fees	are	retained	by	the	
individual or are remitted to the company will be considered on a 
case	by	case	basis.	RJ	Brooksbank	was	appointed	a	non	executive	
director	of	blur	Group	plc	on	24	July	2012.		W ith	the	agreement	
of the board, he retained fees for this work of £17,500 during the 
financial year.
Executive director Position Effective date Notice period Notice period 
  of contract from company from director
CJ Malley Chief executive 27 March 2013 12 months 12 months
RJ Brooksbank Finance director 1 April 2004 12 months 12 months
Service contracts 
The executive directors are employed under contracts of employment with Carclo. The principal terms of the executive directors’ service 
contracts are as follows:
Non executive directors are appointed under arrangements that may generally be terminated at will by either party without compensation 
and their appointment is reviewed annually.
Letters of appointment are provided to the chairman and non executive directors. Non executive directors have letters of appointment 
effective for a period of three years and are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 43
GOVERNANCE - DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
 
    
  Unexpired term as Date of Last 
Non executive director Date of letter at 31 March 2014 appointment reappointment at AGM
MJC Derbyshire 28 September 2012 To 2015 AGM 1 January 2006 5 September 2013
W Tame 28 September 2012 To 2015 AGM 1 January 2006 5 September 2013
RJ Rickman 28 June 2012 To 2015 AGM 1 July 2012 5 September 2013
Directors’ letters of appointment and the unexpired period of their appointments (where appropriate after extension by re-election) 
are set out below:
Exit payment policy
The company’s policy is to limit any payment made to a departing 
director to contractual arrangements and to honour any pre-
established commitments. As part of this process, the Committee 
will take into consideration the executive director’s duty to 
mitigate their loss.
Annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the 
financial year served although it will be pro-rated for time and 
paid at the normal pay out date.  Any share based entitlements 
granted to an executive director under the company’s share plans 
will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.  The default 
treatment under the 2007 PSP is that any outstanding awards 
lapse on cessation of employment.  However, in certain prescribed 
circumstances, such as death, ill health, disability, retirement or 
other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, ‘good 
leaver’ status may be applied.  For good leavers, awards will 
normally vest on cessation, subject to the satisfaction of the 
relevant performance conditions at that time and reduced pro 
rata	to	reflect	the	proportion	of	the	performance	period	actually	
served.		However ,	the	Remuneration	Committee	has	discretion	to	
determine that awards vest at a later date and/or to dis-apply time 
pro rating.  
Consideration of conditions
elsewhere in the company
In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers 
the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the company. 
In particular, the Committee considers the range of base pay 
increases across the company as a factor in determining the base 
salary increases for executive directors. Further, the Committee 
regularly reviews information with regard to bonus payments 
and share awards made to senior management. In particular, the 
Committee reviews the remuneration structure and pay proposals, 
and approves the structure and targets for their bonus plans. It 
also oversees any major changes in employee benefit structures. 
The Committee does not specifically consult with employees 
over the effectiveness and appropriateness of the remuneration 
Policy and framework, although as members of the board the 
Committee receives updates from the executive directors on their 
discussions and consultations with employees.
Consideration of shareholder views
The Committee is sensitive to the views of shareholders and 
intends to engage regularly with its investors on developments 
in remuneration policy and practice. The Committee welcomes 
shareholder feedback on any issue related to directors’ 
remuneration and will take into account all feedback received 
from the AGM to ensure that the directors’ remuneration policy 
remains appropriate.  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 44
GOVERNANCE - ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Remuneration	Committee
membership in 2014
The	Remuneration	Committee	comprises	both	non	executive	
directors	and	the	group	chairman	and	is	chaired	by	R	J	Rickman.	
The Committee met four times and individual Committee 
members attended all meetings held during the year under review. 
The following section 
provides details of how 
Carclo’s remuneration 
policy was implemented 
during the financial year 
ended 31 March 2014.
During the year, the Committee sought internal support from the 
chief executive who attended Committee meetings by invitation 
from the chairman, to advise on specific questions raised by 
the Committee and on matters relating to the performance and 
remuneration of senior managers. The chief executive and finance 
director were not present for any discussions that related directly 
to their own remuneration. The company secretary attended each 
meeting as secretary to the Committee. 
Independent Advice
In undertaking its responsibilities, the Committee seeks 
independent external advice as necessary. To this end, for the 
year under review, the Committee continued to retain the 
services of Kepler Associates as the principal external advisers 
to the Committee. The Committee evaluates the support 
provided by its advisers annually and is comfortable that the 
Kepler team provides independent remuneration advice to the 
Committee and do not have any connections with the Company 
that may impair their independence. Kepler Associates is a 
founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for 
Remuneration	Consultants,	details	of	which	can	be	found	at	
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.  During the year, 
Kepler Associates provided independent advice on a wide range 
of remuneration matters including current market practice, 
benchmarking of executive pay and incentive design and provides 
no other services to the company. Kepler’s fees in respect of 2014 
were £9,000.
  Total number % of votes cast 
  of votes
For (including discretionary)  33,868,285 95.5
Against  1,614,025 4.5
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 35,482,310 100.00
Votes withheld  8,319,560
 Total votes cast (including withheld votes) 43,801,870 
Implementation of remuneration policy for the year ended 31 March 2014
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2013 AGM
The	following	table	shows	the	results	of	the	advisory	shareholder	vote	on	the	2013	Remuneration	Report	at	the	2013	AGM: REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 45
GOVERNANCE - ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive director for the year ended
31 March 2014 and the prior year:
Salary Benefits (3) Annual Bonus LTIP (7) Pension (4) Total
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Name £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
CJ Malley (1) 275 114 13 9 - - - 76 40 26 328 225
RJ Brooksbank 170 150 13 12 - - - 331 34 30 217 523
Former Directors
I Williamson (2) - 237 - 12 - - - 2,515 - - - 2,764
Notes
(1) CJ Malley was appointed to the board on 1 July 2012 and as chief executive from 27 March 2013
(2)	 I	W illiamson	 	retired	as	chief	executive	on	27	March	2013
(3) Benefits comprise private medical cover and car allowance
(4) Pension contributions are in line with remuneration policy
(5) Details of the performance measures applicable to the annual bonus for 2014 are set out below
(6) Details of the performance measures applicable to the vesting of long term incentive awards are set out below
(7)	 2013	L TIP	value	includes	vesting	of	both	2009	and	2010	PSP	awards	because	the	TSR	performance	periods	for	these	awards
 ended on 30 September 2012 and 31 March 2013 respectively
Single total figure of remuneration for non executive directors (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non executive director for the year ended
31 March 2014 and the prior year:
Base fee £ Committee fees £ Total £
Non Executive Director 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
MJC Derbyshire 75,920 55,083 (1) - - 75,920 55,083
W Tame 31,200 30,000 5,200 2,500 (2) 36,400 32,500
RJ Rickman 31,200 22,500 (3) 5,200 2,500 (2) 36,400 25,000
Notes
(1) MJC Derbyshire appointed chairman from 6 September 2012 (previously non executive director).
(2)	 F ees	for	chairing	Audit	and	Remuneration	Committees	introduced	1	October	2012.
(3)	 R	Rickman	appointed	non	executive	director	from	1	July	2012. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 46
GOVERNANCE - ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2014 (audited)
Variable pay
Annual performance bonus outcome 2014
Outcome % Salary Maximum Potential % Salary
Name Financial Strategic Payable Financial Strategic Payable
CJ Malley 0 30 0 50 50 100
RJ Brooksbank 0 26 0 40 35 75
There were no annual bonuses payable to executive directors as they waived their entitlement to receive bonus based on 
achievement of individual strategic objectives.
        
The detailed financial performance targets applicable to the 2014 annual bonus arrangements are considered commercially 
sensitive as they relate to specific CIT and underlying group profit levels and accordingly are not further disclosed.
2011/12 LTIP vesting
The LTIP award granted on 8 July 2011 was based on performance to the year ended 31 March 2014.
The performance targets for this award, and actual performance against those targets, were as follows:
Earnings per 
share
Normalised EPS growth of 
RPI+ 	 5% 	 pa 	 (12.5% 	 vesting) 	 to	
RPI+12% 	 pa 	 (50% 	 vesting) 	 over	
three financial years
10.06p EPS 12.22p EPS 7.56p EPS 0%
Total
Shareholder 
Return
T S R 	 a g a i n s t 	 t h e 	 c o n s t i t u e n t s	
of the FTSE Small Cap Index 
(excluding investment trusts). 
12.5% vesting for median per-
formance and 50% vesting for 
upper quartile performance or 
a b o v e . 	 	 T S R 	 m e a s u r e d 	 o v e r 	 t h r e e	
financial years with a three 
month average at the start and 
end of the performance period
43.7% 	 TSR 101.6% 	 TSR (26.0%) 	 TSR 0%
Metric Performance condition
Threshold 
target
Stretch 
target
Actual % Vesting
There is therefore zero vesting for the 2011 award as follows:
Executive Number of shares at 
grant
Number of shares to 
vest
Number of shares to 
lapse
Estimated value (£)
RJ Brooksbank 31,000 - 31,000 - REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 47
GOVERNANCE - ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Executive Director Date of grant Awards made during 
the year
Market price at date of 
award
Face value at date of 
award
CJ Malley 12 July 2013 79,000 352p £278,080
RJ Brooksbank 12 July 2013 34,000 352p £119,680
Scheme interests awarded in the year ended 31 March 2014 (audited)
2013/14 LTIP
Implementation of remuneration policy for the year ending 31 March 2015
A	summary	of	how	the	Directors’	Remuneration	P olicy	will	be	applied	during	the	year	ending	31	March	2015	is	set	out	below:
Basic salary
As	reported	in	the	Annual	Statement	on	page	36	the	Remuneration	Committee	agreed	to	increase	executive	directors’	base	salary	levels	as	
follows: 
Name    2015  2014  % increase 
CJ Malley    £283,250    £275,000     3.0  
 RJ Brooksbank   £190,000   £170,000    11.8  
Pension arrangements
The group’s contribution to CJ Malley’s personal pension plan will 
remain fixed at £40,000 per annum.  A salary supplement in lieu 
of	pension	contributions	will	be	paid	to	RJ	Brooksbank,	calculated	
at 20% of salary.
Annual bonus
The maximum bonus potential for the year ending 31 March 2015 
will remain at 100% of salary for the chief executive and 75% of 
basic salary for the finance director.  Awards are determined based 
on a combination of both the group’s financial results, 62.5% 
based on growth in group underlying profit before tax, and 
37.5% based on executive’s personal performance achievement 
level.  Maximum bonus will only be payable when both the 
financial results of the group and the executive’s individual 
performance against objectives have significantly exceeded 
expectations.  A bonus will be payable only if, in the opinion of 
the	Remuneration	Committee,	there	is	an	improvement	in	the	
underlying financial and operating performance of the group 
during the year ending 31 March 2015.  Claw back provisions for 
all executive directors will apply.
Proposed target levels have been set to be challenging relative 
to the 2015 business plan, although specific targets are deemed 
to be commercially sensitive and will not be published until such 
time that the Committee is confident there will be no adverse 
impact on the company of such disclosure. At this time the 
Committee believes that disclosure of targets within 2 years of the 
determination of bonuses, i.e. not later than the 2016 Directors’ 
Remuneration	Report,	is	appropriate.
The group’s employees are, in general, receiving pay rises ranging from 2.5% to 4% depending on promotional increases and individual 
performance. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 48
GOVERNANCE - ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Long term incentives
Consistent with past awards, the extent to which LTIP awards 
which will be granted in the year ending 31 March 2015 will vest 
will be dependent on two independent performance conditions 
with 50% determined by reference to the company’s total 
shareholder	return	(“TSR”)	and	50%	determined	by	reference	to	
the group’s earnings per share (“EPS”), as follows:
•	 The	TSR	element	of	an	award	will	vest	in	full	if	the	TSR	ranks	in	the	
upper quartile, as measured over the three year period, relative to 
the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index excluding investment 
trusts at the beginning of that period.  This element of the award is 
reduced to 25% on a pro rata basis for median performance and is 
reduced to nil for below median performance; and
•	 The	EPS	element	of	an	award	will	vest	in	full	if	EPS	growth	exceeds	
inflation,	as	measured	by	the	Retail	Prices	Index,	by	an	average	of	
12% per annum or more over the three year period.  This element 
of the award is reduced to 25% on a pro rata basis if EPS growth 
exceeds	inflation	by	an	average	of	5%	per	annum	over	the	period	
and	is	reduced	to	nil	if	EPS	growth	fails	to	exceed	inflation	by	5%	
per annum. 
As	set	out	in	the	Directors’	Remuneration	P olicy ,	awards	will	be	
subject to claw back provisions.
Chairman and non executive directors
The company’s approach to non executive directors’ remuneration is set by the board with account taken of the time and responsibility 
involved in each role, including where applicable the Chairmanship of board committees.
A summary of current fees is shown in the table below.
Fee increases were awarded for the 2014/15 financial year as follows:
Provision     2015  2014  % increase
Chairman    £78,200    £75,920    3.0   
Base fee    £32,100    £31,200    2.9   
Committee Chair fees   £ 5,400               £  5,200    3.8  
Total non executive directors  £37,500  £36,400    3.0 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 49
GOVERNANCE - ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Percentage change in chief executive remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in the chief executive’s salary, benefits and annual bonus between the financial year ended
31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 compared to that of the total amounts for all UK employees of the group for each of these elements
of pay. 
2014 2013 % change
£’000 £’000
Salary
Chief executive
UK employee average
275
27
237
26
16.0 
3.4
Note 1
Benefits
Chief executive
UK employee average
13
1
13
1
-
-
Annual bonus
Chief executive
UK employee average
-
-
-
-
-
-
Note 2
Note 3
Average number of UK employees 550 561 (2.0)
UK employees have been selected as the most appropriate comparator pool, given the largest number of group employees and our 
headquarters are located in the UK.
Note	1:	 	2013	figures	relate	to	previous	chief	executive,	Ian	W illiamson,	whose	base	salary	was	frozen	from	2010	as	part	of	the	terms
agreed for the extension of his service contract to 27 March 2013
Note 2:  There were no bonus payments made to directors as they waived their entitlement to receive bonus payments as detailed on 
page 36
Note 3 : Total annual bonus awards under the group’s short term incentive scheme increased from £108k to £146k for UK 
participants
Relative	importance	of	spend	on	pay
The table below shows the company’s actual expenditure on pay (for all employees) relative to dividends, and retained profits for the 
financial years ending 31 March 2013 and ending 31 March 2014.
2014 2013 % change
£’000 £’000
Staff costs 24,841 24,990 (0.6)
Dividends 1,749 1,674 4.5
Retained profits 3,555 2,739 29.8
The dividends figures relate to amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
2014 includes a proposed final dividend of 1.80p. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 50
GOVERNANCE - ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Related	performance	graph
The graph below compares the value of £100 invested in Carclo shares, including re-invested dividends, with the FTSE Small Cap index over 
the last five years. This index was selected because it is considered to be the most appropriate against which the total shareholder return of 
Carclo should be measured. 
Mar-14
1000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13
Total shareholder return (£)
Table of historic data (chief executive)
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Chief executive single figure of 
remuneration (£000)
433 491 249 2,764 328
Annual bonus payout 
(as % of maximum)
- - - - -
LTIP vesting 
(as % of maximum)
50 50 50 100 -
Figures	for	2010	to	2013	relate	to	I	W illiamson	who	was	succeeded	as	chief	executive	by	CJ	Malley	on	27	March	2013
Carclo plc total shareholder return index
FTSE Small Cap total return index REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 51
GOVERNANCE - ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Directors’ interests (audited)
The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the company as at 31 March 2014 were as follows:
31 March 2014       31 March 2013
Ordinary shares Options Ordinary shares Options
CJ Malley 19,612 - 8,160 -
RJ Brooksbank 196,055 - 177,770 60,000
MJC Derbyshire 50,000 - 50,000 -
W Tame 29,000 - 29,000 -
RJ Rickman 5,300 - - -
i)	 On	26	September	2013,	RJ	Brooksbank	exercised	options	over	60,000	shares	at	an	exercise	price	of	50p	per	share	and
 sold them at a price of 400p per share.  These options were originally granted in 2004 under the Carclo Discretionary
 Scheme 1997 (now expired).
ii) Following this transaction, neither executive director holds any outstanding share options.
iii) There have been no changes in the directors’ interests since the year end.
Directors’ shareholding (audited)
The table below shows the shareholding of each director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 March 2014:
Shares held
Shareholding 
requirement
(% salary)
Current share-
holding
(% salary)
Director
Owned outright 
or vested
Vested but
subject to
holding period
Unvested and 
subject to
performance 
conditions
CJ Malley 19,612 - 79,000 100 9
RJ Brooksbank 196,055 - 57,000 100 127 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 52
GOVERNANCE - ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
Directors’ interests in shares in Carclo long-term incentive plans (audited)
 
Directors’ share awards under the Carclo PSP (audited) 
i)      Details of share awards under the Carclo PSP made to executive directors are shown below 
Director 
and year of 
award
At 1 April 
2013
Granted Vested Lapsed At 31 March 
2014
Market 
value per 
share at 
date of 
award
£
Determina-
tion Date
CJ Malley
PSP 2013 - 79,000 - - 79,000 3.52 11.7.16
RJ Brooksbank
PSP 2010 69,000 - (34,500) (34,500) - 1.59 6.7.13
PSP 2011 31,000 - - - 31,000 3.25 7.7.14
PSP 2012 23,000 - - - 23,000 4.40 15.7.15
PSP 2013 - 34,000 - - 34,000 3.52 11.7.16
i)	 On	8	July	2013	50%	of	the	PSP	2010	award	vested,	representing	100%	of	the	award	measured	on	TSR	performance.	
	 Carclo’s	TSR	ranking	for	the	three	year	performance	period	to	31	March	2013	was	eighth	out	of	131	constituents	of	the	F TSE
 Small Cap index – comfortably top quartile.  There was zero vesting in relation to the EPS measured portion of the award. 
	 V esting	was	satisfied	by	an	allotment	of	shares.		Accordingly ,	RJ	Brooksbank	received	34,500	shares.
 The market price of  the company’s ordinary shares at the date of the vesting was 352p. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 53
GOVERNANCE - RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS
IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT
Directors’ responsibilities for the preparation 
of the annual report
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and 
the group and parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year.  Under that 
law they are required to prepare the group financial statements 
in	accordance	with	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	EU	and	applicable	
law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and 
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and 
of their profit or loss for that period.  In preparing each of the 
group and parent company financial statements, the directors are 
required to –
•	 select	suitable	accounting	policies	and	then	apply	them	
consistently;
•	 make	judgments	and	estimates	that	are	reasonable	and	prudent;
•	 for	the	group	financial	statements,	state	whether	they	have	been	
prepared	in	accordance	with	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	EU;
•	 for	the	parent	company	financial	statements,	state	whether	
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent 
company financial statements; and
•	 prepare	the	financial	statements	on	the	going	concern	basis	unless	
it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006.  They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a directors’ report, strategic report, 
directors’ remuneration report and corporate governance 
statement that complies with that law and those regulations.  The 
directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the company’s 
website.  Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The	board	considers	that	the	Annual	Report	and	Financial	
Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the group’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
W e	confirm	that	to	the	best	of	our	knowledge	-
•	 the	financial	statements,	prepared	in	accordance	with	the	
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
 
•	 the	management	report,	which	comprises	the	directors’	report	and	
the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face. 
By order of the board
Chris Malley
Chief Executive
Robert	Brooksbank
Finance Director 
10 June 2014 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 54
GOVERNANCE - INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARCLO PLC
Opinions and conclusions arising from our 
audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is
 unmodified
W e	have	audited	the	financial	statements	of	Carclo	plc	for	the	
year ended 31 March 2014 set out on pages 56 to 99. 
In our opinion:  
•		 the	financial	statements	give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	the	
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2014 
and of the group’s profit for the year then ended;  
•		 the	group	financial	statements	have	been	properly	prepared	in	
accordance	with	International	Financial	Reporting	Standards	as	
adopted by the European Union;  
•		 the	parent	company	financial	statements	have	been	properly	
prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and
•		 the	financial	statements	have	been	prepared	in	accordance	with	
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
group	financial	statements,	Article	4	of	the	IAS	Regulation.		
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements 
the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on 
our audit were as follows:
Patents and development costs (£25.8m)
Refer	to	pages	34	to	35	(Audit	Committee	Report),	pages	63	
and 65 (accounting policy) and pages 77 and 91 (financial 
disclosures).
•	 The risk – The group conducts a significant level of technology 
development activity within the Conductive Inkjet Technology and 
Diagnostics business areas. Patent and development costs are 
capitalised if they meet the criteria as laid down in the relevant 
accounting standard. These include, among others, an assessment 
of the future out-turn of the development activity, for example, the 
technical feasibility and how the patents and development costs 
intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits. 
Once these criteria are met the eligible patent and development 
costs are required to be capitalised.  There is  judgement involved 
in both determining when the criteria are met and in identifying 
the relevant costs to be capitalised, which include an allocation of 
overheads, and in accurately capturing time and cost information 
for the development activity. 
 Once developed technology is available for commercial use, 
amortisation commences over the useful economic life of the 
technology. The group applies judgement in identifying the point 
at which the technology is available for commercial use and the 
useful economic life of that technology. There is therefore a risk 
that the group’s assessment of the readiness of the technology 
for commercial use and the useful economic life of the technology 
is not as estimated, leading to an incorrect amortisation charge, 
and that the developed technology is not as successful as initially 
anticipated leading to an impairment.
•	 Our response – Our audit procedures included, among others, 
challenging group and third party assessments of technical 
feasibility	and	probable	future	economic	benefit.	W e	compared	the	
level of costs, allocation of costs between different development 
activities, and the nature of specific costs capitalised to budget 
information, levels of activity and payroll information. 
	 W e	compared	the	point	at	which	assets	became	available	for	
commercial use, further capitalisation ceased, and amortisation 
commenced, with the increase in sales and with customer 
announcements.	W e	compared	the	group’s	assessment	of	the	
chosen amortisation period to commercial evidence such as a 
customer agreement. 
 As part of our assessment of the recoverability of the carrying 
value,	we	considered	the	group’s	cash	flow	forecasts	and	
customer	correspondence.		W e	assessed	the	appropriateness	of	
key inputs, such as the value and timing of sales by reference to 
our knowledge of the group’s business, our experience of the 
industry, and consideration of publicly available information, such 
as	customer	press	releases.	W e	compared	the	group’s	discount	
rate assumptions to externally derived data as well as our own 
assessments.	W e	have	also	considered	the	adequacy	of	the	group’s	
disclosures in respect of patents and development costs.
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of
 the scope of our audit
The materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was 
set at £500,000.  This has been determined with reference to a 
benchmark of group profit before taxation (of which it is 10%), 
which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for 
members of the company in assessing the financial performance 
of the group.
W e	agreed	with	the	Audit	Committee	to	report	to	it	all	corrected	
and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit 
with a value in excess of £25,000 in addition to other audit 
misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 55
GOVERNANCE - INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARCLO PLC
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by 
component auditors at the key reporting components in the 
following	countries:	India,	China,	Czech	Republic,	and	by	the	
group audit team in the following countries: United Kingdom and 
United States. In addition, a review of the non-KPMG auditor’s 
file was performed by component auditors in France. These group 
procedures covered 100% of total group revenue, group profit 
before taxation, and total group assets. 
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the 
key reporting components of the group were all performed to 
materiality levels set by, or agreed with, the group audit team. 
These materiality levels were set individually for each component 
and ranged from £150,000 to £350,000.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to all the auditors in these 
locations. These instructions covered the significant audit areas 
that should be covered by these audits (which included the 
relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above) and set 
out the information required to be reported back to the group 
audit team. The group audit team visited the following locations: 
United Kingdom and United States. Telephone meetings were 
also held with the auditors at the other locations that were not 
physically visited.
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the
 Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion: 
 
•		 the	part	of	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Report	to	be	audited	has	
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and  
•		 the	information	given	in	the	Strategic	Report	and	the	Directors’	
Report	for	the	financial	year	for	which	the	financial	statements	are	
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
5.	 W e	have	nothing	to	report	in	respect	of	the
 matters on which we are required to report
 by exception  
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have 
identified other information in the annual report that contains a 
material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial 
statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise 
misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
 
•		 we	have	identified	material	inconsistencies	between	the	knowledge	
we acquired during our audit and the directors’ statement that 
they consider that the annual report and financial statements 
taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the group’s 
performance, business model and strategy; or
•		 the	Audit	Committee	Report	does	not	appropriately	address	
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:  
•		 adequate	accounting	records	have	not	been	kept	by	the	parent	
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or  
•		 the	parent	company	financial	statements	and	the	part	of	the	
Directors’	Remuneration	Report	to	be	audited	are	not	in	agreement	
with the accounting records and returns; or  
•		 certain	disclosures	of	directors’	remuneration	specified	by	law	are	
not made; or  
•		 we	have	not	received	all	the	information	and	explanations	we	
require for our audit.   
Under	the	Listing	Rules	we	are	required	to	review:		
•		 the	directors’	statement,	set	out	on	page	66,	in	relation	to	going	
concern; and   
•		 the	part	of	the	Corporate	Governance	Statement	on	page	30	
relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of 
the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
W e	have	nothing	to	report	in	respect	of	the	above	responsibilities.	 	
Scope of report and responsibilities
As	explained	more	fully	in	the	Directors’	Responsibilities	
Statement set out on page 53, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  A description of 
the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on 
the	Financial	Reporting	Council’s	website	at	www .frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the company’s 
members as a body and is subject to important explanations 
and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our 
website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2013a, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 
read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, 
the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Mike Barradell (Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP , Statutory Auditor  
Chartered Accountants  
1 The Embankment, Neville Street
Leeds
LS1	4DW
10 June 2014  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 56
            2014  2013 
              restated* 
          Notes  £000  £000
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
Revenue
Underlying operating profit
Operating profit before exceptional items
– rationalisation costs 
– litigation costs
– exit from Ford volume automotive communication business
After exceptional items
Operating profit
Finance revenue
Finance expense
Profit before tax
Income tax expense
Profit after tax but before loss on discontinued operations
Loss on discontinued operations, net of tax
Profit after tax
Attributable to –
Equity holders of the parent
Non-controlling interests
Earnings per ordinary share
Basic – continuing operations
Basic – discontinued operations
Basic – total
Diluted – continuing operations
Diluted – discontinued
Diluted – total
 2 97,267  86,514  
    
  6,551  5,585  
 7 (92) (161) 
 7 (428) (414)
 7 -   (95) 
  6,031  4,915  
 2 6,031  4,915  
 8 16  12 
 8 (1,276) (1,710) 
  4,771  3,217  
 
 9 (1,179) (408) 
  3,592  2,809  
 
 10 (37) (70) 
  3,555  2,739  
 
  3,597  2,767  
  (42) (28) 
  3,555  2,739
    
 11   
  5.5 p 4.4 p
  (0.0)p (0.1)p
  5.5 p 4.3 p
 
  5.5 p 4.4 p
  (0.0)p (0.1)p
    
  5.5 p 4.3 p
*  The comparatives have been restated in respect of the revisions to IAS 19 - “Employee Benefits“. More detail is set out in note 1 to the financial  
 statements.             
  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 57
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
  3,555  2,739 
  
  
  
  
  
  15,365  7,225 
  (4,196) (2,237)
  
  11,169  4,988 
  
  
  
  (3,029) 607 
  222  (185)
  
  (2,807) 422 
  
  8,362  5,410 
  
  11,917  8,149 
  
  
  
  11,959  8,177 
  (42) (28)
  11,917  8,149  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
Profit for the period      
      
Other comprehensive income -      
    
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement    
       
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit scheme    
Deferred tax arising      
      
Total items that will not be reclassified to the income statement  
      
Items that are or may in the future be classified to the income statement  
         
Foreign exchange translation differences     
Deferred tax arising      
      
Total items that are or or may in future be classified to the income statement  
         
Other comprehensive income, net of income tax     
      
Total comprehensive income for the period     
      
Attributable to      
      
Equity holders of the parent      
Non-controlling interests      
Total comprehensive income for the period     
  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 58
            2014  2013 
          Notes  £000  £000
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 MARCH
Assets    
Intangible assets    
Property, plant and equipment    
Investments    
Deferred tax assets    
Retirement benefit obligations    
    
Total non current assets 
   
Inventories    
Trade and other receivables    
Cash and cash deposits    
    
Total current assets    
    
Total assets    
    
Liabilities    
Interest bearing loans and borrowings   
Deferred tax liabilities    
Retirement benefit obligations    
    
Total non current liabilities    
    
Trade and other payables    
Current tax liabilities    
Interest bearing loans and borrowings    
    
Total current liabilities    
    
Total liabilities    
    
Net assets    
    
Equity    
     Ordinary share capital issued    
     Share premium    
     Other reserves    
     Translation reserve    
     Retained earnings    
    
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  
Non-controlling interests    
Total equity    
    
Approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by -  
  
    
Michael Derbyshire 
Robert Brooksbank    
    
10 June 2014    
 
 13 45,994  44,516 
 14 35,657  33,449 
 15 7  6 
 20 4,789  9,741 
 21 239  -  
    
  86,686  87,712 
    
 16 13,363  12,574 
 17 21,136  19,444 
 18 11,764  16,098 
    
  46,263  48,116 
    
  132,949  135,828 
    
 19 17,569  18,308 
 20 6,642  6,720 
 21 -   15,476 
    
  24,211  40,504 
    
 23 20,163  20,979 
  2,144  2,255 
 19 11,875  6,968 
    
  34,182  30,202 
    
  58,393  70,706 
    
  74,556  65,122 
    
 25 3,303  3,258 
  21,291  20,901 
 26 3,584  3,584 
 26 1,766  4,795 
 26 43,781  31,504 
    
  73,725  64,042 
  831  1,080 
  74,556  65,122 
}
directors REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 59
          Non- 
    Share Share Translation Other Retained  controlling Total 
    capital  premium  reserve reserves earnings Total interests equity 
    £000 £000  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
   Attributable to equity holders of the company
Balance at 1 April 2012
Profit for the period
Other comprehensive income -
Foreign exchange translation differences
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit 
scheme
Taxation on items above
Total comprehensive income
for the period
    
Transactions with owners recorded 
directly in equity - 
Share based payments 
Dividends to shareholders
Exercise of share options
Issue of share capital, net of costs 
Proceeds from sale of own shares 
Performance share plan awards 
Taxation on items recorded directly in equity 
Balance at 31 March 2013
Balance at 1 April 2013
    
Profit for the period
    
Other comprehensive income -
Foreign exchange translation differences
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit 
scheme
Taxation on above
Total comprehensive income
for the period
    
Transactions with owners recorded 
directly in equity -
Share based payments 
Dividends to shareholders
Exercise of share options
Performance share plan awards  
Increase in holding in subsidiary with non-
controlling interests
Taxation on items recorded directly in equity
Balance at 31 March 2014
 3,090  8,296  4,188  3,584  25,008  44,166  1,108  45,274  
   
 -   -   -   -   2,767  2,767  (28) 2,739 
     
 -   -   607  -   -   607  -   607 
 
 -   -   -   -   7,215  7,215  -   7,215 
 -   -   -   -   (2,412) (2,412) -   (2,412)
 -   -   607  -   7,570  8,177  (28) 8,149 
 
 -   -   -   -   189  189  -   189 
 -   -   -   -   (1,071) (1,071) -   (1,071)
 1  23  -   -   -   24  -   24 
 154  12,492    -   12,646  -   12,646 
 -   -   -   -   6  6  -   6 
 13  90  -   -   (246) (143) -   (143)
 -   -   -   -   48  48  -   48 
 3,258  20,901  4,795  3,584  31,504  64,042  1,080  65,122 
 3,258  20,901  4,795  3,584  31,504  64,042  1,080  65,122 
 -   -   -   -   3,597  3,597  (42) 3,555 
 -   -   (3,029) -   -   (3,029) -   (3,029)
 
 -   -   -   -   15,365  15,365  -   15,365 
 -   -   -   -   (3,974) (3,974) -   (3,974)
 
 -   -   (3,029) -   14,988  11,959  (42) 11,917 
 
 -   -   -   -   34  34  -   34 
 -   -   -   -   (1,674) (1,674) -   (1,674)
 10  122  -   -   -   132  -   132 
 35  268  -   -   (913) (610) -   (610)
 
 -   -   -   -   192  192  (207) (15)
 -   -   -   -   (350) (350) -   (350)
 3,303  21,291  1,766  3,584  43,781  73,725  831  74,556  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 60
            2014  2013 
          Notes  £000  £000
Cash generated from operations
Interest paid
Tax paid
Net cash from operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
Interest received
Cash flow on discontinued operations
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment
Acquisition of intangible assets – computer software
Investment in Platform Diagnostics Limited
Development expenditure
Net cash from investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital, net of costs
Proceeds from exercise of share options
Proceeds from sale of own shares
Drawings on term loan facilities
Repayment of borrowings
Cash outflow in respect of performance share plan awards
Dividends paid
Net cash from financing activities
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
Cash and cash equivalents comprise –
Cash and cash deposits
Bank overdrafts
 28 5,627 11,303 
  (641) (624)
  (753) (852)
   
  4,233  9,827 
    
 
  60  227 
  16  12 
  (37) (70)
  (7,352) (8,174)
  (110) (26)
  (15) -  
  (3,519) (3,765)
    
  (10,957) (11,796)
    
  
  -   12,646 
  132  128 
  -   6 
  -   350 
  -   (1,600)
  (610) (246)
  (1,674) (1,534)
   
  (2,152) 9,750 
  
   (8,876) 7,781 
  9,130  1,159 
  (365) 190 
   
  (111) 9,130 
    
  11,764  16,098 
  (11,875) (6,968)
  (111) 9,130 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 61
1 Accounting policies 
 
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”).  The company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK 
GAAP; these are presented on pages 93 to 99.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements, unless otherwise stated. 
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the group’s accounting 
period beginning on or after 1 April 2013.  The following new standards and amendments to standards are mandatory for the first time for the 
financial year beginning 1 April 2013:
Amendments to IAS 19 – “Employee Benefits (2011)”;
Amendments to IAS 1 – “Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income”;
Amendments to IFRS 13 – “Fair Value Measurement”;
Amendments to IFRS 7 – “Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities”;
Amendments to IAS 32 – “Presentation”; and
Annual improvements to IFRSs – “2009-2011 Cycle.”
The impact of IAS 19 –“Employee Benefits (2011)” is described below. The implementation of the other standards has only had a presentational 
impact.
IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ was amended in June 2011 and is effective for accounting periods  beginning 1 January 2013 and onwards with 
retrospective application required. The principal impact of the revised standard is that the concepts of expected return on the defined benefit 
obligation as separate components of the defined benefit cost have been replaced by a single concept such that interest is now calculated on the 
net defined benefit deficit. This calculation uses the discount rate previously used to measure defined benefit pension liabilities after allowance 
for any asset ceilings and additional liability under IFRIC 14: The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their 
Interaction (IFRIC 14).  In addition, plan administration expenses, previously deducted from the expected return on scheme assets, are now 
included within operating profit.
As a result of these amendments the comparative financial information in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the 
year ended 31 March 2013 has been restated. The impact on the results for the year ended 31 March 2013 is to reduce operating profit by £0.614 
million, increase net finance expense by £1.183 million, reduce remeasurement losses in the statement of comprehensive income by £1.797 
million, reduce the income tax expense by £0.413 million, reduce basic earnings per share from 6.5p to 4.3p and reduce diluted earnings per share 
from 6.4p to 4.3p. The pensions deficit has remained unchanged and so the balance sheet has not been restated. The impact on the results for 
the year ended 31 March 2014 has been to reduce operating profit by £0.651 million, increase net finance expense by £2.079 million  and reduce 
remeasurement gains by £2.730 million. The impact on the current year tax expense and earnings per share have not been calculated as it would 
be impractical to do so.
IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures about fair value measurements, when such measurements 
are required or permitted by other IFRSs. In particular, it unifies the definition of fair value as the price at which an orderly transaction to sell an 
asset or to transfer a liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date. It also replaces and expands the disclosure 
requirements about fair value measurements in other IFRSs, including IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. Accordingly, the group has included 
additional disclosures in this regard (see note 24). 
 
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the group has applied the new fair value measurement guidance prospectively, and 
has not provided any comparative information for new disclosures. Notwithstanding the above, the change had no significant impact on the 
measurements of the group’s assets and liabilities. 
 
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the group’s accounting 
period beginning on or after 1 April 2014. The group has elected not to adopt early these standards which are described below:
 
Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27)
 
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to IAS 32)
 
Recoverable Amounts Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets (Amendments to IAS 36)
 
IFRIC 21  - Levies
Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting (Amendments to IAS 39)
 
The above are not expected to have a material impact on the group’s reported results.
 
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 62
1 Accounting policies continued 
In addition, the IASB has indicated that it will issue a new standard on accounting for leases. Under the proposals, lessees would be required to 
recognise assets and liabilities arising from both operating and finance leases on the balance sheet. The IASB also plans to issue new standards on 
insurance contracts and revenue recognition. The Group will consider the financial impacts of these new standards as they are finalised.
There are no other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the group.
a) Basis of accounting
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and share options are stated at their 
fair value.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are 
measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Non current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
b) Basis of consolidation
The group’s financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the company and its subsidiary undertakings. The results of any 
subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the group income statement up to, or from, the date control passes. Intra-group sales and profits are 
eliminated fully on consolidation. On acquisition of a subsidiary, all of the identifiable assets and liabilities existing at the date of acquisition are 
recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date. 
i) Business combinations
 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is 
transferred to the group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its 
activities. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.
 The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
 
•	 the	fair	value	of	the	consideration	transferred;	plus 
 
•	 the	recognised	amount	of	any	non-controlling	interests	in	the	acquiree;	plus
 
•	 if	the	business	combination	is	achieved	in	stages,	the	fair	value	of	the	pre-existing	equity	interest	in	the	acquiree;	less
 
•	 the	net	recognised	amount	(generally	a	fair	value)	of	the	identifiable	assets	acquired	and	liabilities	assumed.
 When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
 The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally 
recognised in profit or loss.
 Transaction costs other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business 
combination are expensed as incurred.
ii) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
 Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is 
recognised as a result. Adjustments to non-controlling interests arising from transaction that do not involve the loss of control are based on a 
proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
c) Goodwill 
In respect of business combinations that occurred since 1 April 2004, goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of 
the consideration given over the fair value of the separable identifiable net assets acquired.  Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and businesses is capitalised as an asset.
In accordance with IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, goodwill at 1 April 2004 has been frozen and will not be amortised. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating 
units and is subject to an annual impairment review, with any impairment losses being recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an overseas subsidiary is retranslated at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising prior to 31 March 1998 and previously written off to reserves has not been reinstated.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 63
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
1 Accounting policies continued
d) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets that are acquired by the group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see accounting policy e) and impairment losses 
(see accounting policy w).  
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised 
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the group has sufficient 
resources to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of 
overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure 
is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see accounting policy e) and impairment losses (see accounting policy w).
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific 
asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
e) Amortisation
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortised on a straight line basis to write off the cost of the asset, less estimated residual value, 
over the estimated economic life of the asset. Patents and development costs are amortised over a period of up to 10 years from the date upon 
which the patent or related development expenditure becomes available for use. Customer distribution networks are amortised over 7 years and 
computer software over 3 to 5 years.
f) Property, plant and equipment 
The company has taken the option provided by IFRS 1 to use its previous UK GAAP valuation as “deemed cost”. Items of property, plant and 
equipment are stated at cost, or at deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is provided using the straight line method to write off the cost or valuation less estimated residual 
value, using the following depreciation rates -
Freehold buildings  2.0% - 5.0%
 
Plant and equipment 8.33% - 33.33%
No depreciation is provided on freehold land. 
g) Leases 
Leases where the group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases, where this is not the case they 
are treated as operating leases. Amounts payable under operating leases are charged to net operating expenses on a straight line basis over the 
lease term. The group currently has no finance leases.
h) Borrowing costs
Borrowings are initially measured at fair value including any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate (EIR) method.
i)  Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of 
business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. The cost of other inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and 
includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured 
inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity. 
j)  Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred 
to the buyer.  No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated costs or the 
possible return of goods, or if there is continuing managerial involvement with the goods.  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 64
1 Accounting policies continued
With regards to sub contract tooling contracts, the group uses the “percentage of completion method” to determine the appropriate amount of 
revenue to be recognised in a given period when the outcome can be estimated reliably. Costs incurred to date as a percentage of total cost of 
completion represent the “percentage cost of completion”. Costs on such tooling contracts are recognised when incurred unless they create an 
asset related to future activity on the contract.
When it is probable that the total costs for a contract will exceed the total revenue, then the loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Revenues arising from the granting of preferential access to the group’s technology is recognised over the preferential access period which is under 
the direct control of the group.
k)  Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. 
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the 
fair value was determined.
l)  Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling 
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates 
approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are 
recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
m) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges meeting the criteria for hedge 
accounting under IAS 39, are taken to the translation reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
The group has taken advantage of relief available under IFRS 1 to not separately recognise the cumulative translation differences for all foreign 
operations at the date of transition, 1 April 2004.
n)  Dividends
Dividends are only recognised as a liability to the extent that they are declared prior to the year end. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these 
criteria are disclosed in the note to the financial statements.
o)  Net operating expenses
Net operating expenses incurred by the business are written off to the income statement as incurred.
p)  Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds 
invested, dividend income and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement (see accounting policy u).
Interest is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method, unless it is directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of a qualifying asset in which case it is capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.  
q)  Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of 
the group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. 
r) Taxation
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the 
extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity or the statement of comprehensive income. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided 
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 65
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
1 Accounting policies continued
for - goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, 
and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of 
deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be 
utilised. 
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
s)  Retirement benefit costs 
The group operates a defined benefit pension scheme and also makes payments into defined contribution schemes for employees. The pension 
payable under the defined benefit scheme is calculated based on years of service up to retirement and pensionable salary at the point of 
retirement.
The net obligation in respect of the defined benefit plan is the present value of the defined benefit obligations less the fair value of the plan’s 
assets at the balance sheet date. The assumptions used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations are detailed in note 21.
IFRIC 14 requires that where plan assets exceed the defined benefit obligation, an asset is recognised to the extent that an economic benefit is 
available to the group, in accordance with the terms of the plan and applicable statutory requirements and the benefit should be realisable during 
the life of the plan or on the settlement of the plan liabilities. As the terms of the plan comply with this an asset has consequently been recognised 
at 31 March 2014.
The operating and financing cost of the scheme are recognised separately in the income statement in the period they arise.
Payments to the defined contribution schemes are accounted for on an accruals basis. Once the payments have been made the group has no 
further obligation.
t)  Financial instruments 
The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange rate risks arising from operational activities. In 
accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that 
do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
   
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement of fair values is recognised immediately in 
the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of 
the item being hedged. At the year end no derivative financial instruments qualified for hedge accounting.
u)  Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge 
is recognised directly in equity. The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
v)  Share based payments
The group issues equity settled share based payments to certain employees in exchange for services rendered by them. The fair value of the share 
based award is calculated at the date of the grant and is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in 
equity. This is based on the group’s estimate of share options that will eventually vest. This takes into account movement of non market conditions, 
being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant. The fair value of the equity settled awards granted is not subsequently revisited.
w) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the group’s assets, other than inventories (see accounting policy i) and deferred tax assets (see accounting policy r), 
are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated. 
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated 
at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment 
losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash 
generating units or group of units and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit or group of units on a pro rata basis. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 66
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
1 Accounting policies continued
x)  Exceptional items
In order for users of the accounts to better understand the underlying performance of the group, the board have separately disclosed transactions 
which, whilst falling within the ordinary activities of the group, are, by virtue of their size or incidence, considered to be exceptional in nature. Such 
transactions include costs of rationalisation, one-off retirement benefit effects, litigation costs and material bad debts.
Non operating exceptional items arise from costs incurred outside the ordinary course of the group’s business. Such items include profits, losses 
and associated costs arising on the disposal of surplus properties and businesses.
y)  Segment reporting
Segmental information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker.
z)  Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, that can 
be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by 
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific to the liability to the extent that the effect of discounting is 
material.
aa) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset (a disposal group) is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will 
be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable within one 
year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or loss. The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent re-measurement although 
gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.  Any impairment loss on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, 
and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, 
employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the group’s accounting policies. Intangible 
assets and property, plant and equipment once classified as held for sale or distribution are not amortised or depreciated. 
A discontinued operation is a component of the group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of 
operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. Classification as a discontinued 
operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier.  When an operation is classified 
as a discontinued operation, the comparative income statement is restated as if the operation has been discontinued from the start of the 
comparative period.
ab) Going concern
The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the chief 
executive’s review on pages 10 to 13. The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described 
in the finance director’s review on pages 14 to 17. In addition note 27 to the financial statements includes the group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
At 31 March 2014 the group has medium term loan facilities totalling £20.0 million with two UK banks, since that date an additional £6.0 million 
facility has been obtained from one of the group’s existing lenders. These multi-currency revolving credit facilities were renewed in 2011 for a 
further four years until 2015.  The group meets its day to day working capital requirements through overdraft facilities totalling £11.4 million.
 
The group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the group should be able 
to operate within the level of its current facilities.
 
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future.  Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and 
accounts. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 67
2 Segment reporting
At 31 March 2014, the group was organised into four, separately managed, business segments - Technical Plastics, LED Technologies, Precision 
Engineering and Conductive Inkjet Technology.  These are the segments for which summarised management information is presented to the 
group’s chief operating decision maker (comprising the main board and general executive committee). 
The Technical Plastics segment supplies fine tolerance, injection moulded plastic components, which are used in medical, optical and electronics 
products. This business operates internationally in a fast growing and dynamic market underpinned by rapid technological development.
The LED Technologies segment develops innovative solutions in LED lighting, and is a leader in the development of high power LED lighting for 
supercars.
The Precision Engineering segment supplies systems to the manufacturing and aerospace industries. 
The Conductive Inkjet Technology segment undertakes applied research into the digital printing of conductive metals onto plastic substrates.
The Unallocated segment also includes the group’s development companies, Platform Diagnostics Limited and Carclo Diagnostic Solutions Limited, 
until these companies start to achieve income streams for the group.
Transfer pricing between business segments is set on an arm’s length basis. Segmental revenues and results include transfers between business 
segments. Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
The group’s geographical segments are based on the location of the group’s assets. Sales to external customers disclosed in geographical 
segments are based on the geographical location of its customers.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 68
Analysis by business segment
The segment results for the year ended  31 March 2014 were as follows –
        Conductive 
     Technical LED  Precision  Inkjet    Group 
     Plastics Technologies Engineering Technology Unallocated Eliminations total 
     £000  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
2 Segment reporting continued 
Consolidated income statement
Total revenue
Less inter–segment revenue
Total external revenue
Expenses
Underlying operating profit
Rationalisation costs
Litigation costs
Operating profit
Net finance expense
Income tax expense
Loss on discontinued operations, net of tax
Profit after tax
 
 59,945  28,187  7,776  3,251  -   (1,892) 97,267
 (1,865) (27) -   -   -   1,892  -  
        
 58,080  28,160  7,776  3,251  -   -   97,267 
        
 (53,465) (25,591) (6,239) (3,420) (2,001) -   (90,716)
        
 4,615  2,569  1,537  (169) (2,001) -   6,551 
        
 -   -   -   -   (92) -   (92)
 -   -   -   (428) -   -   (428)
        
 4,615  2,569  1,537  (597) (2,093) -   6,031 
        
       (1,260)
       (1,179) 
       (37)
       
       3,555 
Consolidated statement of financial position
Segment assets
Segment liabilities
Net assets
Other segmental information
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment
Capital expenditure on computer software
Capital expenditure on other intangibles
Depreciation
Amortisation of computer software
Amortisation of other intangibles
        Conductive 
     Technical LED  Precision  Inkjet    Group 
     Plastics Technologies Engineering Technology Unallocated Eliminations total 
     £000  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000
 68,235  18,354  6,491  28,427  11,442  -   132,949 
 (13,999) (3,838) (935) (4,871) (34,750) -   (58,393)
          
 54,236  14,516  5,556  23,556  (23,308) -   74,556 
   
 4,917  890  198  1,141  4  -   7,150 
 15  41  -   -   54  -   110 
 -   -   -   2,413  1,106  - 3,519 
 2,275  652  133  572  36  -   3,668 
 7  37  1  -   13  -   58 
 11  115  -   822  -   -   948  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 69
Consolidated income statement
Total revenue
Less inter-segment revenue
Total external revenue
Expenses
Underlying operating profit
Rationalisation costs
Exit from Ford volume automotive communication 
business
Litigation costs
Operating profit
Net finance expense
Income tax expense
Loss on discontinued operations, net of tax
Profit after tax
 57,103  23,115  7,505  661  -   (1,870) 86,514 
 (1,768) (102) -   -   -   1,870  -     
 55,335  23,013  7,505  661  -   -   86,514    
 (51,379) (20,823) (6,000) (653) (2,074) -   (80,929)
   
 3,956  2,190  1,505  8  (2,074) -   5,585  
 (48) (32) -   -   (81) -   (161)
 -   (95) -   -   -   -   (95)
 -   -   -   (414) -   -   (414)
   
 3,908  2,063  1,505  (406) (2,155) -   4,915 
       (1,698)
       (408)
       (70)
       2,739 
        Conductive 
     Technical LED  Precision  Inkjet    Group 
     Plastics Technologies Engineering Technology Unallocated Eliminations total 
     restated restated restated restated restated restated restated 
     £000  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2013 following restatement as a result of IAS 19 –“Employee Benefits” were as follows –
Consolidated statement of financial position
Segment assets
Segment liabilities
Net assets
Other segmental information
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment
Capital expenditure on computer software
Capital expenditure on other intangibles
Depreciation
Amortisation of computer software
Amortisation of other intangibles
 65,485  17,041  6,600  32,668  14,034  -   135,828 
 (11,384) (3,050) (1,586) (7,774) (46,912) -   (70,706)
    
 54,101  13,991  5,014  24,894  (32,878) -   65,122 
   
 
 4,293  772  64  3,494  69  -   8,692 
 4  16  6  -   -   -   26 
 -   -   -   2,941  824  - 3,765 
 2,356  677  156  299  33  -   3,521 
 15  22  3  -   16  -   56 
 -   101  12  192  -   -  305 
        Conductive 
     Technical LED  Precision  Inkjet    Group 
     Plastics Technologies Engineering Technology Unallocated Eliminations total 
     £000  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000
2 Segment reporting continued  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 70
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
2 Segment reporting continued 
Analysis by geographical segment
The business operates in three main geographical regions – the United Kingdom, North America and in lower cost regions including the Czech 
Republic, China and India, and the geographic analysis was as follows –
 30,091  23,056  34,104  24,757  3,152  5,248
 27,724  23,821  19,129  18,643  3,865  1,469 
 39,452  39,637  21,323  21,722  243  2,001 
 
 97,267  86,514  74,556  65,122  7,260  8,718
    2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
 
 Net segment assets
 Expenditure on tangible fixed 
assets and computer software External revenue
United Kingdom 
North America
Rest of world
The analysis of segment revenue represents revenue from external customers based upon the location of the customer.   
           
The analysis of segment assets and capital expenditure is based upon the location of the assets.     
The material components of unallocated segment assets and liabilities are retirement benefit obligation net assets of £0.239 million
(2013 - net liabilities of £15.476 million), and net borrowings of £22.198 million (2013 - £19.908 million).    
      
One Technical Plastics customer accounted for 22.8% of group revenues (2013 – 20.4%) and one LED Technologies customer accounted for 
12.4% of group revenues (2013 - 12.4%)  and similar proportions of trade receivables. No other customer accounted for more than 10.0% of 
revenues in the year or prior year.           
  
The unallocated segment relates to central costs and non-trading companies and also includes the group’s development companies, Platform 
Diagnostics Limited and Carclo Diagnostic Solutions Limited, until these companies start to achieve income streams for the group.  
  
Deferred tax assets by geographical location are as follows, United Kingdom £3,916 million (2013 - £8.388 million), North America £0.668 
million (2013 - £1.236 million), Rest of world £0.205 million (2013 - £0.119 million).      
    
Total non-current assets by geographical location are as follows, United Kingdom £63.073 million (2013 - £64.051 million), North America 
£13.209 million (2013 - £12.129 million), Rest of world £10.404 million (2013 - £11.532 million).    
             REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 71
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
3 Operating profit 
Operating profit is arrived at as follows -      
     
Revenue      
Decrease in stocks of finished goods and work in progress    
 
    
Raw materials and consumables      
Personnel expenses (see note 6)      
Amortisation of intangible assets      
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets     
Auditor’s remuneration -      
 Fees payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the company’s annual accounts 
 Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services:   
 The audit of the company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation    
 Tax advisory services      
 Total      
Operating lease rentals -      
     Property      
     Plant and machinery      
Total
     
Rationalisation costs (see note 7)      
Litigation costs (see note 7)      
Exit from Ford volume automotive communication business (see note 7)  
Foreign exchange (gains) / losses      
Pension scheme administration costs
Other operating charges      
      
Operating profit      
 97,267  86,514 
 83  289 
  
 97,350  86,803 
  
 46,687  37,915 
 24,841  24,990 
 1,006  361 
 3,669  3,521 
  
 71  65 
 
 111  117 
 22  17 
 
 204  199 
  
 
 557  604 
 430  314 
 
 987  918 
 
 92  161 
 428  414 
 -   95 
 (273)  10 
 650  614 
 13,028  12,690 
  
 91,319  81,888 
  
 6,031  4,915  
4 Acquisition of additional shareholding in subsidiary
5 Disposal of trade and assets in subsidiary  
On 31st October 2013 Carclo acquired an additional 4,799 shares in Platform Diagnostics Limited for £0.015 million, increasing the group’s 
holding to 60.3% (2013 – 51.0%).
On 31st March 2014 Carclo disposed on the trade and assets in Birkett Cutmaster Limited to Accurate Cutting Services Limited for £0.250 million. 
This generated a loss of £0.000 million. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 72
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
The average monthly number of persons employed by the group during the year was as follows –
By segment
Unallocated
Technical Plastics division
LED Technologies division
Precision Engineering division
Conductive Inkjet Technology
By geographic location
United Kingdom
North America
Rest of world
 14  14 
 776  746 
 201  198 
 83  85 
 38  30 
  
 1,112  1,073 
  
  
 550  542 
 212  195 
 350  336 
  
 1,112  1,073 
United Kingdom  
   Redundancy costs  
   Exit from Ford volume automotive business  
   Litigation costs  
   Rationalisation costs  
Rest of world  
   Redundancy costs  
Litigation costs relate to fees incurred as part of the group’s proceedings against Uni-Pixel Inc.   
 
 -   (77)
 -   (95)
 (428) (414)
 (92) (81)
  
 -   (3)
  
 (520) (670)
We stated in the prior year financial statements that Conductive Inkjet Technology (“CIT”) had issued proceedings in the English High Court 
against Uni-Pixel Inc. On 3 April 2014 we announced that CIT and Uni-Pixel Displays, Inc (Uni-Pixel) had agreed to settle the on-going litigation 
in the US and the UK. CIT agreed to withdraw its UK claims that Uni-Pixel had used CIT’s confidential information for a number of unauthorized 
purposes relating to its current technology, its past technology and also two of its patent filings. Uni-Pixel  agreed to withdraw its US claims for 
declarations that it did not do what CIT alleged, and that CIT breached an agreement between the parties by issuing its claims in the UK courts. 
CIT further agreed to release any current and future claims to Uni-Pixel’s past and current technology, patents and other property based on the 
subject matter of the suits. Uni-Pixel further agreed to grant CIT certain limited rights to use technology that would be protected by the patents 
arising from the disputed patent filings. No money will change hands as part of the settlement. The parties agree that Uni-Pixel owes no further 
duty of confidentiality to CIT regarding any CIT technology. There are no admissions of any wrong-doing in connection with this dispute. 
Wages and salaries
Social security contributions
Charge in respect of defined contribution and other pension plans
Share based payments (see note 25)
 21,177  20,939 
 2,777  3,021 
 853  841 
 34  189 
  
 24,841  24,990 
6   Personnel expenses
            2014  2013 
            £’000  £’000
Redundancy costs of £0.000 million (2013 - £0.080 million) are excluded from the above analysis and included in note 7.   
         
Directors’ remuneration and emoluments, which are included in this analysis, are described in the directors’ remuneration report on
pages 36 to 52.            
7 Exceptional costs 
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
            2014  2013 
            Number of  Number of  
            employees  employees REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 73
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Finance revenue comprises –
Interest receivable on cash at bank
Finance revenue
Finance expense comprises – 
Bank loans and overdrafts
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability
Finance expense
  16  12 
  
  16  12
  
  
  
  (617) (626)
  (659) (1,084)
  
  (1,276) (1,710)
8    Finance revenue and expense
The expense recognised in the consolidated income statement comprises -
United Kingdom corporation tax
   Corporation tax on profits for the current year
   Adjustments for prior years
Overseas taxation
   Current tax
   Adjustments for prior years
Total current tax net expense
Deferred tax (charge) / credit
Origination and reversal of temporary differences -
   Deferred tax
   Rate change
   Adjustments for prior years
Total deferred tax (expense) / income
Total income tax expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
  
 -   -  
 -   -  
  
  
 (801) (781)
 161  (116)
  
 (640) (897)
  
  
  
 (1,004) 180 
 482  214 
 (17) 95 
  
 (539) 489 
  
 (1,179) (408)
9    Income tax expense
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 74
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Profit before tax
Income tax using standard rate of UK corporation tax of 23% (2013 - 24%)
Adjustments in respect of overseas tax rates
Other temporary differences
Movement in unprovided deferred tax
Other items not deductible for tax purposes
Adjustment to current tax in respect of prior periods (UK and overseas)
Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of prior periods (UK and overseas)
Rate change on deferred tax
Total income tax charge in the consolidated income statement
           
               
         £000  %  £000  %
 4,771   3,217   
 1,097  23.0  772  24.0 
     
 557  11.7  154  4.8 
 (92) (1.9) 123  3.8 
 (13) (0.3) (524) (16.2)
 256  5.4  76  2.4 
 (161) (3.4) 116  3.6 
 17  0.4  (95) (3.0)
 (482) (10.1) (214) (6.7)
     
 1,179  24.8  408  12.7
9    Income tax expense continued
Tax on items charged outside of the consolidated income statement -
Deferred tax relating to actuarial remeasurement of the defined benefit scheme
Share based payments
Foreign exchange movements
Total income tax charged to equity
 4,196  2,237 
 361  (48)
 (222) 185 
  
 4,335  2,374 
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
Costs incurred in relation to previously leased properties
Loss on disposal of surplus property 
  
In the year ended 31 March 2014, costs of £0.370 million were incurred in relation to previously leased properties (2013 - £0.057 million). These 
properties were used by businesses that were sold in prior years.  
10    Loss on discontinued activities, net of tax
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
  (37) (57)
  -   (13)
   
  (37) (70)
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year -
The tax assessed for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are explained as follows - 
 2013 
 restated
 2014  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 75
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
11 Earnings per share
  3,592  2,809 
  
  42  28 
  
  3,634  2,837 
 
  (37) (70)
  
  3,597  2,767
  65,761,466  64,125,734 
  
  171,187  344,080 
  
  65,932,653  64,469,814 
            2014  2013 
            Shares  Shares
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent divided by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent divided by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (adjusted for dilutive options).
The following details the profit and average number of shares used in calculating the basic and diluted earnings per share -
Profit after tax from continuing operations
Loss attributable to non-controlling interests
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders from continuing operations
Loss on discontinued operations, net of tax
Profit after tax, attributable to equity holders of the parent
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in the year
Effect of share options in issue
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) in the year
In addition to the above, the company also calculates an earnings per share based on underlying profit as the board believe this to be a better 
yardstick against which to judge the progress of the group. Underlying profit is defined as profit before rationalisation costs, one-off retirement 
benefit effects, exceptional bad debts, business closure costs, litigation costs and the impact of property and business disposals, net of attributable 
taxes.
The following table reconciles the group’s profit to underlying profit used in the numerator in calculating underlying earnings per share -  
  
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
  3,597  2,767 
  
  71  122 
  330  315 
  -   72 
  37  70 
  
  4,035  3,346 
Profit after tax, attributable to equity holders of the parent
Rationalisation costs, net of tax
Litigation costs, net of tax
Exit from Ford volume automotive communication business, net of tax
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax
Underlying profit attributable to equity holders of the parent REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 76
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Ordinary dividends per 5 pence share declared in the period comprised –
Final dividend for 2011/12
Interim dividend for 2012/13
Final dividend for 2012/13
Interim dividend for 2013/14
12  Dividends paid and proposed
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            Pence  Pence
  5.5  4.4 
  (0.0) (0.1)
  
  5.5  4.3 
  
  5.5  4.4 
  (0.0) (0.1)
  
  5.5  4.3 
  
  6.1  5.2 
  
  6.1  5.2 
Basic - continuing operations
Basic - discontinued operations
Basic - total
Diluted - continuing operations
Diluted - discontinued operations
Diluted - total
Underlying earnings per share - basic
Underlying earnings per share - diluted
11 Earnings per share continued
          2014    2013 
         £000  Pence  £000  Pence
The directors are proposing a final dividend of 1.80 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2014. If approved at the annual general 
meeting on 4 September 2014, the dividend payment totalling £1.189 million will be paid on 3 October 2014 to shareholders on the share register at 
close of business on 29 August 2014.
The interim dividend of £0.560 million was paid on 8 April 2014 and consequently has not been accrued.
 -   -   1,071  1.65 
 -   -   521  0.80 
 1,153  1.75  -  -  
 560  0.85  -   -   
     
 1,713  2.60  1,592  2.45 
The following table summerises the earnings per share figures based on the above data-   REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 77
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Cost
Balance at 1 April 2012
Additions
Effect of movements in foreign exchange
Balance at 31 March 2013
Additions
Disposals
Effect of movements in foreign exchange
Balance at 31 March 2014
Amortisation
Balance at 1 April 2012
Amortisation for the year
Effect of movements in foreign exchange
Balance at 31 March 2013
Amortisation for the year
Disposals
Effect of movements in foreign exchange
Balance at 31 March 2014
Carrying amounts
At 1 April 2012
At 31 March 2013
At 31 March 2014
13   Intangible assets
 21,364  19,697  402  997 42,460 
      
 -   3,765  -   26  3,791 
 253  -   -   13  266 
      
 21,617  23,462  402  1,036  46,517 
      
 -   3,519  -   110  3,629 
 -   -   -   (17) (17)
 (1,129) -   -   (24) (1,153)
      
 20,488  26,981  402  1,105  48,976 
      
  
 
 -   631  238  764  1,633 
      
 -   248  57  56  361 
 -   -   -   7  7 
      
 -   879  295  827  2,001 
      
 -   891  57  58  1,006 
 -   -   -   (12) (12)
 -   -   -   (13) (13)
      
 -   1,770  352  860  2,982 
 21,364  19,066  164  233  40,827 
 21,617  22,583  107  209  44,516 
 20,488  25,211  50  245  45,994
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are based on value in use calculations. Those calculations use board approved cash flow 
projections based on actual operating results and current forecasts. Operating results, being the key assumption within the model, have been forecast 
for a period of five years. A five year period has been utilised given the relatively stable nature of the segments. Year one (2014/15) was based on 
detailed budgets prepared by management. Years two to five are extrapolated using these budgets and assuming growth of up to 10.0% per annum 
dependent upon the markets served. From year five onwards growth is assumed at 3.0% per annum. The cash flows were discounted at a pre-tax 
rate of 7.4% (2013 - 8.0%) for Technical Plastics, LED Technologies and Precision Engineering and 13.25% (2013 - 13.25%) for Conductive Inkjet 
Technology. These rates are calculated and reviewed annually. Changes in income and expenditure are based on expectations of future changes in 
the market. No impairment arose during the year as a result of this test. The valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible 
change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
Note 31 provides details of the assumptions used to assess the carrying value of patents and development costs.
Impairment tests for cash generating units containing goodwill
The following cash generating units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill -
Technical Plastics 
LED Technologies
Precision Engineering
Conductive Inkjet Technology
Other
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
  17,384  18,486 
  389  389 
  1,268  1,295 
  931  931 
  516  516 
  20,488  21,617 
        Patents and Customer 
        development related Computer 
       Goodwill costs intangibles software Total 
       £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 78
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Cost
Balance at 1 April 2012
Additions
Disposals
Effect of movements in foreign exchange
Balance at 31 March 2013
Additions
Disposals
Reclassification
Effect of movements in foreign exchange
Balance at 31 March 2014
Depreciation
Balance at 1 April 2012
Depreciation charge for the year
Disposals
Effect of movements in foreign exchange
Balance at 31 March 2013
Depreciation charge for the year
Disposals
Effect of movements in foreign exchange
Balance at 31 March 2014
Carrying amounts
At 1 April 2012
At 31 March 2013
At 31 March 2014
14  Property, plant and equipment
 
 17,974  53,637  71,611 
   
 3,563  5,129  8,692 
 (4) (9,125) (9,129)
 189  494  683 
   
 21,722  50,135  71,857 
   
 2,721  4,429  7,150 
 (68) (1,207) (1,275)
 (1,800) 1,800  -  
 (1,061) (1,644) (2,705)
   
 21,514  53,513  75,027 
    
  
 4,436  39,192  43,628 
   
 473  3,048  3,521 
 (4) (9,125) (9,129)
 83  305  388 
   
 4,988  33,420  38,408 
   
 442  3,227  3,669 
 (68) (1,176) (1,244)
 (272) (1,191) (1,463)
   
 5,090  34,280  39,370 
 
  
 13,538  14,445  27,983 
 16,734  16,715  33,449 
 16,424  19,233  35,657 
Quoted investments
Quoted investments comprise non current equity securities which are available for sale. 
The investments are held at cost. Their fair value is not materially different to their net book value.
15  Investments
  7 6 
  7 6
At 31 March 2014, properties with a carrying amount of £6.587 million were subject to a registered charge in favour of the group pension scheme 
(2013 - £6.461 million). 
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
          Land and  Plant and 
          buildings  equipment  Total 
          £000  £000  £000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 79
Raw materials and consumables
Work in progress
Finished goods
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
16  Inventories
  6,749  6,518 
  615  545 
  5,999  5,511 
 
  13,363  12,574 
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Trade receivables
Less impairment provision
Other debtors and prepayments
The ageing profile of the trade receivables, net of impairment provisions, was as follows –
Not past due
Past due 0 – 30 days
Past due 31 – 60 days
Past due 61 – 120 days
More than 120 days
The impairment provision is calculated based on bad and doubtful debts and invoiced sales known to be disputed by the customer. It is group 
policy to provide for all debts due from customers in administration or liquidation and all other debts which are more than 120 days overdue. 
The only exception to this policy is in respect of sub contract tooling debtors where a proportion of the contract payment may not be due until 
final approval and sign off of the tool by the customer which may take a period of time. Such debtors are assessed individually as to recovery. The 
level of debts overdue by more than 61 days is due to sub contract tooling invoices which are pending final customer sign off.
Provision is made in full for any credit notes which are potentially issuable in respect of disputed invoices and returned goods.
17  Trade and other receivables
  14,906  13,402 
  (69) (60)
  14,837  13,342 
  6,299  6,102 
   
  21,136  19,444 
 
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
Cash at bank and in hand
18 Cash and cash deposits
  11,764  16,098 
  
  11,764  16,098 
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
  10,955  10,939 
  3,400  1,974 
  351  341 
  102  78 
  29  10 
   
  14,837  13,342
The value of inventories is stated after impairment for obsolescence and write downs to a net realisable value of £1.069 million (2013 - £1.371 million).
At 31 March 2014, cash of £ nil was subject to a registered charge in favour of the group pension scheme (2013 - £1.186 million). REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 80
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Current –
Bank overdrafts
Non current –
Bank loans repayable between one and two years
Bank loans repayable between two and five years
Bank loans include £17.569 million (2013 - £18.308 million) secured on the assets of the group.       
The bank overdrafts are predominantly in sterling and bear interest at two per cent above prevailing UK bank base rates. At 31 March 2014 the gross 
amount of overdrafts available was £11.414 million (2013 - £11.515 million) of which £5.415 million was utilised at the year end (2013 - £0.000 
million) which is net of qualifying cash balances.
At 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013, the group had medium term multi-currency revolving term loan facilities totalling £20.000 million. These 
facilities were entered into on 15 November 2011 and terminate on 15 November 2015. These facilities are split equally between the group’s two 
principal UK bankers. At 31 March 2014 these facilities were drawn to the extent of £17.569 million (2013 - £18.308 million) and incur interest at the 
rate of 1.70% above LIBOR.
The bank loans are secured by guarantees from certain group companies and by fixed and floating charges over certain of the assets of a number 
of the group’s companies. At 31 March 2014 the gross value of the assets secured, which includes applicable inter company balances, amounted to 
£33.928 million (2013 - £25.803 million). Excluding inter company balances the value of the security was £20.760 million
(2013 - £15.813 million).
19  Interest bearing loans and borrowings
  11,875  6,968 
   
  11,875  6,968  
  
   
  17,569  -  
  -   18,308 
   
  17,569  18,308 
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
Recognised tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets - 
Property, plant and equipment
Employee benefits
Short term timing differences
Share based payments
Tax losses
Deferred tax assets
Liabilities - 
Intangible assets
Short term timing differences
Deferred tax liabilities
Net deferred tax (liability) / asset
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
The following deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items –
Tax losses – overseas
Tax losses – trading
Tax losses – capital
Tax losses – non trading
20 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
 
  3,277  3,490 
  (49) 3,559 
  962  1,431 
  68  912 
  531  349 
   
  4,789  9,741 
   
   
  4,713  4,906 
  1,929  1,814 
   
  6,642  6,720 
   
  (1,853) 3,021 
  74  533 
  608  752 
  267  320 
  900  903 
 
  1,849  2,508
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 81
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on the balance sheet to the extent that the underlying timing differences are not expected to 
reverse in the foreseeable future. The nature of the tax regimes in certain of the regions in which Carclo operates are such that tax losses may 
arise even though the business is profitable. This situation is expected to continue in the medium term. Capital losses will be recognised at the 
point when a transaction gives rise to an offsettable capital gain. This was not the case at 31 March 2014. Similarly non trading losses will only 
be utilised against future non trading profits. No such non trading profits are foreseen at 31 March 2014.
The tax losses at 31 March 2014 are available to carry forward without time restriction. 
At 31 March 2014 there were no recognised deferred tax liabilities for taxes that would be deductible on the unremitted earnings of the 
group’s overseas subsidiary undertakings (2013 - nil) as the group policy is to continually reinvest in those businesses. If all earnings were 
remitted it is estimated that £0.375 million of additional tax would be payable (2013 - £0.322 million). 
The deferred tax liability at 31 March 2014 has been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
20 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Employee benefits
Share based payments 
Short term timing differences
Tax losses
     Balance    Balance 
     as at Recognised Recognised Recognised as at 
     1 Apr 13 on acquisition in income in equity 31 Mar 14 
     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
 3,490  -   (213) -   3,277 
 (4,906) -   (149) 342  (4,713)
 3,559  -   588  (4,196) (49)
 912  -   (483) (361) 68 
 (383) -   (464) (120) (967)
 349  -   182  -   531 
         
 3,021 -   (539) (4,335) (1,853)
 2,863  -   627  -   3,490 
 (4,444) -   (275) (187) (4,906)
 5,423  -   374  (2,238) 3,559 
 1,027  -   (163) 48  912 
 (383) -   (13) 13  (383)
 410  -   (61) -   349 
  
 4,896  -   489  (2,364) 3,021 
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets
Employee benefits
Share based payments 
Short term timing differences
Tax losses
     Balance    Balance 
     as at Recognised Recognised Recognised as at 
     1 Apr 12 on acquisition in income in equity 31 Mar 13 
     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
The group operates a defined benefit UK pension scheme which provides pensions based on service and final pay. The defined benefit scheme is now 
closed to new entrants who have the option of entering into a defined contribution scheme and the company has elected to cease future accrual for 
existing members of the defined benefit scheme. The assets of the defined benefit scheme are held in a separate trustee administered pension fund. 
Outside of the UK, retirement benefits are determined according to local practice and funded accordingly. 
 
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit scheme were as follows –
21 Retirement benefit obligations
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
Present value of funded obligations
Fair value of scheme assets
Recognised asset / (liability) for defined benefit obligations
  (183,585) (185,948)
  183,824  170,472 
   
  239  (15,476) REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 82
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Movements in the net asset / (liability) for defined benefit obligations recognised in the 
consolidated statement of financial position -
Net liability for defined benefit obligations at the start of the year
Contributions paid
Net expense recognised in the consolidated income statement (see below)
Remeasurement gains recognised directly in equity
Net asset / (liability) for defined benefit obligations at the end of the year
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations and scheme assets - 
Liability at the start of the year
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability
Remeasurement (gains) / losses
Benefits paid
Liability at the end of the year
Assets at the start of the year
Interest on scheme assets
Remeasurement gains
Contributions by employer
Benefits paid
Assets at the end of the year
Actual return on scheme assets
The fair value of scheme asset investments was as follows - 
Equities
Bonds
Property
Cash
  (15,476) (22,597)
   
  1,009  990 
  (659) (1,084)
  15,365  7,215 
   
  239  (15,476)
   
   
  
   
  185,948  172,761 
   
  7,976  8,287 
  (893) 14,371 
  (9,446) (9,471)
  
  183,585  185,948 
  
  170,472  150,164 
  
  7,317  7,203 
  14,472  21,586 
  1,009  990 
  (9,446) (9,471)
  
  183,824  170,472 
  
  21,789  28,185 
  
  
  
  
  
  92,787  76,760 
  66,874  68,010 
  22,708  22,108 
  1,455  3,594 
  
  183,824  170,472 
None of the fair values of the assets shown above include any of the group’s own financial instruments or any property occupied, or other assets used, 
by the group.             
 
All of the scheme assets have a quoted market price in an active market with the exception of the Trustee’s bank account balance.   
           
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 83
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement -
Other finance revenue and expense - net interest on the net defined benefit liability
 
  659  1,084 
   
  659  1,084 
   
   
 
   
 
  659  1,084 
   
  659  1,084 
               
               
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £’000  £’000
21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
The group recognises remeasurement gains and losses immediately on the balance sheet through the statement of comprehensive income.
The cumulative remeasurement net loss reported in the statement of comprehensive income since 1 April 2004 is £1.073 million.
The current best estimate of employer cash contributions to be paid in the year ending 31 March 2015 is £1.038 million.
 
The overperfomance of the scheme assets against expectations in the year was due to a stronger performance by the market. 
The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) were -
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Discount rate at 31 March 
Expected return on plan assets at 31 March 
Future salary increases
Inflation
Future pension increases
Life expectancy for a male (current pensioner) aged 65
Life expectancy at 65 for a male aged 40
  4.4 4.4%
  N/A N/A
  N/A N/A
  3.45 3.5%
  2.35 2.4%
  18.2 years 18.1 years
  19.9 years 19.8 years
            2014  2013
It is assumed that 100% of the post A-Day maximum for actives and deferreds will be commuted for cash (2013 - 100%).
The history of the scheme’s deficits and experience gains and losses is shown in the following table -
Present value of funded obligations
Fair value of scheme asset investments
Recognised surplus / (liability) for defined benefit obligations
Actual return on scheme assets
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on scheme liabilities
  (183,585) (185,948)
  183,824  170,472 
  239  (15,476)
  21,789  28,185 
  893  (14,371)
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
The expense recognised in the consolidated income statement - REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 84
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Provisions at the start of the year - current
Provisions used in the period
Provisions at the end of the year - current
        Site    Site 
        closure  Total  closure  Total 
        £000  £000  £000  £000
22 Provisions 
A provision of £0.130 million was established in March 2012 in respect of a settlement relating to a previous site closure. This amount was settled in 
full in May 2012.
 -   -   130  130 
 
 -   -   (130) (130)
 -   -   -   -  
Trade payables 
Other taxes and social security costs
Other creditors
Accruals and deferred income
  9,272  8,854 
  1,592  1,385 
  2,155  1,204 
  7,144  9,536 
   
  20,163  20,979 
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
23 Trade and other payables - falling due within one year
Ordinary shares of 5 pence each -
Issued and fully paid at 31 March 2013
Shares issued on exercise of share options
Issued and fully paid at 31 March 2014
  65,169,642  3,258 
   
  884,500  45 
   
  66,054,142  3,303 
            Number  
            of shares  £000
25 Ordinary share capital
During the course of the financial year 884,500 shares were issued in respect of share options at an average exercise price of 44.0 pence per ordinary 
share. The shares are fully paid.
Outstanding share options are as follows -      
     
 Date Number of
 granted shares Price Date exercisable
Executive share option schemes 14 September 2005 24,000  80p  to 13 September 2015
 15 September 2006 199,000  77p to 14 September 2016
 23 June 2008 2,000  86p 23 June 2011 to 22 June 2018
Outstanding awards under the performance share plan are as follows -     
     
 Date Number of  Earliest
 granted shares Price date of vesting
Performance share plan 8 July 2011 80,000  nil 8 July 2014
 16 July 2012 65,000  nil 16 July 2015
 15 July 2013 201,000  nil 15 July 2016
24 Fair values
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are not materially different from their carrying value.
There are no material items as required to be disclosed under the fair value hierarchy.
 2013 2014 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 85
25  Ordinary share capital continued
The share options have been awarded to the executive directors and senior managers within the group.
The vesting conditions for all share option schemes are three years of service plus the satisfaction of specified performance criteria.
Under the provisions of IFRS 2 a charge is recognised for those share options and awards under the performance share plan issued after 7 November 
2002. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the Black-Scholes model for share options granted under the 
executive and discretionary share option schemes.  The Monte-Carlo model is used to calculate the fair value of the performance share plan awards. 
The contractual life of the share options (ten years) is used as an input into this model. Expectations of early exercise are incorporated into the model.
The fair value per share of the awards under the performance share plan granted in the year is as follows - 
           15 July 2013  16 July 2012 
           Award Award
Performance share plan 
Fair value at grant date
Share price at grant date
Exercise price
Expected volatility
Share price volatility of comparators
Expected dividend yield
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
  246p 280p
  359¼p 440p
   0.0p  0.0p
  46.22% 86.49%
  39.45% 30.25%
  0.60% 0.79%
The performance share plan award issued on 16 July 2012 has a split performance condition whereby half of the awards would vest after three years 
based on performance compared to TSR and the remaining half would vest based on EPS performance.  Half of the awards will vest on a sliding scale 
from 25% if EPS growth exceeds RPI by 5% per annum or more over the three year period beginning with the year of grant, rising to 100% if  EPS 
growth exceeds RPI by 12% per annum. The other half of the awards will vest on a sliding scale from 25% if TSR exceeds the median performance of 
the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index over the three year period ending on 31 March 2015 rising to 100% for upper quartile performance.
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options), adjusted for 
any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The amounts recognised in the income statement arising from equity settled share based payments was a charge of £0.034 million
(2013 - £0.189 million).
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options and performance share plan awards is as follows -
Outstanding at 1 April
Lapsed during the period
Exercised during the period
Granted during the period
Outstanding at the end of the period
Exercisable at 31 March
Weighted average remaining life at 31 March
 Weighted  Weighted 
 average  average 
 exercise Number exercise Number 
 price of options price  of options 
 pence No. pence No.
 23.0  1,350,000  18.1  1,853,500  
 -   (89,500) -   (273,800)
 15.2  (890,500) 8.4  (294,700)
 -   201,000  -   65,000 
     
 30.5  571,000  23.0  1,350,000 
  
  225,000   417,000 
  23 months  15 months
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the share options exercised in 2014 was 333.7 pence (2013 - 432.5 pence).
       2014  2013
 2013 2014 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 86
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
26 Reserves
Other reserves
 Other reserves comprise –
 Capital redemption reserve arising on the repurchase of the company’s shares   
 Revaluation reserve arising on land and buildings     
 Revaluation reserve arising on intangible assets      
       
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not 
integral to the operations of the company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the company’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Retained earnings
Netted against retained earnings is the cost of own shares held by the group. The company maintains an employee share ownership plan for the benefit of 
employees and which can be used in conjunction with any of the group’s share option schemes. As at 31 March 2014 the plan held 3,077 shares (2013 - 3,077 
shares).
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
27 Financial instruments
The group’s financial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts, cash and short term deposits. These financial instruments are used for the 
purpose of funding the group’s operations.  In addition the group has other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables which 
arise directly from its operational activities.
The group is exposed to a range of financial risks as part of its day to day activities. These include credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and foreign 
currency risk.
 
Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or financial institution fails to meet its contractual obligations.  The group’s credit risk 
is mainly attributable to its trade receivables which the group mitigates by way of credit insurance.  Credit insurance is sought for all customers where 
exposure is in excess of £10,000.  In certain instances credit insurance cannot always be obtained or cover has been withdrawn. In such instances 
payment terms are re-negotiated and internal credit limits established. The amounts shown in the balance sheet are after making due provision for any 
doubtful debts.
The group maintains any surplus cash balances on deposit accounts or legal offset accounts with the group’s principal banks which have high credit 
ratings assigned by independent international credit rating agencies. In addition, the group has undrawn net overdraft facilities of £5.999 million at 
31 March 2014 (2013 - £11.515 million) which are available to mitigate any liquidity risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 March was –
Quoted investments
Trade receivables, net of attributable impairment provisions
Cash and cash deposits
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
Carclo is a worldwide supplier of components and systems. As a consequence, the group’s trade receivables reside across a broad spectrum of 
countries which potentially increases the attributable credit risk in certain territories. The following table analyses the geographical location of trade 
receivables, net of attributable impairment provisions.
  7  6 
  14,837  13,342 
  11,764  16,098 
   
  26,608  29,446 
United Kingdom
Rest of Europe
North America
Rest of world
Trade receivables, net of attributable impairment provisions
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
  4,528  3,634 
  4,891  4,282 
  3,258  3,401 
  2,160  2,025 
   
  14,837  13,342 
  1,330  1,330 
  252  252 
  2,002  2,002 
  
  3,584 3,584  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 87
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
27 Financial instruments continued
Interest Risk 
The group’s borrowings are on floating rate terms. In the year to 31 March 2014, interest rates have remained at historic lows in response to the 
worldwide recession. This has kept the interest charge borne by the group at a lower level.
The interest rate profile of financial liabilities by currency of the group as at 31 March  was as follows -
              Floating 
                              rate interest 
              payable 
              £000
As at 31 March 2014
Sterling
US dollar
Euro
Other
As at 31 March 2013
Sterling
US dollar
Euro
Other
   15,960 
   6,471 
   7,011 
   2 
 
   29,444 
 
 
   10,511 
   7,664 
   6,853 
   248 
 
   25,276 
As at 31 March 2014
Sterling
US dollar
Euro
Other
 5,042  60  5,102 
 2,151  -   2,151 
 2,137  478  2,615 
 1,876  20  1,896 
    
 11,206  558  11,764 
The interest rate profile of financial assets by currency of the group as at 31 March was as follows -
       Floating 
       rate interest  No interest   
       receivable receivable Total 
       £000 £000 £000
As at 31 March 2013
Sterling
US dollar
Euro
Other
 2,910  63  2,973 
 9,910  1  9,911 
 2,008  41  2,049 
 1,142  23  1,165 
 
 15,970  128  16,098 
The floating rate of interest earned on cash balances is in the range bank base - 1% to bank base + 2%.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group manages this risk by maintaining 
a mixture of committed long term loan facilities and short term overdraft facilities which have been established to ensure that adequate funding 
is available to fund its operational and investment activities. The board monitors the group’s cash flows against internal targets and thresholds 
established with the group’s bankers.
As detailed in note 19, the group has committed term loan facilities of £20.000 million (2013 - £20.000 million). In addition, the group has overdraft 
facilities totalling £11.414 million (2013 - £11.515 million). The group’s net debt at 31 March 2014 was £17.680 million (2013 - £9.178 million), 
comfortably within the available facilities.
       Floating 
       rate interest  No interest  
       receivable receivable Total 
       £000 £000 £000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 88
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
27 Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency risk
The group has a number of overseas subsidiary operations. The major overseas subsidiaries are located in the United States, France, the Czech 
Republic, China and India. Hence the balance sheet of the group can be affected by the applicable conversion rates, the sterling / US dollar exchange 
rate in particular. It is the group’s policy to hedge the effect of such structural currency exposures by having borrowings in the appropriate currencies 
where it is considered efficient to do so. A loan of US $10.600 million is designated as the hedging instrument against foreign currency exposures in 
the net investment in the trading subsidiaries in the United States. A loan of €7.500 million is designated as the hedging instrument against foreign 
currency exposures in the net investment in the European operations.
In addition the group is subject to transactional currency exposures arising from the sale and purchase of goods and services in currency other than 
the company’s local currency. Historically it has been the group’s policy to hedge such exposure where the net exposure in any one currency exceeds 
£20,000 on any day using forward contracts. However, within the UK operations opportunities have been exploited to naturally hedge inflows in 
currency with similar outflows. It is the group’s policy not to undertake any speculative transactions.
The fair value of the forward contracts at the start and end of the financial year was immaterial. The cash flows associated with the forward contracts 
are summarised as follows –
     Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total 
     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
      Less than  Less than  
      6 months 6 - 12 months 6 months 6 - 12 months 
      £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets
Liabilities
 744  -   882  -  
 (361) - (1,603) -
 
 383  -   (721) -  
The balance sheet exposure to currency at the year end arising from trading activities is illustrated in the following analysis by currency of the 
group’s trade receivables and trade payables –
Trade receivables, net of attributable impairment provisions
Trade payables
Net
As at 31 March 2013
Trade receivables, net of attributable impairment provisions
Trade payables
Net
 6,739  3,622  3,331  1,145  14,837 
 (3,489) (3,974) (1,603) (206) (9,272)
      
 3,250  (352) 1,728  939  5,565 
      
   
 
 5,319  4,579  2,930  514  13,342 
 (3,106) (3,128) (2,191) (429) (8,854)
      
 2,213  1,451  739  85  4,488 
The following table summarises the main exchange rates used during the year -
      2014 2013 2014 2013
Sterling  / US dollar
Sterling / Czech koruna
Sterling / Chinese renminbi
Sterling / Euro
Sterling / Indian rupee
 1.59  1.56 1.67  1.52
 31.4  31.1 33.2  30.44
 9.8  9.8 10.3  9.52
 1.19  1.23 1.21  1.19
 96.1  85.8 99.5  82.6
Fair values 
The fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between third parties. Where available, 
market values are used to determine fair values, otherwise fair values are calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest and 
exchange rates. The fair value of the derivatives and financial instruments detailed above was not materially different to the book value at 31 March 
2014 and 31 March 2013. Unrecognised and deferred gains and losses in respect of derivatives and financial instruments at 31 March 2014 were 
insignificant.
 2013 2014
Average rate Reporting date mid-market rate
As at 31 March 2014 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 89
27 Financial instruments continued
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the group aims to reduce the impact of short term fluctuations on the group’s earnings. Over the longer 
term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings. In the year ended 31 
March 2014, it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would have decreased the group’s profit before tax by 
approximately £0.291 million (2013 – £0.284 million). It is estimated that a general increase of 10% in the value of sterling against the above noted 
main currencies would have decreased the group’s profit before tax by approximately £0.423 million for the year ended 31 March 2014 (2013 – 
£0.482 million) which is detailed by currency in the following table –
US dollar
Euro
Czech koruna
Other
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
  249  253 
  66  63 
  48  40 
  60  126 
   
  423  482 
Capital risk management
The capital structure of the group consists of net debt (borrowings as detailed in note 19 offset by cash and bank balances) and equity of the group 
(comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as detailed in the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity).
The group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an appropriate capital structure. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, 
the group will take into account the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, the level of debt and the number of shares in issue. Close control of 
deployment of capital is maintained by detailed management review procedures for authorisation of significant capital commitments, such as land 
acquisition, capital targets for local management and a system of internal interest charges, ensuring capital cost impact is understood and considered 
by all management tiers.
Decisions regarding the balance of equity and borrowings, dividend policy and all major borrowing facilities are reserved for the board.
28 Cash generated from operations
Operating profit
Adjustments for -
Pension fund contributions in excess of service costs
Depreciation charge
Amortisation of intangible assets
Provision for site closure
Profit on disposal of other plant and equipment
Share based payment charge
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital
Changes in working capital
Increase in inventories
Increase in trade and other receivables
(Decrease) / increase in trade and other payables
Cash generated from operations
            2014  2013 
              restated 
            £000  £000
  6,031  4,915 
   
   
  (1,009) (980)
  3,669  3,521 
  1,006  361 
  -   (130)
  (25) (42)
  34  189 
   
  9,706  7,834 
   
   
  (1,265) (710)
  (2,451) (2,527)
  (363) 6,706 
   
  5,627  11,303  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 90
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
29 Financial commitments
30 Related parties
Identity of related parties 
The group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see note 32), its directors and executive officers and the group pension scheme. There 
are no transactions that are required to be disclosed in relation to the group’s 60.3% subsidiary Platform Diagnostics Limited. 
Transactions with key management personnel
 
Details of directors’ remuneration can be found in the remuneration report on pages 36 to 52.
Group pension scheme
 
Carclo manages a pensions department which administers the group pension scheme (The Carclo Group Pension Scheme). The associated investment 
costs are recharged to the scheme in full. The costs in the year ended 31 March 2014 amounted to £1.060 million (2013 - £0.402 million).  From 
1 April 2007, it has been agreed with the Trustees of the scheme that, under the terms of the recovery plan, Carclo would bear the scheme’s 
administration costs whilst the scheme was in deficit, as calculated at the triennial valuation. Carclo incurred administration costs of  £0.651 million 
which has been charged to the Consolidated Income Statement (2013 - £0.614 million charged against the IAS 19 pension scheme deficit).
 
31 Accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
 
The estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. These estimates and assumptions form the basis for making judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that
are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
 
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which 
the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and 
future periods.
 
The following are the critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that the directors have made in the process of applying the group’s 
accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. Management has discussed 
these with the Audit Committee. These should be read in conjunction with the significant accounting policies provided in the notes to the financial 
statements.
(a)   The directors have authorised the following future capital expenditure which is contracted -
(b)   The commitment under non cancellable operating leases was as follows -
within one year
within two to five years
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
  129  2,669 
   
  
   
  275  233 
  3,132  3,091 
   
  3,407  3,324 
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 91
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
31 Accounting estimates and judgements continued
Impairment of goodwill 
Note 13 contains information about the assumptions and their risk factors relating to goodwill impairment. 
Capitalisation and recoverability of other intangible assets
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in 
the income statement as an expense as incurred. Development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred unless it meets all the 
criteria to be capitalised under IAS 38 - Intangible Assets. Development expenditure continues to be capitalised until the product reaches the point at 
which it operates in the manner intended by management, at which point amortisation commences.
The development costs and associated intellectual property rights carried on the group balance sheet predominantly stem from the development work 
undertaken by Conductive Inkjet Technology Limited (“CIT”) . The majority of these costs relate to the Fine Line Technology which is utilised by our 
commercial partner Atmel Corporation as part of its XSense™ touch sensor. This product has already been successfully used on commercially available 
products and usage will expand through the coming years. The remainder within CIT relates to other printed electronics uses, all of which have been 
successfully tested and all of which have existing markets that are set to expand significantly. 
The recoverability of these assets is assessed periodically having regard to a prudent assessment of potential future revenue streams so far identified 
for CIT’s patented processes. Projected future cash flows for the next seven years (being half the expected life of the attributable patents) have been 
discounted back at a rate of 13.25%. The net present value of these cash flows indicates that there is no impairment of the other intangible assets at 
31 March 2014. Revenues from CIT are set to grow in the new financial year but the impact on group profits will be limited due to a commensurate 
increase in the amortisation charge in line with the group’s amortisation policy.
The remaining costs and associated intellectual property rights relate to the development work undertaken by Carclo Diagnostics Solutions Limited 
and Platform Diagnostics Limited which is considered to meet all the criteria to be capitalised under IAS 38 - Intangible Assets. These costs will be 
amortised over the life of the products once the products operate in the manner intended by management.
The customer related intangible asset arose on the acquisitions of Ultra Auto Cosmetics and Jacottet Industrie and represents management’s estimate 
of the fair value of the benefits accruing in respect of their customer distribution networks and unique design drawings to the group. These assets are 
being amortised over a period of seven years.  
 
Fixed asset useful economic lives
 
The useful economic lives of fixed assets are reviewed annually having regard to any profits or losses arising from the disposal of assets, future capital 
expenditure programmes and the level of expected manufacturing activity. No adjustment has been made in the year to the estimated economic lives 
of the group’s tangible fixed assets. 
 
Pension assumptions
 
The key assumptions applied to pensions are disclosed in note 21. The pension scheme liabilities are derived using actuarial assumptions for inflation, 
future salary increases, discount rates, mortality rates and commutation. Due to the relative size of the scheme’s liabilities, small changes to these 
assumptions can give rise to a significant impact on the pension scheme deficit reported in the group balance sheet. For example, a decrease in the 
discount rate by 0.25% (i.e. 4.4% to 4.15%) would increase the scheme liabilities by 3.4% i.e. £6.242 million.
 
Recognition of deferred tax assets
 
Note 20 contains information about the assumptions and their risk factors relating to the recognition of deferred tax assets. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 92
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
32 Group entities
Control of the group
The group’s ultimate parent company is Carclo plc which is incorporated in England.
The ordinary share capital of the subsidiary undertakings are owned by the company except where indicated.
Significant subsidiaries
    Country of 2014 2013 
    incorporation % %
Technical Plastics division
Carclo Technical Plastics Limited   England 100 100
*  Carclo Technical Plastics Inc.   USA 100 100
*  Carclo Technical Plastics Shanghai Co. Limited  China 100 100
*  Carclo Technical Plastics (Brno) s.r.o  Czech Republic 100 100
Carclo Technical Plastics Private Co. Limited  India 100 100
LED Technologies division
Wipac Limited    England 100 100
Precision Engineering division
Bruntons Aero Products Limited   England 100 100
*  Jacottet Industrie SAS   France 100 100
Conductive Inkjet Technology
Conductive Inkjet Technology Limited  England 100 100
Other
Carclo Diagnostic Solutions Limited   England 100 100
*  Platform Diagnostics Limited   England 60.3 51
 * Wholly owned by subsidiary undertakings
The companies within the Technical Plastics 
division design and manufacture high quality, 
close tolerance plastic components for the 
medical, optical and electronics industries.
The companies within the Precision Engineering 
division design and manufacture a range of 
control systems for the aerospace industries.
Applied research into the digital printing of 
conductive metals onto plastic substrates.
The company within the LED Technologies 
division develops innovative solutions in LED 
lighting and is a leader in the development of 
high power LED lighting for supercars.
Holding, development and exploitation of 
intellectual property rights.
Applied research in to the development 
of digital diagnostic technologies for the 
immunoassay market.
33 Post balance sheet event
Following the year end, the group commenced consultation with the workforce of our facility in Harthill, Lanarkshire regarding a possible closure of 
this lossmaking plant. In the next financial year the impact on operating profit is not expected to be material.   REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 93
Fixed assets
Tangible assets
Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Current assets
Debtors - amounts falling due within one year
Debtors - amounts falling due after more than one year
Cash at bank and in hand
Creditors - amounts falling due within one year
Trade and other creditors
Net current (liabilities) / assets
Total assets less current liabilities
Creditors - amounts falling due after more than one year
Net assets excluding retirement benefits
Retirement benefits
Total net assets
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Share premium
Merger reserve
Other reserves
Profit and loss account
Equity shareholders’ funds 
These accounts were approved by the board of directors on
10 June 2014 and were signed on its behalf by -
Michael Derbyshire
Robert Brooksbank
10 June 2014
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH
     Notes  £000 £000 £000 £000
 36 141   132   
 37 110,634   110,634   
   110,775   110,766 
      
   
 38 66,876   4,578   
 38 207   73,258   
  1,620   1,236   
  68,703   79,072   
 39 115,733   9,450   
  115,733   9,450   
   (47,030)  69,622 
      
   63,745   180,388 
      
 40  (17,569)  (128,982)
   
   46,176   51,406 
      
 42  -    (11,917)
      
   46,176   39,489 
      
   
 25  3,303   3,258 
 43  21,291   20,901 
 43  8,785   8,785 
 43  1,330   1,330 
 43  11,467   5,215 
      
   46,176   39,489 
}
directors
  2014  2013 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 94
a) Accounting convention
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial 
statements.
b) Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Under section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 the company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account. 
Under FRS 1 the company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the consolidated cash flow for all 
group companies is included within the consolidated financial statements. 
As these parent company financial statements are presented together with the consolidated financial statements the company has taken advantage 
of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form part of the group. There 
were no transactions required to be disclosed in respect of Platform Diagnostics Limited, the group’s 60.3% subsidiary. The consolidated financial 
statements of Carclo plc, within which this company is included, are set out on pages 56 to 92.
c) Operating leases
Rentals in respect of assets leased under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the 
lease.
d) Investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment where appropriate. The directors consider annually whether a provision 
against the value of investments on an individual basis is required. Such provisions are charged in the profit and loss account in the year.
e) Tangible fixed assets and depreciation
Depreciation is provided at annual rates calculated to write off the gross amount on all other fixed assets on a straight line basis over their 
expected useful lives of between three and twelve years.
f) Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is recognised as a liability or asset if the transactions or events that give rise to an obligation to pay more tax in future, or a right 
to pay less tax in future, have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable 
profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date.
g)  Pension benefits
The company operates a defined benefit pension scheme and also makes payments into defined contribution schemes for employees. 
The liability in respect of the defined benefit plan is the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the 
balance sheet date, together with adjustments for actuarial gains and losses. Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in full with the 
movement recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Payments to the defined contribution schemes are accounted for on an accruals basis. Once the payments have been made the group has no  
further obligation. 
Surpuses on the defined contribution schemes are capped at nil as there exists no right for the company to claim direct recovery of said surpluses 
from the scheme due to the requirements of FRS 17.
h)  Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the rate  
of exchange under the related forward currency contract. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using  
the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and  
loss account.
i) Financial instruments 
The company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange rate risks arising from operational activities. In   
accordance with its treasury policy, the company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives  
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement of fair values is recognised immediately in  
the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature  
of the item being hedged. At the year end no derivative financial instruments qualified for hedge accounting.
j) Share based payments
The company issues equity settled share based payments to certain employees in exchange for services rendered by them. The fair value of the  
share based award is calculated at the date of the grant and is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding  
increase in equity. This is based on the company’s estimate of share options that will eventually vest. This takes into account movement of non  
market conditions, being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant. The fair value of the equity settled awards granted is not  
subsequently revisited.
k) Dividends
Dividends are only recognised as a liability to the extent that they are declared prior to the year end. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these  
criteria are disclosed in the note to the financial statements.
34 Accounting policies for the company
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 95
35 Personnel expenses
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
36 Tangible assets 
37 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Wages and salaries
Social security contributions
Charge in respect of defined contribution and other pension plans
Share based payments (see note 25)
The average number of employees in the year was 18 (2013 - 18).
        2014 2013 
        £000 £000
  1,190  1,096 
  157  125 
  113  68 
  34  189 
 
  1,494  1,478 
Cost or valuation
As at 1 April 2013
Additions
Disposals
As at 31 March 2014
Depreciation
As at 1 April 2013
Charge for the year
Disposals
As at 31 March 2014
Book value 31 March 2014
Book value 31 March 2013
         Plant 
         and 
         equipment 
         £000
   868 
   58 
   -  
 
   926 
 
 
   736 
   49 
   -  
 
   785 
 
   141 
 
   132 
As at 1 April 2013 and at 31 March 2014
A list of the main subsidiary undertakings is given in note 32. 
       At cost Provision Book value 
       £000 £000 £000
 151,872  (41,238) 110,634 
38 Debtors
Debtors - amounts falling due within one year -
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings
Other debtors
Prepayments
Taxation recoverable
Deferred taxation (see note 41)
Debtors - amounts falling due after more than one year -
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings
  66,269  3,675 
  310  278 
  121  130 
  -   409 
  176  86 
   
  66,876  4,578 
  
  207  73,258 
        2014 2013 
        £000 £000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 96
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
39 Trade and other creditors – amounts falling due within one year
40 Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
41 Provisions for liabilities and charges
The group operates a defined benefit final salary pension scheme.  Actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using appropriate methods as determined 
by the actuary. The scheme was subject to valuation at 31 March 2012.
The valuations used for the FRS 17 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial valuations as detailed above and as updated by the scheme’s actuary to 
assess the liabilities of the scheme as at 31 March 2014. 
 
42 Retirement benefits
Bank overdraft
Trade creditors
Other taxes and social security costs
Other creditors
Accruals
Owed to subsidiary undertakings
  8,018  4,307 
  52  177 
  156  135 
  (166) 120 
  400  468 
  107,273  4,243 
   
  115,733  9,450 
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000
Medium term loans
Owed to subsidiary undertakings
  17,569  18,308 
  -   110,674 
   
  17,569  128,982 
   2014  2013 
   £000  £000
As at 1 April 2013
Charged to the profit and loss account
As at 31 March 2014
Deferred taxation is as follows -
   (86)
   (90)
 
   (176)
                                       Deferred taxation  
             £000
Decelerated capital allowances
Other short term timing differences
The deferred tax balance is included in the following balance sheet heading -
Debtors
UK Deferred taxation has been provided at 20% being the rate substantively enacted at the period end.
  (171) (194)
  (5) 108 
   
  (176) (86)
   
   
   
  176  86 
            2014  2013 
            £000  £000 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 97
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
Valuation method
Rate of increase in salaries
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 
Discount rate
Inflation rate
The fair value of assets and liabilities at each balance sheet date were -
  Projected unit Projected unit
  N/A N/A
  2.35% to 3.45% 2.4% to 3.5%
  4.4% 4.4%
  3.5% 3.5%
        2014 2013
Equities and properties
Bonds and other
Total market value of assets
Actuarial value of liability
Deficit in the schemes
Asset cap
Related deferred tax (liability) / asset
Net pension liability
  115,495  98,868 
  68,329  71,604 
  183,824  170,472 
  (183,585)   (185,948)
  239  (15,476)
  (239) -  
  - 3,559 
  - (11,917)
        2014 2013 
        £000 £000
Amounts charged to other finance costs were - 
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability
Analysis of amounts recognised in the statement of total gains and losses - 
Actual return less interest on scheme assets
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit schemes are as follows -
Present value of funded obligations
Fair value of scheme assets
Asset cap
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations and scheme assets - 
Liability at the start of the year
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability
Remeasurement (gains) / losses
Benefits paid
Liability at the end of the year
  (659) (1,084)
   
  (659) (1,084)
   
   
   
  14,472  21,586 
  893  (14,371)
   
  15,365  7,215 
   
   
   
  (183,585) (185,948)
  183,824  170,472 
  (239) -  
   
  -   (15,476)
   
   
   
  185,948  172,761 
  
  7,976  8,287 
  (893) 14,371 
  (9,446) (9,471)
   
  183,585  185,948 
        2014 2013 
         restated 
        £000 £000
42 Retirement benefits continued
The method and financial assumptions used to assess the scheme’s liabilities under FRS 17 are - REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 98
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
42 Retirement benefits continued
43 Reserves
Assets at start of the year
Expected return on scheme assets
Remeasurement gains
Contributions by employer
Benefits paid
Assets at end of the year
The history of experience gains and losses is shown in the following table -
  170,472  150,164 
   
  7,317  7,203 
  14,472  21,586 
  1,009  990 
  (9,446) (9,471)
   
  183,824  170,472 
        2014 2013 
         restated 
        £000 £000
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets
Percentage of schemes assets
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities
Percentage of schemes liabilities
Total amount recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses
Percentage of schemes liabilities
  £14.472 million £21.586 million
  7.9% 12.7%
  nil nil
  nil% nil%
   
  £15.365 million £7.215 million
  8.4% 3.9%
        2014 2013 
         restated
Balance at 1 April 2013
Retained deficit for the year
Share based payments
Remeasurement gains on retirement benefit obligations
Deferred tax on actuarial movement on retirement benefit obligations
Exercise of share options
Issue of shares
Sale of own shares
Performance share plan awards
Balance at 31 March 2014
 20,901  8,785  1,330  5,215  36,231 
      
 -   -   -   (3,736) (3,736)
 -   -   -   34  34 
 -   -   -   15,126  15,126 
 -   -   -   (4,259) (4,259)
 122  -   -   -   122 
 -   -   -   -  -  
 -   -   -   -   -  
 268  -   -   (913) (645)
      
   
 21,291  8,785  1,330  11,467  42,873 
     Share Merger  Other Profit and  
     premium reserve reserves loss account Total 
     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
The company maintains an employee share ownership plan for the benefit of employees and which can be used in conjunction with any of the 
group’s share option schemes. As at 31 March 2014 the plan held 3,077 shares (2013 - 3,077 shares). The original cost of these shares was 
£0.003 million (2013 - £0.003 million). The cost of the shares has been charged against retained earnings.  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 99
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
44 Operating leases
 
      2014 2013 2014 2013 
      £000 £000 £000 £000
The company has entered into cross guarantee arrangements relating to the bank borrowings of its UK subsidiary operations and a letter of credit in support of 
the term loan borrowings of the subsidiary operations in the United States and India. The maximum obligations under these arrangements at 31 March 2014 
was £4.548 million (2013 - £3.030 million).
There are contingent liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business, in respect of litigation, which the directors believe will not have a significant effect on 
the financial position of the group. 
45 Contingent liabilities
The loss after tax for the year dealt with in the accounts of the company amounts to £2.173 million (2013 -  £4.696 million) which, after dividends of
£1.674 million (2013 - £1.071 million), gives a retained deficit for the year of £3.736 million (2013 -  £5.767 million).
46 Profit and loss account
Leases expiring -
Within one year
Within two to five years
 33  -   -   -  
 -   33  -   35 
     
 33  33  -   35  
The annual commitment under non cancellable operating leases was as follows –
     
  Land and buildings  Other REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 100
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY
     2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 
      restated restated restated restated 
     £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 
 
Underlying operating profit 
Non recurring items 
 
Profit before financing costs 
 
Net financing charge 
 
Profit before tax 
 
Overseas sales as a percentage of total sales 
 
Underlying operating margin 
Net margin 
 
Tax rate 
Earnings per share  
Underlying earnings per share 
Dividend per share 
 
 
 
Non current assets 
 
Net current assets excluding cash, bank and finance leases 
 
Net debt 
 
Other non current liabilities 
 
Total shareholders’ funds 
 
Post tax return on shareholders’ funds 
 
Gearing (excluding net pensions balance) 
 
Assets per share 
 
Capital expenditure as a multiple of depreciation 
 
 
 
Average number of employees in year 
 
Added value per employee 
 97,267  86,514  93,267  88,645  81,152 
      
 6,551  5,585  5,981  5,425  4,942 
 (520) (670) (1,788) 226  (218)
      
 6,031  4,915  4,193  5,651  4,724 
      
 (1,260) (1,698) (1,120) (1,443) (1,599)
      
 4,771  3,217  3,073  4,208  3,125 
      
 69.1% 73.3% 71.0% 69.9% 63.7%
      
 6.7% 6.5% 6.4% 6.1% 6.1%
 4.9% 3.7% 3.3% 4.7% 3.9%
      
 24.8% 12.7% 15.6% 11.4% 20.5%
 5.5p 4.3p 3.6p 5.4p 3.3p
 6.1p 5.2p 5.8p 5.4p 3.9p
 2.65p 2.55p 2.4p 2.2p 2.0p
     
 
 86,686  87,712  79,634  73,738 70,775 
      
 12,192  8,784  12,135  13,903  13,460 
      
 (17,680) (9,178) (17,976) (19,102) (14,639)
      
 (6,642) (22,196) (28,519) (14,208) (24,989)
      
 74,556  65,122  45,274  54,331 44,607 
      
 4.8% 4.1% 5.7% 6.9% 5.6%
      
 23.7% 11.9% 24.8% 30.0% 22.6%
      
 113p 100p 73p 88p 73p
      
 1.9x 2.5x 1.1x 2.2x 0.9x
 
 
 1,112  1,073  1,051  1,074  996 
      
 £32,059  £31,515  £34,534  £32,437  £29,384  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 101
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS
(a) Share price history
 Share price per 5p ordinary share at close of business 31 March 1982: 11.6p
    Calendar   Calendar  
    year Low High year Low High
    2005 48½p 89p  2010 133½p 241½p
    2006 62p 100p  2011 239p  349p
    2007 88p 132½p  2012 287½p  503p
    2008 47½p 96p  2013  257p 501p
    2009 48½p 150½p  2014 109½p 292½p
(b)  Share price information
FT Cityline telephone number for share price information
For share price information on Carclo call FT Cityline on 0905 8171 690
(c)  Further information on Carclo plc
 Further information on Carclo plc can be found on the internet at www.carclo-plc.com
Financial calendar 2014/15
Annual general meeting 2014        4 September 2014
Final dividend for 2014 payable to members on the register on 29 August 2014    3 October 2014
Ex - dividend date         27 August 2014
Interim report for the half year ending 30 September 2014      18 November 2014
Preliminary announcement of the results for the year ending 31 March 2015    9 June 2015
to date REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 102
NOTICE OF MEETING
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other 
professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares in Carclo plc, please pass this document and the accompanying form of proxy to the 
stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom you made the sale or transfer, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
 Notice of annual general meeting
 Notice is hereby given that the ninetieth annual general meeting of the company will be held at the Holiday Inn, Junction 40, M1, Ossett, West 
Yorkshire on Thursday, 4 September 2014 at 3.00 pm for the transaction of the following business -
 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which numbers 1 to 5 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and numbers 6 to 
9 will be proposed as special resolutions.
 Ordinary business
1.  To receive the directors’ and auditor’s reports and the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014.
2.  To approve the directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2014 included within the 2014 report and accounts (other than that 
part of the report containing the directors’ remuneration policy.
3. To approve the directors’ remuneration policy for the year ended 31 March 2014 set out on pages 36 to 52 of the directors’ remuneration report.
4.  To declare a final dividend.
5.  A.  To re-elect MJC Derbyshire as a director of the company
 B To re-elect W Tame as a director of the company
 C To re-elect CJ Malley as a director of the company
 D To re-elect RJ Rickman as a director of the company
 E To re-elect RJ Brooksbank as a director of the company
6.  A.  To appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid  
  before the company.
 B. To authorise the directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors.
 Special business
 To consider and if thought fit pass the following ordinary resolution -
7. That the directors are generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of 
the company to allot shares in the company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into such shares (“Allotment Rights”), 
but so that -
 (a) the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted or made the subject of Allotment Rights under this authority are shares with an   
  aggregate nominal value of £1,100,902;
 (b) this authority shall expire on 1 December 2015 or, if earlier, on the conclusion of the company’s next annual general meeting;
 (c) the company may make any offer or agreement before such expiry which would or might require shares to be allotted or Allotment Rights  
  to be granted after such expiry; and
 (d) all authorities vested in the directors on the date of the notice of this meeting to allot shares or to grant Allotment Rights, or to allot   
  relevant securities (as defined in the Companies Act 1985), that remain unexercised at the commencement of this meeting are revoked.
8. That the directors are empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities, as defined in section 560 of that 
Act, pursuant to the authority conferred on them by resolution 7 in the notice of this meeting or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 
561 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power is limited to - REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 103
(a)   the allotment of equity securities in connection with any rights issue or open offer (each as referred to in the Financial Services Authority’s  
  listing rules) or any other pre-emptive offer that is open for acceptance for a period determined by the directors to the holders of ordinary  
  shares on the register on any fixed record date in proportion to their holdings of ordinary shares (and, if applicable, to the holders of any  
  other class of equity security in accordance with the rights attached to such class), subject in each case to such exclusions or other   
  arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or appropriate in relation to fractions of such securities, the use of more than one   
  currency for making payments in respect of such offer, any such shares or other securities being represented by depositary receipts, treasury  
  shares, any legal or practical problems in relation to any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange; and
(b)   the allotment of equity securities (other than pursuant to paragraph (a) above) with an aggregate nominal value of £165,135, and shall  
  expire when the authority conferred on the directors by resolution 6 in the notice of this meeting expires save that, before the expiry of this  
  power, the company may make any offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry.
9. That the company is generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases (as 
defined in section 693 of that Act) of ordinary shares of 5p each in its capital, provided that -
 (a) the maximum aggregate number of such shares that may be acquired under this authority is 6,605,414;
 (b) the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for such a share is its nominal value;
 (c) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for such a share is the maximum price permitted under the Financial 
   Services Authority’s listing rules or, in the case of a tender offer (as referred to in those rules), five per cent above the average of the middle
   market quotations for an ordinary share (as derived from the London Stock Exchange’s Daily Official List) for the five business days   
  immediately preceding the date on which the terms of the tender offer are announced;
 (d) this authority shall expire on 1 December 2015 or, if earlier, on the conclusion of the company’s next annual general meeting; and
 (e) before such expiry the company may enter into a contract to purchase shares that would or might require a purchase to be completed after
   such expiry.
10.  That any general meeting of the company that is not an annual general meeting may be called by not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
 By order of the board
 Eric Cook
 Secretary
 27 Dewsbury Road, Ossett
 27 June 2014
 NOTES
1. A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint another person, or two or more persons in respect of different 
shares held by him, as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote at the meeting.
2. The right of a member of the company to vote at the meeting will be determined by reference to the register of members. A member must be 
registered on that register as the holder of ordinary shares by 6.00 p.m. on 2 September 2014 in order to be entitled to attend and vote at the 
meeting as a member in respect of those shares. 
3. A member wishing to attend and vote at the meeting in person should arrive prior to the time fixed for its commencement. A member that is a 
corporation can only attend and vote at the meeting in person through one or more representatives appointed in accordance with section 323 
of the Companies Act 2006.  Any such representative should bring to the meeting written evidence of his appointment, such as a certified copy 
of a board resolution of, or a letter from, the corporation concerned confirming the appointment.  Any member wishing to vote at the meeting 
without attending in person or (in the case of a corporation) through its duly appointed representative must appoint a proxy to do so.  Forms for 
the appointment of a proxy that can be used for this purpose have been provided to members with this notice of meeting.  To be valid, a proxy 
appointment form must be completed in accordance with the instructions that accompany it and then delivered (together with any power of 
attorney or other authority under which it is signed, or a certified copy of such item) to Equiniti, the company’s registrars, so as to be received by 
3.00 p.m. on 2 September 2014.   Members who hold their shares in uncertificated form may use “the CREST voting service” to appoint a proxy 
electronically, as explained below.  Appointing a proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting should he so 
wish. 
NOTICE OF MEETING REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 104
NOTICE OF MEETING
4. Any person to whom this notice is sent who is currently nominated by a member of the company to enjoy information rights under section 146 
of the Companies Act 2006 (a “nominated person”) may have a right under an agreement between him and that member to be appointed, or to 
have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting. If a nominated person has no such right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a 
right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member concerned as to the exercise of voting rights.  The statement in note 1 above of 
the rights of a member in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to a nominated person.  Such rights can only be exercised by the 
member concerned. 
5. As at 20 June 2014 (the latest practicable date prior to the printing of this document) (i) the company’s issued share capital consisted of 
66,054,142 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each, and (ii) the total voting rights in the company were 66,054,142.
 
6. Each member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting which, in accordance 
with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 and subject to some exceptions, the company must cause to be answered.  Information relating 
to the meeting which the company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the meeting may be viewed at 
www.carclo-plc.com.  A member may not use any electronic address provided by the company in this document or with any proxy appointment 
form or in any website for communicating with the company for any purpose in relation to the meeting other than as expressly stated in it.
 
7. It is possible that, pursuant to members’ requests made in accordance with section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the company will be required 
to publish on a website a statement in accordance with section 528 of that Act setting out any matter that the members concerned propose to 
raise at the meeting relating to the audit of the company’s latest audited accounts since the previous annual general meeting.  The company 
cannot require the members concerned to pay its expenses in complying with those sections.  The company must forward any such statement to 
its auditors by the time it makes the statement available on the website.  The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any such 
statement.
8. CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies through the CREST system may do so by using the procedures described in “the CREST 
voting service” section of the CREST Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who 
have appointed one or more voting service providers, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take 
the appropriate action on their behalf. In order for a proxy appointment or a proxy instruction made using the CREST voting service to be valid, 
the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST proxy appointment instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with the specifications 
of CREST’s operator, Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited (“Euroclear”), and must contain all the relevant information required by the CREST Manual 
which can be viewed at www.euroclear.com. To be valid, the message (regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an 
amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy) must be transmitted so as to be received by Equiniti, (ID RA19), as the 
company’s “issuer’s agent”, by 3.00 p.m. on 2 September 2014.   After this time any change of instruction to a proxy appointed through the 
CREST system should be communicated to the appointee through other means.  The time of the message’s receipt will be taken to be when 
(as determined by the timestamp applied by the CREST Applications Host) the issuer’s agent is first able to retrieve it by enquiry through the 
CREST system in the prescribed manner. Euroclear does not make available special procedures in the CREST system for transmitting any particular 
message.  Normal system timings and limitations apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy appointment instructions.  It is the responsibility 
of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or a CREST sponsored member or has appointed 
any voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as is necessary to ensure that 
a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors 
or voting service providers should take into account the provisions of the CREST Manual concerning timings as well as its section on “Practical 
limitations of the system”.  In certain circumstances the company may, in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 or the 
CREST Manual, treat a CREST proxy appointment instruction as invalid. 
9. Members meeting the threshold requirements in sections 338 and 338A of the Companies Act 2006 have the right to require the company (i) 
to give to members entitled to receive notice of the meeting notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved 
at the meeting and/or (ii) to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter (other than a proposed resolution) which may be 
properly included in the business.  A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless (a) (in the case 
of a resolution only) it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the company’s constitution or 
otherwise), (b) it is defamatory of any person, or (c) it is frivolous or vexatious.  Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, 
must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or (as applicable) the matter to be included in the business, must be authenticated by 
the person or persons making it, must be received by the company not later than 24 July 2014, and (in the case of a matter to be included in the 
business only) must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
A form of proxy is enclosed. REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 105
NOTES REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 106
NOTES REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 107 REGISTERED OFFICE: SPRINGSTONE HOUSE, PO BOX 88, 27 DEWSBURY ROAD, OSSETT, WEST YORKSHIRE WF5 9WS
T +44 (0) 1924 268040 F +44 (0) 1924 283226 W www.carclo-plc.com E investor.relations@carclo-plc.com
Designed & printed by OCW Advertising & Marketing Ltd  www.ocw.co.uk
