 Making tomorrow a better place 
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 01
02
03
04
05
06
07
What We Do
01 Making tomorrow a better place
02 Our Mission, Vision, Values and Strategy
03 Turnover by Business Activity and 
Financial Reporting Segment
A Year of Good Progress
04 Financial Highlights 2004
05 Chairman’s Statement
Operating and Financial Review
06 Chief Executive’s Review
08 Markets and Outlook
Transport
Health
Business Services
International Regions
16 Financial Review
20 Corporate Social Responsibility
A Strong Team
22 Our Board
Accountability
24 Corporate Governance Report
30 Remuneration Report
38 Report of the Directors
40 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
41 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Carillion plc 
Financial Statements
42 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
43 Consolidated Balance Sheet
44 Company Balance Sheet
45 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
46 Consolidated Statement of Total
Recognised Gains and Losses
46 Reconciliation of Movements in
Consolidated Equity Shareholders’ Funds
47 Notes to the Financial Statements
Further Information
72 Five Year Review
73 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings, 
Joint Ventures and Joint Arrangements
74 Principal Joint Arrangements
75 Shareholder Information
76 Advisers
Carillion Services has a five-year contract
with the Royal Parks Agency to plan
and manage maintenance and project
programmes for the Royal Parks. 
These include Bushey Park, Green Park,
Greenwich Park, Hyde Park, Kensington
Gardens, Regents Park, Richmond Park
and St. James’ s Park.
Section Contents Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
01
What We Do
Making tomorrow 
a better place
Carillion plc is one of the UK’s leading support services and construction
companies employing over 19,000 people in the UK and overseas,
generating sales of nearly £2 billion per annum. 
Since we were launched and listed on the London Stock Exchange as an
independent company in 1999, we have had a clear vision, a consistent
strategy and strong values. 
We were one of the first companies to recognise the benefits of combining
construction excellence with maintenance, support services and private
finance to provide high-quality integrated solutions to meet the long-term
needs of our customers.
Five years ago we were predominantly a construction company. Today we
generate around half our turnover and over two thirds of our profit from
support services and from equity investments in public private partnership
(PPP) projects. Changing our business mix and introducing rigorous new
management procedures have significantly improved the risk profile of our
activities and the predictability of our earnings. 
Our portfolio includes many high-profile projects in the UK and overseas –
projects like the new Government Communications Headquarters,
Cheltenham, new hospitals like the John Radcliffe in Oxford, the upgrading
of large sections of the UK rail network such as the West Coast Mainline,
construction of the M6 Toll motorway and maintenance of the M25. 
We also provide facilities management services for 10 NHS hospitals and 
for around 100 million square feet of other government and commercial
property, including 8,000 properties for BT. In Canada, we are building two
of its first PPP hospitals and maintaining a substantial proportion of the
provincial road network in Ontario. In the Middle East, we are building large
parts of the multi-billion pound Festival City development and growing a
substantial facilities management business. 
>
Section 01 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
02
What We Do
Our Mission, Vision, Values and Strategy
Our mission
Making tomorrow a better place.
Our vision is to be the leader in 
delivering integrated solutions for
infrastructure, buildings and services.
Carillion’s transformation has been
achieved by bringing together first-class
people committed to our vision and
values and focused on the needs of 
our customers. 
Our values guide the way we work. 
At Carillion we believe it is not only 
what we do that matters, but how we 
do it. Therefore, we strive to live our 
core values in everything we do.
> Openness – listening to each other 
and sharing ideas, issues, problems 
and opportunities. Building trust with 
our customers, suppliers and all our
stakeholders, working with integrity 
and transparency.
> Collaboration – working together to
deliver optimum solutions, respecting 
the different skills, knowledge and
experience of everyone involved.
> Mutual dependency – understanding
each other’s objectives, looking after 
each other’s Health and Safety and
striving to achieve the best for all by
working with customers and suppliers so
that risks and rewards are shared.
> Professional delivery – using a best
practice approach to managing and
fulfilling our customers’ needs, whilst
achieving the highest professional
standards in quality, Health and Safety
and environmental ownership.
> Sustainable, profitable growth –
enhancing long-term profitability by
focusing on today’s objectives whilst
investing for the future. Developing and
nurturing long-term client relationships
and maintaining a flexible approach to
our chosen markets.
> Innovation – constantly searching 
for and implementing fresh approaches 
to improve all aspects of our business.
Enabling Carillion, its customers 
and suppliers to create competitive
advantage, share knowledge and learn
from each other.
Health and Safety has absolute priority so
that all our people can expect to work safely
wherever they are. In late 2004, we launched
a radical new initiative, ‘Target Zero’, aimed
at eliminating all reportable accidents. This is
an ambitious target, but as there is no such
thing as an acceptable accident, we are
determined to reduce them to zero.
Building a sustainable business
by creating positive impacts on the
environment and on the communities in
which we operate, is fundamental to the 
way we work. This has put Carillion at the
forefront of responsible business practice. 
Our strategy is to deliver sustainable
profitable growth through 
> growing support services and Public
Private Partnerships (PPP) organically 
and by acquisition
> maintaining a strong and selective
construction capability focused on 
higher added-value contracts for 
long-term customers
>
01 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
03
What We Do
T urnover by Business Activity
and Financial Reporting Segment
> developing and marketing integrated
solutions tailored to the needs of
customers, including project finance,
design and construction, maintenance 
and lifetime asset management.
Our businesses
To deliver our strategy we have created 
three main UK businesses, each focused 
on selected growth markets and equipped
with the skills and resources necessary to
offer customers fully integrated solutions. 
Carillion Transport provides heavy rail 
and road infrastructure services. Carillion 
Rail is a leader in delivering major projects 
to upgrade the UK rail network, track
renewals and specialist consultancy 
services. It also maintains the Channel 
Tunnel Rail Link. 
In the roads market, Carillion is a leading
supplier of maintenance services to the
Highways Agency and to a number of Local
Authorities. We also have a first-class road
construction capability focused primarily on
motorways and trunk road projects procured
under the Government’s ‘Early Contractor
Involvement’ programme.
Carillion Health provides a wide range of
services in selected sectors of the UK health
market. It is a leading supplier of new PPP
hospitals, including project finance, design,
construction, maintenance and facilities
management services for up to 30 years. 
It is a framework contractor for publicly
funded infrastructure under the ProCure 
21 programme and a leading supplier of
facilities management services to NHS 
hospitals. Carillion Health with its clinical
services partner, has also been selected as 
the preferred bidder for its first Independent
Sector Treatment Centre, for which this joint 
venture will provide a fully integrated service,
including the provision and management of
the new Centre and all clinical services.
Carillion Business Services brings 
together our design, building and facilities
management services. Carillion Building is
one of the UK’ s leading commercial building
companies focused on the office, retail, 
high-rise urban residential and mixed-use
development sectors. Carillion Services
provides integrated facilities management
solutions for a portfolio of ‘blue chip’ private
sector customers and for central Government
and Local Authorities. TPS Consult offers a
wide range of design and consultancy services.
Our International Regional Businesses
are well established in Canada, the Middle
East and the Caribbean. These businesses 
are developing PPP investments and support
services activities alongside a strong
construction capability. This includes PPP
hospitals and road maintenance services in
Canada and facilities management in the
Middle East and Caribbean. In Scandinavia,
the heavy rail infrastructure business we
acquired in 2003 is well positioned in a
market where rail services are increasingly
being outsourced to the private sector. 
Two specialist businesses, Carillion Private
Finance and Carillion Developments
complete the Group. As well as providing
expert support to our other businesses,
Carillion Private Finance manages our
portfolio of PPP equity investments. Carillion
Developments specialises in the regeneration
of brownfield sites and developments where
risk can be minimised through pre-letting or
sale to occupiers in sectors where there is
continuing demand. 
Financial reporting 
We report our financial results in three
segments – Support Services, Construction
Services and PPP Investments. In each
segment we report the results of activities 
of a similar type and risk profile to help
analysts and shareholders to value our
earnings on a reliable and consistent basis.
The table above shows our turnover by
business activity and the segments in which 
it is reported. 
Business activities Financial reporting segments
Support Investments Construction
Services Services
Transport
Rail
Roads
Health
Business Services
UK Building
FM & services
International Regions
Private Finance 
Total*
£43 million
£945 million
£63 million
£63 million
£555 million
£76 million
£25 million
£355 million
£1,011 million
£214 million
£547 million
£141 million
Our business activities broken 
down by turnover
Breakdown of turnover by financial
reporting segments 
Roads 
(8.2%)
UK Building
(27.5%)
FM & services
(10.6%)
Investments
(3.1%)
Health
(5.9%)
International 
Regions (17.6%)
Rail 
(27.1%)
Support Services
(46 .8%)
Investments
(3.1%)
Construction 
Services
(50.1%)
* Includes internal trading of £27 million.
01 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
04
A Year of Good Progress
Section 02
Financial Highlights 2004
*   Before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
** Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Profit*
£millions
Earnings per share**
pence
Turnover
£millions
Dividend per share
pence
04 03
1,802.3
1,909.0
1,889.8
1,974.4
1,977.6
1,991.8
02 01 00 99
04 03
39.5
38.5
45.3
50.2
50.8
54.7
02 01 00 99
4.0
4.12
4.4
4.8
6.5
Rebased 
ordinary dividend
5.05 1.7
04 04 03
6.75
7.5
7.5
02 01 00 99
1.0
04 03
12.6
13.0
14.0
16.6
16.8
19.9
02 01 00 99
Turnover
2003: £1,977.6 million
£1 ,99 1 .8 million 
Turnover in continuing businesses grew by 15%, 
which more than offset the effects of disposing of
further non-core businesses and of transferring rail
maintenance to Network Rail.
Profit
2003: £50.8 million
£54.7 million 
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items increased by 8%. 
Earnings per share
2003: 16.8 pence
1 9.9 pence
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items increased by 18%.
Net cash at 31 December
2003: £75.8 million
£1 53.6 million
Profit was again strongly cash-backed and net cash
more than doubled by the year end. 
Final ordinary dividend 
2003: 3.475 pence
4.825 pence
The recommended final ordinary dividend of 
4.825 pence per share makes the full year ordinary
dividend 6.5 pence per share.
Total dividend
2003: 6.75 pence
7 .5 pence
The total dividend for 2004 increased by 11% to 
7.5 pence per share, including the one penny 
per share additional dividend.
The 2004 ordinary dividend is to be rebased at 
7.5 pence per share to become the starting point 
for future increases.
Order book and framework contracts
2003: £5.0 billion
£5.0 billion
A strong order book has been maintained, plus 
a £2.2 billion pipeline of probable new orders, 
despite the disposal of non-core businesses. Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
05
A Year of Good Progress
Chairman’s Statement
Our programme of PPP equity disposals
continued with two further sales in 2004,
generating an exceptional profit of £7.7
million. One third of this profit has already
been returned to shareholders by way of an
additional dividend of one penny per share,
paid with the 2004 interim dividend. Our
equity sales have consistently supported the
Directors’ valuation of our PPP equity portfolio,
which is currently some £83 million, based on
discounting the cash flows from our equity
investments at 10 per cent. The value we have
created is increasingly being recognised by 
the market and our future policy will be to sell
equity investments only when this achieves
returns in excess of those we would expect if
we retained them over the life of our
concession contracts.
Delivering healthy earnings growth in 
2004 despite the impact of transferring rail
maintenance to Network Rail, reflects the
resilience and strength of our business. This
comes from our clear vision and consistent
strategy , which have made Carillion a very
different company from the one we launched
in 1999. Then, we were predominantly a
construction company . T oday , we generate
nearly half our turnover and over two thirds 
of our profit from support services and 
equity investments in Public Private
Partnership projects. 
Changing our business mix and establishing
strong well-balanced positions in all our key
markets has significantly improved the risk
profile of our activities and the predictability 
of our earnings. These changes are also clearly
reflected in our order book, which has grown
and lengthened considerably since 1999. 
It is not only what we do that has changed, 
but also how we do it. Our values guide the
way we work together with all our supply
chain partners to provide high-quality services 
for our customers. In addition, our focus on
sustainable profitable growth by continually
seeking to improve our impacts on the
environment and on the communities in 
which we operate, has made Carillion a
recognised leader in corporate social
responsibility . T o one area of corporate
responsibility , Health and Safety , we give
absolute priority so that all our people can
expect to work safely wherever they are.
Carillion’ s transformation over the past five
years owes most to the leadership of our 
senior management team and to the skills 
and commitment of all our people. I should 
like to offer my personal thanks and those 
of the Board to everyone in Carillion for the
contributions they have made to our success. 
As previously announced, the Board has been
reviewing its independent director structure to
reflect the strategic direction of our business
and has made a number of changes. T wo 
new Non-Executives joined the Board in 2004,
David Garman and Philip Rogerson, who is also
Deputy Chairman. Jean-Paul Parayre, who was
a founder member of the Board and latterly
our senior independent director , left the 
Board at the end of 2004. I would like to 
thank him for his personal support and 
wise counsel to the Board. Andrew Parrish, 
who has been a member of the Board since
2000 and has acted as Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee since 2001, 
will not be seeking re-election at the AGM. 
I should like to thank him for his significant
contribution to Carillion’ s development.
As I have already indicated, now that the new
appointments have settled in, I propose to
stand down as Chairman and as a Director 
of Carillion on 11 May 2005, at which point
Philip Rogerson will succeed me as Chairman. 
I have greatly enjoyed leading the business and
I am proud to have played a part in what has 
been achieved. I leave Carillion in good shape
and in the capable hands of a restructured and
refreshed Board that I am confident will build
on the success that has been achieved during
our first five years. 
Carillion has already made a good start to
2005, winning a number of significant new
contracts to add to its strong order book. 
This supports the Board’ s view that the outlook
for the Group continues to be positive and 
that we will make further progress in 2005. 
In view of the Group’ s financial performance
and its prospects for further growth, the Board
is making a number of recommendations
regarding dividends. It is recommending a 
final ordinary dividend of 4.825 pence per
share, which will be paid on 24 June 2005
to shareholders on the register at close of
business on 29 April 2005. The total dividend
for 2004 would therefore be 7.5 pence per
share, including the additional dividend of one
penny per share. This represents an increase of
11 per cent on the total dividend paid in 2003,
56 per cent on 2002 and 88 per cent since
Carillion was launched in 1999. The Board no
longer intends to pay additional dividends in
respect of any future PPP equity sales, but is
recommending that the additional dividend
paid in 2004 should be consolidated into 
the ordinary dividend. This would rebase the
2004 ordinary dividend at 7.5 pence per share,
which would become the starting point for
determining future dividend payments in line
with our progressive dividend policy .
Sir Neville Simms
Chairman
9 March 2005
In this, my last statement to
shareholders before I stand
down as Chairman, I am
pleased to report that Carillion
made good progress in 2004.
Profit before tax, goodwill and
exceptional items increased
by 8 per cent and was again
backed by strong cash
generation. Earnings per 
share before goodwill and
exceptional items increased 
by 18 per cent. 
02 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
06
Operating and Financial Review
Chief Executive’s Review
In 2004, we achieved our key
financial objectives and made
good strategic progress. We
have substantial net cash, a
large order book and strong
positions in all our key growth
markets. The Group is now
ready to move forward into
our next phase of growth,
building on the strong
platform we have created 
over the last five years.
Strategic progress 
Implementing our consistent strategy has
created a well-balanced business, which 
is focused on selected growth markets 
and with UK sales divided broadly 
equally between public and private 
sector customers. 
In 2004, we completed our programme 
of major disposals by selling Crown House
and Carillion BTP , our contracting business in
France. Over the last five years we have sold
businesses and withdrawn from non-core
markets that previously generated around
£700 million of Construction Services
turnover per annum. 
Over the same period we have grown
our Support Services and PPP Investment
activities at a compound annual growth rate
of over 12 per cent, which has maintained
Group turnover at around £2 billion per
annum. These activities now account for
around half our turnover and over two 
thirds of our profit. 
Acquisition of Planned 
Maintenance Group (PMG)
In line with our strategy for growing our
Support Services activities, we announced 
in March 2005 the acquisition of Planned
Maintenance Group for a cash consideration
of £40 million. This acquisition will
immediately enhance the Group’ s earnings.
PMG, operating through its principal
subsidiary , Planned Maintenance Engineering
(PME), is one of the UK’ s foremost independent
building services and maintenance companies
with a strong reputation for high-quality
services and customer care. PMG employs over
2,300 people and provides a range of services,
including mechanical and electrical
engineering (M&E) maintenance, building
fabric maintenance and repair , facilities
management and environmental services. 
It has over 400 customers, including a
number of ‘blue chip’ companies, central
Government and Local Authorities, and
provides services to some 40,000 properties
throughout the UK and in Eire.
In 2004, PMG’ s turnover and profit before tax
were £162 million and £4.15 million, after
non-recurring management fees, respectively .
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
goodwill amortisation were £4.85 million. The
value of net assets acquired was £10.6 million.
The PMG pension fund has a net deficit of
approximately £10 million, which Carillion 
will eliminate by making a one-off cash
contribution to the fund. This will be in addition
to the £40 million consideration and will
produce a commensurate reduction in PMG’ s
future contributions to its pension scheme.
PMG is an excellent strategic fit and will add
good quality earnings to the Group. It will
significantly strengthen our support services
offering in our Health and Business Services
markets. In particular, having a strong in-
house M&E maintenance capability will bring
considerable benefits to new and existing
Carillion customers, as this is a major element
in providing fully integrated service solutions
for buildings.
PMG has a strong order book with good
forward visibility and well-established
positions in growing markets. This, together
with the significant synergy benefits we
expect to generate, will enhance our
prospects for growth. PMG’ s long and
successful track record is based on its
customer-focused strategy, which fits 
well with Carillion’ s values and culture. 
Business performance 
Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional
items increased by around 8 per cent to 
£54.7 million, with earnings per share up 
by 18 per cent to 19.9 pence. 
This was achieved despite the impact 
of Network Rail’ s decision to take rail
maintenance in-house during 2004.
Underlying growth has therefore been
encouraging. 
Our continuing focus on strong cash
management again resulted in a substantial
cash inflow during the year of around 
£78 million and we had net cash at 
31 December 2004 of £153.6 million, before
finance lease liabilities of £24.2 million.
Average weekly net cash was £66 million.
After a net exceptional charge of 
£57.2 million and goodwill amortisation 
of £3.9 million, the Group made a loss of 
£6.4 million before tax and a loss per share 
of 8.5 pence. Details of exceptional items 
are given in the Financial Review on page 16
of this Report. The largest of these was a 
non-cash goodwill write back of £69.9 million
associated with the sale of Crown House and
Carillion BTP , of which £68.7 million had
previously been written off to reserves.
Order book 
The radical change we have made to our
business mix is reflected in the size, quality
and length of our order book. 
In 2004, we continued to win significant work
in all our chosen markets. We maintained 
the value of our year-end order book and
framework contracts at £5 billion, despite 
the effects of selling Crown House, Carillion
BTP and two PPP equity investments, which
together had an order book of approximately
£800 million. Our order book for continuing
businesses has therefore increased
substantially. We have also maintained our
healthy pipeline of probable new orders at
around £2.2 billion.
Support Services and PPP concession
contracts account for 78 per cent of our total
Section 03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
07
Operating and Financial Review
1. John McDonough
Chief Executive
2. Chris Girling
Finance Director
3. Roger Robinson
Executive Director
1. 2. 3.
order book. These long-term contracts have
greatly increased the quality and length of 
our order book, of which 75 per cent is for
2006 and beyond. We have also improved the
quality of our construction order book
through our selective approach and focus on
developing long-term relationships with key
customers. Consequently, our UK Building
business now generates around 80 per cent
of its turnover from 20 key customers.
Risk management
Risk is inherent in any business. Success
depends on understanding the risks we take
and our ability to manage them effectively.
Changing our business mix has significantly
improved the risk profile of our activities.
Alongside this we have also developed
rigorous management processes, which
address both our strategic and business
specific risks, including social, environmental
and ethical risks. They apply to every 
stage of all our activities, from inception
to completion. Our choice of markets, the
projects or services we bid for and how we
deliver them, are all based on identifying and
evaluating the attendant risks and our ability
to manage them. These processes are
supported by regular reports to managers at
all levels up to and including our main Board.
Decisions on all major projects are taken by a
sub-committee of the main Board, which also
monitors their performance and progress. 
Our people
Many factors are important to our success,
but the quality of our people is paramount.
Therefore, we are totally committed to
achieving our prime objective of attracting,
developing and retaining excellent people 
by becoming an employer of choice. We
continually strive to improve communication
with all our people and to listen to what they
tell us. We do this through individual
performance development reviews, team
talks and regular surveys, in which we
encourage everyone to live our core value 
of ‘Openness’ across all our businesses.
Our determination to make the Carillion
brand synonymous not only with the services
we provide, but also with the way in which
we provide them, is helping us create a
customer focused culture. This is vital to 
our strategy of providing integrated solutions
tailored to the needs of our customers.
Therefore, I am greatly encouraged by
research that shows our core values and
reputation as a socially responsible business
are increasingly important factors in making
Carillion an employer of choice. 
A more sustainable business 
Our focus on sustainable profitable 
growth means we are committed to
improving our impacts on the environment,
the communities in which we operate and
society generally. In 2004, we continued to
develop the strategy model we first published
in 2001 to help us understand how improving
these impacts can assist us in delivering 
our business objectives. We still have a long
way to go to integrate sustainability into
everything we do, but our achievements 
have made Carillion a recognised leader in
developing and adopting socially responsible
business practices. We say more about this in
the Corporate Social Responsibility section of
this Report on page 20. Detailed information
will be published in our 2004 Sustainability
Report in April 2005.
Health and Safety 
In 2004, Carillion’ s Accident Frequency Rate
(AFR) increased to 0.37 compared to 0.34 in
2003, its lowest ever level after a number 
of years of successive improvements. Even
though our 2004 AFR compares favourably
with those of our peers, it was nevertheless
disappointing. Consequently, we have
reviewed our approach to improving Health
and Safety and launched a radical new
initiative, T arget Zero, aimed at eliminating
reportable accidents. This is an ambitious
target, but as there is no such thing as an
acceptable accident, we are determined 
to reduce them to zero. For T arget Zero to 
be successful, we need the support and
participation of all our stakeholders, 
including our customers, suppliers and
partners, as well as our own people. We 
are therefore actively engaging them in 
T arget Zero and their response has been very
encouraging. Again, we say more about this
in the Corporate Social Responsibility section
of this Report on page 20 and detailed
information will be published in our 2004
Sustainability Report in April 2005.
John McDonough
Chief Executive
9 March 2005
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
08
Operating and Financial Review
Markets and
Outlook
Transport 
In 2004, Carillion Transport 
won new orders and framework
contracts in the heavy rail and
road infrastructure markets,
worth £1.0 billion. The value of
its order book and framework
contracts at 31 December 2004
was £888 million.
We made good progress in our
UK and Scandinavian rail markets
towards our goal of replacing
within three years the turnover
we have lost as a result of
transferring rail maintenance
work to Network Rail. In the UK,
we won a five-year framework
contract for renewing track 
and switches and crossings and
contracts for rail enhancement
projects, together worth a total
of £763 million. These included
the UK’ s first privately financed 
rail enhancement project, 
for Chiltern Railways, worth 
£50 million. Our UK roads
business had a particularly
successful year. We won new 
long-term maintenance contracts
for Warwickshire County Council
and Wolverhampton City
Council, together worth up 
to £94 million, and reached
financial close on the A249 
PPP road project in Kent, 
worth around £120 million to
Carillion, including construction,
maintenance and concession
company turnover.
In 2005, we expect continuing
opportunities to grow our rail
business and make further
progress with rebuilding turnover
in this area. UK investment in 
rail enhancement projects and
renewals is expected to be 
£3.3 billion in 2005 and we
expect growing opportunities 
to increase our share of this
market from its current level 
of around 10 per cent. In
Scandinavia, we are well placed
to benefit from the outsourcing
of rail infrastructure work, which
is expected to grow at 10 per
cent per annum over the next
three years.
The outlook for our roads
business is positive, particularly 
in the Local Authority road
maintenance market. Annual
expenditure on local road
maintenance is some £2 billion
and the proportion that is
Leading edge solutions
The Channel Tunnel Rail Link (CTRL) is Britain’s first 
high-speed rail link, comprising 79km of twin-track line
between London and Cheriton. Carillion Transport is
constructing the track for Phase Two of the CTRL to the
exacting standards required for high-speed rail travel.
Carillion Transport also maintains Phase One of CTRL.
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
09
Operating and Financial Review
1. 2. 3.
currently outsourced to the
private sector is expected to
increase significantly from 
its current level of around 
40 per cent. We also continue to
target road construction projects
selectively, focusing primarily 
on projects being procured 
under the Government’ s 
‘Early Contractor Involvement’
programme, for which planned
investment is some £6 billion.
for tomorrow’s world
1. Paul Kirk, Managing
Director, Carillion Transport.
2. In 2004, we won two
new long-term local
authority road maintenance
contracts worth up to 
£94 million, one for
Warwickshire County
Council and the other 
for Wolverhampton
City Council.
3. We reached financial
close in 2004 on a 
£50 million PPP project to
upgrade Marylebone and
Beaconsfield stations for
Chiltern Railways, an
increasingly important
commuter route into
London.
03
> Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
10
Operating and Financial Review
Markets and
Outlook
Health 
In 2004, Carillion Health won
new contracts worth £161 million
increasing the value of its year-
end order book and framework
contracts to £592 million.
New contracts in 2004 included
the Birmingham and Solihull LIFT
project and an extension to
Darent Valley Hospital in Dartford,
Kent. We are also building new
facilities at Rampton Hospital
under the ProCure 21 programme,
for which we are a framework
contractor to the NHS. T ogether
with our clinical partner, we were
appointed as the preferred bidder
for our first Independent Sector
Treatment Centre (ISTC), in
Basildon, where we will provide a
fully integrated service including
the provision and management of
the new centre and all clinical
services, potentially worth around
£60 million over five years. We
also successfully renewed our
contract to provide facilities
management services to four
Health Trusts in Essex, worth 
£50 million over five years. 
The outlook for our Health
business continues to be very
positive. We expect to reach
financial close on the Queen
Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth,
worth approximately £1.0 billion,
in the first half of 2005. We are
also bidding for two more major
hospitals, Pembury in Kent and
Walsall in the West Midlands,
which together have an
estimated capital value in the
region of £400 million. These
hospitals form part of the
Government’ s PPP hospital
programme, for which planned
capital expenditure over the next
three years is around £5 billion. 
In addition, we also expect further
opportunities to bid for ISTCs in
which the Government is investing
some £2.5 billion over the next
five years, and for publicly funded
infrastructure work under the 
£7 billion ProCure 21 programme. 
Integrated solutions
Carillion is an equity partner in the special purpose company
responsible for providing the new John Radcliffe Hospital in
Oxford. Carillion is also building the 284 bed hospital, which has
a construction value of £130 million, on the site of the existing
John Radcliffe hospital without interruption to patient services.
Once operational, Carillion will provide facilities management
services for the new hospital too. 
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
11
Operating and Financial Review
1. Adrian Bull, Managing
Director, Carillion Health.
2. We have launched a new
catering brand, ‘Café Blue’,
which forms part of the
integrated facilities
management service we
provide to customers in the
health sector . Café Blue offers 
high-quality catering products
and services for staff, patients
and visitors to the hospitals
we help to manage. 
3. T ogether with our clinical
partner, we were appointed
as the preferred bidder for
our first Independent Sector
Treatment Centre, in 2004, 
in Basildon, Essex. We will be
providing a fully integrated
service, including the
provision and management
of the new Centre and all
clinical services.
1. 2. 3.
from project finance to support services
03
> Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
12
Operating and Financial Review
In 2004, Carillion Business
Services won new orders worth
£640 million and its order book
and framework contracts at 
31 December 2004 were 
worth some £821 million. 
Our UK Building business had a
successful year winning new
orders in its key sectors. These
included contracts in the retail
sector worth £170 million, in the
urban high-rise residential sector
worth £180 million and in the
offices and other developments
sectors worth around £130
million. By December 2004, our
UK Building order book for 2005
was largely secure and we were
firmly focused on winning work
for 2006 and beyond. We have 
also continued to concentrate 
on developing long-term
relationships with key customers.
In 2005, we expect around 80 per
cent of the turnover in our UK
Building business to be generated
from 20 key customers.
Our UK Building business has also
been successful in the growing
education sector, winning
construction contracts in 2004
worth around £134 million. In
addition, we expect to reach
financial close in the near future
on the £150 million PPP schools
project for Renfrewshire. With
further opportunities expected
for both PPP and non-PPP
projects under the Government’ s
£25 billion ‘Building Schools for 
the Future’ programme, the
outlook in the education sector
continues to be encouraging.
The UK private sector facilities
management market continued
to be very competitive in 2004,
with fewer opportunities for
Carillion Services to bid for
contracts that met its selectivity
criteria. In contrast, the outlook
in the public sector facilities
management market has
become increasingly positive
during 2004, with a number of
Local Authorities seeking
strategic partnerships to deliver
integrated asset and facilities
management solutions. We are
currently shortlisted for one such
project in Bradford and we are 
Sustainable solutions
The magnificent NV Buildings in Manchester situated
opposite the Lowry Centre. The finished project will
provide 246 luxury apartments and form an important
part of the regeneration of the Salford Quays area. 
The apartments provide an environment and living
accommodation to the highest standards.
Markets and
Outlook
Business Services 
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
13
Operating and Financial Review
targeting a number of similar
projects for other Local
Authorities. These projects
demand the combination of a
wide range of skills, including
project finance, design,
construction, maintenance,
facilities management and
property development. Given 
our capabilities and experience 
in providing similar solutions for
other public sector customers, 
we believe we are well positioned
in this emerging market.
to transform a brownfield site
1. Don Kenny, Managing
Director, Carillion Business
Services.
2. Carillion Services provides
facilities management
services for the Hackney
T echnology and Learning
Centre under a 30-year
contract with the sponsors 
of this PFI project, including
teaching areas, a library,
museum, offices, 
a gymnasium and 
retail outlets.
3. We provide integrated
facilities management
solutions for a number 
of ‘blue chip’ customers,
including some 8,000
properties for BT .
The recent acquisition of
Planned Maintenance
Engineering (PME)
significantly enhances 
our service capability 
and the size and quality 
of our customer portfolio. 
PME’ s customers include
Deutsche Bank, Royal Bank
of Scotland, KPMG, 
GCHQ, the Department 
for Environment, Food and
Rural Affairs, the Driver and
Vehicle Licensing Agency
and Plymouth, T orbay and
Hampshire Councils.
1. 2.
3.
03
> Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
14
Operating and Financial Review
2004 was a very successful year
for our International Regional
Businesses, which won new
orders worth £1.0 billion,
increasing their year-end order
book to £1.1 billion. This was
despite the effect of selling
Carillion BTP , which had an 
order book of £150 million.
A Carillion-led consortium
reached financial close on two 
of the first three PPP hospital
concession contracts to be let
in Canada – the William Osler in
T oronto and the Royal Ottawa –
together worth over £650 million
to Carillion. Our highways
maintenance business in 
Canada won new contracts
worth £180 million. 
Our businesses in the Middle East
were awarded construction
contracts worth £216 million,
including a £175 million contract
for our joint venture business in
Dubai for a major phase of the
multi-billion pound Festival City
development, which is being
developed by our partner in the
UAE, the Al Futtaim Group. 
In 2005, our focus in Canada 
is on delivering our two PPP
hospitals and extending our
success in the Ontario road
maintenance market to other
Provinces. In the Middle East, 
we have already had further
success in 2005. We have been
selected by the Al Futtaim Group
to manage the design and 
construction of the whole of its
Festival City development and 
we have reached agreement on
further construction contracts
worth up to £400 million. Our
joint venture support services
business with Emaar Properties is
expected to achieve significant
growth in 2005 and beyond 
as it extends its portfolio of
property under management,
including the first phases of
Dubai Festival City.
International solutions
A celebration of the opportunities being created
by the Dubai Festival City development. As well as
building major phrases of this multi-billion pound
development, Carillion has also been appointed to
manage its design and construction.
Markets and
Outlook
International
Regions 
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
15
Operating and Financial Review
from Europe to the Middle East to Canada
>
1. Our highways maintenance
business in Canada won new
contracts in 2004 worth
around £180 million and 
now maintains a substantial
proportion of the provincial
road network in Ontario.
2. Marina T owers in Dubai.
This sophisticated marina 
and luxury apartment
development comprising 
six towers, some up to 37
storeys high, will be home 
to over 80,000 people.
3. In 2004, Carillion reached
financial close on two PPP
hospitals in Canada, the 
Royal Ottawa and the new
William Osler hospital in
Toronto, an architect’s
impression of which is shown
here. These two hospitals are
expected to generate income
for Carillion Canada of over
£650 million, including
construction, facilities
management and concession
company turnover. 
1. 2. 3.
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
16
Operating and Financial Review
This artists impression 
shows the new Fort Shopping
Centre in Thanet, Kent,
currently under development
by the Carillion/Richardson 
joint venture partnership 
and being built by Carillion. 
The redeveloped 25 acre 
site will house over 30 stores
including Marks and Spencer
and Debenhams.
Accounting policies
The Group made one change to its
accounting policies in 2004, with the
adoption of Urgent Issues T ask Force (UITF)
Abstract 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’. 
As a result, we recognise the cumulative 
value of shares held by the Group’ s ESOP 
trust as a deduction in shareholders’ funds
rather than as a fixed asset investment. This
has reduced both fixed asset investments and
equity shareholders’ funds by £6.2 million. 
We have restated the comparative balance
sheet and cash flow statement accordingly. 
We also changed the method by which we
allocate attributable profits on incomplete
major construction contracts. Previously,
profit was recognised broadly in proportion 
to turnover after taking into account the
remaining risks and uncertainties. In 
addition, we now take no profit on the 
first 20 per cent of turnover and this profit 
is deferred until contracts are completed. 
This method, which better reflects the risk
profile of our construction activities, reduced
reported profit in Construction Services by
£3.3 million in 2004.
Interest and cash
The Group net interest credit of £3.4 million
(2003: a net charge of £0.5 million) reflected
our strong operating cash inflow of 
£92.8 million and proceeds of £34.6 million
from the sale of businesses and PPP equity
investments. Net cash at 31 December 
2004 was £153.6 million (December 
2003: £75.8 million), excluding finance 
lease liabilities of £24.2 million 
(2003: £15.6 million).
Capital expenditure was £15.0 million.
Corporate tax paid was £13.0 million.
Dividend payments were £16.4 million.
The Group’ s share of net interest payable
arising in joint ventures reduced to £3.4 million
in 2004 (2003: £4.9 million), largely as a 
result of the disposal of equity investments 
in PPP joint ventures in November 2003 and
June 2004. 
Disposals
The Group continued to dispose of non-core
businesses during 2004. In May 2004, 
we sold Crown House, a mechanical and
electrical engineering contracting business.
The sale of this business, which had net
liabilities of £10.3 million, generated 
proceeds of £3.2 million and a net profit 
of £8.1 million, after providing for retained
contract liabilities. Goodwill relating to 
Crown House of £55.2 million had previously
been written off to reserves.
In November 2004, the sale of Carillion BTP , 
a contracting business in France, generated
proceeds of £10.9 million and net loss of
£0.4 million before writing off goodwill. 
The goodwill associated with Carillion BTP
was £14.7 million, of which £1.2 million 
was capitalised in the Group balance sheet
and £13.5 million had previously been
written off to reserves.
The costs associated with the closure of 
a number of small non-core businesses
amounted to £5.6 million.
Exceptional items
The net exceptional charge in 2004 of 
£57.2 million before tax comprised the
following items
> £7.7 million net profit from the sale 
of Crown House and Carillion BTP
> £69.9 million goodwill write back
associated with the sale of Crown 
House and Carillion BTP , of which 
£68.7 million had previously been 
written off to reserves
> £7.7 million profit on the sale of two 
PPP equity investments
> £2.9 million profit on the sale of 
fixed assets to Network Rail
> £5.6 million of costs associated 
with closure of a number of small 
non-core businesses. 
Goodwill amortisation
Goodwill amortisation in 2004 was 
£3.9 million (2003: £3.8 million).
Taxation
The Group’ s effective rate of tax on profit
before exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation fell to 21 per cent in 2004 
from 28 per cent in 2003. This was due 
to a number of one-off tax settlements
relating to prior years. We have £61 million 
of corporate tax losses in the UK, only 
some of which are recognised as deferred 
a tax asset, that are potentially available 
to reduce future tax liabilities. In 2005,
we expect our tax rate to move closer 
to its 2003 level and remain there for the 
next few years. 
Pensions
The pensions charge to the profit and loss
account, calculated on the basis of SSAP 24,
amounted to £29.5 million in 2004,
compared with £22.1 million in 2003.
However, the 2004 charge included 
the cost of writing off a £7.2 million
prepayment relating to the Railway 
Pension Scheme, following the transfer
of rail maintenance contracts and our rail
maintenance employees to Network Rail. 
On an FRS 17 basis, the Group’ s pensions
schemes had a net deficit of £59.6 million 
at the end of 2004, compared with a net 
deficit of £76.6 million in December 2003.
Subsequent to the closure of a number 
of our pension schemes to new entrants, 
the trustees revised their investment 
policy in 2004 to increase progressively 
the proportion of our pension fund 
assets that is invested in bonds, with a
corresponding reduction in the proportion
invested in equities. 
Financial Review
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
17
Operating and Financial Review
Financial reporting segments
Investments
In this segment we report the equity returns
on our investments in Public Private
Partnership (PPP) projects. 
2004 2003
Turnover £62.5m £67.5m
Operating profit* £6.3m £8.6m
Pre-tax profit
†
£3.7m £3.5m
* Before goodwill amortisation of £0.3m (2003: £0.1m).
† Before exceptional profit of £7.7m (2003: £11.2m).
Operating profit in this segment reduced 
as a result of our planned programme of
equity sales. However, this was offset by a
reduction in the interest charge on debt in 
our joint venture PPP concession companies,
to leave pre-tax profit some six per cent
higher than in 2003. In our first equity sale
in November 2003, we disposed of our 
£4.1 million investment in the Darent Valley
Hospital concession, generating a net
exceptional profit of £11.2 million. In 2004,
we sold a further £13 million of equity
investments – our holding in the M40
motorway concession and 50 per cent 
of our holding in the A249 road concession –
generating a net exceptional profit of 
£7.7 million. The proceeds generated by 
all these sales have consistently supported 
the Directors’ valuation of our portfolio of
equity investments. The Directors’ valuation 
is currently £83 million, based on discounting
the cash flows expected from our remaining
£29 million of equity investments over their
respective concession periods, at 10 per cent. 
In 2004, we continued to build a strong
pipeline of future investments. We reached
financial close on four projects in 2004 – the
William Osler and Royal Ottawa Hospitals in
Canada, the Birmingham and Solihull LIFT
(Local Improvement Finance Trust) project 
and the A249 road project in Kent –
increasing the number of financially 
closed projects in our portfolio to 18. We 
are also the preferred bidder for another 
four projects, including our first Independent
Sector Treatment Centre in Basildon for 
which we were appointed preferred bidder
in September 2004. 
As a result, we now have commitments 
to invest a further £18 million in projects
already financially closed. In addition, we 
plan to invest around another £20 million in
projects for which we are preferred bidder.
These committed and planned equity
investments will increase the equity invested
in our portfolio from £29 million to some 
£67 million over the next three or four years.
We are also shortlisted for a further three 
PPP projects with a total potential equity
requirement of up to £30 million.
Support Services
In this segment we report the results of 
our activities in rail infrastructure, roads
maintenance, facilities management and
other support services. 
2004 2003
Turnover £944.9m £933.5m
Operating profit* £45.6m £51.1m
Margin 4.8% 5.5%
* Before exceptional operating charges of £Nil
(2003: £33.1m) and goodwill amortisation of 
£3.5 m (2003: £3.6m). 
Turnover in this segment remained broadly
unchanged despite the loss of around 
£100 million of turnover in 2004 as a result 
of transferring rail maintenance contracts 
to Network Rail during the year. This loss 
has been offset largely by growth in 
other rail infrastructure activities and road
maintenance. Also, some £20 million of
turnover from our consultancy business, 
TPS, that was previously reported in
Construction Services, is now included in 
this segment. 
The overall margin in Support Services 
returned to a more normal level after an
increase in 2003 due to favourable settlements
on a number of old Railtrack contracts. 
The progress made by our rail business in
2004, which included new contracts for
enhancement projects and for the renewal 
of track and switches and crossings, enabled
it to contribute nearly £550 million of
turnover to this segment (2003: £567
million). It also continued to perform well on
existing contracts, including West Coast
Route Modernisation projects, a wide range
of regional projects and the construction and
maintenance of the Channel Tunnel Rail Link.
As we transferred our rail maintenance
contracts to Network Rail in stages over the
first seven months of 2004, the full effect 
of this will be felt in 2005. As previously
indicated, total turnover from the contracts
transferred was around £250 million.
However, we expect to continue rebuilding
turnover in rail through further opportunities
to increase our share of the UK and
Scandinavian rail infrastructure markets.
Our roads maintenance business also made
good progress in 2004, increasing its turnover
to some £141 million (2003: £115 million).
This increase reflects a full-year contribution
from the contract won in 2003 to maintain
approximately half of Surrey County 
Council’ s road network, worth up to 
£160 million over ten years, and two new
long-term maintenance contracts won in
2004 – one for Warwickshire County Council
and one for Wolverhampton City Council,
with an estimated total value of up to 
£94 million. We believe we can continue 
this progress in 2005, as we expect more
opportunities to bid for local authority road
maintenance contracts during the year. 
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
18
Operating and Financial Review
Financial Review
continued
Reported operating profit in this segment 
was reduced by some £3.3 million as a result
of changing the method by which we allocate
profit on major construction contracts 
(see Accounting Policies on page 16), 
under which profit on the first 20 per cent 
of turnover is deferred until contract
completion. Therefore, operating profit
would have been approximately £15 million 
if it had been reported on the same basis as
profit in 2003. Overall performance in this
segment has returned to a satisfactory level. 
The sound performance we reported for 
our UK Building business in the first half of
the year continued in the second half. 
This business, which accounted for some
£507 million of 2004 turnover in this segment
(2003: £444 million), has remained focused
on its three main market sectors of retail,
office and high-rise residential developments.
By the end of 2004 its order book for 2005
was largely secure and around half its order
book for 2006 was secure or probable. We
therefore expect turnover in our UK Building
business to grow in 2005, including an
increased contribution from PPP construction. 
Turnover from UK civil engineering was some
£25 million in 2004 (2003: £68 million). This
declined as expected, in line with our selective
approach to this market. Turnover in 2005 is
likely to remain at broadly the same level as in
2004. We will continue to focus selectively 
on the UK road construction sector and
particularly on Highways Agency contracts
procured under the Early Contractor
Involvement programme, which offers
acceptable levels of risk and reward. 
The contribution to turnover from our
International Regional businesses increased 
to £355 million in 2004 (2003: £324 million),
reflecting our successes in the highways
maintenance market in Canada and in our
Middle East construction market. In 2005, 
we expect further opportunities for growth 
in these markets and also in the facilities
management market in the Middle East.
Construction work on our two PPP hospitals
in Canada, on which we reached financial
close late in 2004, will also contribute to
growth in 2005. 
Our Developments business continues to
perform well, pursuing its strategy of specialising
in the regeneration of brownfield sites and
developments where risk is minimised through
pre-letting or sale to occupiers in sectors where
there is continuing demand.
International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS)
In accordance with the requirement for all
listed European companies, the Group’ s
financial statements for 2005 will be prepared
under EU endorsed International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The adoption of IFRS will have no impact
upon the underlying cash flows or trading
activities of the Group. In addition, the 
ability of the Group to pay dividends to
shareholders will be unaffected by IFRS. 
Had IFRS been adopted for reporting the
Group’ s 2004 financial results, our best
estimates of the main effects are set out 
in the table below and described in the 
notes that follow it. These estimates and
comments are based on published standards
and interpretations issued by the IASB to 
date and may therefore change as the
implementation of IFRS evolves.
Profit Profit
before before Net 
£m (unaudited) tax tax* Assets
Per 2004 Annual Report (6) 55 187
IAS 19 Pensions 3 3 (71)
IFRS 2 Share options – – –
IFRS 3 Goodwill 
amortisation 73 – 4
IAS 1 Presentation 
of JV tax (2) (2) –
IAS 12 Deferred tax – – (3)
IAS 10 Dividends – – 10
Revised under IFRS 
GAAP 68 56 127
EPS UK GAAP basis (8)p 20p
EPS IFRS GAAP basis 28p 21p
* Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
IAS 19
This standard replaces SSAP 24 with an 
FRS 17 approach, under which pension
scheme deficits are included on the balance
sheet. Going forward, the annual charge to
our profit and loss account under IAS 19 is
expected to be similar to that under SSAP 24.
The positive impact on profit in 2004 reflects
the reversal of the £7.2 million charge 
under SSAP 24 for writing off the pension
prepayment relating to the Railway Pension
Scheme, as a result of transferring our rail
maintenance employees to Network Rail. The
impact on net assets includes the elimination
of existing SSAP 24 prepayments and is net 
of a deferred tax asset of £26 million on our
pension deficit.
IFRS 2
This standard requires the fair value cost 
of providing share option schemes to
employees to be expensed. It applies only 
to schemes that started after 7 November 
2002 and the effect in 2004 is less than 
£0.5 million. In 2005, the cost of providing
such schemes is expected to be up to 
£1 million.
IFRS 3 
This standard will reverse goodwill
amortisation in 2004 and replaces
amortisation with annual impairment 
testing. Goodwill previously written off 
to reserves as at 1 January 2004 will no
longer be included in the profit and loss
account when the businesses to which it
relates are sold.
Overall, turnover from facilities management
and support services in 2004 was broadly 
flat at £257 million (2003: £252 million). 
This reflects the increasingly competitive
private sector market, which offered fewer
opportunities to bid for contracts consistent
with our selectivity criteria. However, the
outlook in the public sector facilities
management market is much more positive,
particularly as Local Authorities are increasingly
seeking to outsource activities for which
Carillion is well placed to provide integrated
service solutions.
The acquisition of Planned Maintenance
Group will add substantially to turnover and
profit in this segment. It will also considerably
strengthen the breadth and quality of our
service offering and create new opportunities
to cross sell our services in both the public and
private sector markets.
Construction Services
In this segment we report the results of our
UK building and civil engineering activities
and International Regional businesses.
2004 2003
Turnover £1,010.8m £1,001.8m
Operating profit* £11.6m £5.6m
Margin 1.1% 0.6% 
* Before goodwill amortisation of £0.1m (2003: £0.1 m).
Turnover in Construction Services was broadly
unchanged, with increased contributions 
to turnover from our UK Building and
International Regional businesses offsetting
reductions in UK civil engineering and in
mechanical and electrical contracting due to
the sale of Crown House. The sale of Carillion 
BTP , our contracting business in France, late in
2004 had little impact on our 2004 results. 
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
19
Operating and Financial Review
IAS 1
This standard requires the Group’ s share of
joint venture profits to be reported on an after
tax basis, but within pre-tax profit. However,
as the Group’ s tax charge will no longer
include tax on joint venture profits, there is 
no affect on earnings per share.
IAS 12
The effect of this standard reflects an
additional deferred tax provision required 
for un-remitted profits of overseas entities.
IAS 10
This standard requires the Group to account
for dividends to shareholders in the period in
which they are approved rather than accruing
for them in the period to which they relate.
Carillion has decided to take the available
exemption from applying IAS 39 (Financial
Instruments) to its 2004 comparative
information. At present, the application 
of IAS 39 from 1 January 2005 could
potentially reduce the Group’ s net assets 
at that date by approximately £22 million, 
net of deferred tax. This reflects the Group’ s 
share of the fair value liability of interest 
rate derivatives within a number of joint
venture PPP concession companies. On 
3 March 2005, the International Financial
Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) issued draft guidance on accounting
for service concession arrangements. The
Group is in the process of determining
the implications of this draft guidance and
consequently the impact of IFRS on PPP
concession companies remains uncertain 
at this time. 
In addition to the effects on financial
reporting outlined above, there are a 
number of other areas where presentation
and disclosures in financial statements will
change under IFRS. The significant areas are
as follows.
> The Group’ s share of turnover in joint
ventures will be excluded from total Group
turnover and its share of profits from joint
ventures will be excluded from the
segmentation of profit from operations.
> Acquisitions may give rise both to 
goodwill and intangible assets, such 
as customer contracts or customer lists,
which must be disclosed separately on 
the balance sheet. Unlike goodwill,
intangible assets with a finite life will 
be amortised.
> The cash flow statement will contain 
three main categories compared with
nine under UK GAAP . The definition of
cash and cash equivalents is wider under
IFRS and includes cash on deposit.
> Other specific areas requiring increased
disclosure include segmental results,
leases, construction contracts, financial
instruments and related parties. 
The International Accounting Standards
Board is still in the process of reviewing
existing standards and some have yet to be
endorsed by the European Union. Carillion’ s
IFRS project team will continue to monitor
developments and their potential effects on
the Group. Overall, we do not expect these 
to have a significant effect on the Group’ s
annual earnings.
The Group’ s interim results for the period
ending 30 June 2005 will be the first period
for which the Group will report its results
under IFRS. Prior to reporting those results,
the Group will publish fully restated
comparative information for its 2004 
interim and full-year results.
Treasury policy and risk management
The Group has a centralised Treasury 
function whose primary role is to manage
funding, liquidity and financial risks. In
addition, Treasury sources and administers
contract bond and guarantee facilities for
the Group. Treasury is not a profit centre and
does not enter into speculative transactions.
The Board of Directors sets policies within
which Treasury operates that ensure the most
effective financing of the Group’ s operations
and limit exposure to financial risk.
During the year, the Group has renegotiated
its committed borrowing facilities. At 
31 December 2004 these amounted to 
£170 million, which mature in 2009. In
January 2005, a £20 million bilateral loan
facility, which expires in 2008, was
established to increase the Group’ s total
borrowing facilities to £190 million. Interest
payable on borrowings under these facilities 
is at floating rates linked to LIBOR. These
facilities are unsecured and have covenants
that are typical for the Group’ s credit profile
and these types of arrangements. At
December 2004, £137 million of these
facilities were un-drawn.
The areas of significant financial risk 
exposure facing the Group relate to
funding and liquidity, foreign exchange
and interest rates.
Funding and liquidity risk
The Group’ s policy is to avoid carrying
significant net debt over the medium term.
Carillion plc’ s principal borrowing facilities 
are provided by a group of core relationship
banks in the form of syndicated and bilateral
loans and short-term overdraft and money
market facilities. Finance and operating leases
are also employed to fund longer-term assets.
The quantum of committed borrowing
facilities available to the Group is regularly
reviewed and is designed to satisfy the
requirements of the Group’ s business plan.
Currency risk
The Group hedges all significant currency
transaction exposures using foreign 
exchange contracts. In order to protect the
Group’ s balance sheet from the impact of
exchange rate volatility, a majority of net
assets denominated in foreign currencies is
hedged using matching currency loans. Profits
arising within overseas subsidiaries are not
hedged unless it is planned to make a
distribution. Such distributions are then
treated as currency transactions and 
hedged accordingly. 
Interest rate risk
Borrowing facilities are designed primarily 
to finance short-term working capital
requirements and are at floating rates of
interest linked to LIBOR. The Group has 
not entered into interest rate derivatives to
fix or hedge interest rate risk and none are
outstanding. Certain longer-term assets have
been financed using fixed-rate leases. 
Carillion has equity in a number of PPP joint
venture Special Purpose Companies (SPC).
SPCs obtain funding for these projects in the
form of long-term bank loans or corporate
bonds on a non-recourse basis to the joint
venture partners and secured on the assets 
of the SPC. A number of SPCs have entered
into interest rate derivatives as means of
hedging interest rate risk. These derivatives
are interest rate swaps that fix the rate of
interest payable.
Performance management
As well as routine business planning,
budgeting and quarterly forecasts, the 
Group utilises a number of comparative
measures for assessing the performance 
of its business units. These include
> comparisons of long-term contract 
profit and cash performance to 
original estimates 
> sector margin and net operating asset
performance targets 
> internal rates of return on UK PPP and
other investments versus the Group’ s
weighted average cost of capital
> controls over PPP bid costs by reference 
to expected future discounted cash flows. 
The primary tools in working capital
management are outstanding debtor and
trade creditor days. 
Going concern
The Directors confirm that, after making
enquiries, they have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the 
Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the financial statements.
Chris Girling
Finance Director 
9 March 2005
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
20
Operating and Financial Review
By adopting a sustainable
approach to the way we do
business, we believe we can
deliver not only social and
environmental benefits, but also
business benefits for Carillion
and all our stakeholders.
Applying the principles of
sustainable development is a
key differentiator for Carillion,
helping us to win more work
and deliver better services to
our customers. 
1. One of our award
winning Health and Safety
posters that is helping to
drive our radical new
initiative, T arget Zero, with
the aim of reducing
reportable accidents at all
our places of work to zero.
2. We believe that high
standards of corporate
social responsibility not only
create positive benefits for
the communities in which
we operate, but also help
us to deliver our business 
objectives. Engaging with
local communities to
understand their needs 
and interests is therefore 
an important part of 
how we operate. The
photograph shows
Carillion Chief Executive,
John McDonough, leading
a visit to the All Saints
Action Network in
Wolverhampton as part of
HRH The Prince of Wales’
‘Seeing is Believing’
programme, run by
Business in the Community. 
We still have a long way to go to integrate
the principles of sustainable development 
into everything we do, but our achievements
have made Carillion a recognised leader in
developing and adopting socially responsible
business practices.
Our commitment to developing a more
sustainable business is driven by the Carillion
Board, which sets our sustainability policies
and targets as an integral part of the Group’ s
overall policies, strategy and objectives. 
The Board is supported by a Sustainability
Committee and a Group Safety Committee.
Our Sustainability Committee is chaired by
our Group Chairman, Sir Neville Simms, and
its membership includes senior executives and
managers from across the Group. It also has
two independent members, Jonathon Porritt
(Programme Director of Forum for the Future
and Chairman of the UK Government’ s
Sustainable Development Commission) and
David Cowans (Chief Executive of the housing
association, Places for People) who provide
valuable advice and an external perspective
on the development of our sustainability
strategy and programme. Having a separate
Group Safety Committee chaired by Executive
Director Roger Robinson, reflects the priority
we give to Health and Safety, which is an
integral part of sustainability.
In 2004, we continued to develop the
strategy model we first published in 2001, 
to help us understand how improving our
impacts on the environment and on the
communities in which we operate can assist
us in delivering our business objectives. We
selected a number of key areas on which to
focus particular attention in 2004, including
Health and Safety, certain environmental
impacts, the management of cost and risk
and the implementation of the new
community engagement strategy we
developed in 2003. T o meet our objectives 
we set 11 specific and measurable targets.
Our average score against these targets 
was 90 per cent. Details of our sustainability
programme, targets and performance, which
is externally verified, will be published in our
2004 Sustainability Report on our website, 
www.carillionplc.com/sustainability, in April
2005. It will also contain details of how
Carillion engages with communities and
addresses its environmental impacts together
with a number of case studies and feedback
from our stakeholders.
Social, Environmental and 
Ethical (SEE) Risks
Adopting a sustainable approach to the 
way we do business also helps us to address
and manage our SEE risks. These risks are
identified at Group level and for individual
contracts through our risk management
processes. Corporate risks and contract risk
registers are reviewed regularly and reported
at the appropriate levels up to and including
the Carillion Board.
Health and Safety
In 2004, there were 348 injuries reportable
under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases 
and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations, 
for a population of 40,000 people, including
direct employees and subcontractors. After
successive decreases over the past two years,
our Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) increased
to 0.37 per 100,000 hours in 2004 (2003:
0.34). Tragically, there were nine fatalities 
in 2004 and 69 major injuries.
Although our 2004 AFR compared 
favourably with those of our peers, it was
nonetheless disappointing. Our response 
has been to embark on a radical new
initiative, T arget Zero, designed to eliminate
reportable accidents throughout the 
Carillion workplace. This high-profile
campaign aims to drive home the message
that there is no such thing as an acceptable
accident and seeks to create a culture of zero
tolerance in all our places of work.
T arget Zero has a simple vision: “Through the
way we work and behave, all our people and
stakeholders will be protected from the risks
of occupational injury or ill-health.”
We have established safety action groups
throughout Carillion to support T arget Zero
and deliver local action and improvement
plans for Health and Safety and to exchange
and review best practice. In addition, we 
have a programme of site visits by senior
executives and Health and Safety managers 
to review safety, including the systems 
and controls in place for the work being
undertaken. If these systems and controls do
not meet the highest standards, all activities
cease until corrective action has been taken.
A top award 
We were delighted to receive Business in the
Community’ s (BITC) top award for Corporate
Social Responsibility in July 2003 and to be its
‘Company of the Year’. This award recognised
Carillion’ s commitment to responsible
business practice and our achievements in
developing a more sustainable business,
which has promoted innovation, enhanced
individual and corporate responsibility and
helped to improve service quality across all
our businesses. 
Winning this prestigious award had a major
influence on our sustainability agenda in
2004. Working in partnership with BITC, we
developed and implemented a programme to
promote corporate social responsibility and to
demonstrate how this can help business to
succeed. We took part in 37 different events
Corporate Social 
Responsibility
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
21
Operating and Financial Review
1. 2.
involving a wide variety of activities to share
our experience with others and to learn from
them. These included workshops with other
companies and organisations and two 
‘Seeing is Believing’ visits.
HRH the Prince of Wales’ ‘Seeing is Believing’
programme invites business leaders to see for
themselves how business can play a role in
tackling the most pressing social issues in the
UK’ s most deprived inner city and rural areas.
Carillion Chief Executive, John McDonough 
led visits to Bradford and the Black Country ,
attended by a total of over 25 business leaders
who saw first hand the opportunities that are
available to support the communities in which
their businesses operate. Seeing the work
being done by schools, charities and local
action groups as well as government funded
organisations to tackle a wide range of social
issues concerning education, skills training,
homelessness, unemployment and health, 
was both moving and inspiring. Many of those
who attended these visits resolved to form new
links between their businesses and their local
communities to provide help and support.
Our time as Company of the Year concluded
with Carillion hosting BITC’ s 2004 Gala
Dinner and Awards ceremony at the Royal
Albert Hall in July 2004. This was attended 
by BITC’ s patron HRH the Prince of Wales 
and many of the UK’ s leading companies 
and provided a high-profile opportunity to
promote the importance of corporate social
responsibility to business success.
Environment
We have continued to develop the business
case for improving our environmental
performance, in terms of our ability to deliver
better products and services, while reducing
our consumption of resources and protecting
the environment. 
In 2004, we 
> incurred no environmental prosecutions 
> reduced the CO
2
emissions from our car
fleet by 25 per cent
> continued to reduce the energy
consumption of the buildings we design
> became a signatory of the WWF-UK Forest
& Trade Network, and, with other Network
members, will be publishing a report on
use of sustainable timber in March 2005
> successfully developed and trialled
Biodiversity Action Plans on two major
projects and will be extending their use 
in 2005
> continued our ‘design out’ waste initiative
and delivered further improvements in the
recycling of waste on our projects, diverting
it from landfill. For example, on ten trial sites
the amount of waste diverted from landfill
ranged from 20 per cent to 77 per cent,
resulting in an average reduction of 
46 per cent.
Our sponsorship of the Wildlife T rusts is now in
its fourth year . Through the Carillion Natural
Habitats Fund, many of our people have
volunteered to work with the T rusts local to our
projects to create positive impacts. Carillion
also participated in the Environment Agency’ s
‘Make a Pledge’ initiative, which encouraged
individuals to make small but significant
environmental pledges. It was estimated that
Carillion’ s 800 pledges would save 30,000
tonnes of CO
2
and four million litres of water .
T o put this into perspective, 10,000 trees
would be needed to remove this quantity of
CO
2
from the atmosphere and a typical family
of five in some of the poorer African countries
uses 18,000 litres of water in one year .
Communities
Our strategy model for delivering sustainable
profitable growth clearly indicates that 
engagement with the communities in which
we operate must be linked to our business
objectives. In 2003, we formed a working
group with the objective of deepening our
understanding of community engagement. 
Its membership was drawn from across
Carillion and it was supported by The Natural
Step and Business in the Community. The
result was a new Community Policy and
Community Engagement Strategy, which we
implemented in 2004, complementing the
‘Stakeholder Dialogue’ process that we
introduced in 2002.
We continue to be members of BITC’ s
PerCent Club, demonstrating that we
contribute in excess of one per cent of our
profits in cash or kind to community activities.
In 2004, we produced a Sustainability T oolkit,
which brings together all our policies, our
community and environmental tools and over
50 case records to help us share best practice.
This is fundamental to building a positive
business case for sustainable development
and to demonstrating this to our customers
and suppliers. We also published 33 new 
case records in 2004 that show how positive
community engagement can benefit 
Carillion and its customers as well as our 
local communities and how it helps us to
develop our own people and build the value
of the Carillion brand. 
We held our second ‘Sustainability Week’ 
in 2004 to coincide with World Environment
Day under the headline ‘Let’ s Make a
Difference’. We sought to increase awareness
and understanding of sustainability across the
Group and to encourage employees and their
families to become involved in activities that
promote a more sustainable lifestyle. 
03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
22
A Strong T eam
Our Board
1 2 3 4
567 8
1 Sir Neville Simms 
Chairman Age 60. 
Sir Neville’ s career has been spent
in the construction industry having
originally joined T armac in 1970,
becoming Chief Executive in 1992
and Deputy Chairman in 1994. 
Sir Neville is also Chairman of
International Power plc, a T rustee
of the BRE T rust, a Governor of
Ashridge Management College
and a member of the Presidents
Committee of the CBI. He was
until May 2002 a Member of the
Court of the Bank of England. Sir
Neville was appointed Chairman
of the the Board of Carillion plc in
May 1999 and is Chairman of the
Sustainability Committee and the
Nominations Committee. 
He is a Chartered Engineer . 
At the 2004 AGM, Sir Neville
announced that by the Annual
General Meeting on 11 May
2005 he would stand down both
as the Chairman and as a Director
of the Company.
2 Philip Rogerson 
Deputy Chairman Age 60. 
Philip was appointed to the Board
in October 2004 and is a member
of the Nominations Committee.
He is presently Chairman of
Aggreko plc, THUS Group plc 
and Viridian Group plc and is a
Non-Executive Director of Davis
Service Group plc and Northgate
plc. He was an Executive Director
of BG plc from 1992 to 1998,
latterly as Deputy Chairman.
3 John McDonough 
Chief Executive Age 53. 
John was appointed Chief
Executive in January 2001 and 
is a Non-Executive Director of 
Exel plc. He is a member of the
CBI’ s Public Services Strategy
Board. He was formerly Vice
President, Integrated Facilities
Management, Europe, the
Middle East and Africa of
Johnson Controls Inc. 
Section 04 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
23
A Strong T eam
4 Chris Girling 
Finance Director Age 51. 
Chris was appointed to the
Carillion plc Board in November
1999. Chris is a Chartered
Accountant and holds the 
degree of Master of Business
Administration. He was
previously Group Finance 
Director of Vosper Thornycroft
Holdings plc.
5 Roger Robinson 
Executive Director 
Construction Services 
Age 53. Roger joined T armac
Construction as Contracts
Director in 1989 subsequently
becoming Managing Director 
of T armac Civil Engineering,
International and Rail. Roger 
was appointed to the Board of
Carillion plc in May 1999 and 
has Group-wide responsibility 
for Construction and Health and
Safety matters. He is a member 
of the Government T ask force on
Modern Apprenticeships and is a
Fellow of the Institution of 
Civil Engineers. 
6 Roger Dickens 
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
Age 57. Appointed to the Board
in May 2000, Roger is the Senior
Independent Non-Executive
Director and Chairman of the
Audit Committee and a member
of the Remuneration and
Nominations Committees. 
Roger is the Chairman of West
Bromwich Building Society, the
NEC Group Limited and assa
Training and Learning Limited
and a former Chairman of iSOFT
Group PLC. He is also a Director
of Headlam Group plc. He is a
Chartered Accountant. 
7 David Garman 
Non-Executive Director 
Age 53. Appointed to the Board 
in September 2004, David 
is a member of the Audit,
Nominations and Remuneration
Committees. David is Chief
Executive of TDG plc, which he
joined in 1999 from Associated
British Foods where he was an
Executive Director.
8 Andrew Parrish 
Non-Executive Director 
Age 59. Andrew joined the Board
in March 2000 and is Chairman
of the Remuneration Committee
and a member of the Audit and
Nominations Committees. He is
also Chairman of the National
Stud, a member of the CBI’ s
Manufacturing Council and was
previously Group Chief Executive 
of Senior plc. Andrew is a
Chartered Engineer.
Jean-Paul Parayre 
(not pictured)
Jean-Paul Parayre served 
as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director until he
stood down from the Board on 
7 December 2004. Jean-Paul was
appointed to the Board in May
1999 and served on the Audit,
Nominations and Remuneration
Committees throughout his term
of appointment. He is Chairman 
of Vallourec S.A.
04 Section 05
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 
24
Accountability
General principles
The Board is firmly committed to high standards of corporate
governance. During the year to 31 December 2004, the Company
complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance (July 2003), as detailed below and in
the Remuneration Report. 
Ethics and business integrity policy
Carillion has a clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity
and ethics which underlies the Group’s values of openness,
collaboration, mutual dependency, professional delivery, focus on
sustainable, profitable growth and innovation. The policy requires
Carillion to conduct its business to the highest ethical standards. It
applies to all employees and the way Carillion delivers this policy is and
will be reflected in the way the Group competes for business, through
the quality and value of its work and the reputation of its employees.
The requirements of the policy in summary are:
• business integrity: we do not give or accept bribes. We do not
sanction or accept any illegal payments, allowances, or gifts-in-kind.
We will investigate fully all alleged breaches. We will dismiss any
employee who has breached this policy;
• mutual respect: we do what we say we will do. We treat our people
fairly and with respect at all times, avoiding discrimination and
bullying. We provide a safe and healthy working environment, 
and respect sustainable principles in all our dealings;
• trust: we engender trust within our work groups and companies,
respecting diverse traditions and cultures. We respect the trust
placed in us by others, not least when we are asked to take
responsibility for aspects of their business or resources. We maintain
and demand high professional standards and demand honesty and
openness. We avoid conflicts of interest wherever possible, and we
proactively declare any unavoidable conflicts for open scrutiny and
resolution;
• legality: we respect the rule of law in all our dealings. We clearly
communicate procedures for disciplining those who do not comply
with the law or our standards and policies. We maintain a system for
confidential reporting of breaches of our standards and policies;
• human rights: we support the belief that human rights are universal
and adhere to the principles of human rights in our operations. We
support the United Nations’ Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
Our policy is carried into our business through a series of detailed
procedures and allows us to put into practice our reputation for
conducting business to the highest ethical standard which is essential
to our relationships with customers, business partners, employees,
shareholders and the public.
Directors
The Board
The Company is led by a Board comprising three Executive and five
Non-Executive Directors. Throughout 2004, the Chairman and the
Non-Executive Directors comprised more than half of the Board and
this continues to be the case. With the exception of the Chairman,
who previously was Group Chief Executive, each of the Non-Executive
Directors is considered to be independent of management. They each
have wide areas of experience and have no business or other
relationship that could materially interfere with their independent
judgement. Philip Rogerson is the Deputy Chairman and Roger
Dickens the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Executive Directors’
service contracts are terminable by one year’s notice. 
A detailed internal evaluation of the Board’s corporate governance
procedures and compliance was again conducted in 2004 by the
Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary. The internal
evaluation took into account the views of each of the Directors on 
(i) the role of directors, (ii) the performance of the Board, the Chairman
and the Non-Executive Directors, (iii) Directors’ remuneration, 
(iv) relations with shareholders and (v) Board accountability and audit. 
The Board at its meeting in October 2004 reviewed the results of the
internal evaluation and, where required, issues were acted upon in
order to further enhance the effectiveness of the Board’s procedures
and working practices. 
This is the third year that this process has taken place and will 
be repeated annually as it is considered satisfactory by the Board. 
In addition, reviews of the performance of each of the Directors 
has taken place. 
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses 
the following parameters:
• the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is to provide
continuity, experience and governance while the Chief Executive
provides leadership, energy, imagination and the driving force;
• the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the
business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline of their respective roles
encourages the Chairman and Chief Executive to work well together
to provide effective and complementary stewardship;
• the Chairman must:
– take overall responsibility for the composition and capability of 
the Board;
– consult regularly with the Chief Executive and be available on a
flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the 
Chief Executive.
Corporate Governance Report Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
25
Accountability
• the Chief Executive must: 
– manage the Executive Directors and the Group’s day-to-day
activities;
– prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth in
shareholder value;
– set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the 
agreed strategy;
– ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management
and control mechanisms.
The Board has a programme of seven meetings during the year and
also meets on an ad hoc basis as required. A formal schedule of
matters reserved to the Board for consideration and decision is
maintained. These matters include:
• statutory matters such as the approval of final and interim 
financial statements and the recommendation of dividends;
• appointments to and removals from the Board and the terms 
of reference and membership of Board committees;
• approval of Group strategy and annual budgets;
• approval of authority levels, financial and treasury policies;
• authorisation for any acquisition or disposal;
• review of the internal control arrangements and risk 
management strategies;
• review of corporate governance arrangements.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible
to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules
and regulations are observed. The Board decides the appointment and
removal of the Company Secretary. 
Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent
professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the
financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the
Group as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, 
markets, sustainability and other relevant issues.
Board Committees
The principal Board committees are the Remuneration Committee, the
Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee. The Company
Secretary acts as secretary to each of these committees. The terms of
reference of each of the Board committees are available on the
Carillion website at www.carillionplc.com or on request from the
Company Secretary.
The membership of each of the principal committees is as follows:
Remuneration Committee
Andrew Parrish, Chairman
Roger Dickens
David Garman
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive
Directors and has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board on the
appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of Carillion plc.
Further details on remuneration issues are given on pages 30 to 37.
Audit Committee
Roger Dickens, Chairman
David Garman
Andrew Parrish
This Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive
Directors. For further information see the Report of the Audit
Committee on page 26.
Nominations Committee 
Sir Neville Simms, Chairman
Roger Dickens
David Garman 
Andrew Parrish
Philip Rogerson
The Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir Neville Simms, also
comprises all Non-Executive Directors, the majority of whom are
independent. It reviews the structure, size, composition, balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes
recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that are
deemed desirable. The Committee also reviews succession planning to
ensure that processes and plans are in place with regard to both Board
and senior appointments.
Jean-Paul Parayre served on the Remuneration, Audit and
Nominations Committees during the year under review until he stood
down as a Director on 7 December 2004.
Attendance at meetings in 2004
The number of full scheduled Board and Committee meetings
attended by each Director during 2004 was as follows:
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of 
meetings held 7 3 3 3
Sir Neville Simms 7 3
Roger Dickens 6 3 3 3
David Garman* 3 1 1
Chris Girling 7
John McDonough 7
Jean-Paul Parayre 6 1 2 3
Andrew Parrish 7 3 3 3
Roger Robinson 7
Philip Rogerson* 2
* Appointed 7 September and 1 October 2004 respectively.
05 05
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
26
Accountability
Other Board matters
Policy on external appointments
Recognising that external appointments can broaden their knowledge
and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors are
permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited 
number of such appointments and retain the fees received for 
such appointments. John McDonough and Chris Girling have such
appointments as Non-Executive Directors of Exel plc and Barlow 
Group Limited respectively.
Nomination and remuneration of Directors
The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board
as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
For the Board appointments made in 2004, the Nominations
Committee used the services of executive recruitment consultants,
Odgers Ray & Berndtson. Details of potential candidates were
provided by Odgers Ray & Berndtson and initially reviewed by a 
sub-committee of the Nominations Committee. Meetings with
selected candidates were then held with Directors. Subsequently, 
the Nominations Committee met to recommend appointments 
which were then approved by the Board.
In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments are
normally for three years; reappointment is subject to review and is 
not automatic. At the AGM 2004, Sir Neville Simms announced his
intention to stand down both as Chairman and as a Director of the
Company by the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a
whole, taking into account the commitment required and participation 
in the work of committees and other advisory services in relation to the
business of the Group. In advising the Board on such fees, it is the 
policy of the Executive Directors to seek independent external advice
concerning the appropriateness of the amounts by comparison with
general practice. The level of fees currently payable to the Non-Executive
Directors is based on independent external advice.
The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the Remuneration
Report on pages 30 to 37.
Retirement of Directors by rotation
All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least
every three years. The Director retiring and seeking re-election at the
Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2005 is Chris Girling.
Additionally, new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at
the first opportunity following their appointment. Accordingly, David
Garman and Philip Rogerson will seek election at the 2005 Annual
General Meeting.
The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms and
conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available
for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal
business hours on any weekday (bank holidays excepted) and at the
Annual General Meeting.
Induction and development of Directors
Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on
joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other duties
and obligations as a director of a listed company. In addition, all 
new Directors receive induction on their appointment covering 
such matters as the operation and activities of the Group, the role 
of the Board and the Company’s corporate governance procedures.
Directors are also briefed by the Company’ s external advisors, where
appropriate, on changes to legislation, regulation or market practice, 
as well as receiving briefings from business groups throughout the year.
At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in October
2004, the Directors visited the Group’s operations in Dubai. Directors
are also encouraged to visit other operations and staff. 
The regular updating of Directors’ skills and knowledge is encouraged
and a procedure has been established whereby the Company
Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements in this respect.
Relations with shareholders
In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from time
to time, the Executive Directors and the Director of Group Corporate
Communications meet regularly with representatives of major
shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of objectives.
The details of these meetings are reported to the Board. The Chairman
and the Deputy Chairman are available for meetings with
representatives of major shareholders as required.
Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend the
Company’s Annual General Meeting.
The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined
Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and conduct of its
Annual General Meetings. The Chairmen of the Remuneration and
Audit Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting on
11 May 2005 to respond to shareholders’ questions.
Accountability and audit
Report of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive
Directors: 
Roger Dickens, Chairman 
David Garman
Andrew Parrish
Corporate Governance Report
continued Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
27
Accountability
Roger Dickens is a chartered accountant who is Chairman of West
Bromwich Building Society and who formerly served on the Audit
Committee of Tarmac plc. Roger was appointed to the Audit
Committee in May 2000.
David Garman is Chief Executive of TDG plc and was appointed to the
Audit Committee in October 2004.
Andrew Parrish is a member of the CBI’s Manufacturing Council, is
Chairman of the National Stud and was previously Chief Executive 
of Senior plc. Andrew was appointed to the Audit Committee in
March 2000.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by invitation of
the Committee, Executive Directors, representatives of the external
auditors (KPMG Audit Plc), the Group Head of Risk and the Head of
Internal Audit. It is also able to invite others as it requires from time to
time. The Committee also meets privately with both the external and
internal auditors.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include:
• the review of the annual and interim financial statements;
• consideration of the impact of changes to accounting regulations
and the financial and accounting policies of the Carillion Group; 
• compliance with statutory and other external requirements;
• reviewing the role of the internal audit function and the results of 
its audit work and the response of management; 
• reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and its 
cost-effectiveness;
• ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are
complementary;
• monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors
and ensuring that the services provided (including non-audit services)
provide a proper balance between objectivity and value for money;
• recommending to the Board the external auditors to be proposed to
shareholders for appointment.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to (i) seek any necessary
information to fulfil its duties (ii) call any member of staff to be
questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required and
(iii) obtain external professional advice, at the Company’s expense,
which might be necessary for the fulfilment of its duties. 
The members of the Committee receive fees for their Non-Executive
Directorships which reflect their membership of the Audit Committee
and other Board committees. See page 31 for details.
Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to 
31 December 2004
Financial statements
The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management and the
external auditors the annual and interim statements. In this context, the
Committee also reviews the written reports of KPMG on issues arising
from the annual audit and the review of the interim results.
Internal controls
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s system of internal
control. This responsibility includes clearly determining the control
environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal
control system. However, such a system can provide only reasonable
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board
confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating
and managing the significant risks (both financial and non-financial
and including Corporate Social Responsibility risks) faced by the Group
(including joint ventures and overseas businesses). The process has
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval
of the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by 
the Board. 
Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls across
the Group is provided through a mix of techniques:
• Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and
effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the
business and reports its findings to management, the Executive
Directors and the Audit Committee. The Audit Plan is presented to
and approved by the Audit Committee annually;
• recommendations to improve the system of control are made by
Internal Audit. The implementation of these recommendations is
followed up and reported on quarterly;
• Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification
procedures and control processes implemented by management; 
• a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group where
Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify
controls in operation to mitigate risk in key process areas. They also
confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes and
appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively; 
• Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and application of
internal controls in key business projects and on policy and
procedure changes.
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
28
Accountability
Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis. The
Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and ensures that
the level of confidence required by the Board is obtained. It also ensures
the financial reporting process is credible and reliable. The Audit
Committee presents its findings to the Board regularly and the Head 
of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee members. 
During 2004, an internal appraisal of Internal Audit was carried out to
ensure that it continues to meet the needs of its stakeholders and fulfil
its governance role. This exercise involved extensive consultation
across the Carillion Group. As a result, minor amendments to the
resourcing and processes of Internal Audit are being implemented.
Risk management
The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic risk issues
across the Group, and for oversight of risk training. The Group Head of
Risk is also responsible for carrying out an independent appraisal of all
projects before submission to the Major Projects Committee (see below).
This appraisal ensures that the differentiating factors of the Group’ s offer
have been properly identified so maximising the opportunities available;
it also involves ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated
with the project have been properly identified and considered.
In addition, the Risk Forum, a committee of risk professionals from
each of the business groups, meets on a quarterly basis to assess the
strategic risks facing the Carillion Group. The conclusions of the Risk
Forum are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the
sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including
capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business
acquisitions and disposals. This committee has delegated authority 
up to specified levels, beyond which Board approval is required.
Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy and
procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for
commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of
guarantees and management accounting as well as reporting and
resolution of suspected fraudulent activities. Wherever possible, 
the Board operates a policy of prosecuting individuals found to have
defrauded the Company or its subsidiaries. Learning points for
management are identified and action plans implemented to minimise
the recurrence of fraud. 
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice
at the earliest possible stage and a confidential ‘whistleblowing’ hotline
provided by an independent third party is available.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of
significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the
design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls. These
risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a
variety of internal or external sources, including control breakdowns,
disruption in information systems, competition, corporate social
responsibility, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Management is also responsible for timely and accurate reporting of
business performance and for ensuring compliance with the policies
set by the Board in its areas of business. Regular performance review
meetings are held where management reports to the Executive
Directors on business performance, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are presented to the Board.
The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in 
the business and the external environment that affect significant 
risks. The Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial
information, which includes key performance indicators (see the
Operating and Financial Review on pages 6 to 21 and a summary of
risk. Where areas for improvement are identified, the Board considers
the recommendations made both by the Executive Directors and by
the Audit Committee.
This report is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
Audit independence
The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the
objectivity of the Group’s auditor, KPMG, in their reporting to
shareholders.
The KPMG audit director and manager are present at Audit
Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating
to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the
Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and
feedback is provided to senior members of KPMG unrelated to the
audit. This activity also forms part of KPMG’s own system of quality
control. The Audit Committee also has discussions with the auditors,
without management being present, on the adequacy of controls and
on any judgmental areas. These discussions have proved satisfactory 
to date.
The scope of the forthcoming year’s audit is discussed in advance by
the Audit Committee. Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit
Committee after discussions between the businesses and the local
KPMG offices and are then referred to the Board for approval. Rotation
of audit director’s responsibilities within KPMG is required by their
profession’s ethical standards. The current audit director responsible
for the Carillion engagement has held his role for five years following
the last rotation: this will change shortly. There is also rotation of key
members within the audit team. 
Corporate Governance Report
continued
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
29
Accountability
Assignments awarded to KPMG and its associates have been and are
subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the
Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised. 
In summary, the procedures are:
• audit related services: as auditors this is the main area of work of
KPMG and its associates. If any additional accounting support is
required then this is considered competitively;
• tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion 
uses KPMG and its associates but the Group also uses other 
tax consultancies. Significant pieces of tax work are evaluated
competitively;
• general and systems consulting: all significant consulting projects are
subject to competitive tender.
Other than audit, the Group Finance Director is required to give prior
approval of work carried out by KPMG and its associates in excess of a
predetermined threshold; part of this review is to determine that other
potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate
confidence in the independence of KPMG in their reporting on the
audit of the Group.
Health and safety
A review of the Group’s progress on health and safety, environmental
and social performance is contained in the Corporate and Social
Responsibility section on pages 20 to 21.
R F Tapp
Secretary
9 March 2005
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
30
Accountability
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance (July 2003). 
The Board is responsible for determining policy for remuneration 
of the Directors of Carillion plc and key members of the senior
management team. The Remuneration Committee consists 
exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors (Andrew Parrish
(Chairman), Roger Dickens and David Garman) and is responsible for
formulating policy and recommending to the Board the remuneration
of the Executive Directors. The Board determines the fees of the 
Non-Executive Directors based on independent external advice.
The Remuneration Committee is assisted in remuneration decisions 
by Susan Morton, Group HR Director and by John McDonough, 
Group Chief Executive. The Group Chief Executive is consulted on 
the remuneration of his direct reports and other senior executives. 
No Executive Director or employee is present when his or her
remuneration is being discussed.
Additionally, the Remuneration Committee uses The Monks Partnership
(a business owned by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP) to provide salary
survey and benchmarking information. Neither the Monks Partnership,
which was appointed in 2001, nor PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have
any other connections with the Company.
Remuneration policy 
It is the policy of the Company to ensure that remuneration and other
benefits attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors and senior
managers of the required calibre to achieve the Board’ s objectives,
including that of achieving growth in shareholder value. Remuneration
and other benefits are determined with regard to competitive market
practice and, where considered appropriate, are supported by external
independent surveys. The main elements of remuneration of the
Executive Directors are basic salary and pension benefits, together with
an annual bonus linked to the Group’ s financial performance and share
based incentives linked to both financial and share price performance
to ensure that the interests of the Executive Directors are aligned to
those of shareholders. The Company intends to continue this approach
to the structure of remuneration for the foreseeable future (subject to
any changes in legislation with regard to pension provision).
The Group’s remuneration policy is also based upon Carillion’s
strategic objectives, which specifically include achieving high
standards in respect of sustainability, which encompasses Carillion’s
health and safety, environmental and social performance.
Service contracts
Each of the Executive Directors’ service contracts are now terminable
by one year’s notice from the Company. On termination of their
employment, Executive Directors of the Company have no additional
entitlement to compensation for loss of their office as Directors. 
The service contracts contain provision for early termination. 
In determining compensation for early termination of a service
contract, the Remuneration Committee will consider the specific
circumstances together with the Company’s commitments under the
individual’s contract (including future bonuses). 
Notice
Name Commencement period Term
John McDonough 1 January 2001 12 months rolling
Chris Girling 13 September 1999 12 months rolling
Roger Robinson 29 July 1999 12 months rolling
Non-Executive Directors are not employed under contracts of service,
but are generally appointed for fixed terms of three years renewable
for further terms of one to three years if both parties agree. Roger
Dickens and Andrew Parrish are presently on renewed terms of
appointment. As Chairman and in recognition of the associated
responsibilities, Sir Neville Simms has a contract for services which
continues unless and until terminated by either party giving one year’s
notice. Sir Neville announced at the 2004 AGM his intention to stand
down as a Director of the Company by the 2005 AGM.
Basic salary and other benefits
The basic salaries and other benefits of the Executive Directors are set by
the Remuneration Committee and are determined taking into account
individual performance and information provided by independent
sources on the rate of salary for similar posts in comparable companies.
The aim is to reward Directors fairly and competitively.
Other benefits typically include a company car, private healthcare and
salary supplements (or contributions to a funded unapproved
retirement benefit scheme (FURBS)) in place of approved pension
provision for salary over the annual earnings cap.
Remuneration Report
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
31
Accountability
Annual performance bonus and deferred bonus plan
Annual bonuses are reviewed each year by the Remuneration
Committee, which sets performance targets geared to profit, key
financial indicators and individual performance objectives. In 2004, 
the Executive Directors had the potential to earn annual bonuses 
up to a maximum of 50 per cent of their basic salary for outstanding
performance. The bonus arrangement for 2004 set a financial
performance target based on earnings per share and individual,
detailed and confidential personal performance objectives that
support the strategic objectives of the Company. The maximum bonus
opportunity of 50 per cent comprises an annual cash payment limited
to 30 per cent of salary with a deferred bonus of shares of the
Company with a value of up to 20 per cent of salary vesting after 
one year. The number of shares allocated is determined by the price
prevailing at the date the bonus is confirmed and the amount by
which the bonus earned exceeds 30 per cent of basic salary at the end
of the bonus year in question. The shares are released on the condition
that the recipient makes funds available to the Company at the point
of transfer to allow the Company to meet its tax and National
Insurance obligations on the value of the shares transferred. 
On 8 April 2003, the Executive Directors received a deferred bonus of
shares as follows:
Number of shares
John McDonough 25,673
Chris Girling 14,585
Roger Robinson 14,895
These shares were held in Trust for a year and then transferred in April
2004 following payment of the tax and National Insurance obligations.
In 2005, the Executive Directors will have the potential to earn up to
75 per cent of their basic salary under this scheme. The maximum
bonus opportunity of 75 per cent comprises an annual cash payment
limited to 30 per cent of salary with a deferred bonus of shares in 
the Company with a value of up to 45 per cent of salary vesting after
two years.
Pension benefits 
The Group makes contributions to an Inland Revenue approved
defined benefit scheme and, where applicable and where the
individual has so elected, to FURBS on behalf of the Executive
Directors. Alternatively, a payment equal to the contribution the 
Group would have made to the funded unapproved arrangement is
paid to the Executive Director as a salary supplement. Contributions 
to the funded unapproved arrangements are reported as a benefit in
kind on an annual basis. Salary supplements are taxed at source.
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the Directors of Carillion plc for the year ended
31 December 2004 is set out in the table below:
Annual
performance bonus
Value of
Basic Cash deferred Other Total Total
£000 salary/fees payment bonus shares benefits 2004 2003
Executive Directors 
John McDonough 405 116 – 124 645 619
Chris Girling 255 72 – 68 395 382
Roger Robinson 260 73 – 73 406 397
Total for Executive Directors 920 261 – 265 1,446 1,398
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Neville Simms 158 – – 29 187 177
Roger Dickens 45 – – – 45 38
Philip Rogerson 19 – – – 19 –
Jean-Paul Parayre 42 – – – 42 38
Andrew Parrish 45 – – – 45 38
David Garman 13 – – – 13 –
Total for Non-Executive Directors 322 – – 29 351 291
Total for all Directors 1,242 261 – 294 1,797 1,689
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the above table.
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
32
Accountability
Included in ‘Other benefits’ is a salary supplement for John
McDonough of £102,060 (2003: £96,247) in respect of salary over the
Inland Revenue pensions earnings cap. Contributions were payable to
FURBS in respect of Chris Girling of £51,660 (2003: £49,207) and
Roger Robinson of £53,340 (2003: £50,887).
John McDonough retains the fees of £40,000 per year that he is paid
as a Non-Executive Director of Exel plc. Chris Girling retains the fees of
£15,000 per year that he is paid as a Non-Executive Director of Barlow
Group Limited.
Executive pensions
Until April 2003, it was the Company’ s policy to offer membership of
the Carillion ‘B’ Pension Scheme to Executive Directors and other senior
employees. This scheme was operational from 1 October 1999. The
scheme is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, defined benefit scheme
to which members contribute 7 per cent of pensionable earnings. 
The main features are:
• pension payable at the normal retirement age of 60 (save in cases 
of ill health or early retirement);
• pension accrual rate for Executive Directors of 1/30th of final
pensionable salary for each year of service targeting a pension (at
normal retirement age) of two thirds of final pensionable salary (subject
to 20 years’ service after which employee contributions cease);
• increases to pensions in payment (in excess of the State Guaranteed
Minimum Pension) in line with price indexation up to 5 per cent 
per annum;
• life assurance of four times pensionable salary;
• pensions payable in the event of ill health;
• on death (in service or after retirement), spouse’s and/or dependent’s
pension at two thirds of member’s prospective pension.
Maximum pension benefits of two thirds of pensionable salary 
are offset by any pension benefits accruing from earlier pension
arrangements.
The Carillion ‘B’ Pension Scheme was closed to new entrants with
effect from 1 April 2003. Pension provision for senior managers and
executives is now through their existing Carillion scheme (for current
employees) or the Carillion Pension Plan (for new employees and
existing employees who opted for membership). The Carillion Pension
Plan is a defined contribution pension arrangement that provides
members with pensions at retirement based on the accumulated 
value of their notional pension account within the plan.
The current Executive Directors are subject to the Inland Revenue
earnings cap and their pensionable salary is limited accordingly. They
are provided with additional benefits by way of individual FURBS or a
salary supplement equal to the contribution the Group would have
made to a FURBS and with unapproved life cover of four times salary
over the earnings cap. In all cases, any contributions made to these
arrangements in respect of the year are disclosed separately above. 
As these additional arrangements are limited to the balance of basic
salary in excess of the earnings cap, bonus paid to Executive Directors
does not count towards pension benefits. The Company does not
contribute to any pension arrangements for Non-Executive Directors.
As its proposals are not yet finalised, the Company is unable to
confirm whether any changes will apply from April 2006 to the
pension arrangements of the Executive Directors.
Directors’ pensions
Pensions accruing during the year to Executive Directors in their
capacity as Directors of Carillion plc are set out below:
Remuneration Report
continued
Value
of increase
Increase in Increase in in accrued 
accrued accrued pension at Increase in
pension pension 31 Dec 04 transfer value
Accrued over year over year less member over year
pension at excluding including contributions Transfer value Transfer value after member
31 Dec 04 inflation inflation during the year at start of year at end of year contributions
£ per annum £ per annum £ per annum £ £ £ £
John McDonough 13,600 3,700 3,355 38,630 116,079 182,669 59,503
Chris Girling 17,567 3,817 3,337 35,086 147,913 218,540 63,540
Roger Robinson 48,275 4,443 2,914 34,432 538,390 677,431 131,953
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the above table.
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
33
Accountability
Share incentive schemes
The Company now operates three share incentive schemes to
motivate employees and to encourage them to invest in the future
success of the Group. The Executive Share Option Schemes (Approved
and Unapproved) and the Long Term Incentive Plan have challenging
performance criteria which apply similarly to all participants. The Board
believes that these schemes complement the strategy of achieving
growth in shareholder value by directly aligning these incentives of 
the Executive Directors and senior employees to the interests of the
shareholders. In addition, a Sharesave Scheme operates to give UK
employees the opportunity to have a financial stake in the Company.
Executive Share Option Schemes 
Share options have been granted to the Executive Directors and
certain senior managers under the Executive Share Option Schemes.
The options were granted at an exercise price equal to the market
value of the Company’s shares on the three business days immediately
preceding the date of grant.
Options under the Inland Revenue Approved Executive Share Option
Scheme 1999 (which carries certain tax advantages for UK employees)
and the Executive Share Option Scheme 1999 are exercisable normally
between three and ten years after the date of grant, subject to the
achievement of the performance condition. For options granted
between October 1999 and October 2002, the performance condition
requires that the earnings per share of Carillion over a rolling three-
year period must increase by a percentage that is not less than the
increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over the same period, expressed
as a percentage, plus four percentage points per annum. This
performance condition was selected in order to provide an incentive 
which aligns the interests of executives with those of shareholders 
in growing the Company’s earnings per share. However, as this
performance condition no longer complied with best practice,
shareholders at the Company’s AGM in May 2003, resolved that 
future options granted under the Executive Share Option Schemes
become exercisable in accordance with the following table:
Average compound annual earnings 
per share growth (before exceptional Percentage of option
items) in excess of RPI over the three- that becomes
year period following grant exercisable
Less than 4% 0%
4% 30%
4% – 10% 30% – 100% (straight-line basis)
10% or more 100%
To the extent that this performance condition is not met in full at the
end of the three-year period following grant, there is the opportunity
for no more than one re-test of performance (from a fixed base) at the
end of the following year. However, see ‘Recent Issues’ on page 34.
The first grants of options using this new performance condition were
made on 1 July 2003.
The aggregate value of options granted to an employee under the
Executive Share Option Schemes cannot normally exceed their basic
salary in any year without the prior approval of the Remuneration
Committee.
At 31 December 2004, Executive Share Options were outstanding over
3,653,138 shares (2003: 3,242,367 shares) under both schemes at
exercise prices ranging from 125.2 pence to 210.7 pence.
Long Term Incentive Plan
Conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are made to
the Executive Directors and key members of senior management, in
recognition of the contribution that these individuals can make to the
Group’s success.
There is no subscription price for the shares, the award of which is
conditional on the Company’s performance during a three-year period
in delivering Total Shareholder Return (TSR) against a comparator
group of companies in the Construction and Building Materials and
Support Services sectors. 
For the conditional awards made in January 2002, the awards vest in
full only if Carillion achieves first place in a comparator group of ten
companies. If the Company’s ranking is sixth, 30 per cent of the
awards will vest. If ranking is below sixth, none of the awards will vest.
The companies comprising the comparator group for Long Term
Incentive Plan awards made in January 2002 are Amec plc, WS Atkins
plc, Balfour Beatty plc, Interserve plc, Jarvis plc, Kier Group plc, Alfred
McAlpine plc, Mowlem plc and Taylor Woodrow plc. (Amey plc was in
the comparator group but was removed as it delisted from the London
Stock Exchange in June 2003).
With regard to the Long Term Incentive Plan awards made in 
January 2001, Carillion came sixth in the comparator group at 
the end of the three-year performance period with the result that 
30 per cent of the awards vested. A total of 493,987 shares vested 
to 27 participants in March 2004.
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
34
Accountability
Remuneration Report
continued
Following review in 2003, the Remuneration Committee considered
that with a comparator group of ten companies, the removal of 
one company (through take-over or otherwise) would have a
proportionately greater impact on the extent of the vesting of awards
than if the comparator group was larger. Consequently, shareholders
at the 2003 AGM approved that future awards granted under the
Long Term Incentive Plan would be subject to Carillion’s TSR
performance against an expanded group of 12 companies as follows: 
Carillion ranking at Percentage of
end of three years award that will vest
First place 100%
Between the median Straight line vesting between 
and first place 30% at the median and
100% for first place
Median 30%
Below the median No award
The comparator group for awards made following the shareholder
approval in 2003 is Amec plc, WS Atkins plc, Balfour Beatty plc,
Interserve plc, Jarvis plc, Kier Group plc, Alfred McAlpine plc, Mowlem
plc, Morgan Sindall plc, John Laing plc and Serco Group plc. (Again,
Amey plc was in this comparator group until it was delisted).
To date, awards with this performance condition have been made on
1July 2003 and 31 March 2004.
The performance conditions were chosen in order to align the interests
of Directors and senior managers with those of shareholders in
growing total shareholder return against comparator companies
operating in similar sectors.
It is intended that Long Term Incentive Plan awards will be made
annually. Awards equivalent to 100 per cent of annual salary will be 
made to Executive Directors during 2005. See also ‘Recent Issues’ 
on this page.
At 31 December 2004, Long Term Incentive Plan awards were
outstanding over a total of 1,431,327 shares (2003: 2,715,234
shares).
Conditional awards made to Executive Directors under the Long Term
Incentive Plan are set out in the table of share incentives on page 35.
The awards represent shares vesting in 2004 pursuant to the awards
made in January 2001 and the maximum number of shares that could
be awarded to Executive Directors under the performance periods
commencing on 1 July 2003 and 1 January 2004. The monetary value
of the conditional awards attributed to each Director was based on
their annual basic salary at the date of award, and the number of
shares was calculated using the share prices of 120.3 pence, 
162.1 pence and 143 pence, the average share prices over the six
weeks immediately before the commencement of the respective
performance periods.
Recent Issues
The Remuneration Committee will regularly review the performance
conditions of the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Executive Share
Option Schemes to ensure that the performance conditions remain
challenging and stretching. In this respect, the Remuneration
Committee has resolved that Long Term Incentive Plan awards in 2005
will have a performance condition based on Carillion’s TSR
performance against the FTSE 250. 
With regard to the Executive Share Option Scheme, the Committee is
also reviewing the current provision for one re-test of performance.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) Performance Graph
The following graph shows the TSR of Carillion plc compared with 
the TSR of the FTSE 350 Index for the period from 1 January 2000 to
31 December 2004. 
Total Shareholder Return 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2004
The FTSE 350 was chosen as the comparator group in order to
illustrate the Company’s TSR performance against a broad equity
market index of the UK’s leading companies.
240
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
Carillion – Net total return Index
FTSE Actuaries 350 – Total Return Index 
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
35
Accountability
The Sharesave Scheme
The Company operates a Sharesave Scheme which provides a savings
and investment opportunity for employees in the UK. The options may
normally be exercised on completion of a three or five year savings
contract, at a price equivalent to not less than 80 per cent of the
market value of the shares at the time of grant. Options were granted
in November 1999 over 6,140,194 shares and in October 2002 over
3,995,803 shares. 
The three-year options granted in November 1999 became exercisable
on 1 January 2003 for a period of six months and a total of 1,400,766
shares were issued. The five-year options granted in November 1999
became exercisable for a six month period commencing 1 January
2005 at an option price 109.1 pence. To date, the market price of
Carillion shares has not been less than 225 pence during this latter
period of exercise.
At 31 December 2004, options over 3,481,966 ordinary shares 
of 50 pence each were outstanding under the Sharesave scheme
(2003: 4,839,716 ordinary shares of 50 pence each), exercisable on
various dates up to June 2006 at exercise prices of either 109.1 pence 
or 126.6 pence.
The Carillion share option and share incentive schemes comply with
the share dilution guidelines.
The Founders’ Equity Plan (FEP) 
The FEP was a one-off scheme under which the Executive Directors 
and certain senior managers were invited to invest a percentage 
of their basic salary in purchasing ordinary shares in Carillion plc. 
These shares, referred to as the Investment Shares, were purchased 
at an average market price of 137.74 pence per share. For every
Investment Share purchased, up to a maximum of four free shares
could be awarded, subject to Carillion’s share price performance.
However, as the performance condition was not met in the five-year
period the options have now lapsed.
Share incentives of Directors of Carillion plc
The awards held by Executive Directors of the Company under the
Long Term Incentive Plan (and formerly the Founders’ Equity Plan) 
are detailed below:
Long Term
As at Incentive Plan Awards Awards As at Mid-market
1 January awards granted vesting during lapsing during 31 December Date of share price on
2004 during the year the year the year 2004 award date of award
Sir Neville Simms
FEP (maximum) 987,364 – – 987,364 Nil 01.11.1999 125p
John McDonough
LTIP 2001 (maximum) 270,157 – 81,047 189,110 Nil 09.01.2001 135.5p
LTIP 2003 (maximum) 118,739 – – – 118,739 01.07.2003 159p
LTIP 2004 (maximum) Nil 141,608 – – 141,608 31.03.2004 187p
Chris Girling
FEP (maximum) 580,804 – – 580,804 Nil 01.11.1999 125p
LTIP 2001 (maximum) 187,032 – 56,109 130,923 Nil 09.01.2001 135.5p
LTIP 2003 (maximum) 75,561 – – – 75,561 01.07.2003 159p
LTIP 2004 (maximum) Nil 89,160 – – 89,160 31.03.2004 187p
Roger Robinson
FEP (maximum) 609,844 – – 609,844 Nil 01.11.1999 125p
LTIP 2001 (maximum) 191,188 – 57,356 133,832 Nil 09.01.2001 135.5p
LTIP 2003 (maximum) 77,103 – – – 77,103 01.07.2003 159p
LTIP 2004 (maximum) Nil 90,909 – – 90,909 31.03.2004 187p
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the above table.
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
36
Accountability
Remuneration Report
continued
The number of options over Carillion plc shares held by Executive Directors of the Company under the Executive Share Option and Sharesave
schemes is detailed below:
Earliest
As at Granted As at date from Mid-market
1 January during 31 December Exercise which share price
2004 the year Exercised 2004 price exercisable Expiry date on date of grant
John McDonough
ESOS 2001 501,930 – – 501,930 129.5p 09.01.04 09.01.11 135.5p
ESOS 2002 254,532 – – 254,532* 210.7p 19.03.05 19.03.12 197.5p
ESOS 2003 188,494 – – 188,494 163.4p 01.07.06 01.07.13 159.0p
ESOS 2004 Nil 175,229 – 175,229 184.9p 31.03.07 31.03.14 187.0p
Chris Girling
ESOS 2003 119,950 – – 119,950 163.4p 01.07.06 01.07.13 159.0p
ESOS 2004 Nil 110,329 – 110,329 184.9p 31.03.07 31.03.14 187.0p
Roger Robinson
ESOS 2003 122,398 – – 122,398 163.4p 01.07.06 01.07.13 159.0p
ESOS 2004 Nil 112,493 – 112,493 184.9p 31.03.07 31.03.14 187.0p
* The option over 254,532 shares at an option price of 210.7 pence granted to John McDonough in March 2002 under the Executive Share Option Scheme 1999 was made later
in the year than had been specified at the time of his appointment which resulted in an increased option price of 67.3 pence. Therefore, in order to ensure that he will be in no
worse nor better a position as a result of the delay in the grant, a maximum cash adjustment of 67.3 pence per share (less tax) will be made when and if the option is exercised.
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the
above table.
There have been no changes to the interests of Executive Directors in
share incentives and options in the period 1 January to 9 March 2005.
The performance conditions for the awards and options shown in the
tables are as detailed in this Remuneration Report in the summaries of
the relevant schemes.
Employee benefit trusts
An employee benefit trust has been established to acquire shares in
Carillion plc and hold them for the benefit of participants in the 
Share Incentive and Share Option Schemes. At 31 December 2004,
the Trust held 4,238,013 Carillion shares (2003: 4,892,592 shares)
(1.98 per cent of the issued share capital and a nominal value of 
£2.1 million) (2003: 2.2 per cent and £2.5million) acquired over 
a period in the open market and which have a carrying value of 
£5.4 million. The market value of the shares held at 31 December
2004 was £9.6 million (2003: £7.4 million).
Additionally, a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST)
operates in conjunction with Carillion in providing shares to employees
under its Sharesave Scheme. At 31 December 2004, the QUEST held
819,383 Carillion shares (2003: 1,313,936 shares) (0.38 per cent of
the issued share capital and a nominal value of £0.4 million) (2003: 
0.6 per cent and £0.7million) at subscription prices ranging from
115.5 pence to 183.75 pence per share, to enable it to satisfy, as and
when required, options granted under the Sharesave Scheme. The
market value of the shares held by the QUEST at 31 December 2004
was £1.9 million (2003: £2.0 million).
For details of dividends paid to the above trusts see Note 24 to the
Accounts on page 63.
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
37
Accountability
Directors’ share interests
Ordinary shares
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of the Company are shown below:
As at As at
1 January 31 December 
Fully paid 50p ordinary shares owned: 2004 2004
Executive Directors
John McDonough 386,682 467,100
Chris Girling 145,201 58,258
Roger Robinson 177,777 50,343
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Neville Simms 427,041 427,041
Roger Dickens 22,043 22,043
David Garman – 10,000
Andrew Parrish 26,029 37,529
Philip Rogerson – 10,033
There is no formal requirement for the Directors to hold Carillion shares.
There has been no change in Directors’ interests in the period 1 January to 9 March 2005.
The closing mid-market price of Carillion shares at 31 December 2004 and the highest and lowest mid-market prices during the year were 
as follows:
Share price
31 December 2004 227.5 pence
High (15 November 2004) 239.75 pence
Low (2 January 2004) 151.0 pence 
Approved by order of the Board
A R Parrish
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 March 2005
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
38
Accountability
The Directors of Carillion plc present their annual report, together with
the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004. 
Principal activities and business review
Carillion is a leading support services and construction company
delivering integrated solutions for infrastructure, buildings and
services, operating throughout the UK and in a number of overseas
regional markets.
A review of the Group’s businesses, financial performance and future
developments is contained in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief
Executive’s Review and the Operating and Financial Review.
Analyses of turnover, results and net assets by business segment and
geographical location are given in Note 2 on page 49.
Profits and dividends
The Consolidated Profit and Loss Account is shown on page 42. The
pre-tax profit on ordinary activities before exceptionals and goodwill
was up 8 per cent to £54.7 million (2003: £50.8 million). Post
exceptionals and goodwill of £61.1 million there was a pre-tax loss of
£6.4 million (2003: profit of £23.8 million).
An interim dividend of 1.675 pence per ordinary share (2003: 
1.575 pence) was paid in November 2004 together with an additional
dividend of 1.0 pence per ordinary share from PPP equity sales. It is
proposed to pay a final dividend of 4.825 pence per ordinary share
(2003: 3.475 pence plus a special dividend of 1.7 pence from PPP
equity sales) on 24 June 2005 to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 29 April 2005. The payment of these dividends
amounts to £15.7 million (2003: £14.1 million).
A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) will also be offered.
Directors
The Directors of the Company who served during 2004 are shown on
page 31 of the Remuneration Report. Biographical details for each
Director at 31 December 2004 are given on pages 22 and 23.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Chris Girling retires by
rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the Annual
General Meeting on 11 May 2005. Chris Girling has a contract of
service which is subject to one year’s notice of termination by the
Company. 
The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of
the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 37.
Employees
Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given
in Note 6 on page 52.
Employees are key to achieving Carillion’s business strategy and the
Group is committed to improving their skills through training and
development and nurturing a culture in which employees feel valued
for their contribution and are motivated to achieve their full potential. 
Carillion’s core values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency,
innovation, professional delivery and sustainable profitable growth
have been developed to emphasise the changing working practices
required to succeed in an environment where partnership and
integrated solutions are becoming the norm. 
It is Carillion’s aim to foster a working environment in which all
employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect. Carillion
continually strives to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in
relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members
of the public. Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible,
retrained or provided with equipment so that they can continue their
employment. 
The objectives of Carillion’s Equal Opportunities and Diversity 
Policy are:
• to have a workforce that represents and responds to the diversity of
customers and today’s society;
• to improve safety and quality provided by a balanced and productive
workforce;
• to seek a better public image and market position, leading to
improved links with the community in which Carillion works;
• to ensure adherence to legal requirements;
• to lower staff turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels leading to 
cost savings;
• to provide a fair working environment in which discrimination will
not be tolerated;
• to create a working environment free from discrimination,
harassment, victimisation and bullying;
• to work towards finding ways for under represented groups to fully
realise their potential within Carillion and to take reasonable steps to
help such groups;
• to ensure that all employees are aware of the Group Equal
Opportunities and Diversity Policy and provide any necessary
ongoing training to enable them to meet their responsibilities 
under it.
Carillion also recognises the merit of developing a workforce that
incorporates the many diverse skills and backgrounds available from
within the total population and accordingly, will strive to become an
organisation that will recognise, value and understand diversity and
provide its employees with genuine opportunities to improve and
reach their full potential.
Carillion places great importance on open and regular communication
with employees through both formal and informal processes. As part
of this commitment, a Group newspaper, ‘Spectrum’, is produced on 
a regular basis for all employees. 
The views of employees on matters affecting their interests are 
also sought through ‘The Great Debate’. This is a major exercise
undertaken by the Group in 2003 and 2004 to capture the feelings
and views of a wide range of employees: in 2004, 1,300 UK
employees attended ‘The Great Debate’ sessions. These views are 
then taken into account in the development of work related initiatives
as part of Carillion’s strategy to become an employer of choice. 
Carillion stages ‘The Great Debate’ as part of the ongoing quest for
cultural change and to produce step changes which:
• raise understanding of what drives motivation, morale, engagement
and performance;
• allows employees to take ownership and be empowered to build and
implement solutions;
• demonstrates Carillion’s desire to change attitudes and behaviours
based on listening to the views of its employees.
Report of the Directors 
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
39
Accountability
Team Talk was introduced in May 2003 as a direct result of ‘The Great
Debate’ and extensive research with Carillion employees, who said
they wanted face-to-face communication with their line managers.
Team Talk is held on a monthly basis and provides the opportunity for
two-way communication, discussion and feedback. It focuses on local
issues and key corporate messages and information. 
Individual performance development reviews are also held to discuss
performance and progress.
Employees can also exchange best practice information on a
Knowledge Management Forum on the Carillion Group intranet.
Involvement in the Group is also encouraged through means such 
as the periodic grant of share options under the Sharesave Scheme
which gives all UK employees the opportunity to have a financial stake
in the Company. 
Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading edge programmes
to integrate safety into everything it does and to improve its
environmental performance, including the understanding and
application of the principles of sustainability. Further information on
Health and Safety, the Environment and Community is given in the
Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 20 and 21.
In support of future European legislation, Carillion will involve, engage
and consult with employees by introducing ‘People Forums’ across the
Group to develop communication and give employees the opportunity
to express their views on business issues. Specifically, the objectives of
the ‘People Forums’ will be:
• to improve employee information and consultation;
• to help employees feel more involved and valued;
• to support the continued education and development of employees;
• to improve business performance by enabling employees to be
better aware of the business climate in which they operate;
• to help employees to be responsive to and better prepared for
change.
Substantial share interests
At 9 March 2005, the Company had received formal notification 
of the following substantial interests in the ordinary share capital of
the Company:
Number of shares held Percentage
Schroder Investment Management
Limited, its subsidiaries and 
affiliated companies 38,548,670 17.97%
FMR Corp. and its direct and indirect 
subsidiaries and Fidelity International
Limited and its direct and 
indirect subsidiaries 27,808,734 12.96%
Legal & General Group Plc 7,113,336 3.32%
Policy for payment of suppliers
It is the policy of the Group that each business agrees terms and
conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for payment to be
made on these terms providing the suppliers meet their obligations to
the businesses’ satisfaction. The Group as a whole therefore does not
apply a general recognised code with regard to the payment of all
suppliers. The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged 63
days at 31 December 2004 (67 days at 31 December 2003).
Charitable and political contributions
Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year
ended 31 December 2004 amounted to £76,000 (2003: £67,000). The
primary beneficiaries of these charitable donations were The Wildlife
Trust, Business in the Community, the British Heart Foundation and
CRASH, the construction and property industry charity for the homeless.
The Carillion Group also contributes more than 1 per cent of profits
per annum in cash or in-kind (staff time on community projects) to
community activities and are members of the Business in the
Community PerCent Club.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during
the period under review.
Carillion response to Tsunami Disaster
Carillion has become a patron of RedR, the charity that co-ordinates
the provision of engineers and other professionals to front-line disaster
relief agencies. This will enable Carillion to provide a sustained
response, not only in respect of the tsunami disaster, but also for other
future disasters.
Engineers and others who wish to use their skills to help with disaster
relief can apply to become a member of RedR and if they are accepted,
they may be called upon to work in disaster relief areas for typically up
to three months. If a Carillion employee is accepted by RedR, Carillion
will release them with support subject to the requirements of the
business.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.30am on Wednesday
11 May 2005 at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham 
B1 2NP . The notice of the Annual General Meeting accompanies this
Annual Report and Accounts.
Amongst the business to be transacted is a proposal to renew 
the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares. As at
31 December 2004, the Company had authority from shareholders 
for the purchase of 21,396,458 of its own shares.
Auditor
Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise
the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting.
Approved by order of the Board
R F Tapp
Secretary
9 March 2005
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
40
Accountability
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss for that
period. In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it
is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to
them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect
fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
41
Accountability
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Carillion plc
We have audited the financial statements on pages 42 to 71.
We have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report. As described on page 40, this
includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting
standards. Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are
established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices
Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by 
our profession’s ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and 
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not
consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified
by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions with the
Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 
24 to 29 reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules,
and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether
the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls,
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report,
including the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, and consider whether it 
is consistent with the audited financial statements. We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards 
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination,
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of
the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in 
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. 
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of 
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 
and of the result of the Group for the year then ended; and 
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985. 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants 
Registered Auditor
Birmingham
9 March 2005
05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
42
Financial Statements
2004 2003
Before Exceptional Before Exceptional
exceptional items exceptional items
items (see Note 3) Total items (see Note 3) Total
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total turnover 2 1,991.8 – 1,991.8 1,977.6 – 1,977.6
Less: share of joint ventures’ turnover 2 (121.8) – (121.8) (116.7) – (116.7)
Group turnover 1,870.0 – 1,870.0 1,860.9 – 1,860.9
Cost of sales (1,709.1) – (1,709.1) (1,693.2) – (1,693.2)
Gross profit 160.9 – 160.9 167.7 – 167.7
Administrative expenses (127.0) – (127.0) (129.6) (33.1) (162.7)
Group operating profit 33.9 – 33.9 38.1 (33.1) 5.0
Share of operating profit in joint ventures 2 16.9 – 16.9 14.3 – 14.3
Total operating profit 5 50.8 – 50.8 52.4 (33.1) 19.3
Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 3 – 2.9 2.9 –––
Profit on sale of fixed asset investments 3 – 7.7 7.7 – 11.8 11.8
Profit/(loss) on sale of businesses
Group 3 – (69.3) (69.3) – (1.5) (1.5)
Joint ventures 3 – 1.5 1.5 – 0.2 0.2
– (67.8) (67.8) – (1.3) (1.3)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities 
before interest 2 50.8 (57.2) (6.4) 52.4 (22.6) 29.8
Net interest receivable/(payable)
Group 4 3.4 – 3.4 (0.5) – (0.5)
Joint ventures 4 (3.4) – (3.4) (4.9) (0.6) (5.5)
–– – (5.4) (0.6) (6.0)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities 
before taxation 50.8 (57.2) (6.4) 47.0 (23.2) 23.8
Taxation 8 (11.0) 1.4 (9.6) (13.8) – (13.8)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities 
after taxation 39.8 (55.8) (16.0) 33.2 (23.2) 10.0
Equity minority interests (1.8) – (1.8) (1.7) – (1.7)
(Loss)/profit for the financial year 38.0 (55.8) (17.8) 31.5 (23.2) 8.3
Equity dividends 10 (15.7) – (15.7) (14.1) – (14.1)
Retained loss for the Group and its share 
of joint ventures 24 22.3 (55.8) (33.5) 17.4 (23.2) (5.8)
Earnings per ordinary share 11
Basic 18.2p (26.7p) (8.5p) 15.2p (11.2p) 4.0p
Diluted 18.0p (26.4p) (8.4p) 15.1p (11.1p) 4.0p
Basic before all exceptional items 
and goodwill amortisation 19.9p 16.8p
Dividends per ordinary share 10 7.5p 6.75p
The above results are wholly derived from continuing operations.
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 December 2004
Section 06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
43
Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet
At
At 31 December
31 December 2003
2004 restated
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 12 16.2 21.3
Tangible assets 13 71.2 68.1
Investments in joint ventures: 14
Share of gross assets 620.6 639.7
Share of gross liabilities (580.6) (599.7)
40.0 40.0
Loan advances 24.1 33.1
64.1 73.1
Other investments 15 3.2 0.1
Total investments 67.3 73.2
154.7 162.6
Current assets
Stocks 16 54.8 46.3
Debtors 17 371.0 511.3
Investments 18 3.6 4.7
Cash at bank and in hand 203.3 128.1
632.7 690.4
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 19
Borrowings (17.4) (14.0)
Other creditors (514.8) (621.2)
(532.2) (635.2)
Net current assets
Due within one year 74.4 26.1
Debtors due after more than one year 17 26.1 29.1
100.5 55.2
Total assets less current liabilities 255.2 217.8
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 20
Borrowings (56.5) (53.9)
Other creditors (9.6) (7.6)
(66.1) (61.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (2.2) (4.7)
Net assets 186.9 151.6
Financed by:
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 107.1 107.0
Share premium account 24 6.8 6.5
Merger reserve 24 8.2 8.2
Profit and loss account 24 62.7 27.6
Equity shareholders’ funds 184.8 149.3
Equity minority interests 2.1 2.3
186.9 151.6
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2005 and were signed on its behalf by:
John McDonough Chris Girling
Chief Executive Finance Director
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
44
Financial Statements
At
At 31 December
31 December 2003
2004 restated
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures 14 155.3 153.9
Current assets
Debtors 17 106.8 92.1
Cash at bank and in hand 143.4 56.4
250.2 148.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 19
Borrowings (19.4) (2.9)
Other creditors (141.6) (96.7)
(161.0) (99.6)
Net current assets
Due within one year 61.9 12.3
Debtors due after more than one year 17 27.3 36.6
89.2 48.9
Total assets less current liabilities 244.5 202.8
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 20
Borrowings (43.1) (50.0)
Net assets 201.4 152.8
Financed by:
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 107.1 107.0
Share premium account 24 6.8 6.5
Profit and loss account 24 87.5 39.3
Equity shareholders’ funds 201.4 152.8
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2005 and were signed on its behalf by:
John McDonough Chris Girling
Chief Executive Finance Director
Company Balance Sheet
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
45
Financial Statements
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Year ended
Year ended 31 December
31 December 2003
2004 restated
Note £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 28(a) 92.8 84.2
Distributions received from joint ventures 6.7 14.7
Returns on investments and servicing of finance 
Dividend paid to minority interests (2.0) (1.6)
Interest paid (2.5) (5.6)
Finance lease charges (1.0) (0.4)
Interest received 7.2 5.5
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from returns on investments and servicing of finance 1.7 (2.1)
Corporate taxation (paid)/received (13.0) 0.5
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Payments to acquire tangible fixed assets (15.0) (15.6)
Sale of current asset investments 0.9 3.5
Sale of tangible fixed assets 6.9 1.5
Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment (7.2) (10.6)
Acquisitions and disposals
Sale of businesses 29(b) (4.3) 4.6
Purchase of equity investments in joint ventures 29(a) (1.1) (0.4)
Sale of equity investments in joint ventures 29(b) 20.2 5.1
Loan repayments from/(advances to) joint ventures 0.1 (14.9)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from acquisitions and disposals 14.9 (5.6)
Equity dividends paid (16.4) (10.1)
Net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing 79.5 71.0
Management of liquid resources
Increase in short term deposits (91.4) (25.4)
Net cash outflow from management of liquid resources 28(c) (91.4) (25.4)
Financing
Net repayment of debt 28(c) (3.4) (20.9)
Repayment of finance leases 28(c) (2.9) (2.2)
Issue of share capital 0.4 1.5
Purchase of own shares by ESOP – (0.2)
Net cash outflow from financing (5.9) (21.8)
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year 28(c) (17.8) 23.8
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
46
Financial Statements
2004 2003
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year
Group (30.8) 2.7
Joint ventures 13.0 5.6
(17.8) 8.3
Exchange rate movements (0.9) (1.3)
Total recognised gains and losses for the year (18.7) 7.0
Reconciliation of Movements in Consolidated Equity Shareholders’ Funds
2004 2003
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year
Group (30.8) 2.7
Joint ventures 13.0 5.6
(17.8) 8.3
Equity dividends (15.7) (14.1)
Retained loss for the Group and its share of joint ventures (33.5) (5.8)
Exchange rate movements (0.9) (1.3)
New share capital subscribed by QUEST 0.1 1.5
Other new share capital subscribed 0.3 –
Goodwill written back on disposal 68.7 5.5
Impairment of goodwill previously written off to reserves – 8.1
Issue/(purchase) of own shares 0.8 (0.2)
Net addition to equity shareholders’ funds 35.5 7.8
Opening equity shareholders’ funds (restated) 149.3 141.5
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 184.8 149.3
Opening equity shareholders’ funds as previously reported 155.5 147.5
Prior year adjustment (see Note 1) (6.2) (6.0)
Opening equity shareholders’ funds as restated 149.3 141.5
Consolidated Statement of T otal Recognised Gains and Losses
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
47
Financial Statements
Notes to the Financial Statements
1 Principal accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Group’s
financial statements, except in respect of the matter noted below. 
The Group owns shares in Carillion plc via its Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) trust. The purpose of this trust is to hold shares that may
subsequently be awarded to Executive Directors and senior employees under share incentive schemes. In previous years the purchase cost of
these shares were treated as fixed asset investments. During the year, the Group adopted UITF 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’. The effect of
this has been to recognise the purchase cost of the shares as a deduction in shareholders’ funds rather than as a fixed asset investment. For
2003 the impact of this change is to reduce both fixed asset investments and the profit and loss reserve by £6.2m for the Group and Company.
In the cash flow statement movements associated with the ESOP trust have been reclassified from capital expenditure and financial investment
to financing. There is no impact on the profit and loss account.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain tangible fixed
assets comprising land and buildings, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December 2004.
Unless otherwise stated the acquisition method of accounting has been applied. Under this method acquired subsidiaries are included from the
date of acquisition. Disposals are accounted for up to the date control passes to a third party.
A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a long term interest and over which it exercises joint control. The Group’s share of the
profits less losses of joint ventures is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets (other than goodwill) 
is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
Where a Group company is party to a joint arrangement that is not an entity, that company accounts directly for its share of the income and
expenditure, assets, liabilities and cash flows. Such arrangements are reported in the consolidated financial statements on the same basis.
Profit recognition
Profit on long term contracts is calculated in accordance with applicable accounting standards. In determining the attributable profit on
contracts to a particular accounting period the Group utilises estimation techniques. The principal estimation technique used is the preparation
of profit and cash flow forecasts on a contract-by-contract basis which enables an assessment to be made of the final out-turn on each contract.
Profit is then recognised when the outcome of the contract can be foreseen with reasonable certainty and is attributed in line with the degree
of completion of each contract. 
The result for each year includes settlement of claims on contracts completed in prior years. In preparing contract forecasts, a prudent and
reasonable evaluation of claims is included in the assessment of the final out-turn. 
Property development profits are recognised once the contract for sale becomes unconditional.
Group turnover 
Group turnover represents the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding value added tax, for goods and services supplied to external
customers. In respect of long term contracting activities, turnover reflects the fair value of work executed during each year. It also includes the
Group’s proportion of work carried out under joint arrangements during the year.
Interest
Interest is written off to the profit and loss account as incurred by all subsidiaries in the Group.
Interest incurred on borrowings within the Group’s joint ventures relating to the construction of assets in PPP projects is capitalised until the
relevant assets are brought into operational use.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the result for each year and takes into account deferred taxation. Deferred tax assets or liabilities arise from
timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in the tax computation that
have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. Liabilities are calculated on a non-discounted
full provision basis. Assets are calculated on the same basis, but are recognised only to the extent that is it probable that they will be recovered.
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
48
Financial Statements
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Tangible fixed assets
The Group has continued to follow the transitional provisions of FRS 15 ‘Tangible fixed assets’ to retain the book value of freehold land and
buildings, which were last revalued in 1985.
Depreciation is based on historical cost or revaluation, less the estimated residual values, and the estimated economic lives of the assets
concerned. Freehold land is not depreciated. Other tangible assets are depreciated in equal annual instalments over the period of their
estimated economic lives, which are principally as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Long leasehold land and buildings 50 years
Short leasehold land and buildings Period of lease
Plant, machinery and vehicles 3-10 years
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on acquisitions, being the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the fair value of the identifiable
net assets of an acquired company or business, including an interest in a joint venture, is capitalised and amortised in equal annual instalments
over its useful economic life.
Prior to 1 January 1998, goodwill was written off to reserves on acquisition. In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 10 ‘Goodwill
and intangible assets’, this treatment has continued to be applied for those years. Any such goodwill previously written off to reserves is
included in the calculation of any profit or loss on disposal in respect of businesses subsequently disposed of or terminated. Any impairment
arising on goodwill that has previously been written off to reserves is taken to the profit and loss account.
Fixed asset investments
In the Company’ s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are stated at cost, less provision for any impairment.
Stocks
Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes appropriate overheads.
Long term contract balances
Amounts recoverable on contracts, which are included in debtors, are stated at cost plus attributable profit less any provision for foreseeable
losses. Payments received on account of contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable on contracts in debtors or long term contract
balances in stock. Where such amounts have been received and exceed amounts recoverable, the net amounts are included in creditors.
Pre-contract costs 
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until the Group is appointed preferred bidder. Provided the contract is expected to generate
sufficient net cash inflows to enable recovery and the award of the contract is virtually certain, pre-contract costs incurred post the
appointment as preferred bidder are included in stocks. Where pre-contract bid costs are reimbursed at financial close, the proceeds are initially
applied against the asset included in stocks. Recoveries of costs in excess of the amounts carried in stocks are carried forward as deferred
income and released to profit over the period of the contract to which the pre-contract costs relate.
Own shares
Company shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) trust are presented in both the Group and Company financial statements
as a deduction in shareholders’ funds until such time as the interest in the shares is transferred unconditionally to the employees. Costs of
administering the trust are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The ESOP trust is regarded as a quasi subsidiary under FRS 5 ‘Reporting the substance of transactions’ and its assets, liabilities and results are
consolidated into the financial statements of both the Company and the Group.
Leased assets
Operating lease rental charges are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the life of each lease.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included in tangible fixed assets and are depreciated over the shorter of the
contract term or their useful life. The capital element of outstanding finance leases and hire purchase contracts is included in creditors. The
finance charge element of rentals is charged to the profit and loss account at a constant periodic rate of charge on the outstanding obligations.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling and recorded using the contracted exchange rate. Monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the relevant balance sheet date and
the gains and losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
The profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of overseas undertakings and joint ventures are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange
ruling at the end of the financial year. Gains or losses arising on the translation of the opening net assets of such overseas undertakings are
taken to reserves together with exchange differences on related foreign currency hedges.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
49
Financial Statements
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Share incentive schemes
Where share incentives are granted with an exercise price of less than the market price at the date of grant the difference is charged to the profit
and loss account over the period to the exercisable date of the incentives. Due regard is made to the likelihood of the stipulated performance
criteria being attained with the charge being amended accordingly.
No cost is recognised in respect of SAYE schemes that are offered on similar terms to all or substantially all employees as permitted by UITF 17
(revised) ‘Employee share schemes’.
Pensions
Pension costs are recognised in the financial statements in accordance with the requirements of SSAP 24 ‘Accounting for pension costs’.
Regular pension costs in respect of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are established in accordance with the recommendations of
independent actuaries and are charged to the profit and loss account based on the expected pension costs over the employees’ service lives with
the Group. Current actuarial surpluses or deficits are amortised over the average expected remaining service lives of current employees on a
systematic basis. The difference between the amounts charged or credited to the profit and loss account and the contributions made to the
pension schemes is included within debtors or creditors as appropriate. Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution schemes are charged
to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The Group continues to follow the transitional provisions as permitted by FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’ at 31 December 2004 which are disclosed
in Note 30.
2 Analysis of turnover, profit before interest and net assets
Total turnover Net assets/(liabilities)
2003
2004 2003 2004 restated
Class of business £m £m £m £m
Investments 62.5 67.5 36.5 46.5
Support services 944.9 933.5 (20.6) (22.4)
Construction services 1,010.8 1,001.8 57.8 106.3
Internal trading (26.4) (25.2) – –
Corporate centre – – (40.4) (54.6)
Net cash – – 153.6 75.8
1,991.8 1,977.6 186.9 151.6
Geographical origin
UK 1,600.3 1,633.2 26.4 79.7
Europe 197.7 212.3 (12.2) (17.5)
Rest of the World 193.8 132.1 19.1 13.6
Net cash – – 153.6 75.8
1,991.8 1,977.6 186.9 151.6
The analysis of turnover by geographical market served is not materially different from that by geographical origin.
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before interest
2004 2003
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
Class of business £m £m £m £m £m £m
Investments 6.0 7.7 13.7 8.5 11.8 20.3
Support services 42.1 2.9 45.0 47.5 (32.8) 14.7
Construction services 11.5 (67.8) (56.3) 5.5 (1.6) 3.9
Corporate centre (8.8) – (8.8) (9.1) – (9.1)
50.8 (57.2) (6.4) 52.4 (22.6) 29.8
Geographical origin
UK 47.3 (41.5) 5.8 48.6 (23.0) 25.6
Europe 1.7 (13.5) (11.8) 3.9 – 3.9
Rest of the World 1.8 (2.2) (0.4) (0.1) 0.4 0.3
50.8 (57.2) (6.4) 52.4 (22.6) 29.8
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
50
Financial Statements
2 Analysis of turnover, profit before interest and net assets continued
The Group’s share of the turnover and net assets in joint ventures was as follows:
Turnover Net assets/(liabilities)
2004 2003 2004 2003
Class of business £m £m £m £m
Investments 57.4 65.1 37.2 50.8
Support services 8.3 3.8 0.6 (1.6)
Construction services 56.1 47.8 26.3 23.9
121.8 116.7 64.1 73.1
Geographical origin
UK 69.5 71.7 56.0 68.1
Europe 0.3 2.3 (0.1) (2.8)
Rest of the World 52.0 42.7 8.2 7.8
121.8 116.7 64.1 73.1
The Group’s share of the profit on ordinary activities before interest in joint ventures was as follows:
2004 2003
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
Class of business £m £m £m £m £m £m
Investments 9.7 – 9.7 11.5 – 11.5
Support services 2.5 – 2.5 (1.9) – (1.9)
Construction services 4.7 1.5 6.2 4.7 0.2 4.9
16.9 1.5 18.4 14.3 0.2 14.5
Geographical origin
UK 14.0 (0.8) 13.2 12.0 – 12.0
Europe 0.3 2.3 2.6 0.2 – 0.2
Rest of the World 2.6 – 2.6 2.1 0.2 2.3
16.9 1.5 18.4 14.3 0.2 14.5
3 Exceptional items
2004 2003
Gross Tax Gross Tax
Operating items £m £m £m £m
Group:
Impairment of goodwill –– (25.0) –
Impairment of goodwill previously written off to reserves –– (8.1) –
–– (33.1) –
Non-operating items
Group:
Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 2.9 (0.9) ––
Profit on sale of fixed asset investments 7.7 – 11.8 –
Loss on sale of businesses (69.3) 2.1 (1.5) (0.2)
(58.7) 1.2 10.3 (0.2)
Joint ventures:
Profit on sale of businesses 1.5 0.2 0.2 –
Interest payable – – (0.6) 0.2
1.5 0.2 9.9 –
Total exceptional items (57.2) 1.4 (23.2) –
Further disclosure on the Group’s sale of businesses and fixed asset investments during 2004 can be found in Note 29.
The profit on sale of tangible fixed assets arose on the transfer of rail maintenance contracts to Network Rail as disclosed in Note 31. 
The profit on sale of businesses in joint ventures relates to the closure of a small contracting business in the Republic of Ireland.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
51
Financial Statements
4 Net interest receivable/(payable)
2004 2003
Group £m £m
Interest receivable
Bank interest receivable 4.3 1.0
Other interest receivable 3.1 4.5
7.4 5.5
Interest payable and other similar charges
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (1.5) (4.4)
Other interest payable and similar charges (2.5) (1.6)
(4.0) (6.0)
Net interest receivable/(payable) 3.4 (0.5)
Other interest payable and similar charges includes finance lease charges of £1.0m (2003: £0.4m).
2004 2003
Joint ventures £m £m
Interest receivable
PPP projects 29.2 23.2
Other joint ventures 0.7 0.8
29.9 24.0
Interest payable and other similar charges
PPP projects (net of interest capitalised) (31.4) (28.5)
Other joint ventures (1.9) (1.0)
(33.3) (29.5)
Net interest payable (3.4) (5.5)
Interest payable by joint ventures on PPP long term projects relates to non-recourse borrowings as detailed in Note 14. For 2004, the Group’s
share of interest capitalised by joint ventures on PPP long term projects amounted to £3.1m (2003: £8.7m).
5 Operating profit
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
2004 2003
£m £m
Depreciation 16.3 15.0
Reversal of past impairment of tangible fixed assets – (2.2)
Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets – 0.1
Amortisation of goodwill 3.9 3.8
Impairment of goodwill – 33.1
Operating leases:
Hire of plant and machinery
– Short term 34.3 20.8
– Long term 2.2 1.4
Hire of other assets 21.2 19.5
Auditor’s remuneration for Group audit services 1.0 1.0
Auditor’s remuneration for non-audit services 0.4 0.1
Audit fees for the parent company amounted to £27,000 (2003: £25,000). Fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates by Group joint 
venture companies in respect of audit services amounted to £0.1m (2003: £0.1m).
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
52
Financial Statements
6 Employee numbers and payroll costs
The average number of employees during each year, including Directors, was:
2004 2003
Number Number
Investments 17 30
Support services 9,139 10,555
Construction services 7,612 6,853
Corporate centre 560 604
17,328 18,042
UK 11,975 13,661
Overseas 5,353 4,381
17,328 18,042
The aggregate payroll costs during each year amounted to:
2004 2003
£m £m
Wages and salaries 381.7 395.5
Social security costs 49.4 53.7
Pension costs 29.5 22.1
460.6 471.3
Pension costs represent amounts in respect of the Group’s UK and overseas schemes as described in Note 30. Pension costs in 2004 include the
write-off of a £7.2m pension prepayment relating to employees transferred to Network Rail during the year. 
7 Directors’ remuneration
Detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, including their pension benefits and long term incentive arrangements, is set out in
the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 37.
8 Taxation
(a) Analysis of taxation charge 
2004 2003
£m £m
UK taxation:
Corporation tax 16.9 7.1
Adjustment in respect of previous periods (3.4) 4.1
Attributable taxation of joint ventures (2004 includes £0.6m credit in respect of previous periods) 2.0 3.4
Overseas taxation:
Current year 0.7 2.7
Adjustment in respect of previous periods – (1.5)
Total current taxation 16.2 15.8
Deferred taxation:
Origination and reversal of timing differences (4.6) 5.8
Adjustment in respect of previous periods (2.0) (7.8)
Total deferred taxation (6.6) (2.0)
Total taxation 9.6 13.8
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
53
Financial Statements
8 Taxation continued 
(b) Reconciliation of current taxation charge
The UK standard rate of corporation tax for the year is 30% (2003: 30%). The actual tax rate differs from the standard rate for the reasons set
out below:
2004 2003
£m £m
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation (6.4) 23.8
Taxation at UK standard rate of corporation tax (1.9) 7.1
Permanent differences 2.3 3.3
Other timing differences 4.6 (5.8)
Other timing differences not recognised – 1.8
Overseas profits not taxable (0.7) (0.7)
Utilisation of overseas losses not previously recognised (0.9) (0.9)
Unrelieved trade losses in the year 0.6 1.3
Capital items not taxable (including write back of goodwill) 15.5 (3.5)
Amortisation and impairment of goodwill 0.7 10.6
Adjustment in respect of previous periods (4.0) 2.6
Current taxation charge for the year 16.2 15.8
(c ) Factors that may affect future tax charges
The Group has brought forward UK tax losses in excess of £61m. In accordance with FRS 19, a deferred tax asset, valued in excess of £18m, 
has not been recognised in respect of these losses due to the lack of certainty regarding quantum and timing of future years’ taxable profits in
the companies involved. In the event that such profits are realised this may result in the Group tax rate being lower than the standard rate of
corporation tax in the UK.
The tax rate in the joint venture companies in which the Group has PPP investments may be greater than the standard rate of corporation tax in
the UK. This is generally due to capital expenditure not qualifying for tax relief. As the PPP element of the Group’s profit before taxation increases
in future years it will have the effect of increasing the Group’s tax rate above the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. This may be offset by
the developing trend for composite trade tax treatment whereby all income and expenditure is treated as on trading account for tax purposes.
9 Profit for the financial year
In accordance with Section 230 (4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from the requirement to
present its own profit and loss account. The profit for the financial year of the Company is £63.1m (2003: £27.7m).
10 Equity dividends
2004 2003
Pence per Pence per
Equity shares £m share £m share
Ordinary shares:
Interim 5.6 2.675 3.3 1.575
Final 10.1 4.825 10.8 5.175
Total equity dividends 15.7 7.5 14.1 6.75
The interim dividend for 2004 includes 1.0 pence per share that represents a return to shareholders of a proportion of the profit generated on
the disposal of PPP equity shareholdings (see Note 29). Similarly, the final dividend for 2003 includes 1.7 pence per share relating to the profit 
on disposal of the Group’s equity shareholding in the Darent Valley Hospital PPP joint venture in that year.
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
54
Financial Statements
11 Earnings per ordinary share
(a) Basic
Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders, amounting to £17.8m (2003: profit £8.3m), by
208,426,740 (2003: 207,622,166) ordinary shares being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. The weighted average
number of shares excludes shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan and the QUEST (see Note 24), which amount to 5,057,396 shares
in total (2003: 6,206,528).
(b) Basic before all exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
A reconciliation of the basic earnings per ordinary share to the adjusted amounts shown on the face of the profit and loss account is calculated
below to show the impact of all exceptional items (as disclosed in Note 3) and the amortisation charge from goodwill (as disclosed in Note 12):
2004 2003
Pence per Pence per
£m share £m share
(Loss)/profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (17.8) (8.5) 8.3 4.0
Exceptional items:
Impairment of goodwill –– 33.1 15.9
Profit on sale of fixed asset investments (7.7) (3.7) (11.8) (5.6)
Profit on sale of fixed assets (2.9) (1.4) ––
Loss on sale of businesses 67.8 32.5 1.3 0.6
Interest payable –– 0.6 0.3
Less taxation in respect of the above (1.4) (0.7) ––
Profit before all exceptional items 38.0 18.2 31.5 15.2
Amortisation of goodwill 3.9 1.9 3.8 1.8
Less taxation in respect of the above (0.4) (0.2) (0.4) (0.2)
Profit before all exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 41.5 19.9 34.9 16.8
(c) Diluted
Diluted earnings per ordinary share have been calculated on both profit before and after all exceptional items, using the same earnings
numerators as set out in (a) and (b) above and by reference to the following number of shares:
Number of 
ordinary shares
2004 2003
million million
Number of ordinary shares per basic earnings per share calculations 208.4 207.6
Adjustments to reflect dilutive shares under option 2.8 1.7
Number of ordinary shares per diluted earnings per share calculations 211.2 209.3
12 Intangible assets
Goodwill
Group £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2004 53.5
Disposals (1.8)
At 31 December 2004 51.7
Amortisation:
At 1 January 2004 32.2
Provision for year 3.9
Disposals (0.6)
At 31 December 2004 35.5
Net book value:
At 31 December 2004 16.2
At 31 December 2003 21.3
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
55
Financial Statements
12 Intangible assets continued
The cost of goodwill comprises:
Amortisation
Year of period Cost
acquisition Years £m
Rail Projects (previously GT Railway Maintenance Holdings Ltd) 2001 6 41.7
Citex Management Services contracts 2002 6 8.9
UK Highways Services Limited 2003 4 1.1
51.7
In 2003 £25.0m of goodwill relating to GT Railway Maintenance Holdings Ltd was impaired following the proposed transfer of rail maintenance
contracts to Network Rail. A residual goodwill balance of £12.1m relates to its rail projects business. This is being amortised over six years, as 
in the opinion of the Directors this is the minimum period over which the Group will derive economic benefit from the business. 
13 Tangible fixed assets
Plant,
Land and machinery
buildings and vehicles Total
Group £m £m £m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 January 2004 19.7 60.0 79.7
Exchange rate movements (0.2) (0.4) (0.6)
Additions 1.6 25.7 27.3
Disposals (4.2) (23.9) (28.1)
At 31 December 2004 16.9 61.4 78.3
Depreciation:
At 1 January 2004 4.6 7.0 11.6
Exchange rate movements (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
Provision for year 1.3 15.0 16.3
Eliminated in respect of disposals (1.9) (18.5) (20.4)
At 31 December 2004 3.9 3.2 7.1
Net book value:
At 31 December 2004 13.0 58.2 71.2
At 31 December 2003 15.1 53.0 68.1
Included in the net book value of plant, machinery and vehicles is £23.0m (2003: £14.8m) in respect of assets held under finance leases and hire
purchase contracts. Depreciation for the year in respect of these assets amounted to £3.1m (2003: £1.7m).
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
Group
2004 2003
£m £m
Freehold 6.9 7.2
Long leasehold 3.9 4.8
Short leasehold 2.2 3.1
Net book value 13.0 15.1
The cost or valuation of land and buildings comprises:
Group
2004 2003
£m £m
Cost 15.8 18.6
1985 valuation 1.1 1.1
16.9 19.7
The 1985 valuation was on the basis of open market value for existing use.
Freehold land held by the Group amounting to £1.0m (2003: £1.0m) has not been depreciated.
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
56
Financial Statements
14 Investments
Loan Equity
advances investments Total
Group £m £m £m
Investments in joint ventures
Cost:
At 1 January 2004 33.1 32.6 65.7
Equity investments (see Note 29) – 1.1 1.1
Disposals (5.5) (7.6) (13.1)
Reclassified as other fixed asset investment (3.4) – (3.4)
Net loan advances repaid (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 December 2004 24.1 26.1 50.2
Share of post acquisition results:
At 1 January 2004 7.4 7.4
Exchange rate movements (0.6) (0.6)
Share of results for the year after taxation 13.0 13.0
Disposals 0.6 0.6
Reclassified as other fixed asset investment 0.2 0.2
Distributions received (6.7) (6.7)
At 31 December 2004 13.9 13.9
Net book value:
At 31 December 2004 24.1 40.0 64.1
At 31 December 2003 33.1 40.0 73.1
The Group’s aggregate share of joint venture net assets is analysed below. Comparatives for 2003 in respect of PPP projects includes the Group’s
share of the assets and liabilities of Arrow Light Rail Holdings Limited, which was reclassified as a trade investment during 2004. Borrowings
within PPP projects totalling £472.6m (2003: £516.0m) and other joint ventures totalling £42.4m (2003: £8.8m) are without recourse to the
Carillion Group.
PPP Other joint PPP Other joint
projects ventures Total projects ventures Total
2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets 57.0 10.5 67.5 125.1 6.4 131.5
Cash 34.3 5.8 40.1 41.2 8.4 49.6
Other current assets 426.9 86.1 513.0 401.4 57.2 458.6
Share of gross assets 518.2 102.4 620.6 567.7 72.0 639.7
Borrowings due within one year (6.6) (2.5) (9.1) (21.4) (4.5) (25.9)
Other creditors due within one year (18.6) (33.1) (51.7) (23.0) (40.9) (63.9)
Borrowings due after one year (466.0) (39.9) (505.9) (494.6) (4.3) (498.9)
Other creditors due after one year (1.3) – (1.3) –––
Provisions (12.6) – (12.6) (11.0) – (11.0)
Share of gross liabilities (505.1) (75.5) (580.6) (550.0) (49.7) (599.7)
Share of net assets 13.1 26.9 40.0 17.7 22.3 40.0
Loan advances 24.1 – 24.1 33.1 – 33.1
Total investment in joint ventures 37.2 26.9 64.1 50.8 22.3 73.1
Fixed assets and other current assets within PPP projects include cumulative capitalised interest amounting to £3.8m (2003: £9.0m) and £43.6m
(2003: £45.3m) respectively.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
57
Financial Statements
14 Investments continued
Subsidiary Joint
undertakings ventures Total
Company £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2004 163.6 0.3 163.9
Additions 3.3 – 3.3
At 31 December 2004 166.9 0.3 167.2
Provision:
At 1 January 2004 10.0 – 10.0
Provision in the year 1.9 – 1.9
At 31 December 2004 11.9 – 11.9
Net book value:
At 31 December 2004 155.0 0.3 155.3
At 31 December 2003 153.6 0.3 153.9
The principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures included within these financial statements are shown on page 73.
15 Other investments
Group
£m
Cost:
At 1 January 2004 (as restated – see Note 1) 0.6
Disposals (0.6)
Reclassified from investments in joint ventures 3.2
At 31 December 2004 3.2
Provision:
At 1 January 2004 0.5
Disposals (0.5)
At 31 December 2004 –
Net book value:
At 31 December 2004 3.2
At 31 December 2003 (as restated – see Note 1) 0.1
During the year, the Group’s joint venture interest in Arrow Light Rail Holdings Limited was reclassified as a trade investment.
16 Stocks
Group
2004 2003
£m £m
Raw materials:
Land for development 2.0 0.4
Other raw materials 4.6 10.3
6.6 10.7
Long term contract balances:
Net cost less foreseeable losses 11.1 8.9
Work in progress 37.1 25.5
Finished goods and goods for resale – 1.2
54.8 46.3
Work in progress includes PPP bid costs amounting to £17.7m (2003: £6.9m).
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
58
Financial Statements
17 Debtors
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors 128.2 194.9 – –
Amounts recoverable on contracts 132.3 182.9 – –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 76.9 51.3
Amounts owed by joint ventures 16.8 19.3 – –
Amounts owed under joint arrangements 18.2 29.1 – –
Other debtors 8.0 15.4 2.4 4.0
Pension prepayments 3.5 3.8 – –
Other prepayments and accrued income 35.5 36.8 0.2 0.2
Deferred tax asset (see Note 22) 2.4 – – –
344.9 482.2 79.5 55.5
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Trade debtors 1.7 1.5 – –
Amounts recoverable on contracts 12.2 9.5 – –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 27.3 36.6
Other debtors 0.8 1.7 – –
Pension prepayments 11.4 16.4 – –
26.1 29.1 27.3 36.6
Total debtors 371.0 511.3 106.8 92.1
In the Company, the amounts owed by Group undertakings falling due after more than one year includes £10.3m (2003: £10.6m) relating to
finance lease transactions entered into with Carillion Construction Limited and Carillion Fleet Management Limited. Further details are disclosed
in Note 20.
18 Current asset investments
Group
2004 2003
£m £m
Listed investments 0.2 0.4
Unlisted investments 3.4 4.3
3.6 4.7
Listed investments comprise Eurotunnel units and warrants that had a market value at 31 December 2004 of £0.2m (2003: £0.4m).
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
59
Financial Statements
19 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 13.1 11.3 18.2 2.0
Other loans 0.9 0.3 – –
Net obligations due under finance leases 3.4 2.4 1.2 0.9
Borrowings 17.4 14.0 19.4 2.9
Payments received on account:
Long term contracts 35.5 27.8 – –
Other 4.9 6.2 – –
Trade creditors 272.9 286.7 – –
Bills of exchange payable – 7.1 – –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 119.5 74.0
Amounts owed to joint ventures 14.4 15.9 10.5 11.0
Amounts owed under joint arrangements 2.6 10.3 – –
Corporation tax 24.2 22.9 0.6 –
Other taxation and social security costs 18.4 46.4 – –
Proposed dividend 10.1 10.8 10.1 10.8
Other creditors 46.1 45.1 – 0.3
Accruals and deferred income 85.7 142.0 0.9 0.6
532.2 635.2 161.0 99.6
Accruals and deferred income in respect of the Group includes £1.2m (2003: £0.3m) relating to deferred PPP bid cost recoveries.
20 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Bank loans 32.8 39.4 32.8 39.4
Other loans 2.9 1.3 – –
Net obligations due under finance leases 20.8 13.2 10.3 10.6
Borrowings 56.5 53.9 43.1 50.0
Payments received on account 2.6 1.6 – –
Trade creditors 0.7 0.4 – –
Accruals and deferred income 6.3 5.6 – –
66.1 61.5 43.1 50.0
Accruals and deferred income includes £3.3m (2003: £2.9m) relating to deferred PPP bid cost recoveries.
In the Company, net obligations due under finance leases relate to financing agreements for fixed assets that are used by Carillion Construction
Limited and Carillion Fleet Management Limited, both wholly owned subsidiaries. The assets have been recognised in the accounts of the
subsidiaries in accordance with SSAP 21 ‘Accounting for leases and hire purchase contracts’, together with corresponding liabilities to Carillion
plc. Carillion plc recognises these inter company debts within amounts owed by Group undertakings in Note 17.
Interest is charged on the above bank loans at floating rates linked to LIBOR.
All bank loans and overdrafts are unsecured. Other loans and net obligations due under finance leases are secured on the assets to which 
they relate.
The maturity profile of all borrowings is disclosed in Note 21.
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
60
Financial Statements
21 Financial instruments and risk management
The main purpose of the Group’s financial instruments is to provide finance for its operations. The Group’s principal financial instruments, other
than derivatives, include bank loans and overdrafts, cash and short term deposits, and finance leases. In addition, various financial instruments,
for example trade debtors and trade creditors, arise directly from the Group’s operations. The Group’s derivative transactions relate solely to
forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group’s policies with regard to financial instruments have remained unchanged throughout the year. 
The Group’s treasury department manages the main financial risks within policies and operating parameters approved by the Board. These 
are discussed in detail below and in the Operating and Financial Review on page 19 and are designed to reduce the financial risks affecting 
the Group. The Group’ s treasury department does not enter into speculative financial transactions. The Group’ s main financial risks are funding
and liquidity risk, interest rate risk and currency risk.
Funding and liquidity
The financial assets and liabilities of the Group may be summarised as follows:
2004 2003
Weighted Weighted
average average
period until period until
maturity of maturity of
Assets Liabilities liabilities Assets Liabilities liabilities
£m £m Years £m £m Years
Nil coupon:
Sterling 0.1 3.3 2.8 0.7 3.1 2.6
Canadian dollars 9.5 0.4 2.0 8.5 – –
Omani rials 5.0 2.6 1.5 3.0 1.6 1.5
European currencies –– – 0.6 – –
Other 0.1 – – –––
14.7 6.3 2.2 12.8 4.7 2.2
Floating rate:
Sterling 190.2 – 97.6 0.8
Canadian dollars 4.2 17.8 6.5 16.9
United States of America dollars 2.2 13.1 1.3 9.7
Omani rials 1.0 – 4.0 –
European currencies 4.5 15.0 17.4 23.3
Other 1.2 – 1.2 –
203.3 45.9 128.0 50.7
Fixed rate:
Sterling – 16.7 – 15.8
Canadian dollars – 11.3 – 1.3
European currencies –– – 0.1
– 28.0 – 17.2
Total 218.0 80.2 140.8 72.6
Summary by currency:
Sterling 190.3 20.0 98.3 19.7
Canadian dollars 13.7 29.5 15.0 18.2
United States of America dollars 2.2 13.1 1.3 9.7
Omani rials 6.0 2.6 ––
European currencies 4.5 15.0 18.0 19.7
Other 1.3 – 8.2 5.3
Total 218.0 80.2 140.8 72.6
The weighted average interest rate for fixed rate financial liabilities is 5.3 per cent (2003: 5.4 per cent). The weighted average period for which
this interest is fixed is 6.7 years (2003: 7.4 years).
The Group’s financial assets, which exclude short term debtors and pension prepayments, consist primarily of cash at bank and on deposit that
earn interest at money market related rates. The financial assets on which no interest is earned are primarily trade debtors and amounts
recoverable on contracts that are expected to be received in more than one year.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
61
Financial Statements
21 Financial instruments and risk management continued
The Group’s financial liabilities exclude short term creditors and deferred income relating to PPP bid cost recoveries. Floating rate financial
liabilities comprise bank borrowings that bear interest based on money market or base rate related interest rates. Fixed rate financial liabilities
comprise other loans and finance lease and hire purchase contract liabilities.
The Group’s consolidated cash position at the balance sheet date is not representative of the position at other times of the year. Whilst material
working capital movements and the resultant cash flows are a significant feature of the Group’s cash profile throughout the year, a number of
factors combine to exaggerate the year end position. Such factors include a reduction in the demand for working capital over the extended
holiday period, shorter daylight and therefore working hours and a traditional industry focus on the settlement of contractual claims.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s bank debt is predominantly currency borrowings for hedging against overseas investments and local overseas borrowings related to
working capital requirements. These borrowings are subject to floating rate interest charges. Non-bank debt is predominantly finance leases in
the UK and Canada that are subject to fixed rates. No interest rate hedging is currently undertaken.
Currency exposure
The Group has small and infrequent transactional currency exposures. Group policy requires net exposures to be hedged using appropriate
hedging techniques as soon as a contractual commitment is made. The Group’s policy on hedging currency net assets is to hedge, where
practical, at least 60 per cent of the net asset value of overseas investments where such net assets exceed £10m equivalent. Throughout the year
hedging was achieved through currency borrowings and forward contracts. There were no material unrecognised gains or losses on instruments
used for exchange rate hedging either during or at the end of the year.
At 31 December 2004 the total sterling value of currency borrowings for the purposes of hedging was £32.8m (2003: £39.4m). 
The Group’s working capital currency exposures are:
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities)
Functional currency of US Dollars Euro Danish Kr Other Total
Group operation £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2004
Sterling 0.3 0.4 (7.3) 0.2 (6.4)
Other –– – – –
Total 0.3 0.4 (7.3) 0.2 (6.4)
At 31 December 2003
Sterling – 0.3 2.1 (0.1) 2.3
Other 1.3 – – 0.1 1.4
Total 1.3 0.3 2.1 – 3.7
The maturity profile of financial liabilities, other than short term creditors such as trade creditors, accruals and deferred income relating to PPP 
bid cost recoveries, is as follows:
Bank and Other
other Finance financial Group
Overdrafts loans leases liabilities Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2004
More than five years – – 11.2 0.3 11.5
Between two and five years – 34.7 7.2 2.2 44.1
Between one and two years – 1.0 2.4 3.8 7.2
More than one year – 35.7 20.8 6.3 62.8
Less than one year 13.1 0.9 3.4 – 17.4
13.1 36.6 24.2 6.3 80.2
At 31 December 2003
More than five years – – 6.9 – 6.9
Between two and five years – 0.9 3.9 1.8 6.6
Between one and two years – 39.8 2.4 2.9 45.1
More than one year – 40.7 13.2 4.7 58.6
Less than one year 11.3 0.3 2.4 – 14.0
11.3 41.0 15.6 4.7 72.6
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
62
Financial Statements
21 Financial instruments and risk management continued
In addition, there were the following undrawn facilities with an average maturity of four years and eight months in respect of which all
conditions precedent had been met:
2004 2003
£m £m
Expiring in one year or less (but extendible by two years at the Group’s option) – 16.0
Expiring between one and two years – 105.6
Expiring between two and five years 137.2 –
137.2 121.6
A further £20m facility with a final maturity date in 2008 was established in January 2005.
Credit risk and exposures
The Group considers that it is not exposed to a significant amount of credit risk.
Credit exposures on financial instruments arise through short term deposits and foreign exchange hedging. Such transactions are authorised to
be executed only with highly credit-rated counterparties based on ratings issued by the major rating agencies. Counterparty exposure positions
are monitored regularly.
Fair values
The book and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments at 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2003 are not materially different.
22 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred Other
taxation provisions Total
Group £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 4.0 0.7 4.7
Transfer (to)/from profit and loss account (6.6) 1.5 (5.1)
Disposal of businesses 0.2 – 0.2
Transferred to debtors (Note 17) 2.4 – 2.4
At 31 December 2004 – 2.2 2.2
Other provisions include £1.8m for costs associated with the closure of Stanger Asia Limited that is expected to be utilised within 12 months of
the balance sheet date. The remaining £0.4m relates to a dilapidations provision that is expected to be utilised within two to five years.
Details relating to deferred taxation are as follows:
(Asset)/liability 
recognised
2004 2003
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances (4.3) (5.2)
Other timing differences 1.9 9.2
(2.4) 4.0
23 Share capital
2004 2003
Authorised £m £m
Equity: 325,000,000 ordinary shares of 50p each 162.5 162.5
Number Nominal value
Allotted, called up and fully paid million £m
At 1 January 2004 214.0 107.0
New share capital subscribed 0.3 0.1
At 31 December 2004 214.3 107.1
261,271 shares were issued during the year in relation to options granted under the Company’ s share option schemes. Details of options granted
to Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 37.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
63
Financial Statements
24 Reserves
The movements on reserves are summarised as follows:
Share Profit
premium Merger and loss
account reserve account Total
Group £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 (as restated – see Note 1) 6.5 8.2 27.6 42.3
Exchange rate movements – – (0.9) (0.9)
Retained loss for the year – – (33.5) (33.5)
Goodwill written back on disposal – – 68.7 68.7
Issue of own shares – – 0.8 0.8
Premium arising on issue of shares 0.3 – – 0.3
At 31 December 2004 6.8 8.2 62.7 77.7
At 31 December 2004 cumulative goodwill written off to the profit and loss account reserve amounted to £41.8m (2003: £110.5m). 
The merger reserve arose on the demerger from Tarmac plc on 29 July 1999.
The profit and loss account reserve includes own shares held amounting to £5.4m (2003: £6.2m). These relate to shares in the Company held by
the Carillion Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP), an employee share ownership trust, which may subsequently be awarded to employees
under the Group’s share incentive schemes. Details of the schemes are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 37.
At 31 December 2004 the ESOP trust held 4,238,013 (2003: 4,892,592) shares in the Company with a market value of £9.6m (2003: £7.4m).
The nominal value of these shares is £2.1m (2003: £2.5m). The trust has elected to waive all dividends except for a total payment of 1p at the
time each dividend is paid.
On 22 June 2004 the Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) subscribed for 29,931 shares in the Company at market value for a
consideration of £0.1m. During the year 524,484 ordinary shares held by the QUEST were transferred to employees of the Group following 
the exercise of options under the November 1999 Sharesave Scheme. At 31 December 2004 the total number of shares held by the QUEST
amounted to 819,383 (2003: 1,313,936) and had a market value of £1.9m (2003: £2.0m). The QUEST elected to waive all dividends in excess 
of 0.01 pence per share.
Share Profit
premium and loss
account account Total
Company £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 (as restated – see Note 1) 6.5 39.3 45.8
Retained profit for the year – 47.4 47.4
Issue of own shares – 0.8 0.8
Premium arising on issue of shares 0.3 – 0.3
At 31 December 2004 6.8 87.5 94.3
25 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities
Group Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Guarantees in respect of borrowings of subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and joint arrangements – – 11.5 11.2
Guarantees in respect of deferred equity payments in PPP joint ventures 4.5 1.2 4.5 1.2
Guarantees in respect of letters of credit issued by banks in respect of 
deferred equity payments in PPP joint ventures 12.2 7.0 12.2 7.0
Group
Guarantees and counter indemnities have been given to financial institutions in respect of the provision of performance and other contract
related bonds that are issued in the normal course of business.
Claims under contracts and other agreements, including joint arrangements, are outstanding in the normal course of business.
The Group, in the normal course of its construction activities, is the subject of certain legal proceedings. The resolution of these proceedings is
regarded as unlikely to succeed or to have a material effect on the Group’s financial position.
Company
The Company has issued performance guarantees in respect of its subsidiaries, joint ventures and joint arrangements in the normal course
of business.
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
64
Financial Statements
26 Financial and capital commitments
2004 2003
Group commitments for capital expenditure £m £m
Contracts placed 3.6 5.0
2004 2003
Group commitments for investments £m £m
Equity and subordinated debt in PPP joint ventures 16.4 8.2
2004 2003
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
Group annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m £m £m
Annual commitments expiring:
Within one year 1.9 1.8 1.7 2.9
In second to fifth year inclusive 1.7 7.8 2.1 12.9
Over five years 2.5 0.2 2.4 0.1
6.1 9.8 6.2 15.9
27 Related parties
Group joint ventures
Sales and purchases between the Group and its joint ventures, which are in the normal course of business and on commercial terms, 
amounted to:
2004 2003
Sales to Group joint ventures £m £m
PPP projects
Accommodation Services (Holdings) Limited 1.3 20.8
UK Court Services (Manchester) Holdings Limited 3.8 16.9
Ellenbrook Holdings Limited 2.2 18.7
The Hospital Company (Swindon & Marlborough) Holdings Limited 26.0 18.0
The Hospital Company (Oxford John Radcliffe) Holdings Limited 51.5 24.0 
Sheppey Route (Holdings) Limited 29.2 –
Others 3.9 3.5
117.9 101.9
Other joint ventures
CR Thanet Limited Partnership 30.3 –
Others 0.2 0.8
Total 148.4 102.7
The Group has not made any purchases from Group joint ventures in 2004 and 2003.
The debtor and creditor balances between the Carillion Group and its joint ventures are disclosed in Notes 17 and 19 respectively.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
65
Financial Statements
28 Cash flow notes
(a) Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities
2004 2003
£m £m
Group operating profit before exceptional items 33.9 38.1
Depreciation 16.3 15.0
Reversal of impairment in tangible fixed assets – (2.2)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets – 0.1
Amount written off fixed asset investments 0.1 –
Decrease in market value of listed current asset investments 0.2 –
Amortisation of goodwill 3.9 3.8
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (15.6) 0.9
Decrease in debtors 39.8 22.6
Increase in creditors due within one year 12.4 10.4
Increase/(decrease) in creditors due after more than one year 2.1 (5.9)
Decrease in provisions (0.3) (0.9)
Increase in bills of exchange – 3.0
Net cash inflow from operating activities before exceptional items 92.8 84.9
Exceptional operating cash spend – (0.7)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 92.8 84.2
(b) Analysis of changes in net funds
At Exchange Other non At 31
1 January rate cash December
2004 Cash flows movements movements 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 70.7 (16.0) (0.2) – 54.5
Bank overdrafts (11.3) (1.8) – – (13.1)
59.4 (17.8) (0.2) – 41.4
Short term deposits 57.4 91.4 – – 148.8
Bank loans (39.4) 5.6 1.0 – (32.8)
Other loans (1.6) (2.2) – – (3.8)
Finance leases (15.6) 2.9 – (11.5) (24.2)
Net funds 60.2 79.9 0.8 (11.5) 129.4
(c) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds
2004 2003
£m £m
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (17.8) 23.8
Increase in short term deposits 91.4 25.4
Cash outflow from repayment of debt 3.4 20.9
Cash outflow from finance leases 2.9 2.2
Movement in net funds resulting from cash flows 79.9 72.3
Exchange rate movements 0.8 0.4
Non cash movements from finance leases (11.5) (10.4)
Movement in net funds in the year 69.2 62.3
Net funds/(debt) at 1 January 60.2 (2.1)
Net funds at 31 December 129.4 60.2
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
66
Financial Statements
29 Acquisitions and disposals
(a) Acquisitions
The Group acquired a 50 per cent interest in the share capital of WPL Estates Limited during the year. The acquisition cost of £1.1m was satisfied
in cash. No goodwill arose on the acquisition.
On 8 March 2005, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Planned Maintenance Group Limited (PMG) for a cash consideration of £40.0m.
The value of the assets acquired was £10.6m. In addition to the consideration, the Group intends to make a one-off cash contribution of £10.0m
to eliminate the deficit in the PMG defined benefit pension scheme. The acquisition will be reflected in the 2005 results of the Group.
(b) Disposals
During the year the Group disposed of its mechanical and electrical engineering business, Crown House Engineering, and Carillion BTP , a French
subsidiary. In addition, the Group incurred costs associated with the closure of a number of non-core businesses. The movements that relate to
these disposals are summarised below:
Crown House Carillion BTP Total
£m £m £m
Tangible fixed assets (0.7) (2.8) (3.5)
Stocks (0.1) (6.3) (6.4)
Debtors due within one year (14.9) (67.2) (82.1)
Cash – (14.4) (14.4)
Creditors due within one year 26.0 81.4 107.4
Net liabilities/(assets) disposed of 10.3 (9.3) 1.0
Fair value of consideration receivable 3.2 10.9 14.1
Disposal costs (0.9) (2.0) (2.9)
Provision against retained contracts (4.5) – (4.5)
Goodwill associated with disposals (55.2) (14.7) (69.9)
Loss on disposal (47.1) (15.1) (62.2)
Closure costs of non-core businesses (7.1)
Loss on sale of businesses (69.3)
Consideration for Crown House Engineering includes £0.2m in debtors due within one year.
The disposals have been reflected in the Group cash flow statement as follows:
Carillion
Crown House BTP Total
£m £m £m
Cash consideration received (net of disposal costs) 2.1 8.9 11.0
Cash in businesses disposed of – (14.4) (14.4)
Cash flow in respect of disposals 2.1 (5.5) (3.4)
Cash outflow in respect of closure costs (0.9)
Cash outflow from sale of businesses (4.3)
In June 2004, the Group disposed of its 50 per cent equity shareholding and loan advance in UK Highways M40 (Holdings) Limited for a
consideration (net of disposal costs) of £19.0m. In addition, in June 2004 the Group disposed of 50 per cent of its 100 per cent equity
shareholding in Sheppey Route (Holdings) Limited for £1.2m. The total profit on these disposals amounted to £7.7m. 
30 Pension arrangements
Carillion operates a number of pension schemes in the United Kingdom for eligible employees. The main defined benefit schemes are: 
• The Carillion Staff Pension Scheme;
• The Carillion ‘B’ Pension Scheme;
• The Carillion Public Sector Pension Scheme;
• Shared Cost Sections of the Railways Pension Scheme relating to GTRM and Centrac.
The key actuarial assumptions used in the latest valuations of these schemes were: 
Public Railways
Staff ‘B’ Sector Pension
Rate of increase in salaries 4.35% 5.35% 4.35% 4.75%
Rate of increase in pensions 2.35% 2.35% 2.35% 2.50%
Inflation rate 2.35% 2.35% 2.35% 2.50%
Discount rate 5.50% 5.50% 6.00% 5.61%
All the main defined benefit schemes in the United Kingdom were fully funded on the prescribed Minimum Funding Requirement (MFR) basis.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
67
Financial Statements
30 Pension arrangements continued
Carillion Staff and ‘B’ Pension Schemes
Actuarial valuations of the above schemes were undertaken by the Trustees’ independent actuaries as at 31 December 2002 using the
projected unit method. The market value of the schemes’ assets at that date were £316.7m and £80.9m respectively, which represented
approximately 81 per cent and 90 per cent of the benefits that had accrued to members at that date, after allowing for future increases in
salaries. The contributions paid during the year were £13.5m (2003: £13.9m) in respect of the Carillion Staff Pension Scheme and £1.6m
(2003: £1.8m) in respect of the Carillion ‘B’ Pension scheme. Both schemes are closed to new entrants.
The contribution rates include an allowance for funding the past service deficits identified at the 2002 valuation date over the remaining average
working life of the active scheme members. The contribution rates will normally be reviewed at the next valuation due at 31 December 2005.
Carillion Public Sector Pension Scheme
An actuarial valuation of the scheme was undertaken by the Trustees’ independent actuaries as at 31 December 2002 using the attained 
age method. The market value of the schemes’ assets at that date was £58.2m, which represented approximately 90 per cent of the benefits
that had accrued to members at that date, after allowing for future increases in salaries. The contributions paid during the year were £1.8m 
(2003: £2.2m).
The scheme remains open to eligible employees transferring from the public sector as part of the commercial obligations under PFI, PPP and 
Best Value contracts with public sector employers. The contribution rates will be reviewed after the next valuation at 31 December 2004.
Following the transfer of the Metropolitan Police Authority contract during the year, there is expected to be a bulk transfer of members and 
the associated assets and liabilities to the incoming service provider during 2005. As the process has not yet been completed, no assessment of
the effect of any transfer can be made at the current time.
Shared Cost Sections of the Railways Pension Scheme
Employees of GTRM and Centrac, and former employees of British Rail who transferred to these businesses, have pension provision via Shared
Cost Sections of the Railways Pension Scheme. Both the GTRM and Centrac Sections are closed to new entrants. 
Shared cost arrangements are such that the employer and members share the cost of future service liabilities on a 60/40 split respectively 
and any surplus (or deficit) emerging over time is dealt with on a similar basis. The contributions paid by the employer during the year were
£4.5m (2003: £4.9m) for GTRM and £0.6m (2003: £0.1m) for Centrac.
Independent actuaries appointed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited carried out a formal valuation of the Railways Pension
Scheme at 31 December 2001 using the projected unit method for GTRM and the attained age method for Centrac. The next full valuation is
due as at 31 December 2004.
The market value of the scheme assets of the GTRM Section and Centrac Section at 31 December 2001 were £263.4m and £26.1m
respectively, which represented 108 per cent and 115 per cent of benefits that had accrued to members at that date, after taking account of
future increases in salaries.
Following the transfer of rail maintenance contracts to Network Rail there is expected to be a bulk transfer of members and the associated
assets and liabilities to the Network Rail Shared Cost Section of the Railways Pension Scheme during 2005. As the basis of the transfer has not
yet been agreed with Network Rail, no assessment of the effect on the assets and liabilities of the scheme can be made at the current time.
Other UK and overseas schemes
The Group operates two UK defined contribution schemes, the Carillion Pension Plan and the Carillion Retirement Plan (closed to new entrants
since 2001). 
The Carillion Pension Plan commenced on 1 April 2003. The majority of new employees are eligible to join this Plan. Employees contribute a
minimum of 5 per cent and the employer a minimum of 7 per cent of basic salaries. Up to 3 per cent of any additional voluntary contributions
paid by employees is matched by the employer resulting in a maximum employer contribution of 10 per cent of basic salary. Death in service
lump sum benefits are provided in addition. Contributions during the year were £0.7m (2003: £0.1m).
Employees of Carillion Services Limited who are not eligible for the Carillion Pension Plan are invited to participate in the Carillion Stakeholder
Plus managed by Merrill Lynch Pensions Limited. Employees contribute 5 per cent and the employer 6.5 per cent of basic salary. Death in service
lump sum benefits are provided in addition. Contributions during the year were £0.5m (2003: £1.0m). 
Stakeholder pensions are also provided by B&CE Insurance and Scottish Widows where required by Working Rule Agreements.
Carillion Construction Limited is an admitted body in the Surrey Pension Fund, Hertfordshire Pension Fund and the Warwickshire Pension Fund.
All sections were granted a fully funded past service position and employer contributions are paid in accordance with the actuary’s
recommendations. The contributions and investment returns are estimated to be sufficient to maintain the fully funded past service position at
31 December 2004. Contributions during the year, which have been accounted for on a defined contribution basis, were £0.3m (2003: Nil).
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
68
Financial Statements
30 Pension arrangements continued
The Carillion Group operates a defined benefit scheme for employees of Carillion Canada Inc, managed locally, and supplemental arrangements
in respect of certain executives. The Group also operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for employees of Carillion Rail
Sverige AB, again managed locally.
Contributions during the year were £Nil (2003: £Nil) in respect of the Carillion Canada Inc defined benefit scheme, £0.1m (2003: £0.2m) in
respect of other post–retirement benefits for senior Canadian employees and £0.6m (2003: £0.6m) in respect of the Swedish and Norwegian
defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
SSAP 24 pension costs
Statement of Standard Accounting Practice (SSAP) 24 ‘Accounting for pension costs’ requires that the cost of providing pensions is recognised
over the period benefiting from the employees’ services, with any differences between the charge to the profit and loss account and the
contributions paid to the schemes being shown as an asset or liability on the balance sheet. The pension cost has been determined by the
Directors in conjunction with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the assumptions below:
Public Railways
Staff ‘B’ Sector Pension
Rate of increase in salaries 4.50% 5.50% 4.50% 4.50%
Rate of increase in pensions 2.75% 2.75% 2.75% 2.75%
Inflation rate 2.75% 2.75% 2.75% 2.75%
Discount rate 6.00% 6.00% 6.00% 6.50%
The SSAP 24 position for the UK schemes at 1 January 2004 is as follows:
Public Railways
Staff ‘B’ Sector Pension
Market value of assets (£m) 375.3 90.8 68.9 291.5
Level of funding (%) 92.0 102.0 92.0 106.2
The charge to the profit and loss account for 2004, as disclosed in Note 6, is analysed as follows:
Defined
Public Railways contribution
Staff ‘B’ Sector Pension plans Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Regular cost 9.5 1.2 1.6 6.0 2.2 20.5
Variation in cost 2.4 (0.1) 0.5 0.2 – 3.0
Interest credit (0.3) (0.1) – (0.8) – (1.2)
Net pension cost 11.6 1.0 2.1 5.4 2.2 22.3
Pension prepayment written off 7.2
Total pension cost 29.5
The pension prepayment written off of £7.2m is in relation to those employees that transferred to Network Rail during the year.
Amounts carried in the balance sheet in respect of pension prepayments are disclosed in Note 17.
FRS 17 retirement benefits
Group
Whilst the Group continues to account for pension costs in accordance with SSAP 24, under FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’ the following
transitional disclosures are required.
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries in providing the FRS 17 position were:
31 December 2004 31 December 2003 31 December 2002
UK Canada UK Canada UK Canada
Rate of increase in salaries 4.00% 3.25% 4.06% 3.25% 3.58% 3.50%
Rate of increase in pensions 2.75% 2.25% 2.81% 2.25% 2.33% 2.50%
Inflation rate 2.75% 2.25% 2.81% 2.25% 2.33% 2.50%
Discount rate 5.30% 6.00% 5.36% 6.00% 5.50% 6.25%
The market values of the schemes’ assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term, may be subject to significant change before
they are realised. The present values of the schemes’ liabilities are calculated by reference to the investment return on Grade AA corporate
bonds. The assumptions used do not necessarily represent the investment return that may be achieved. 
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
69
Financial Statements
30 Pension arrangements continued
The FRS 17 position for the schemes is as follows:
Expected rate of Public Railways
return % Staff ‘B’ Sector Pension Canada Total
31 December 2004 UK Canada £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 7.15 7.00 205.7 37.9 45.9 241.6 9.1 540.2
Government bonds 4.40 4.30 140.2 42.4 16.8 42.6 3.6 245.6
Corporate bonds 5.16 5.70 63.9 13.8 10.7 – 0.9 89.3
Other 4.61 2.50 5.0 1.1 1.3 13.1 0.1 20.6
Market value of scheme assets 414.8 95.2 74.7 297.3 13.7 895.7
Present value of scheme liabilities (472.3) (95.1) (87.2) (324.0) (13.0) (991.6)
(Deficit)/surplus (57.5) 0.1 (12.5) (26.7) 0.7 (95.9)
Shared Cost Sections – – – 10.7 – 10.7
Total (deficit)/surplus (57.5) 0.1 (12.5) (16.0) 0.7 (85.2)
Related deferred tax asset 25.6
Net pension liability (59.6)
Expected rate of Public Railways
return % Staff ‘B’ Sector Pension Canada Total
31 December 2003 UK Canada £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 7.30 7.50 180.2 35.7 44.9 253.2 8.5 522.5
Government bonds 4.80 5.00 128.9 40.7 18.0 38.2 2.0 227.8
Corporate bonds 5.36 5.75 60.3 12.9 5.1 – 2.0 80.3
Other 4.00 2.50 5.9 1.5 0.9 0.1 0.2 8.6
Market value of scheme assets 375.3 90.8 68.9 291.5 12.7 839.2
Present value of scheme liabilities (446.5) (94.2) (82.0) (327.0) (13.1) (962.8)
Deficit (71.2) (3.4) (13.1) (35.5) (0.4) (123.6)
Shared Cost Sections – – – 14.2 – 14.2
Total deficit (71.2) (3.4) (13.1) (21.3) (0.4) (109.4)
Related deferred tax asset 32.8
Net pension liability (76.6)
Expected rate of Public Railways
return % Staff ‘B’ Sector Pension Canada Total
31 December 2002 UK Canada £m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 7.02 7.75 208.5 53.5 36.6 200.4 7.4 506.4
Government bonds 4.52 5.25 56.6 13.6 14.6 18.4 3.2 106.4
Corporate bonds 5.50 6.00 47.2 12.2 5.6 – – 65.0
Other 4.00 2.75 4.7 1.7 1.5 18.0 0.2 26.1
Market value of scheme assets 317.0 81.0 58.3 236.8 10.8 703.9
Present value of scheme liabilities (367.9) (85.9) (65.6) (257.8) (10.7) (787.9)
(Deficit)/surplus (50.9) (4.9) (7.3) (21.0) 0.1 (84.0)
Shared Cost Sections – – – 8.4 – 8.4
Total (deficit)/surplus (50.9) (4.9) (7.3) (12.6) 0.1 (75.6)
Related deferred tax asset 22.7
Net pension liability (52.9)
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
70
Financial Statements
30 Pension arrangements continued
If FRS 17 had been adopted in full in the financial statements, the Group’s net assets and profit and loss reserve would be as follows:
2003
2004 restated
£m £m
Net assets per balance sheet 186.9 151.6
SSAP 24 prepayments reversed (net of related deferred tax) (10.8) (14.5)
Revised net assets excluding pension liability 176.1 137.1
Net pension liability (59.6) (76.6)
Net assets including pension liability 116.5 60.5
Profit and loss reserve per balance sheet 62.7 27.6
SSAP 24 prepayments reversed (net of related deferred tax) (10.8) (14.5)
Revised profit and loss reserve excluding pension reserve 51.9 13.1
Pension reserve (59.6) (76.6)
Profit and loss reserve including pension reserve (7.7) (63.5)
If FRS 17 had been adopted in full, the impact on the Group’s profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses (STRGL)
would have been as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Charge to operating profit
Current service cost (24.5) (22.4)
Past service cost (0.3) –
Total (24.8) (22.4)
Credit/(charge) to other finance income
Expected return on pension scheme assets 44.9 39.8
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities (44.2) (37.9)
Net finance return 0.7 1.9
Recognition in the STRGL
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 27.6 66.3
Experience gains and losses arising on pension scheme liabilities (0.9) (0.1)
Effects of changes in assumptions underlying the present value of pension scheme liabilities (0.4) (102.3)
Exchange rate movements – (0.1)
Total actuarial gains and losses 26.3 (36.2)
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
71
Financial Statements
30 Pension arrangements continued
The analysis of the movement in the deficit during the year is as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Deficit at 1 January (109.4) (75.6)
Current service cost (24.5) (22.4)
Contributions 22.0 22.9
Past service costs (0.3) –
Other finance income 0.7 1.9
Actuarial gains and losses 26.3 (36.2)
Deficit at 31 December (85.2) (109.4)
History of experience gains and losses
2004 2003 2002
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets (£m) 27.6 66.3 (139.0)
Percentage of scheme assets 3.1% 7.9% (19.7%)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities (£m) (0.9) (0.1) (4.9)
Percentage of scheme liabilities – – (0.6%)
Total amount recognised in STRGL (£m) 26.3 (36.2) (152.9)
Percentage of scheme liabilities 2.7% 3.8% 19.4%
Company
As the schemes are run for the Carillion Group as a whole the Company is unable to identify its share of the schemes’ assets and liabilities on a
consistent and reasonable basis. Hence, as permitted by FRS 17, the schemes are accounted for by the Company separately as if the schemes were
defined contribution schemes.
31 Transfer of rail contracts to Network Rail
In May 2004 a contractual agreement was reached with Network Rail to transfer the assets and undertakings relating to the Group’s five rail
maintenance contracts. Two contracts transferred on 29 May 2004 and the remaining three transferred on 24 July 2004.
The assets transferred consisted primarily of plant, equipment, consumables and stocks. In addition, the Group wrote off a prepayment of pension
contributions relating to transferring employees of £7.2m. The book value of assets at the date of the agreement was £13.8m. A profit of £2.9m
arose on the transfer of tangible fixed assets as disclosed in Note 3. Other terms of the transfer agreement, which are subject to a confidentiality
undertaking with Network Rail, dealt with the settlement of contract claims in the normal course of business, the costs of transfer and the
separation terms.
06 2003 2002 2001 2000
2004 restated restated restated restated
Profit and loss account £m £m £m £m £m
Total turnover 1,991.8 1,977.6 1,974.4 1,889.8 1,909.0
Less: share of joint ventures’ turnover (121.8) (116.7) (127.1) (191.0) (223.4)
Group turnover 1,870.0 1,860.9 1,847.3 1,698.8 1,685.6
Operating profit before exceptional items and 
goodwill amortisation
Group 37.8 41.9 40.5 27.5 24.0
Joint ventures 16.9 14.3 14.3 21.1 17.8
54.7 56.2 54.8 48.6 41.8
Net interest (payable)/receivable
Group 3.4 (0.5) 0.6 0.3 (1.5)
Joint ventures (3.4) (4.9) (5.2) (3.6) (1.8)
– (5.4) (4.6) (3.3) (3.3)
Profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 54.7 50.8 50.2 45.3 38.5
Exceptional operating items
Group – (33.1) – (8.9) (30.0)
Joint ventures – – – (1.2) (2.0)
– (33.1) – (10.1) (32.0)
Exceptional non-operating items
Sale of tangible fixed assets 2.9 ––––
Sale of fixed asset investments 7.7 11.2 – – –
Sale of businesses (67.8) (1.3) (5.3) – 3.1
(57.2) 9.9 (5.3) – 3.1
Goodwill amortisation (3.9) (3.8) (2.7) (0.5) (0.1)
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation (6.4) 23.8 42.2 34.7 9.5
Taxation (9.6) (13.8) (12.9) (10.1) (1.6)
Equity minority interests (1.8) (1.7) (2.1) (3.1) (1.0)
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (17.8) 8.3 27.2 21.5 6.9
Balance sheet
Intangible assets 16.2 21.3 49.0 42.8 1.6
Tangible assets 71.2 68.1 56.9 53.0 47.1
Investments in joint ventures:
Share of gross assets 620.6 639.7 646.1 572.0 517.5
Share of gross liabilities (580.6) (599.7) (606.8) (530.4) (487.9)
40.0 40.0 39.3 41.6 29.6
Loan advances 24.1 33.1 21.7 19.2 19.4
64.1 73.1 61.0 60.8 49.0
Other investments 3.2 0.1 0.1 – 0.2
Working capital (90.9) (53.1) (11.9) (59.3) (32.5)
Investments 3.6 4.7 8.2 9.4 8.0
Tax and dividends (31.9) (37.7) (22.6) (20.5) (8.8)
Cash (net) 153.6 75.8 5.3 51.6 50.8
189.1 152.3 146.0 137.8 115.4
Equity shareholders’ funds and minorities 186.9 151.6 143.7 132.0 114.5
Provisions for liabilities and charges 2.2 0.7 2.3 5.8 0.9
189.1 152.3 146.0 137.8 115.4
Operating ratio
Operating profit on turnover (%) 2.7 2.8 2.8 2.6 2.2
Financial ratios
Interest covered by operating profit (times) – 10.4 11.9 14.7 12.7
Dividend cover on adjusted earnings (times) 2.6 2.5 3.4 3.2 3.2
Share information
Dividends per ordinary share 7.5p 6.75p 4.8p 4.4p 4.12p
Earnings per share on published earnings (8.5p) 4.0p 13.2p 10.5p 3.4p
Adjusted earnings per share (excluding all exceptional items 
and goodwill amortisation) 19.9p 16.8p 16.6p 14.0p 13.0p
Prior year information has been restated following the adoption of UITF 38 as disclosed in Note 1.
Five Y ear Review
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
72
Further Information Section 07 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
73
Further Information
Principal Subsidiary Undertakings, Joint Ventures and Joint Arrangements
All subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are incorporated in Great Britain and, except where shown, operate in the UK. All holdings are of
ordinary shares and except where shown, all subsidiary undertakings are 100 per cent owned (with equivalent voting rights) and joint ventures
and joint arrangements are 50 per cent owned. Shares of those undertakings marked with an asterisk are directly owned by Carillion plc.
Principal subsidiary undertakings
Nature of business
Carillion Canada Inc (Canada) Construction and infrastructure services
Carillion (Caribbean) Ltd (Trinidad & Tobago) Construction and infrastructure services
Carillion CR Limited Holding company for property development
Carillion Construction Ltd* Construction and infrastructure management
Carillion Fleet Management Ltd* Supply and maintenance of vehicles
Carillion Highway Maintenance Ltd* Roads and ground maintenance and repair
Carillion Private Finance Ltd* Holding company for PPP project companies
Carillion Services Ltd* Facilities management
GT Railway Maintenance Ltd Railway infrastructure
Monteray Ltd 51.0% Property and facilities management services
Postworth Ltd* Supply of operatives to the construction industry
Principal joint ventures 
Public Private Partnerships Associated project
Accommodation Services (Holdings) Ltd 40.0% GCHQ, Cheltenham
Arrow Light Rail Holdings Ltd 12.5% Nottingham Express Transit
C P Lift Investments Ltd Birmingham and Solihull NHS LIFT
Education Care & Discipline Ltd Medway Secure Training Centre
Education Care & Discipline Three Ltd Rainsbrook Secure Training Centre
Ellenbrook Holdings Ltd University of Hertfordshire Student Accommodation
GSL Carillion (Fazakerley) Ltd HM Prison Altcourse
GSL Carillion (Onley) Ltd HM Prison Rye Hill
Sheppey Route (Holdings) Ltd A249 Kent
The Healthcare Infrastructure Company of 
Canada (ROH) Inc (Canada) Royal Ottawa Hospital, Canada
The Healthcare Infrastructure Company of 
Canada (WOHC) Inc (Canada) William Osler Hospital, Canada
The Hospital Company (Oxford John Radcliffe) Holdings Ltd John Radcliffe Hospital,Oxford
The Hospital Company (Swindon & Marlborough) Holdings Ltd 33.3% Great Western Hospital, Swindon
Town Hospitals (North Staffordshire) Holdings Ltd Harplands Hospital
Town Hospitals (Southern General) Holdings Ltd Glasgow Southern General Hospital
UK Court Services (Manchester) Holdings Ltd 33.3% Manchester Magistrates Court
UK Highways A55 (Holdings) Ltd A55 North Wales
Others Nature of business
Al Futtaim Carillion (Pte) Ltd (UAE) 49.0% Building and civil engineering 
Carillion Alawi LLC (Oman) 49.0% Building and civil engineering 
Carillion Richardson Partnership Property Development
Emrill Services LLC (UAE) 49.0% Facilities management
Servus Ltd (Trinidad & Tobago) Facilities management
07 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
74
Further Information
Name, proportion of interest held and address of principal place of business:
Proportion of
Name interest held Address of principal place of business
CAMBBA Construction Group 25% Mill Lane, Off Watling Street, Shenstone, 
Staffordshire, England
Carillion-URS Joint Venture 70% Pegasus Court, Kettering South Business Park,
Northamptonshire, England
Carillion-WSP JV 60% Bradford, West Yorkshire, England
GTBB Rugby, Warwickshire, England
A complete list of Group subsidiary undertakings will be attached to the Company’s annual return to the Registrar of Companies.
Principal Joint Arrangements
07 Shareholder Information
Dividends 
Dividends are normally paid twice a year. The proposed final dividend
in respect of the year to 31 December 2004 will be payable on 24 June
2005 to those shareholders on the register on 29 April 2005. 
A dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) will also be offered.
For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP ,
arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically into
your bank or building society account. This service has a number of
benefits:
• there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing in the post;
• the dividend payment is received quicker as the cash is paid directly
into your account on the payment date without the need to wait for
the cheque to clear;
• you will be helping Carillion to improve its efficiency by reducing
printing and cheque clearing costs.
If you wish to register for this service please call Lloyds TSB Registrars
on the number detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
Results
Half year to 30 June 2005: announced 7 September 2005
Full year to 31 December 2005: announced March 2006
Shareholder enquiries
Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the register of members of the
Company. If you have any queries concerning your shareholding, 
or if any of your details change, please contact the Registrars:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Telephone
0870 600 3953
Textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties
0870 600 3950
Multiple accounts on the shareholder register
If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning
the Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one
account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps because
either your name or your address appear on each account in a slightly
different way. For security reasons, the Registrars will not amalgamate
the accounts without your written consent, so if you would like any
multiple accounts combined into one account, please write to Lloyds
TSB Registrars at the address given above.
Shareview (electronic communications)
www.shareview.co.uk is a service offered by Lloyds TSB Registrars that
enables you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps
you to organise your investments electronically. You can register for
this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure and free as long as
you have access to the internet by logging on to www.shareview.co.uk
and following a simple registration process.
Electronic proxy appointments
For the AGM to be held on 11 May 2005, you may, if you wish, register
the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to the website
www.sharevote.co.uk 
You will need your voting reference numbers (the three 8-digit
numbers shown on your form of proxy). Alternatively, if you have
registered for a Shareview portfolio, log on to your portfolio at
www.shareview.co.uk and click on ‘Company Meetings’.
Please note that any electronic communication that is found to 
contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Share dealing service 
Carillion now offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a
telephone and internet share sale service operated by Lloyds TSB
Registrars. For telephone sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am
and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder
reference number as shown on your share certificate.
ShareGift
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders,
administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation. It is especially for
those who may wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares, the value 
of which makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis. Further
information can be obtained at www.sharegift.org or from Lloyds 
TSB Registrars.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
75
Further Information
07 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004  
76
Further Information
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
2 Cornwall Street
Birmingham
B3 2DL
Bankers 
National Westminster Bank plc
16 South Parade
Nottingham
NG1 2JX
Brokers
JP Morgan Cazenove 
20 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6DA
Financial advisers
Lazard 
50 Stratton Street
London
W1J 8LL
Legal advisers
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London
EC1Y 8YY
Share registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Carillion on the internet
www.carillionplc.com 
Advisers
07 Designed & produced by Carnegie Orr
T 020 7610 6140
www.carnegieorr.com
Printed on Zanders Mega Matt – a paper that is 
manufactured using 50% recycled de-inked fibre 
and 50% TCF (totally chlorine free) pulp, and is 
sourced from sustainable forests. The paper is 
also biodegradable and harmless to the environment. Carillion plc
Birch Street
Wolverhampton WV1 4HY
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)1902 422431
F +44 (0)1902 316165
www.carillionplc.com
