 Annual Report 2014 We exist to make more lives better 
through connected technology.
By putting connectivity at the heart of our business 
we are committed to helping people experience and 
buy the best range of hardware, accessories, connections 
and services to suit their individual needs.
Where this annual report contains 
forward-looking statements, they 
are made by the directors in good faith 
based on the information available 
to them at the time of the approval of 
this annual report. These statements 
should be treated with caution due to 
the inherent risks and uncertainties 
underlying any such forward-looking 
information. The Group cautions users 
of this document that a number of 
important factors could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those 
contained in any forward-looking 
statements. Such factors include, but 
are not limited to, those discussed 
under the risk management sections 
on pages 19 and 24.
STRATEGIC REPORT
01 Highlights of the year
02 Business overview
04 Chairman’s statement
05 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
07 Business evolution
14 Business model
15 Marketplace
16 Strategy and KPIs
18 Joint ventures
19 Risk management
20 Performance review
25 Corporate responsibility
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
32 Board of directors
34 Chairman’s introduction
36 Board committees
39 Audit Committee report
43 Remuneration report
54 Other statutory information
55 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
57 Independent auditors’ report
60 Consolidated income statement
61 Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
61 Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
62 Consolidated balance sheet
63 Consolidated cash flow statement
64 Notes to the Group financial statements
97 Five-year record (unaudited)
98 Company balance sheet
99 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
104 Shareholder and corporate information
105 Glossary and definitions
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 01
STRATEGIC REPORT
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
PAGES 20-24
Group Headline diluted EPS pence*
18.1P
+68%
8.9
10.2
10.8
18.1
2011 2012 2013 2014
Pro forma CPW EBIT £m
£151M
+14%
118
128
132
151
2011 2012 2013 2014
Highlights of the year
CARPHONE WAREHOUSE
 + Pro forma Headline EBIT of £151m (2013: £132m)
 + Full year like-for-like revenue growth of 5.3% 
(2013: 4.6%)
 + Launched award-winning tablet-based sales 
tool Pin Point, driving customer satisfaction 
and conversion
 + Record-high customer recommendation 
levels year-on-year
European Partnerships
 + Store-in-store partnerships with Media-Markt 
Saturn in the Netherlands and Harvey Norman 
in Ireland
Connected World Services
 + Preferred-partner agreement to run Samsung 
Experience Stores across Europe
 + Developed honeyBee platform with Accenture
VIRGIN MOBILE FRANCE
 + Creditable performance in tough 
trading environment
 + Exclusivity agreement reached in May 2014 
for the sale of Virgin Mobile France 
to Numericable Group
GROUP EPS
 + Headline EPS of 18.4p (2013: 11.6p)
 + Statutory EPS of 8.6p (2013: 0.9p)
* From continuing operations. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 02
STRATEGIC REPORT
 CARPHONE WAREHOUSE GROUP
Founded by Sir Charles Dunstone in 1989, today Carphone Warehouse ("CPW") 
is the largest independent multi-channel telecommunications retailer in Europe.
CPW specialises in mobile handsets, tablets and other connected devices, 
combining hardware with connections to create subsidised propositions. 
In recent years it has started to offer a range of managed services to third parties.
OWN CHANNELS
CPW has a range of store formats across Europe, together 
with well-developed online propositions, offering specialist and 
independent advice in areas of product and service complexity.
OWN STORES
 — Our own stores typically vary in size from 500 sq ft to 1,500 sq ft
 — Larger stores offer a broader range of products and services
FRANCHISE
 — Franchise stores operate in Mainland Europe under 
the Phone House brand
 — Lease held by franchisee
 — Allows CPW to build scale with little or no upfront investment
ONLINE
 — Transactional websites in all CPW’s retail territories
 — Supports the retail business, allowing customers to research 
products and find stores online
 — A range of online brands alongside Carphone Warehouse 
and Phone House, including e2save and mobiles.co.uk in the UK 
and Typhone in the Netherlands and Germany
DEALER
 — Sale of mobile handsets to, and management of MNO 
connections on behalf of, smaller or non-specialist retailers 
and distributors 
 — Our largest operation is in Germany, through our Mobile World 
Distribution business
GEEK SQUAD
CPW also offers a range of services through the Geek Squad including:
 — technology support: device set-up; data back-up and transfer 
services; remote technical support from our highly trained 
Geek Squad agents;
 — insurance: providing protection from loss, theft or damage 
to customers' devices; and
 — repairs: largest in-house mobile phone repair facility in the UK 
and well-developed processes across Europe.
1,732 292 Own stores Franchise stores
PORTUGAL
IRELAND
UK
SPAIN
NETHERLANDS
SWEDEN
3
157
91
771
178
9
356
91
68
145
GERMANY
34
121
Business overview  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 03
STRATEGIC REPORT
The business operates under the Carphone Warehouse brand in the UK and Ireland 
and under the Phone House brand in the rest of Europe.
Pro forma revenue
£3.3BN
Pro forma Headline EBIT
£151M
Connections
9.0M
Stores
2,024
Employees
Over11,500
OWN CHANNELS
CPW has 25 years of experience in the mobile industry. During this time, 
the business has developed sophisticated IT systems and operating 
processes to help customers navigate through the extensive range 
of network package plans and other options, and to facilitate rapid 
transactions. It has also evolved bespoke customer relationship 
management tools which enable services such as upgrade 
reminders, data storage and tariff checks.
With the advancement of mobile and cloud technology and increasing 
connectivity between people and devices, the business has identified 
greater opportunities for its services. As such, CPW has started to 
package its core systems, expertise and relationships into a range 
of services. This business unit is called Connected World Services.
Within its own channels, CPW is already offering managed services 
to a number of businesses in Europe. However, the development 
of this growing range of services offers potential new business 
opportunities outside of CPW's existing territories. 
THIS GROWING RANGE OF SERVICES CONSISTS 
OF FOUR MAIN CATEGORIES:
CONNECTED WORLD SERVICES
PAGES 12-13
CONNECTED WORLD SERVICES
EXPANSION THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS
PAGE 11
VIRGIN MOBILE FRANCE
Carphone Warehouse Group plc has a 46% interest in 
Virgin Mobile France ("VMF"). On 16 May 2014, the shareholders 
of VMF entered into an exclusivity agreement for the proposed 
sale of 100% of VMF to Numericable Group.
JOINT VENTURES
PAGE 18
STORE-IN-STORE PARTNERSHIPS
Within its own store portfolio at 29 March 2014, CPW had 35 
stores-in-stores ("SIS"), providing a specialist connected products 
and services proposition on behalf of retailers with larger store 
formats, who enjoy significant footfall but who lack expertise in 
the mobile field. This concept proved to be particularly successful 
in the US with Best Buy Mobile. CPW aims to replicate the success 
of such arrangements with other established retailers in Europe, 
providing further growth opportunities for the business.
MANAGED SERVICES
In addition to the SIS model, CPW has taken the opportunity 
to leverage its retail expertise to provide retail services to a 
number of MNOs, other service providers and, more recently, 
manufacturers. The business manages stores on behalf of 
a number of European networks and in February 2014, CPW 
announced a preferred-partner agreement to operate Samsung 
Experience Stores across Europe. At 29 March 2014, CPW’s own 
stores included 83 stores being managed on behalf of third parties.
CONNECTED RETAILING
SERVICES AND SUPPORT
HONEYBEE PLATFORM 
GLOBAL PARTNERSHIPS Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 04
STRATEGIC REPORT
2014 sees the 25th anniversary since Carphone Warehouse first 
opened for business in 1989. Companies have to constantly adapt 
and change, and our history over the last 25 years has been an 
incredible journey of identifying the challenges and opportunities 
in our fast-changing marketplace, navigating the former and taking 
advantage of the latter. I am immensely proud of our track record 
of doing this. It has kept our business moving forward, thriving 
and generating great returns for our employees, trading partners, 
customers and shareholders. All this is particularly relevant as we 
plan taking the next step in our journey with the proposed merger 
of equals with Dixons Retail plc.
Financially, Carphone Warehouse has had a strong year. We have 
delivered on our guidance, increasing pro forma Headline EBIT from 
£132m to £151m. Improved pro forma EBIT, together with the benefits 
of consolidating 100% of CPW Europe, have resulted in a 59% increase 
in our Headline EPS from 11.6p to 18.4p. Given our overall performance, 
financial strength and prospects, we are delighted to recommend 
a final dividend of 4.00p per share, up 23% on the final dividend for 
2013. This is expected to be paid on 1 August 2014 to shareholders 
on the record as of 11 July 2014 and will bring the full year dividend 
to 6.00p per share, up 20% on 2013.
Strategically and operationally, we have also moved our business on. 
In our UK retail operations, we have significantly enhanced our customer 
service offering through introducing Pin Point, a tablet-based sales 
tool. This has helped drive customer satisfaction to record levels. 
We are also riding the dynamism of 4G. The speed, range of new 
devices, increased data usage and new 4G tariffs have all increased 
our appeal to customers, building on our long-standing reputation 
for impartial advice and value. 
In the tough French marketplace, Virgin Mobile France has again 
proved resilient, retaining value for its shareholders by focusing 
on maintaining its contract customer base and migrating this 
onto a Full MVNO platform. For some while, we have signalled that, 
potentially, Virgin Mobile France could be for sale and, in May 
this year, together with its other shareholders, we announced an 
exclusivity agreement for its proposed sale to Numericable Group.
We have made some key strategic developments in our Connected 
World Services business, including our preferred-partner agreement 
with Samsung to roll out and manage its stores across Europe. 
Connected World Services is our B2B business, in effect exporting 
our systems and expertise to other businesses wanting to build value 
centred around connected devices and services. We see considerable 
potential, over time, for Connected World Services to extend Carphone 
Warehouse into a global organisation, making low demands on capital 
expenditure and management. It is also at the heart of the rationale 
for our proposed merger with Dixons Retail plc.
While our marketplace and our business have seen incredible change 
over the past 25 years, at its core, Carphone Warehouse is still doing 
what it originally set out to do – to provide simple, independent, impartial 
advice over a bewildering variety of devices, networks and tariffs, 
and in the process, to simplify complex technology and deliver its 
potential to our customers. As I look ahead, this will continue to be 
the case with our proposed merger with Dixons Retail plc. We know 
the value that can be created by placing Carphone Warehouse stores 
within their outlets. And we are proposing the merger just at the time 
that we are seeing domestic devices and services of all kinds increasingly 
becoming connected. We have a deep respect for each other; we share 
a commitment to customer service; and we wish to create a new 
retailer for a new digital age. I hope to be able to report at our annual 
general meeting that you have separately approved the merger and 
I will feel privileged to be leading the new combined group.
Sir Charles Dunstone Chairman
IN SUMMARY
 + Proposed all-share merger with Dixons Retail plc
 + Strong set of results from CPW, despite challenging 
conditions in parts of Mainland Europe
 + Key strategic developments with Connected 
World Services
 + Entered exclusivity agreement for proposed 
sale of Virgin Mobile France
 + Recommended final dividend of 4.00p per share 
to be paid on 1 August 2014
COMPANIES HAVE TO CONSTANTLY
ADAPT AND CHANGE
IN ORDER TO GROW
Sir Charles Dunstone Chairman
Chairman’s statement 05
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
This has been a good year for Carphone Warehouse. Financially, 
we have delivered on the guidance we gave; operationally, we have 
strengthened our business and growth platform; and strategically, 
we are proposing a merger of equals with Dixons Retail plc to add 
substantially to our growth potential going forward and to capture 
the opportunities of a changing marketplace. 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
We completed our buy-back of Best Buy’s 50% share in CPW Europe 
on 26 June 2013. Consequently, in order to give a more meaningful 
picture of our performance, we have provided the results for CPW 
on a pro forma basis, as if CPW Europe had been 100% owned 
by the Group for the whole of 2013–14 and the previous year. 
On a top line basis, total pro forma revenue dropped 2% to £3,282m 
compared to £3,348m in 2012–13. This primarily reflects decreased 
activity in our dealer business, which was particularly strong in the 
prior year. However, our dealer business operates at low margins 
and has little impact on the overall profitability of the business.
Within this performance, we saw like-for-like revenue growth for 
the full year of 5.3%, building on the 4.6% growth in the prior year, 
predominantly driven by postpay growth in the UK and a continued 
shift towards high-end smartphones which drive higher revenues.
We delivered pro forma Headline EBIT of £151m (2013: £132m), an 
increase of 14% year-on-year, and in line with the guidance we gave 
a year ago. Improved pro forma EBIT in CPW, along with the benefits 
of consolidating 100% of CPW Europe from 26 June 2013, resulted in 
an increase in Group Headline net earnings from £55m to £102m 
and an increase in Headline EPS to 18.4p (2013: 11.6p).
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
PAGES 20-24
CPW
Our retail operation enjoyed a good year with like-for-like revenue 
growth of 5.3%, despite the continued sharp reduction in the prepay 
market, reflecting the regulatory cuts in mobile termination rates 
and the consequent withdrawal by network operators of subsidies 
on prepay handsets. While the fall in prepay connections reduced 
overall total connections, both for us and for the market in general, 
we held our prepay market share.
More important for us has been the strength of our postpay sales, 
on which we have again grown our UK market share. We have been 
particularly encouraged by the uptake of 4G phones, with 4G now a 
major new dynamic in the mobile marketplace. The speed of 4G has 
a significant impact on data usage, and the sale of 4G devices typically 
brings with it additional data packages, the result of which is an 
overall increase in the average revenue per user and therefore 
the revenues we earn.
4G is a very clear example of the way that technology is becoming 
more complicated, with an increasingly wide choice of new devices 
and 4G tariffs. Our customers are looking for simple, independent 
and impartial advice to simplify technology for them and to ensure 
they have the right solution for their needs; providing this is our 
primary purpose.
During the last year we invested significantly in our brand and in our 
distribution channels. We introduced a new tablet-based assisted 
sales tool called Pin Point. This gives our customers a personalised 
experience, guiding them through the overwhelming variety of devices, 
networks, tariffs and services, to find the most suitable package 
to meet their needs. Pin Point has been rolled out throughout our 
stores in the UK and has resulted in our highest levels of customer 
satisfaction and customers’ willingness to recommend us to others. 
Pin Point was acknowledged through the BT Retail Week Technology 
Awards, for the Customer Experience Technology Award of the year 
for 2014.
IN SUMMARY
 + Pro forma Headline EBIT of £151m (2013: £132m)
 + Like-for-like revenue growth of 5.3%; second 
consecutive year of growth
 + Significant gains in UK postpay market share, 
building on growth in 2012–13
 + Signed partnership agreements with Media-Markt 
Saturn in the Netherlands, and Harvey Norman in Ireland
 + Significant progress for Connected World Services, 
most notably through preferred-partner agreement 
with Samsung and the development of our omni-channel 
platform, honeyBee, with Accenture
 + Proposed all-share merger with Dixons Retail plc 
expected to deliver synergies of £80m in the financial 
year 2017–18
IT'S ALL ABOUT POSITIONING OUR 
BUSINESS IN THIS CHANGING WORLD 
AND ENSURING THAT WHAT WE DO IS
RELEVANT FOR 
OUR CUSTOMERS
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 06
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
CPW continued
All retailers are affected by the growth of the internet and online 
shopping. We have adapted our business accordingly and are a true 
multi-channel retailer. The number of visitors to our website last 
year was a record, in particular around Christmas. Whilst the majority 
of mobile shoppers conduct their research online, our retail channels 
continue to remain the key part of the mobile phone purchase journey. 
Customers generally want to see and hold the device, ensure they 
understand its functionality, transfer their contacts and leave the 
store with their phone working. 
Our growth last year was the result of strong performances 
in countries such as the UK, Ireland and Spain, balanced by challenges 
in some of our Mainland European markets. In the Netherlands, 
we experienced a weak consumer market, while in Germany, our 
performance was affected by challenges in the wholesale market. 
However, we are encouraged by other business ventures in both of 
these markets, such as partnership opportunities in the Netherlands 
and a growing connections services business in Germany.
The exit process from the French retail market is now substantially 
complete, and we are delighted to have been able to transfer the 
majority of our employees to third parties as part of this process. 
The costs of exit, together with French operating losses, have been 
recorded as non-Headline items, along with net costs associated 
with the CPW Europe Acquisition and the amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles which arose on the transaction. Including these items, 
statutory earnings for the year are £48m (2013: £4m).
EUROPEAN PARTNERSHIPS
Our European partnerships are helping us to gain scale and grow 
value within our existing markets. In the Netherlands we concluded 
our partnership with Media-Markt Saturn and are on track to complete 
the roll-out of our store-in-store format across their estate by the 
end of September 2014.
In Germany we have made good progress developing our 
relationship with the Metro Group and continue to work with 
them on a more tailored B2B offering.
In Ireland, we completed the roll-out of stores within all 12 
Harvey Norman stores.
Discussions continue with Media-Markt Saturn and with other 
partners across targeted territories and we believe that these 
partnerships offer a mutually beneficial way of expanding the 
sales of connected products and services.
CONNECTED WORLD SERVICES
Connected World Services is our growing B2B business, which 
aims to leverage our core expertise and systems to provide a range 
of services to third parties, as set out on pages 12 to 13 of this 
annual report.
Connected World Services was established around 18 months ago 
and has made real progress during the year. In partnership with 
Accenture, we have developed our omni-channel platform, honeyBee. 
We have been extremely encouraged by the initial response from 
manufacturers, networks and retailers across the globe to the wide 
range of expertise and services that CPW can provide. We entered 
into a preferred-partner agreement to operate Samsung Experience 
Stores in Europe, and we have now opened 33 Samsung stores 
in seven countries. 
Over time, we see Connected World Services as a means to take 
Carphone Warehouse global, in a low-risk way, with limited 
demands on capital expenditure. 
VIRGIN MOBILE FRANCE
In a very tough French marketplace, Virgin Mobile France delivered 
a resilient performance, substantially maintaining its contract 
customer base and continuing to migrate this base onto its Full 
MVNO platform. This reflects extremely well on the quality and 
commitment of our French management team.
It was clear to us, however, that Virgin Mobile France’s future would 
be best served by being part of a larger organisation. Subsequent to 
the year end, in May, we and our joint venture partner, Virgin Group, 
together with management shareholders, announced an exclusivity 
agreement for the sale of Virgin Mobile France to Numericable Group.
PROPOSED MERGER
On 15 May 2014, we announced our proposal to merge with Dixons 
Retail plc. The relevant shareholder documents will be made available 
to shareholders for the general meeting to be held on 17 July 2014. 
Subject to shareholder approval, this merger is expected to complete 
in August 2014. 
This is a merger of equals, a merger of complementary organisations 
and a merger for growth. It anticipates the ways in which our 
marketplace is converging and changing, and it positions us to be 
able to take advantage of this. Hardware innovation, mobile broadband 
developments such as 4G, content evolution and cloud-based storage 
have advanced at a rapid pace and are converging to create a 
phenomenon known as the Internet of Things. Having access to the 
Internet of Things, including all the services needed to get working and 
stay working, creates a powerful and compelling story for our customers.
Coming together will give us greater scale and reach, enabling us 
to invest more efficiently in our systems, employees and customer 
proposition, and enhancing our combined relevance for our 
suppliers and network operators alike.
We believe that the combined group will be able to achieve integrated 
mobile retailing and procurement synergies, together with cost savings, 
of at least £80m on a recurring basis, which are expected to be delivered 
in full in the financial year 2017–18.
Lastly, this is a story about growth. We see real opportunities to tap 
into a services market that we feel is ripe with potential. Both of our 
businesses have growing services platforms and the proposed merger 
will enhance opportunities to develop this further for consumers 
and businesses. We are the leading independent European provider 
of connectivity, and Dixons Retail plc is a leading European retailer 
of electrical products. Both of us share a commitment to customer 
service and impartial advice. Put us together and we create a new 
digital retailer for a new digital age.
OUTLOOK
We have worked incredibly hard over the past year, focusing on our 
customer proposition, improving our operational excellence, driving 
4G penetration, forging new partnerships in Europe with leading 
retailers and developing our Connected World Services business. 
I believe all this provides us with significant potential for growth 
over the future years.
We currently face and continue to expect challenges in Mainland 
Europe, but our outlook remains positive.
The history of Carphone Warehouse has been anticipating change 
and positioning the business to take advantage of this change. The 
changes we see in the marketplace offer considerable opportunities to 
create value for our employees, our customers, our partners and our 
shareholders. From a position of strength, we are planning to take 
advantage of these changes through our proposed merger. 
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer STRATEGIC REPORT
Business evolution
EVOLVING CONNECTING ADAPTING
SOLUTIONS FOR A CONNECTED WORLD
PAGES 08-09
CONNECTED WORLD SERVICES
PAGES 12-13
PARTNERSHIPS AND MANAGED SERVICES
PAGES 10-11
Continued progress to transform the business...
CELEBRATING 25 YEARS
SEE MORE ONLINE
WWW.CPWPLC.COM/ABOUT-US/HISTORY/
 First branches opened 
in Mainland Europe
First store opened 
in Marylebone
 F ounded by 
Sir Charles Dunstone 1989 1990 1996
 Acquisition of Best Buy’s 
50% interest in the Group for 
net consideration of £471m
Demerger of TalkTalk as 
separately listed group
 Best Buy acquired 50% of the 
Group’s retail and distribution 
business for £1.088bn
2008 2010 2013
Launched Best Buy Mobile 
in collaboration with Best Buy
 Launch of TalkTalk, 
a new residential fixed 
line service provider
 Initial Public Offering on 
the main market of the 
London Stock Exchange
2000 2003 2007
The Group has a long history of retail and customer service awards. Over the last year alone, 
it has received awards from Mobile News for ‘Best Large High Street Retailer’ and ‘Best Airtime 
Distributor’. It received the ‘Best High Street Retailer’ award at the uSwitch.com mobile awards 
in November 2013. The Group came first in the ‘Retailers – Specialist’ category of Britain’s Most 
Admired Companies 2013 and also received a 5 star rating from Defaqto for its Geek Squad 
service, for the third year running.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 07 STRATEGIC REPORT
SOLUTIONS FOR A CONNECTED WORLD
For the last 25 years Carphone Warehouse has been committed to making 
mobile technology available and accessible to everyone.
Innovation in mobile technology has transformed our lives – the way we bank, 
shop, socialise and so much more.
INDEPENDENT, IMPARTIAL, EXPERT ADVICE
SUPPORT THROUGH THE LIFE OF THE DEVICE
BEST POSSIBLE CHOICE OF DEVICES AND NETWORKS
Business evolution: Connecting
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 08 STRATEGIC REPORT
CONNECTIVITY 
IS AT THE HEART 
OF WHAT WE DO
We have adapted and evolved our retail 
offering to accommodate customers’ 
changing needs. We recognise that we have 
the opportunity to connect with customers 
using multiple channels. We aim to offer 
a consistent and high-quality experience 
across all our channels – contact centres, 
retail outlets and online alike.
SUPPORT
GEEK SQUAD
INSURANCE
TECH SUPPORT
REPAIRS
Our websites are the most visited 
touch-points for our brand and the 
beginning of the journey for most 
customers. While we have invested to 
provide a truly multi-channel offering, 
customers continue to value the 
advice available within stores, given 
the complexity of the technology 
available, and the opportunity to 
obtain technical support through 
the business’ Geek Squad service.
CHANNELS
CONTACT CENTRES
RETAIL STORES
WEBSITES
MOBILE SITES
DELIVERY
CLICK AND COLLECT
FREE NEXT DAY
FREE NOMINATED DAY
DELIVERY TRACKING
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 09 STRATEGIC REPORT
 UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS
We recognise that a consistent offering across all channels provides 
a seamless multi-channel experience for our customers.
Personalisation is the next step in retail evolution. We’ve built a revolutionary 
tablet-based assisted sales tool called Pin Point.
5,000 expertly trained 
colleagues are using the 
Pin Point sales tool across 
the whole of our UK estate.
PERSONALISED 
DEAL
We know that personalisation is 
the future of customer experience. 
Using tablets in store, we ask 
customers a few simple questions 
to help them find the right deal. 
Pin Point helps us add value for 
customers through personalisation.
NETWORK 
COVERAGE CHECKER
With Pin Point, we can compare 
network coverage for customers. 
For example, using home and work 
postcodes, the network coverage 
checker compares networks to 
determine which one provides 
the best coverage, across 
3G and 4G networks.
FUTURE- 
PROOFING
For customers looking to upgrade 
to 4G for the first time, it can be 
difficult working out how much data 
will be needed. Pin Point helps our 
customers assess their future usage, 
using simple illustrations, helping 
us to future-proof customer deals.
Business evolution: Adapting
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 10 STRATEGIC REPORT
PROVEN SUCCESS 
THROUGH BEST 
BUY MOBILE
Best Buy Mobile was launched 
in 2007 as a partnership with Best 
Buy, through which CPW received 
a profit share. Stores, based on 
the Carphone Warehouse model, 
were rolled out across Best Buy's 
'Big Box' stores, as well as on a 
stand-alone basis in the US. The 
venture was a resounding success 
and in January 2012 the Group 
disposed of its interest in Best Buy 
Mobile for a total consideration 
of £838m.
CPW aims to replicate the 
success of the Best Buy Mobile 
SIS concept, by providing a 
specialist connected products 
and services proposition on 
behalf of retailers with larger 
store formats, who enjoy 
significant footfall but who lack 
expertise in the mobile field.
PARTNERSHIPS AND MANAGED SERVICES
CPW has taken the opportunity to leverage its retail expertise to build store-in-store 
("SIS") partnerships and provide other retail services, making these services 
available to retailers, MNOs and manufacturers.
We have SIS partnerships in the Netherlands and Ireland, and currently run stores 
on behalf of MNOs in Spain, Portugal and Germany.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 11 STRATEGIC REPORT
 CONNECTED WORLD SERVICES ("CWS")
CWS aims to leverage the specialist skills, operating processes and technology 
of the business to provide services to third parties looking to develop their own 
connected world solutions.
CWS already provides managed services to a number of businesses and is actively 
exploring further opportunities within existing markets and elsewhere.
CONNECTED RETAILING 
IS A COMPLICATED BUSINESS...
Selling connected devices requires a range of experience and processes that many retailers find impossible 
to build. It can be an expensive, complicated and difficult process.
WHY SO COMPLICATED? SUITE OF SERVICES
CONNECTED 
RETAILING
 + MNO and supplier relationships
 + Complex propositions
 + Exposure to fraud
 + Complex remuneration structures
 + Need for highly trained consultants
Multi-channel consultancy and 
support for connected product and 
service propositions, ranging from 
specific managed services through 
to partnerships on the Best Buy 
Mobile model
SERVICES 
AND SUPPORT
 + Regulation
 + Exposure to fraud
 + Repairs: manufacturer accreditation
Provision of insurance services, 
including policy administration, 
claims administration and fulfilment, 
and provision of technical support 
solutions for connected devices
HONEYBEE 
PLATFORM
 + Capital intensive
 + Requires interfaces to networks
 + Tracking serialised stock
 + Credit checking
Provision of technology platforms 
and managed services to support 
complex transactions, connections 
to service providers and customer 
relationship management
GLOBAL 
PARTNERSHIPS
 + Scale is key to buying power
 + Short supply of popular devices
 + Rapid product cycles
Leverages CPW’s scale and 
commercial relationships, 
enabling partner retailers to 
source hardware and to access 
network operator services 
Partner
Partner
Business evolution: Evolving
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 12 STRATEGIC REPORT
EXAMPLE SERVICES EXISTING CLIENTS
 + Sales processes and proposition design
 + Store format design
 + Employee blueprint and reward model
 + Customer fulfilment and loyalty
 + Insurance and claims management
 + Trade-ins
 + Repairs
 + Delivery
 + Remote technical support
 + honeyBee assisted sales tool
 + Activation services
 + Web solutions
 + Data security suite
 + Customer relationship management
 + Commercial relationships
 + Scale advantages
 + Purchasing benefits
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 13 Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 14
STRATEGIC REPORT
Business model
SIMPLIFYING
For 25 years we have been offering the best choice, advice, price and support for 
our customers. Our retailing, systems and process expertise provides a strong 
platform for growth.
CPW is committed to prioritising long-term value creation for shareholders.
COMPLEX TECHNOLOGY FOR 
CUSTOMERS AND BUSINESSES
 + Experts in our field
 + Unique systems and core 
capabilities that are 
difficult to imitate
 + Committed to investing 
in our people
 + Driven, entrepreneurial 
management team
 + Optimal supplier terms
 + Ability to leverage 
existing cost base 
and explore new 
opportunities at home 
and abroad, in turn 
driving scale
HOW WE ADD VALUE
 + Partnering with device 
manufacturers and 
major networks
 + Creating ongoing 
mutual economic 
benefits
RELATIONSHIPS
SCALE
CAPABILITIES
PEOPLE
CONNECTED TECHNOLOGY
MAKING MORE LIVES BETTER THROUGH
LONG-TERM APPROACH TO 
CREATE SHAREHOLDER VALUE
Over the past 25 years, we have built the largest independent 
telecommunications retailer in Europe, attracting consumers and 
businesses looking for simple, impartial, expert advice about the 
complexities of mobile technology. Our long-standing purpose 
is to help customers understand technology.
Our long-term approach to investing creates a sustainable 
opportunity to continue to add value for a wide range of stakeholders, 
from our customers, through employees, communities, suppliers, 
partners, and fundamentally, for our shareholders.
UNIQUE RETAILER WITH 
PLATFORM FOR GROWTH
CPW has an unusual revenue model compared to traditional retailers. 
A significant proportion of our revenue is derived from MNOs, for 
delivering new customers and upgrades. The business generally 
receives a share of future customer revenues, and/or commissions, 
which are typically used to subsidise the sales values of a range of 
connected devices. Other revenue streams include value-enhancing 
products such as accessories, insurance and assurance products.
Adapting to changing market dynamics, CPW has realised the potential 
to grow new revenue streams by leveraging its unique relationships, 
core systems and expertise to provide a range of managed services to 
businesses, including MNOs, other service providers and manufacturers.
CUSTOMER 
PROPOSITION
 + Committed to delivering value 
for our customers
 + Independent, impartial, expert advice
 + Widest choice of devices, connections 
and services
 + Truly multi-channel offering
 + Subsidised and 
innovative propositions
 + Trusted brand  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 15
STRATEGIC REPORT
ADAPTING TO AN
MARKET
EVOLVING
DEVICE INNOVATION
Mobile devices have been transformed in recent years by the 
development of smartphone technology, evolving rapidly from simple 
devices used to make and receive calls, to sophisticated hardware with 
advanced computing functionality. The market has seen continuous 
innovation, with ever-improving processing speeds and ever-evolving 
functionality, and increasing choice of screen sizes. Alongside competition 
between manufacturers of devices, competition has also developed 
between operating systems, providing broader choice for customers and 
making CPW’s expert and impartial proposition particularly relevant.
NETWORK EVOLUTION
In recent years, Western European MNOs have been subject 
to significant regulatory intervention, particularly on charges to 
terminate calls from other network operators and on international 
roaming charges, causing downward pressure on MNO ARPUs. 
Mobile termination rate cuts have caused MNOs to reduce subsidies 
on prepay phones, making them increasingly more expensive for 
consumers, causing a shift towards postpay in some markets.
MNOs across Western Europe have been investing significantly in 
in the development of their 4G network infrastructures. 4G technology 
facilitates much faster downloads, providing comparable levels of 
performance to many Wi-Fi networks, and providing a much better 
platform for streaming than 3G infrastructure. As 4G services have been 
rolled out, MNOs have seen significantly increased levels of data usage, 
a trend which is expected to increase as network quality continues to 
improve, and more and more devices become capable of communicating 
with one another. In most of the markets in which CPW operates, MNOs 
are still in the process of rolling out their 4G networks, with nationwide 
coverage expected in the UK by the end of 2015. After several years of 
downward pressure on ARPUs, caused by weak consumer confidence, 
regulatory intervention and competition, increased data usage provides 
opportunities for MNOs to increase customer ARPU.
REPLACEMENT CYCLE
Fixed minimum term mobile phone contracts (typically 24 months) 
help to drive the replacement cycle of connected devices, supported 
by the device innovation noted above. 
To benefit from 4G services, customers need 4G-enabled devices 
and as 4G network coverage improves in Western Europe, there 
is an incentive for customers to upgrade their services, providing 
a stimulus to the replacement cycle.
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Mobile phones have become an integral part of customers’ lives and 
are considered to be less discretionary than other consumer electronics. 
However, the economic backdrop and a challenging consumer 
environment can determine the rate at which consumers are willing 
to upgrade their handsets and their average monthly spend. 
ONLINE
As with most markets, the internet plays an increasingly important part 
of customers' purchasing journey. The majority of customers research 
online before making a purchase. However, unlike many multi-channel 
retailers, for whom online channels now represents a significant 
portion of sales, online sales continue to represent between 10% 
and 15% of total retail sales for CPW. Customers continue to value 
the advice available within stores, given the complexity of the 
technology available, the nature of entering into mobile contracts, 
and the opportunity to obtain technical support through the 
business' Geek Squad service.
INTERNET OF THINGS
Developments in mobile broadband technology such as 4G will 
continue to transform lives and current industry developments 
suggest that everyday objects will increasingly be connected to the 
internet, described as the ‘Internet of Things’. The 'Internet of Things' 
means that people can manage home security or heating, or domestic 
electronics such as TVs, fridges, home entertainment systems and 
washing machines, through their smartphones. This phenomenon 
will not only drive mobile data growth, but also machine-to-machine 
data growth. With smartphones at the heart of this evolution of 
consumer electronic devices, we believe that CPW is well placed 
to take advantage of this evolution.
Marketplace
5-10X
faster data speeds, 
compared to 3G
3-5X
increase in data 
usage by 4G users
98%
coverage in the UK 
during 2015 Source: Company estimates Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 16
STRATEGIC REPORT
Strategy and KPIs
2013–14 ACHIEVEMENTS OBJECTIVES
CONTINUE TO BUILD SCALE
Leverage global scale 
to build strategic 
relationships with key 
suppliers and partners
Replicate success 
of Best Buy Mobile in 
the US by partnering 
with retailers in 
target markets
 + Delivered significant postpay market share gains in the UK
 + Continued to develop franchise and managed services businesses, which generally require 
limited capital investment
 + Entered into global purchasing agreement with major Ukrainian retailer, Allo
 + Signed store-in-store ("SIS") agreement with Media-Markt Saturn in the Netherlands, 
for approximately 40 stores, as well as an online partnership with Redcoon, its online brand
 + Signed SIS partnership agreement with Harvey Norman in Ireland, for 12 stores
CONTINUE TO DEVELOP CONNECTED WORLD SERVICES
Leverage expertise 
and systems capabilities 
to provide managed 
services to third parties
 + Signed a preferred-partner agreement to run Samsung Experience Stores 
across Europe
 + Continued to develop omni-channel platform, honeyBee, with Accenture
 + Continued to develop third party service agreements with RBS, for the provision 
of mobile phone insurance, and with TalkTalk and British Gas, for the provision 
of technical support services
 + Signed insurance sales and administration agreement with Innov8 in France
OWNERSHIP OF THE CONNECTED WORLD
Provide outstanding 
value and simplify 
complex areas of 
connected technology 
for our customers
Enhance multi-channel 
platforms to improve 
customer choice
 + Delivered record market share gains in online new subscriptions and upgrades in the UK
 + Successful launch of online live-chat functionality
 + Improved and adapted online and in-store customer journeys
 + Focused on social media and m-commerce to drive traffic and improve conversion
 + Launched a tablet-based sales tool called Pin Point, which enables our colleagues 
in store to explore our customers’ needs around complex areas such as data usage, 
4G coverage and how to future-proof tariffs
 + Invested in nationwide training and engagement events for all our UK colleagues 
to develop a world-class assisted sales experience for our customers
 + Launched the Geek Squad quick-start self-help programme on our GeekSquad.co.uk 
website, offering free technology advice
 + Developed a number of new insurance propositions for our customers, including 
multi-policy discounts
 + Continued to improve customer service, achieving record customer recommendation 
scores for the year  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 17
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOING FORWARD KPIs
NET PROMOTER SCORE ("NPS")
NPS allows CPW to gauge customer 
satisfaction. The chart below shows quarterly 
NPS measured against Q1 2012–13. CPW 
achieved record levels of NPS for Q4 2013–14.
0
1
2
3
4
NPS IMPROVEMENT AGAINST Q1 2012–13
2012–13 2013–14
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
5
LIKE-FOR-LIKE REVENUE GROWTH (%)
Q4 2013–14 was the seventh consecutive quarter 
of like-for-like revenue growth.
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2012–13 2013–14
5.0
7.8
-2.0
6.5
13.2
3.6
3.1
2.3
CONNECTIONS (M)
Continued decline caused by weak prepay 
market, which in the UK was down c.25% 
year-on-year. This has had a positive impact 
on postpay mix for the Group.
POSTPAY MIX (%)
INCLUDES FRANCHISE CONNECTIONS
2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14
11.0m
9.6m
9.5m
9.0m
 + Continue to reinvest the benefits of scale in the customer 
proposition, to drive further growth
 + Focus on the development of partnerships to leverage 
CPW's scale and commercial relationships
 + Seek to conclude further partnerships with retailers 
in existing markets
 + Continue to build client base for the provision of retail 
managed services, insurance services, technology platforms 
and global partnerships
 + Continue to develop honeyBee to enable deployment 
to third parties
 + Focus on developing retail partnerships in target markets 
outside our existing retail footprint
 + Continue to enhance the online journey across mobile, 
tablet and desktop versions of the websites
 + Provide a research experience that drives customers into 
our stores, providing a seamless multi-channel experience
 + Continue to invest in online functionality, improving the 
customer research journey
 + Continue to construct innovative propositions and to find 
new ways to subsidise expensive products
 + Focus on improved functionality and wider deployment 
of Pin Point sales tool
 + Develop best-in-class merchandising opportunities for both 
manufacturers and networks, allowing them to demonstrate 
their full range of products and services, including end-to-end 
solutions for customers Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 18
STRATEGIC REPORT
VIRGIN MOBILE FRANCE
In May 2014 the shareholders of Virgin Mobile France entered into an exclusivity 
agreement for its sale to Numericable Group.
Founded in 2006, Virgin Mobile France is the largest MVNO in the French market, 
with a reputation for innovation and high-quality customer service, offering a wide 
range of tariffs and contract options, catering for a broad range of customer needs.
OVERVIEW
OWNERSHIP
A joint venture with Virgin Group (46% each), with remaining 
interests (8%) held by management. Virgin Group was founded 
by entrepreneur Sir Richard Branson and operates across a range 
of sectors globally.
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
Experienced management team, led by chairman Geoffroy Roux de 
Bézieux and chief executive officer Pascal Rialland. Geoffroy joined 
Carphone Warehouse in 1995 and was a member of the Old Carphone 
Warehouse board before leaving to set up this venture, in which he 
is also a minority shareholder. Pascal joined Virgin Mobile France in 
2010 having previously worked at SAP, SFR and Xerox. A shareholder 
board meets formally on a regular basis to agree strategy and 
review performance.
FUNDING
Funded primarily through shareholder loans, which are provided 
in proportion to each party’s shareholding, supplemented by a third 
party finance lease facility.
DISTRIBUTION
Strong distribution network with over 2,000 third party handset 
sales points, some 37,000 distribution points for prepay vouchers, 
a portfolio of Virgin Mobile branded stores, and a well-established 
online platform.
NETWORK RELATIONSHIPS
Strong partnerships with Orange, SFR and more recently Bouygues 
Telecom, all of which provide network infrastructure for the business. 
Now offering 4G services on both the SFR and Bouygues networks.
FULL MVNO
The business has invested in the development of a Full MVNO 
infrastructure, which enables it to participate more fully in customer 
revenue streams, including termination revenues, and to reduce 
its costs. It also provides additional strategic flexibility by giving 
the business greater control of its customers. The business had 
77% of its customers on this infrastructure at March 2014.
INNOVATIVE, 
DIFFERENTIATED 
AND COMPETITIVE
Revenue
£346M
Subscribers
1.7M
Full MVNO
77%
Joint ventures  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 19
STRATEGIC REPORT
Risk management
CPW has a well-established risk management function, which monitors 
the key risks facing the business. 
The table below summarises the most material risks identified and the ways 
in which the business seeks to mitigate them.
MITIGATION RISK
CPW’s major markets have experienced economic 
headwinds since 2009. There still remains some uncertainty 
around the economic outlook for some markets. The products 
and services offered by CPW may be viewed as discretionary, 
and consequently affected by consumer confidence.
CPW continues to focus on strong cost control to try to ensure 
that it is well positioned to deal with an uncertain environment. 
CONSUMER ENVIRONMENT
CPW’s principal revenue streams are from MNOs. Changes 
in MNO strategies in relation to CPW or more generally,  
and/or their performance, could materially affect the 
revenues and profits of the business. 
CPW is dependent on relationships with key suppliers to source 
products on which availability may be limited.
CPW prioritises commercial arrangements that are closely 
aligned with the interests of MNOs and focuses on high-value 
segments to help drive economic value for the networks.
CPW seeks to increase and leverage the scale of its operations 
to support strategic relationships.
DEPENDENCE ON KEY SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS
CPW operates in markets that are highly competitive and 
competitor behaviour may damage revenues and margins.
In some markets CPW may not have the scale required 
to compete effectively against increased competition.
The business has sought to differentiate itself through 
innovative propositions, high quality customer service, 
and a good supply of scarce products.
The business is working to build partnerships with other retailers 
in certain territories in order to achieve additional scale.
COMPETITION
CPW is subject to regulation in a number of areas, including 
insurance operations, information security and customer 
management. Non-compliance with regulation could result 
in financial loss and/or reputational damage to the business.
The business has internal committees and control structures 
to manage these requirements, to ensure appropriate 
compliance, and to react swiftly should issues arise.
REGULATION
CPW is dependent on internal and external IT systems 
which could fail or be unable to keep pace with the needs 
of the business.
A significant investment has been made over recent years in the 
IT infrastructure of the business, supported by testing processes 
and ongoing business continuity planning.
CPW mitigates the risk of being dependent on outsourced IT 
systems by partnering with ‘tier 1’ application and infrastructure 
providers with best-in-class credentials, whilst also retaining 
key intellectual property and know-how in-house.
OPERATIONS
A material part of CPW’s activities and earnings are 
denominated in Euros, giving rise to exposure to foreign 
currency fluctuations.
The business may hedge a proportion of such earnings, 
to provide certainty of their value.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 20
STRATEGIC REPORT
Performance review
PRO FORMA RESULTS
 Revenue  EBIT  PBT  Revenue  EBIT  PBT 
 2014  2014  2014  2013  2013  2013 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Headline results 2,505  136  127  11  51  53 
Share of results of joint ventures — (3) (3)  — (48) (48) 
CPW Europe joint venture (see note 24) 777  12  9  3,337  129  120 
Unwind of discounts on network commissions receivable*** —  6  —  —  —  — 
Pro forma results 3,282  151  133  3,348  132  125 
***  As explained in note 24, CPW Europe Headline EBIT includes the unwinding of discounts for the time value of money on network commissions receivable over 
the life of the customer. In the period since the CPW Europe Acquisition, the Group has reflected such discounts in the income statement within interest income. 
The discounts, which have a value of £6m in this period, have been reclassified in pro forma results for consistency with CPW Europe presentation.
IN SUMMARY
 + 59% growth in Headline EPS, 
following CPW Europe Acquisition
 + Strong operating cash flow
 + French exit process substantially complete
 + 20% growth in annual dividend to 6.00p
THE BUSINESS DELIVERED ITS
EARNINGS TARGET,
DESPITE MARKET CHALLENGES
Nigel Langstaff Chief Financial Officer
THIS PERFORMANCE REVIEW COVERS:
 + CPW: the Group’s wholly owned businesses 
including, since 26 June 2013, CPW Europe which 
prior to this date had been a 50% joint venture. CPW 
results are shown on a pro forma basis, as though 
CPW Europe had been 100% owned by the Group 
throughout the current and prior periods, to enable 
year-on-year comparison. 
 + Virgin Mobile France: the Group’s 46% interest 
in a joint venture with Virgin Group, which is now 
classified as a discontinued operation.
 + Group results: covering the Headline and statutory 
performance of the Group as a whole, reflecting the 
CPW Europe Acquisition as it is reported in the 
Group’s income statement and other financials.
CPW
HEADLINE INCOME STATEMENT (PRO FORMA BASIS)*
2014 2013
£m £m
Revenue 3,282 3,348
Gross margin 837 835
Gross margin % 25.5% 24.9%
Operating expenses (636) (627)
EBITDA** 201 208
Depreciation and amortisation (50) (76)
EBIT 151 132
EBIT % 4.6% 3.9%
Interest (18) (7)
PBT 133 125
Tax (30) (26)
PAT 103 99
*  Prior year Headline results have been restated to exclude the results of 
the Group’s French retail business following the decision to exit this market. 
This business generated revenues of £357m and EBIT of £8m in the prior 
year. Current year losses associated with the French business during the 
exit programme, details of which are provided within Group results below, 
are similarly excluded from Headline results and KPIs. For further details 
see note 4 to the Group financial statements.
**  Pro forma Headline EBITDA includes the unwinding of discounts for the time 
value of money on network commissions receivable over the life of the customer. 
This unwind had a value of £9m in the year (2013: £9m) and is treated as 
interest income in the Group’s non-pro forma Headline and statutory results.  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 21
STRATEGIC REPORT
LIKE-FOR-LIKE
Like-for-like revenue compares year-on-year revenue generated from 
sales in store, internet sales and telesales, using constant exchange rates. 
New stores are included once they have been open for a calendar year 
and were therefore open both in the current and the comparative period. 
Closed stores are excluded for any period of closure including periods 
of refitting. Revenues from our dealer, Connected World Services and other 
non-retail businesses are excluded from like-for-like revenues. Like-for-like 
revenue is expressed on a pro forma basis as though CPW Europe had 
been 100% owned by the Group throughout the relevant periods.
CPW generated revenues of £3,282m, a decrease of 2.0% year-on-year 
(2013: £3,348m), principally due to reduced revenues in our dealer 
business, which operates at very low margins and therefore has a 
limited impact on overall profitability. These reductions were partially 
offset by strong like-for-like revenue growth in our retail and online 
channels and a strengthening of the Euro year-on-year.
Full year like-for-like revenue growth was 5.3%, a second consecutive 
year of strong momentum, again driven by postpay growth in our UK 
business, which continued to deliver year-on-year market share 
gains in this category. 
We were encouraged by customer take-up of 4G services as network 
infrastructure was rolled out more widely across the UK market 
during the year. The significantly improved network quality and 
download speeds have encouraged customers to take richer data 
packages, which in turn drive increases in monthly line rental. Our 
executional focus remains strong, with our tablet-based sales tool, 
Pin Point, continuing to drive customer satisfaction and conversion, 
to the benefit of customers, network operators and ourselves.
Outside the UK, the business has made good progress on improving 
its critical mass through partnerships and we continue to focus on 
exporting the UK business’ proven operational excellence. In the 
Netherlands, a weakened consumer environment caused some 
year-on-year deterioration in performance, but we have made excellent 
progress on our partnership with Media-Markt Saturn and expect 
the roll-out of our proposition across their estate to be completed 
by the middle of the forthcoming financial year. We have also made 
good progress with the Metro Group in Germany, with trials launching 
early in the coming year, and while performance was affected by 
challenges in the German wholesale market, our connections 
aggregation business performed very strongly. Elsewhere, we saw 
a resilient performance in Spain, despite the challenging market 
and consumer backdrop, and a strong performance from our Irish 
business, which launched a highly successful partnership with 
Harvey Norman during the year. 
We have made good progress with Connected World Services, continuing 
to focus on building a pipeline for future growth, and launched our 
preferred supplier partnership with Samsung, through which we 
have now opened 33 Samsung Experience Stores in seven countries.
The declines experienced in the prepay market in recent years 
continued, reflecting reduced subsidies from network operators 
following regulatory cuts in mobile termination rates and roaming 
charges, in addition to the migration of prepay customers to postpay. 
As a result of continued weakness in the prepay segment, although 
we held our market share, connection volumes dropped year-on-year 
by 6.4% from 8.9m to 8.4m.
CPW opened or re-sited 94 stores during the year and closed 130 stores, 
ending the year with 2,024 stores, of which 292 were franchise stores, 
up from 268 at March 2013 (all excluding France). The increase in 
franchise stores primarily reflects growth in Spain, where we have 
focused on using the successful franchise model to maintain scale 
without the fixed costs of leasing our own stores. The decrease in 
our own stores also reflects net closures in Germany and Portugal. 
CPW’s overall gross margin increased year-on-year to £837m 
(2013: £835m) while CPW’s gross margin percentage increased by 
60 basis points year-on-year to 25.5% (2013: 24.9%), largely reflecting 
a lower proportion of low margin dealer revenues. Gross margins on 
the core business declined marginally, principally reflecting a higher 
year-on-year weighting towards high-end handsets, which have a 
lower gross margin percentage than other categories, in the first 
half of the year. Average cash gross margins on our core categories 
were slightly improved year-on-year, in part reflecting the effects 
of higher value 4G customers, together with the continued benefit 
of incremental revenues beyond the minimum contract period.
Operating expenses increased by 1.4% to £636m (2013: £627m). 
Savings from reduced numbers of our own stores, last year's 
reorganisation programme and the unwinding of acquisition lease 
liabilities were more than offset by investment in the retail sales 
journey, partnerships and Connected World Services.
Depreciation and amortisation decreased to £50m (2013: £76m). 
This reduction reflects the full year effect of outsourcing contracts, 
through which responsibility for capital investment has transferred 
to third parties, as noted last year. Depreciation and amortisation 
have also been affected, in line with expectations, by the acquisition 
accounting exercise, which resulted in the revaluation of CPW 
Europe’s non-current assets to fair value. As a result of this, and 
as previously noted, the ongoing depreciation and amortisation 
charge is closer to our anticipated ongoing level of capex in the 
core business, before investment in Connected World Services 
and partnerships.
CPW’s pro forma Headline EBIT increased from £132m to £151m, 
reflecting the factors noted above. 
The interest charge for the year was £18m (2013: £7m), reflecting 
additional borrowing costs following the CPW Europe Acquisition.
CPW had an effective tax rate of 22% on Headline earnings (2013: 21%).
OPERATING CASH FLOW (PRO FORMA BASIS)*
 2014 2013
£m £m
Headline EBITDA* 201 208
Working capital (63) 89
Capex (65) (61)
Operating free cash flow 73 236
*  Headline EBITDA is presented on a pro forma basis for consistency 
with earnings analysis.
Headline EBITDA decreased year-on-year to £201m (2013: £208m), 
primarily reflecting the incremental investment in operating 
expenses noted above.
As anticipated, the business saw some working capital absorption 
during the year, reflecting growth in our postpay volumes, together 
with an increase in average revenues as 4G connections became a 
more significant proportion of sales during the year. The business 
recorded a working capital outflow of £63m, compared to an inflow 
in the year to March 2013 of £89m.
Capex spend increased to £65m (2013: £61m), driven principally 
by the IT investment in our honeyBee platform, which will support 
the continued development of both our retail and Connected World 
Services businesses. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 22
STRATEGIC REPORT
Performance review continued
VIRGIN MOBILE FRANCE
HEADLINE INCOME STATEMENT (100% BASIS)*
 2014 2013
£m £m
Revenue 346 385
EBITDA 13 20
Depreciation and amortisation (10) (8)
EBIT 3 12
EBIT % 0.7% 3.1%
Interest (1) (1)
PBT 2 11
Tax (1) (4)
PAT 1 7
Group share — 3
* See note 24 to the Group financial statements.
As announced in May 2014, we, alongside our fellow shareholders, have 
entered into an exclusivity agreement for the sale of Virgin Mobile France 
to Numericable Group for an enterprise value of €325m. During the 
exclusivity period, the parties have carried out the necessary consultations 
with employee work councils; the transaction is subject to regulatory 
approval. In light of the disposal process, the business is now reported 
as a discontinued operation in the income statement and has been 
recorded as an asset held for sale in the balance sheet at March 2014.
Virgin Mobile France revenue fell by 10.2% year-on-year on an actual 
currency basis to £346m (2013: £385m) reflecting a decline of 13.1% 
at constant currency, partly offset by a strengthening of the Euro 
year-on-year. The reduction was broadly in line with expectations 
and reflects market re-pricing in the past two years, driven by intense 
market competition, which has caused downward pressure on 
outbound ARPU.
The total customer base was down year-on-year at 1.67m customers 
(2013: 1.71m) with a 2.4% reduction in the postpay base to 1.32m 
(2013: 1.35m) and a 3.0% reduction in the prepay base to 0.35m 
(2013: 0.36m). The business continues to perform creditably despite 
intense market competition, maintaining its focus on innovative 
propositions and high quality customer service to provide differentiation.
We have seen further good progress on migrating the base to a 
Full MVNO infrastructure, which enables the business to participate 
more fully in customer revenue streams, including termination 
revenues, and to reduce its operating costs. At the end of March, 
77% of the customer base was on this platform, and substantially 
more of the base by value.
Reduced revenue, together with competitive pressure on margins, 
resulted in a reduction in EBITDA to £13m (2013: £20m), while 
increased depreciation and amortisation of £10m (2013: £8m) 
reflects investment in the Full MVNO infrastructure.
Interest was flat year-on-year at £1m (2013: £1m) and the tax charge 
decreased to £1m (2013: £4m), reflecting the lower level of pre-tax 
earnings described above.
CASH FLOW (100% BASIS)
 2014 2013
£m £m
EBITDA 13 20
Working capital (9) 4
Capex (12) (19)
Operating free cash flow (8) 5
Other (2) (5)
Movement in net debt (10) —
Opening net debt (40) (40)
Closing net debt* (50) (40)
*  Comprises shareholder loans of £37m (2013: £42m), third party financing 
of £15m (2013: nil) and net cash of £2m (2013: £2m).
EBITDA decreased from £20m to £13m for the reasons described above. 
As anticipated, after substantial working capital inflows over the 
previous five years, the business recorded a working capital outflow, 
of £9m (2013: inflow of £4m).
Capex decreased year-on-year to £12m (2013: £19m) with the prior 
year spend including investment in the Full MVNO deferred from 
the previous year.
Other cash flows reflect interest and tax payments and the impact 
of foreign exchange.
GROUP RESULTS
HEADLINE INCOME STATEMENT
 2014 2013
£m £m
EBIT
— Wholly owned operations 133 3
— Joint ventures 3 51
Interest (9) 2
PBT 127 56
Tax (25) (1)
PAT 102 55
EPS (basic) 18.4p 11.6p
EBIT for wholly owned operations includes CPW Europe 
from 26 June 2013. In the period from 1 April 2013 to 26 June 2013 
CPW Europe registered a post-tax profit of £5m, of which the Group’s 
share was £3m, which is included in results from joint ventures. The 
Group’s share of post-tax results from joint ventures was £51m for 
the year to March 2013.
Net interest expense of £9m (2013: income of £2m) reflects 
additional borrowings following the CPW Europe Acquisition, with 
net income in the prior year principally reflecting interest on loans 
to Virgin Mobile France.  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 23
STRATEGIC REPORT
A tax charge of £25m arose in the year (2013: £1m) increasing in line 
with pre-tax profitability from wholly owned operations.
Improved pro forma Headline EBIT in CPW, together with the benefits 
of consolidating 100% of CPW Europe from 26 June 2013, resulted in 
an increase in Group net earnings from £55m to £102m. This in turn 
resulted in an increase in Headline EPS to 18.4p (2013: 11.6p) for the year.
Since Virgin Mobile France is now treated as a discontinued operation, 
the Group’s share of its prior year post-tax profits are shown separately 
in the income statement. The Group’s share of its post-tax profits 
in the current year is nil. Profit after tax for continuing operations 
is therefore £102m (2013: £52m) and EPS on the same basis 
is 18.4p (2013: 10.9p). 
NON-HEADLINE ITEMS
 2014 2013
£m £m
Headline PAT 102 55
French operations (in process of closure) (29) (45)
CPW Europe Acquisition (12) —
CPW Europe Reorganisation — (5)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles (13) (1)
Statutory PAT 48 4
Statutory EPS (basic) 8.6p 0.9p
Non-Headline items in the current year comprise losses associated 
with our French retail business during our exit from that market, 
together with the results of France for comparative periods, items 
associated with the CPW Europe Acquisition, and the amortisation 
of acquisition intangibles.
The exit process from the French retail market is now substantially 
complete. The large majority of our own store leases have been 
transferred to third parties and all of our franchise contracts have 
been terminated. We have made every effort to minimise redundancies 
and have been able to transfer the majority of our employees 
to third parties. 
The non-Headline results of France include the Group’s post-tax share 
of operating losses, asset write-downs and provisions for closure 
costs, recorded prior to the CPW Europe Acquisition, totalling £23m. 
Since the CPW Europe Acquisition, the French business incurred 
further EBIT losses of £6m.
Non-Headline items also include net costs of £15m in relation to the 
CPW Europe Acquisition, against which a tax credit of £3m has been 
recognised. These costs represent banking and professional fees on the 
transaction and cash and non-cash charges associated with employee 
incentive schemes. This was partially offset by gains on the revaluation 
of CPW Europe and on the disposal of the consideration shares 
issued to Best Buy in relation to the CPW Europe Acquisition.
The Group's results also include an amortisation charge of £16m, 
against which a tax credit of £3m has been recognised, on acquisition 
intangibles arising on the CPW Europe Acquisition.
Statutory profit after tax, including non-Headline items, was £48m 
(2013: £4m) and EPS on the same basis increased from 0.9p to 8.6p.
MOVEMENTS ON NET FUNDS (DEBT)*
 2014 2013
£m £m
Operating free cash flow 73 236
CPW Europe Acquisition (361) —
Net proceeds on shares 126 —
Distributions to shareholders (30) (56)
Other (54) (15)
Movement in net (debt) funds (246) 165
Opening net (debt) funds 238 73
Closing net (debt) funds (8) 238
*  This summary aggregates the net funds (debt) of the Group and CPW Europe 
at the start of each year, to enable a complete understanding of cash flows.
The operating free cash inflow was £73m (2013: £236m) for the 
reasons described in the CPW section on page 21.
Cash outflows relating to the CPW Europe Acquisition were £361m, 
comprising net upfront cash consideration of £341m, cash costs of 
incentive schemes of £8m, and banking and professional fees of £12m.
Net proceeds on shares comprise £103m raised through the placing 
in April 2013 of 47m shares at a price of £2.22 per share and £23m 
received in July 2013 on the disposal of the consideration shares 
issued to Best Buy in respect of the CPW Europe Acquisition.
Distributions to shareholders of £30m (2013: £56m) represent 
ordinary dividends, together with £33m in the prior year returned 
to shareholders through the deferred capital option of the B/C Share 
Scheme following the disposal of Best Buy Mobile in January 2012.
Other cash flows include operating losses and other cash exit costs 
of £29m in relation to our French business. Further cash costs in 
the region of £15m, which have been provided in full at March 2014, 
are anticipated in the coming year, principally in relation to final 
redundancy payments and lease exit costs. Within our previous 
expectations of net cash exit costs, we had anticipated the disposal 
of our French insurance business. However, it has become apparent 
that our expertise in this area represents an opportunity to develop a 
new Connected World Services business in France, focusing initially 
on insurance, as we did in Belgium. Since the year end, we have put 
in place a team to develop this business, which has already secured 
two third party clients and is actively engaged in tenders for other 
business. While the value of the run-off base, in the absence of the 
retail infrastructure to support it, is clearly uncertain, we will aim 
to use it to grow the Connected World Services business as part 
of continuing operations going forward. 
Other cash flows also include proceeds on the disposal of CPW 
Europe’s fixed line operations in Switzerland and the disposal of 
the Group’s remaining freehold in Acton, both of which completed 
in April, offset by working capital movements in France, tax and 
interest payments, and the purchase of the Group’s own shares.
Other cash flows in the prior period reflect exceptional cash costs 
associated with Best Buy UK, offset by EBITDA from the French 
business, and other cash flows reported by the wholly owned Group 
in that period. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 24
STRATEGIC REPORT
Performance review continued
BALANCE SHEET
 2014 2013
£m £m
Goodwill 481 —
Other fixed assets 226 27 
Joint ventures/assets held for sale 11 537
Deferred consideration (50) —
Working capital/other 220 (20)
Net (debt) funds (8)  117 
Net assets 880  661 
As a result of the CPW Europe Acquisition, the Group has derecognised 
its interest in the CPW Europe joint venture and consolidated the 
CPW Europe balance sheet in full with effect from 26 June 2013.
CPW Europe’s assets and liabilities have been consolidated at fair 
value, resulting in certain differences to their book value at acquisition. 
These differences relate principally to property, plant and equipment, 
operating intangible assets and property leases. Property, plant and 
equipment and operating intangible assets were valued by third party 
experts using a replacement market cost methodology. Leases were 
also valued by third party experts, comparing actual rents to market 
rents at acquisition, resulting in the recognition of a liability for leases 
that are deemed to be over-rented. At the same time, deferred 
rent-free incentives and key money assets have been derecognised.
Acquisition intangibles with a value of £66m, in relation to customer 
relationships and brands, were also recognised as part of the acquisition.
Goodwill of £481m arose on the acquisition, reflecting the fact that 
CPW Europe’s value is based on its cash generating potential rather 
than its existing assets, and the fact that many of its key strengths, 
such as scale and expertise, do not represent intangible assets 
as defined by IFRS.
DIVIDENDS
We are proposing a final dividend of 4.00p per share, taking the total 
dividend for the year to 6.00p per share, a 20% increase on the previous 
year (2013: 5.00p). The final dividend is subject to shareholder approval 
at the Company’s forthcoming annual general meeting. The ex-dividend 
date is 9 July 2014, with a record date of 11 July 2014 and an intended 
payment date of 1 August 2014.
OTHER KPIs
The KPIs which are relevant for the Group as a whole are those 
regarding shareholder returns and profitability.
2014 2013
Headline KPIs
ROCE 11.1% 8.0%
EPS 18.4p 11.6p
Dividends for the year 6.00p 5.00p
The improvement in return on capital employed and EPS principally 
reflects the CPW Europe Acquisition, which was accretive to the 
Group’s earnings.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The key risks of the wholly owned Group are set out on page 19.
The Group does not exercise control over Virgin Mobile France 
and therefore material decisions can only be made with the consent 
of our joint venture partner. Inability to reach consensus on such 
decisions could have an adverse effect on the growth, business and 
financial results of this business. Such risks are mitigated through 
agreed strategies, defined and documented processes and 
regular communication.
The Group is also exposed to market risks such as interest rate 
risk and foreign currency risk. Further details on such risks are 
provided below.
FINANCING AND TREASURY
The Group has a £650m term and revolving credit facility agreement, 
which matures in April 2017. In addition, the Group also has overdraft 
and uncommitted money market and factoring lines, at various banks 
and in various currencies, all technically repayable on demand, 
to assist with cash management efficiency.
The Group’s investment policy for surplus cash is to maximise 
investment returns whilst ensuring low risk and suitable liquidity. 
Cross-border funding is provided on an arm’s length basis and 
currency risk is fully hedged using foreign exchange swaps and 
currency borrowings, as appropriate, at all times. Other than this, 
translational exposures are not hedged against movements in exchange 
rates and any such movements are taken to reserves. The Group 
is exposed to cross-border transactional trading commitments 
including the purchase of stock and, where significant, these 
exposures are hedged at inception.
As further described in note 25 to the Group financial statements, 
treasury policy permits the use of long-term derivative treasury products 
for the management of currency and interest rate risk, and the Group’s 
exposures are monitored regularly and adjustments to levels of 
hedging made as necessary. The Group does not speculate in any 
financial instruments.
GOING CONCERN
A review of the Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are 
set out within this Strategic Report, including the risk management 
section. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, 
cash flow statement and accompanying notes to the Group 
financial statements.
As described in note 1 to the Group financial statements, in their 
consideration of going concern, the directors have reviewed the 
future cash and profit forecasts of the Group which they consider 
to be based on prudent assumptions. Based on these forecasts, 
the directors consider that it is appropriate to prepare the Group 
financial statements on the going concern basis.
Nigel Langstaff Chief Financial Officer  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 25
STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate responsibility
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
For 25 years, we have been connecting people, adapting and evolving the business 
to add value for customers and shareholders. 
Our corporate mission statement, ‘We exist to make more lives better through 
connected technology’, helps to define our role as a retailer in a unique position 
to keep people connected and show them how connected technology can 
change their lives.
Rt. Hon. David Blunkett MP and Andrew Harrison, Group CEO of Carphone 
Warehouse, at the first Tablets for Schools conference in November 2013.
Emma Solomon OBE, speaking at the National Digital Conference in June 2014.
Lawrence Dallaglio with youths involved in the Rugby for Change programme.
We were delighted and privileged to have had 
Carphone Warehouse’s support for Spring Online 2013.
Their involvement was instrumental in enabling local 
organisations to provide digital learning opportunities for 
communities. Carphone Warehouse’s in-store taster 
events were a fantastic reflection of the organisation’s 
vision of making people’s lives better through technology.”
Emma Solomon OBE, Managing Director, Digital Unite
The Board is committed to operating a responsible 
and ethical business. We listen to our customers, 
shareholders and employees, as well as local and 
wider communities to understand their expectations 
and ensure they are reflected in our business decisions. 
Our priorities are to engage employees with our vision 
and values; to make a noticeable difference in the 
communities in which we operate; to minimise our 
impact on the environment; and to work towards 
a more sustainable business for the future.
HIGHLIGHTS 2013-14
During 2013–14 we set out to make even more lives 
better through diverse activities. New initiatives included: 
 — headline sponsorship of the national Spring Online 
campaign to tackle digital and social exclusion;
 — the first Tablets for Schools conference; and
 — a charity-driven fitness day to improve health 
awareness and raise funds for the Dallaglio 
Foundation’s Rugby for Change programme.
Carphone Warehouse was the first company to get behind 
our life-enhancing Dallaglio Foundation’s Rugby for Change 
programme which aims to give young people the opportunity 
to make a mark on the world by giving them the means and 
inspiration to change their lives for the better, engaging 
them through the power of rugby and sport."
Lawrence Dallaglio OBE, Rugby for Change Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 26
STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate responsibility continued
GET CONNECTED
This registered charity is a free, confidential helpline for young 
people under the age of 25. It provides a first point of contact for 
those in need of help, emotional support or advice. Volunteers are 
trained to deal with young people in need using technology such 
as text, email, phone and webchat. 
As a charity partner, our direct support of Get Connected has helped 
us indirectly touch the lives of thousands of young people through 
the years. During 2013–14 contributions from the business through 
donations, gifts-in-kind and fundraising events enabled Get Connected 
to develop a unique service and significantly expand its reach with 
a 53% increase in demand year-on-year. The annual Get Connected 
dinner and charity auction raised £217,000.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
WWW.GETCONNECTED.ORG.UK
THE CARPHONE WAREHOUSE FOUNDATION
The Carphone Warehouse Foundation supports employees with 
their own fundraising initiatives. Funded through our Take Back 
handset recycling scheme, the foundation matches employee 
personal fundraising efforts with grants of up to £200 per employee 
per annum, or up to £500 for employee team efforts.
CHARITY 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO GOOD CAUSES 2013 -14
 Get Connected 
 The Digital Unite Trust 
 Dallaglio Foundation 
 via CPW Foundation  
 via Give as You Earn  
 Tablets for Schools  
Get Connected launched a new smartphone app during the year, 
placing its service directly into the hands of young people in need.
Store colleagues on Game Changing Day.
Support Centre colleagues on Game Changing Day.
Senior executives taking part in a charity tennis tournament at The Queen’s Club.
DALLAGLIO FOUNDATION
In August we ran an event called Game Changing Day in support of 
the Dallaglio Foundation’s Rugby for Change charity and its work 
with disadvantaged young people. Store colleagues were encouraged 
to fundraise through team fun and games, and demonstrate fitness 
apps and app-cessories to customers.
As part of the event Carphone Warehouse executives held 
a charity tennis tournament at The Queen’s Club. The event 
raised a total of £66,000.
Over
£850K  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 27
STRATEGIC REPORT
COMMUNITY
TABLETS FOR SCHOOLS ("T4S")
T4S is a registered charity established by Carphone Warehouse 
in partnership with Dixons Retail plc and other industry leaders. 
The charity is passionate about the positive effect of using tablets 
in the classroom and brings together teachers, industry leaders 
and academics using robust and independent research on how 
tablets can impact learning and attainment. The T4S research and 
expertise on how to set up and optimise the use of tablets are 
made freely available to teachers, schools and the Government. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION
WWW.TABLETSFORSCHOOLS.ORG.UK
SAFER INTERNET DAY
Organised by Insafe, Safer Internet Day is held once a year. It aims 
to promote safer and more responsible use of online technology 
and mobile phones, especially amongst young people. CPW helped 
promote this important campaign, leveraging its relationships with 
Get Connected and Tablets for Schools to help provide support for 
young people against online threats such as cyber-bullying, harmful 
online movements and pornography. We also aim to support parents 
and help them understand the risks that can be associated with 
buying a child their first mobile phone, so as to help protect young 
people from illegal or anti-social activity. In recent years we have 
published our ‘Guide to Mobile Safety’, which is available on our 
corporate website.
NEIGHBOURLY
Carphone Warehouse is participating in the trial of the new social 
network called ‘Neighbourly’, helping community projects and 
charitable causes highlight their needs to companies ready to help 
financially or through volunteering programmes. For 2013–14, we 
pledged £25,000 and 2,500 volunteering hours to help support local 
causes through Neighbourly.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
WWW.NEIGHBOURLY.COM
The Tablets for Schools conference in December was attended by over 
400 school teachers from across the UK.
Our experts sharing technology tips during the ‘Spring Online’ campaign.
DIGITAL UNITE
CPW was the headline sponsor of Spring Online, one of the 
UK’s largest digital inclusion campaigns, and thereby played 
a role in helping an estimated 20,000 people (mostly older 
people) to use smartphones, tablets and the internet for the 
first time. Spring Online provided an engaging and innovative 
opportunity to attract new customers and make a positive 
impact on our communities. Our sponsorship fee went directly 
to supporting dedicated digital taster events within communities 
across the country. Furthermore, our store colleagues 
volunteered to host similar events in store, demonstrating 
key functions such as how to send an email or a text message. 
Our support of this initiative won a Corporate Engagement 
2013 award for ‘Best alignment with brand values through 
partnership or collaboration’ as well as a ‘Digital Impact 
Silver Award’ for community engagement.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
WWW.DIGITALUNITE.COM
USING OUR
TECHNOLOGICAL 
EXPERTISE
TO COMBAT DIGITAL 
AND SOCIAL EXCLUSION Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 28
STRATEGIC REPORT
SCOPE OF REPORTED EMISSIONS
As far as possible, emissions data has been reported for our 
own stores and support centres in the United Kingdom, Spain, 
the Netherlands, Germany, Portugal, Sweden, Ireland and 
France. In line with the regulatory requirements, this report 
includes emissions data for scope 1 and scope 2 only.
Corporate responsibility continued
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING
Recent reports have yet again highlighted the major impact climate 
change is expected to have on our planet. As a business, we are fully 
committed to minimising the impact of our operations on the 
environment. During 2014 Carphone Warehouse was again awarded 
the Carbon Saver Gold Standard for management and reduction 
of carbon emissions across the organisation. 
This year we report on greenhouse gas emissions for the first time 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors' Report) Regulations 2013. Our greenhouse gas footprint 
is 36,208 tonnes of CO
2
e. Working closely with Energy Quote JHA, 
our energy consultants, where practicable and applicable, emissions 
include electricity, heat and cooling for our use, as well as 
refrigerants use across our European territories.
WASTE
Our ‘bin free’ policy in support and contact centres helps to ensure 
that employees recycle their waste on site and is a contributing factor 
to our 100% landfill-free status, which the business has maintained 
since 2010. In respect of our retail portfolio, according to waste 
management and recycling specialist, BIFFA, we have increased 
recycling from 79% to an average of 85% year-on-year.
We are committed to recycling old handset components through 
our Take Back handset recycling scheme. Recycling bags are available 
to customers purchasing a new handset, encouraging them to 
send us their old handsets so that we can dispose of the handsets 
responsibly. During 2013–14, we recycled thousands of handsets, the 
estimated value of which was donated to The Carphone Warehouse 
Foundation. As part of the Take Back scheme, CPW is WEEE (Waste 
Electrical and Electronic Equipment) compliant and committed to 
recycling and reusing old components. The business offers a trade-in 
service whereby customers can trade in old devices for cash. If the 
device doesn’t have a trade-in value, it is recycled under the Take 
Back scheme mentioned above.
Reporting year 1 April 2013 – 29 March 2014.
Baseline year The reporting year forms the baseline 
for subsequent periods. 
Intensity 
metric
Annual emissions associated with the 
Group’s activities are expressed using 
revenue as the intensity metric.
Target 6% reduction by March 2015.
Comparatives The current year is the first year to be 
reported on using new methodology in 
accordance with the mandatory reporting 
requirements for greenhouse gas ("GHG") 
emissions and as such there are no 
comparatives for the current year.
Methodology The methodology used to calculate 
emissions is based on the World 
Business Council for Sustainable 
Development Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol Standard Revised Edition.
The operational control approach 
was selected as the basis for 
identifying emissions that were 
relevant for reporting.
TOTAL EMISSIONS BY TYPE
For the period 1 April 2013 – 29 March 2014
2,800
33,408
14.1
Tonnes of CO
2
e
USING TECHNOLOGY
TO MINIMISE 
OUR IMPACT
ON THE ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
• Scope 1
 F uel c ombus tion 
and process 
emissions
• Scope 2
 El ectricity , heat and 
cooling purchased 
for own use
• Intensity metric
 Tonnes of CO
2
e 
per £m of revenue
Scope 1
Total
36,208
TCO
2
e
Scope 2  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 29
STRATEGIC REPORT
PEOPLE
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Our people are the Company’s greatest asset and therefore its 
biggest investment. Attracting and retaining the right people by 
ensuring they feel valued and rewarded is of the utmost importance. 
We encourage two-way dialogue with colleagues, through a variety 
of communication channels.
Our teams are central to delivering the strategy for the business. 
Our annual OneTeam conference brings managers together to discuss 
the strategy of the business and the plan for its implementation going 
forward. We also hold regular ‘Town Hall’ meetings in our Acton 
support centre with a follow-on cascade to the rest of the business.
We use a balanced scorecard called ‘Compass’, based on the belief 
that engaged teams deliver great service, which, in turn, delivers 
results for the business. Colleague objectives and rewards are aligned 
to this scorecard. We measure the people element of our scorecard 
using a colleague engagement survey called ‘Pulse’, which runs 
twice a year.
Colleague feedback has influenced some of our biggest people 
initiatives over the last year including ‘My Learning World’, an online 
learning platform has been designed to support our people by 
providing relevant training and tools to help them carry out their 
roles to the best of their abilities.
During the year we launched a sharesave scheme giving employees the 
chance to own a part of the company and share in its success. Over 20% 
of employees registered under either a three-year or five-year scheme.
We want our people to enjoy working for the business. We encourage 
a range of social activities and last year saw the return of the Carphone 
Warehouse Ball with circa 6,000 colleagues in attendance. 
2013 saw the return of the CPW ball with circa 6,000 colleagues in attendance. Colleagues taking time out for yoga.
Employees get in training as part of our Race to Fitness campaign.
We believe that the key to our success as a business is its exceptional group of colleagues who are innovative and 
creative, customer focused, great at building relationships, achievement driven and who can strike the perfect balance 
in the risks they take and the decisions they make.
HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
Healthy living is promoted through a number of initiatives and 
facilities including on-site gyms in Acton, Warrington and Preston, 
where we also provide on-site canteens offering a range of foods 
for a balanced diet.
Last summer, support centre employees took part in activities such 
as touch rugby with the RFU, football skills with Queens Park Rangers 
football club, table tennis, golf, basketball, gym workouts and yoga 
as well as enjoying complimentary massages and healthy snacks.
Support is offered in other ways too. The Employee Assistance 
Programme offers a 24/7 online and telephone helpline for all of 
our employees, and an opportunity to speak to an independent, 
impartial third party.
We are pleased to be the headline sponsor of the Race to the Stones 
2014. This ultra-marathon challenge will be held over two days during 
July 2014. Around 180 employees have registered to take part in what 
promises to be a fun and fit weekend for all. We have nominated Get 
Connected as the headline charity for this event, helping to increase 
awareness for our charity partner. To coincide with employee training 
for the 2014 Carphone Warehouse Race to the Stones, a wider well-being 
campaign is being run to encourage employees to exercise and adopt 
healthier lifestyles. Race to Fitness is a 25 week programme where 
employees exchange training tips, ‘ask the experts’ and take part 
in running clubs and local well-being initiatives.  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 30
STRATEGIC REPORT
Corporate responsibility continued
HUMAN RIGHTS
The Group respects human rights and is committed to avoiding 
anything that may infringe on the basic human rights of others. 
We welcome the implementation of the United Nations’ ‘Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights’ and support the principles. 
Due to the nature of our operations as a retailer, we believe that the 
direct risk of exploiting human rights is relatively low. However, we 
recognise that there is a risk associated with the operations of the 
manufacturers we depend on for the products we sell. The vast majority 
of our manufacturers are large corporations. Having conducted a 
review during the year, we are satisfied that they have relevant and 
necessary policies in place to address human rights issues. While 
we have little control over their adherence to their own policies, we 
obtain some comfort in that they are listed entities, answerable to 
shareholders and aware of the repercussions adverse human rights 
could have on their businesses. We are not currently aware of any 
adverse direct or indirect human rights impacts.
EMPLOYEE POLICIES
Our relationship with employees is two-way and one of mutual 
dependency, with moral duties arising from both sides. We have 
developed a range of policies covering various areas of importance 
such as employee conduct, learning and development, parenting, 
payroll and performance management. Our policies help to ensure 
our people are treated fairly and that issues are resolved in a 
timely manner. Our dignity at work and grievance policies provide 
formal and informal approaches to resolve workplace disputes. 
Informal mediation is also available to assist colleagues in 
constructively dealing with any workplace conflicts. Our polices 
underpin our relationship with our people, as well as the 
relationship between colleagues, and help safeguard our 
close-knit business and fun, family environment.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The greatest importance is given to the health, safety and 
welfare of our colleagues, temporary colleagues, visitors and 
members of the public. Our health and safety policy states our 
intent to demonstrate an ongoing and determined commitment 
to improving health and safety throughout our organisation.
DIVERSITY
CPW is committed to equality and values diversity within its 
workforce. We welcome applications from all suitably qualified 
candidates and monitor statistics to ensure our workforce reflects 
the diversity of the wider population. Our attraction and selection 
strategies are continually reviewed and evaluated to achieve this 
aim. We take talent management seriously, ensuring we have the 
skills needed to meet our growth strategies. At CPW we also believe 
in creating balanced, diverse teams and have particularly focused 
on increasing the number of female leaders in the business.
EMPLOYEE GENDER SPLIT 2013-14
Across the 
Board of directors
 Female 1
 Male 6
Across senior 
management
 Female 8
 Male 38
40%
60%
Across all employees
  F emal e 4,614
 Male 6,922
ENHANCING THE 
DIVERSITY
OF OUR BUSINESS
THROUGH TALENT GROWTH
14%
86%
17%
83%
THIS STRATEGIC REPORT
was approved by the Board on 25 June 2014 and is signed 
on its behalf by:
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer
Nigel Langstaff Chief Financial Officer CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
32 Board of directors
34 Chairman’s introduction
36 Board committees
39 Audit Committee report
43 Remuneration report
54 Other statutory information
55 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 31
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of directors
SIR CHARLES DUNSTONE CHAIRMAN
Sir Charles is the founder of Carphone Warehouse and has been Chairman 
since 28 January 2010. He was chief executive officer of Old Carphone Warehouse 
from 1989 to 2010 where he led the growth of Carphone Warehouse both before 
and after its flotation on the London Stock Exchange in 2000 to become Europe’s 
largest independent retailer of mobile phones. Sir Charles was also appointed 
chairman of TalkTalk in 2010. He was a non-executive director of The Daily Mail 
and General Trust Plc from 2001 until 2012 and a non-executive director of 
Independent Media Distribution Plc (now Independent Media Distribution Limited) 
from 2002 until 2011. Sir Charles has been chairman of the Prince’s Trust since 
2009 and a member of its Council since 2000.
NIGEL LANGSTAFF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Nigel has been Chief Financial Officer since 28 January 2010, with responsibility 
for the Group’s finance functions. He previously held roles within Carphone 
Warehouse from 1997 to 2010, including UK finance director and group finance 
director. Prior to 1997, he spent four years with Arthur Andersen. Nigel has 
considerable experience and in-depth knowledge of all of the Group’s businesses 
and has played a key role in the growth of Carphone Warehouse to date. 
He is also a director of Virgin Mobile France.
ANDREW HARRISON CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Andrew was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 24 July 2013. He has 
worked for Carphone Warehouse for 18 years. He was a member of the board 
of Old Carphone Warehouse from 2006 to the formation of the joint venture with 
Best Buy in 2008. Andrew was responsible for Carphone Warehouse and Phone 
House operations within the joint venture, before being appointed chief executive 
officer of the joint venture in 2010. Earlier roles include UK chief executive officer 
and UK commercial director. He began his career working for a management 
consultancy business.
ROGER TAYLOR DEPUTY CHAIRMAN
Roger is Deputy Chairman and has been in his current role since 24 July 2013. 
From January 2010 to 24 July 2013 he was Chief Executive Officer of Carphone. 
During this time he was responsible for new business development, strategic 
initiatives and investor relations. He was chief financial officer of Old Carphone 
Warehouse from 2000 to 2010 where he played a key role in the growth of 
Carphone Warehouse across Europe and the construction and completion of 
the successful transactions with Best Buy. He is also a director of Virgin Mobile 
France and was non-executive deputy chairman of TalkTalk from 2010 until 2012.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 32
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee N Audit Committee A Remuneration Committee R Committee chairperson X
JOHN GILDERSLEEVE NON‑EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
John is a non-executive director and joined the board on 28 January 2010. He was 
non-executive deputy chairman prior to Roger Taylor's appointment as Deputy 
Chairman in July 2013. He was a member of the board of Old Carphone Warehouse 
from 2000 and was non-executive chairman between 2005 and 2010. He was appointed 
a non-executive director of The British Land Company PLC in September 2008 
and became Chairman in January 2013. He has been a non-executive director of 
TalkTalk since January 2010. Previously, he was an executive director of Tesco plc 
until he retired in February 2004. He was appointed as an independent non-executive 
director of Pick n Pay Stores Limited, with effect from 21 October 2013. John was 
also appointed as non-executive deputy chairman and senior independent 
director to Spire Healthcare Group plc, on 25 June 2014.
GERRY MURPHY NON‑EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Gerry is a former Deloitte LLP partner and was leader of its Professional 
Practices Group with direct industry experience in consumer business, retail 
and technology, media and telecommunications. He was a member of the 
Deloitte board and chairman of its audit committee for a number of years and 
also chairman of the Audit and Assurance Faculty of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales.
JOHN ALLWOOD NON‑EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
John joined the Board as a non-executive director on 28 January 2010. He is also a 
non-executive director of TalkTalk and chairman of Romanes Media Group Limited. 
He has spent his career in the telecoms and media sectors in a number of senior 
positions including chief executive of Orange UK and chief executive and finance 
director of Mirror Group plc. He is a governor of Exeter University and a trustee 
director of the Exeter University Retirement Benefit Scheme. He is also a proposed 
non-executive director of IMImobile plc which, on 12 June 2014, announced its 
intention to float on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange.
John Allwood is also the Senior Independent Director.
BARONESS MORGAN OF HUYTON NON‑EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Baroness Morgan joined the Board as a non-executive director on 28 January 2010. 
She was a non-executive director of Old Carphone Warehouse from 2005 to 2010. 
From November 2001 until May 2005, she was director of government relations 
at 10 Downing Street. Prior to this, Baroness Morgan was political secretary to 
the prime minister from 1997 to 2001 and was appointed Minister for Women 
and Equalities in 2001. In 2006, she was appointed as a board member of the 
Olympic Delivery Authority. Baroness Morgan is an adviser to the board of the 
children’s charity ARK and a member of the advisory committee of Virgin Group 
Holdings Limited. She was appointed chair of Ofsted in March 2011.
N A R
N A R
N A R
N A R
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 33
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s introduction
We have a reputation for our 
entrepreneurial management style 
and it is essential that we have the 
necessary controls and procedures in 
place to steer this entrepreneurial drive 
and ambition. The Board of directors is 
ultimately responsible for the strategic 
direction, management and control of the 
Group's activities. The Board recognises 
the importance of achieving high standards 
of corporate governance, to help facilitate 
the success of the business.
Sir Charles Dunstone Chairman
Since 28 October 2013 the Company has held a premium listing 
on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, and as such 
is required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
"Code") published by the UK Financial Reporting Council. The Board 
is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and 
in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority 
("Listing Rules") the Board confirms that, except to the extent stated 
below, the Company has throughout the year and as at the date of 
this annual report complied with the provisions set out in the Code. 
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the relevant parts of this Report 
have been reviewed by the Company’s auditors and their opinion 
is contained in the Independent auditors’ report on pages 57 to 59.
PROPOSED MERGER WITH DIXONS RETAIL PLC
The Prospectus and Circular, which will be sent to our shareholders 
in respect of the Merger with Dixons Retail plc, set out the proposed 
changes to the Board of directors and to the Board Committees 
should the Merger complete. Other governance matters will also be 
changed accordingly. All such changes will be set out in next year's 
annual report if the Merger completes and therefore this Corporate 
Governance Report should be considered by shareholders in this regard.
INDEPENDENCE AND COMPLIANCE
The Board has eight members, four of whom, excluding the Chairman, 
are considered to be independent non-executive directors. These 
directors are John Gildersleeve, John Allwood, Baroness Morgan 
of Huyton and Gerry Murphy. Therefore more than half of the directors 
excluding the Chairman are considered to be independent. Although 
John Gildersleeve was a non-executive director of Old Carphone 
Warehouse for more than nine years, the Board does not believe 
this affects his independence given that he satisfies all of the other 
tests of independence set out in the Corporate Governance Code 
and that Carphone is a company completely separate from 
Old Carphone.
Executive directors and the Chairman have service contracts 
that can be terminated by either the Company or the director 
on 12 months’ notice.
The non-executive directors have three-year periods of appointment, 
the terms of which are substantially in the same format as suggested 
by the Code, with three month notice periods and no compensation for 
loss of office. Further details on each director’s remuneration and notice 
period are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 51. 
Each of the directors will stand for re-appointment at the Company’s 
annual general meeting.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The overriding responsibility of the Board is to provide 
clear, entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the 
Group within a framework of efficient and effective controls 
so as to allow the key issues and risks facing the 
business to be assessed and managed.
Specifically the Board:
 + determines the overall strategic direction 
for the Group;
 + manages the Group’s investments, including 
reviewing their performance;
 + reviews and challenges management performance;
 + ensures that the necessary operational, financial 
and human resources are in place to enable the 
Group to meet its objectives;
 + develops an understanding of the views of major 
shareholders about the Group; and
 + communicates with shareholders in conjunction with 
its dedicated internal investor relations department.
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
SIR CHARLES DUNSTONE (CHAIRMAN)
ROGER TAYLOR (DEPUTY CHAIRMAN)
ANDREW HARRISON (CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER)
NIGEL LANGSTAFF (CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER)
INDEPENDENT NON‑EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
JOHN GILDERSLEEVE
JOHN ALLWOOD
BARONESS MORGAN OF HUYTON
GERRY MURPHY (FROM 2 APRIL 2014)
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 34
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MEETINGS
The Board had ten formal meetings during the year as well as other 
meetings as were appropriate for approving certain announcements 
to shareholders and other matters from time to time. All directors 
attended each meeting with the exception of John Gildersleeve, who 
was absent from the Board call on 20 January 2014 to approve the 
Q3 trading statement, due to a prior commitment.
EXPERIENCE
The wide range of experience and expertise of the non-executive 
directors, combined with the skills of the executive directors, provides 
vast retailing, mobile industry and general business experience, strong 
personal skills and independence of thought and perspective.
John Allwood is the Senior Independent Director and non-executive 
director with relevant financial experience.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
There are three key Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination. The Committees are provided with sufficient resources 
via the Company Secretary and, where necessary, have direct access 
to independent professional advisers to undertake their duties.
Baroness
John Morgan of John Gerry
Gildersleeve Huyton Allwood Murphy
Audit p38
Remuneration p37
Nomination p36 n/a n/a
Chair Member
The Consumer Regulatory and Compliance Committee was instituted 
during the year, to monitor and control the Group’s compliance in 
respect of regulation affecting its customers, primarily in relation 
to its insurance business and data protection. The chair of the 
Committee is Baroness Morgan of Huyton and one meeting was 
held during the year.
RESERVED MATTERS
There are documented schedules of matters reserved to the Board 
and matters delegated to Committees of the Board. Such reserved 
matters include: 
 + approval of published financial statements;
 + declaration of interim and final dividends;
 + approval of budget and strategy;
 + appointment and remuneration of directors and auditors;
 + approval of major acquisitions and disposals; 
 + approval of authority levels for expenditure; and
 + approval of treasury and risk management policies.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
The Board supports executive directors taking up non-executive 
directorships as part of their continuing development, and the Board 
believes that this will ultimately benefit the Company. Further details 
are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 49.
BOARD GOVERNANCE MATTERS
All Board papers are sent out on a timely basis with sufficient 
information for the directors to be able to discharge their duties. 
The Company Secretary ensures that all Board papers are sent to 
non-attending directors and that, where possible, any comments 
they have are received beforehand so that they can be expressed 
at the meeting.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
The internal annual review of the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience of the directors was conducted as usual during the course 
of the year. In addition, the Code recommends that the performance 
of the Board be reviewed externally every three years. The first external 
review of the Company was carried out by NJMD Corporate Services 
in May 2013; therefore the next external evaluation is due in 2016.
Internally, using the Higgs Report ‘Suggestions for Good Practice’ 
as guidance, the individual directors completed separate questionnaires 
and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Board as a whole then collated and analysed the results. 
The areas covered included the roles of the executive and non-executive 
directors, the Board, Board Committees, the Chairman, preparation 
for and performance at meetings, the effectiveness of each director, 
leadership, culture and corporate governance. The results were 
then considered by the Board as a specific item of business.
The Chairman meets regularly with all the non-executive directors, 
usually on an evening prior to a Board meeting. This provides the 
opportunity to raise any questions regarding the performance of 
the executive directors or in respect of any other matters.
Following the results of the internal evaluation, the Chairman 
confirms that all directors continue to be effective and demonstrate 
a commitment to the role, including having time to attend all 
necessary meetings and to carry out other appropriate duties.
The Senior Independent Director also met with the non-executive 
directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairman’s 
effectiveness, having first reviewed the results of a performance 
evaluation questionnaire completed by all of the directors apart 
from the Chairman. The Board is of the opinion that the Chairman 
had no other significant commitments during the year that affected 
his performance in his role.
COMMUNICATION WITH INVESTORS
The Board believes that it is important to explain business developments 
and financial results to the Company’s shareholders and to understand 
shareholder concerns. The principal communication media used to 
impart information to shareholders are news releases (including results 
announcements), investor presentations and Company publications.
The Chief Executive Officer has lead responsibility for investor 
relations. He is supported by a dedicated investor relations department 
that, amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts and 
institutional investors. There is a full programme of regular dialogue 
with major institutional shareholders and potential shareholders as 
well as sell-side analysts. In all such dialogue, care is taken to ensure 
that no price sensitive information is released. The Chairman ensures 
that the Board receives regular shareholder updates at Board meetings. 
The Board also receives periodic reports on investors’ views of the 
performance of the Company. The Chairman and all the non-executive 
directors, in particular the Senior Independent Director, are available 
to meet with major shareholders, if such meetings are required.
The Company also communicates with shareholders through the 
annual general meeting, at which the Chairman gives an account 
of the progress of the business over the last year, a review of current 
issues, and provides the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
Further financial and business information is available on the 
Group’s website, www.cpwplc.com.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 35
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board committees
MEMBERS
 + Baroness Morgan of Huyton (chair)
 + John Gildersleeve
RESPONSIBILITIES
The principal responsibility of the Nomination Committee is 
to consider succession planning and appropriate appointments 
to the Board, and its duties include:
 + overseeing the identification, selection and appointment 
of directors; 
 + reviewing the structure, size, composition and leadership needs 
of the Board;
 + considering other commitments of directors relative to the time 
required for them to fulfil their duties;
 + evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board; and
 + making recommendations to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available 
on the Group’s website (www.cpwplc.com) or on request from the 
Company Secretary.
During the year the Nomination Committee considered and approved 
the appointment of Gerry Murphy as a non-executive director. 
The Company did not use an external search consultant as part 
of this appointment.
MEETINGS
 + The Nomination Committee meets 
as and when required.
 + The Nomination Committee met once 
during the year.
Meetings
John Gildersleeve
Baroness Morgan of Huyton
  Attended  Did not attend
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 36
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
RESPONSIBILITIES
Responsibility for the establishment of overall remuneration policy 
for the Group lies with the Board. The Remuneration Committee 
has the following principal duties:
 + making recommendations to the Board on the Company’s 
framework of executive remuneration;
 + considering and making recommendations to the Board on the 
remuneration of the executive directors and senior management 
relative to performance and market data;
 + approving contracts of employment which exceed defined 
thresholds of total remuneration or have unusual terms 
or termination periods;
 + considering and agreeing changes to remuneration policy 
or major changes to employee benefit structures; and
 + approving employee share-based incentive schemes 
and associated performance conditions and targets.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are 
available on the Group’s website (www.cpwplc.com) or on request 
from the Company Secretary.
OTHER GOVERNANCE MATTERS
 + None of the members of the Remuneration Committee has any 
personal financial interest (other than as shareholders) in the 
matters to be decided by the Remuneration Committee nor 
potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships.
 + No director or any person advising the Remuneration Committee 
plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
 + All members are non-executive directors who have no day-to-day 
involvement in running the Group’s business.
MEMBERS
 + John Gildersleeve (chair)
 + John Allwood
 + Baroness Morgan of Huyton
 + Gerry Murphy (from 2 April 2014)
MEETINGS
The Remuneration Committee met three 
times during the year.
Meetings
John Gildersleeve
John Allwood
Baroness Morgan of Huyton
  Attended  Did not attend
A detailed description of the Remuneration Committee’s work 
during the period is contained in the Remuneration report 
on pages 43 to 53.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 37
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board Committees continued
MEMBERS
 + John Allwood (chair)
 + John Gildersleeve
 + Baroness Morgan of Huyton
 + Gerry Murphy (from 2 April 2014)
Biographies on the members of the Audit 
Committee are set out on page 33. All four 
members are regarded by the Board as 
independent non-executive directors. Their 
collective skills, experience and knowledge 
of the Group allows them to fulfil their duties 
as Committee members and to provide 
appropriate oversight of the Group’s auditors.
ADVISORS
The Board makes funds available to the Audit Committee to enable 
it to take independent legal, accounting or other advice when the 
Audit Committee believes it necessary to do so.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The Audit Committee has the following principal duties:
 + monitoring the integrity of the half-year and full year financial 
statements and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group’s financial performance;
 + advising the Board on whether, as a whole, the annual report 
is fair, balanced and understandable;
 + reviewing significant financial reporting judgements;
 + reviewing the Group’s financial controls and internal control 
and risk management systems;
 + monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal control functions, including the findings of the internal 
audit department and other risk management systems;
 + providing the Board with an independent assessment 
of the Group’s accounting affairs and financial position;
 + making recommendations to the Board in relation 
to the appointment of external auditors;
 + reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external 
auditors, including their independence, objectivity, effectiveness, 
remuneration and terms of engagement;
 + considering arrangements by which employees may raise 
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial 
reporting or other matters;
 + considering other topics, as defined by the Board; and
 + referring matters to the Board which, in its opinion, 
should be addressed at a meeting of the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available 
on the Group’s website (www.cpwplc.com) or on request from 
the Company Secretary.
OTHER GOVERNANCE MATTERS
 + The chairman of the Audit Committee updates the Board on 
any significant issues that have arisen at the previous Audit 
Committee meeting.
 + External auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee 
during formal meetings and time is set aside for them to have 
private discussions with the Audit Committee, in the absence 
of management.
MEETINGS
The Audit Committee met three times 
during the year. All members attended each 
of these meetings. The Chief Financial Officer, 
Head of Group Internal Audit, other senior 
management and representatives of the 
Company’s external auditors (Deloitte LLP) 
attend the Audit Committee meetings by 
invitation of the Committee.
Meetings
John Gildersleeve
John Allwood
Baroness Morgan of Huyton
  Attended  Did not attend
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 38
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report
1. CONSIDERATION OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL 
REPORTING MATTERS
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of 
the half-year and annual financial statements in conjunction with both 
senior management and the external auditors. During the year ended 
29 March 2014 consideration was given to the following matters:
 + the suitability of the Group’s accounting policies and practices;
 + compliance with financial reporting and governance standards;
 + areas where significant levels of judgement have been applied 
or items which have been discussed with the external auditors;
 + whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides sufficient information 
necessary for shareholders and other users of the accounts to 
assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy; and
 + updated accounting and corporate governance regulations 
including changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
To assist with discharging these responsibilities, the Committee 
considers documents prepared by management and reports 
received from the external auditors on the outcomes of their annual 
audit procedures.
The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee 
in relation to the 2013–14 financial statements, and how these 
were addressed, are set out in the following table:
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES 
AND AREAS OF JUDGEMENT HOW THE ISSUE WAS ADDRESSED BY THE COMMITTEE
Revenue recognition As set out in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group assessed revenue 
recognition as a critical accounting policy, particularly in relation to the recognition 
of network commissions receivable.
The Committee assessed the accounting policies applied in relation to revenue recognition 
and concluded that they remain appropriate. The Committee also assessed the key 
judgements made in respect of revenue recognition with reference to contractual terms, 
the Group’s historical experience of customer behaviour and information received from third 
parties. This involved challenging the assumptions used by management in its calculations, 
whilst taking into consideration the guidance contained within IAS 18 ‘Revenue’. 
The Committee was satisfied with the methodology and assumptions used.
Acquisition accounting The CPW Europe Acquisition required a comprehensive exercise to establish the fair 
value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of CPW Europe, as set out in note 23 
to the Group financial statements.
This valuation exercise included consideration of external valuations and calculations 
which incorporated management judgement. 
The Committee challenged the methodologies used in the valuation of the net assets 
acquired and the outcomes of these valuations and is comfortable with the fair values 
that have been recognised.
Impairment of acquisition-related 
intangibles
Following the completion of the CPW Europe Acquisition, the Group recognised 
separately identifiable intangible assets of £125m and goodwill of £484m. 
As set out within the Group’s accounting policies, the carrying value of these assets is 
reviewed at least annually and more frequently if there is an indication of impairment.
The Committee considered the judgements made in relation to the valuation model 
inputs and the methodology used. It also reviewed a sensitivity analysis regarding the 
impact of reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied. The Committee 
was satisfied that the carrying value remains appropriate. Key assumptions are set out 
in note 10 to the Group financial statements.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 39
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report continued
2. RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
A. RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group has established a risk management programme that 
assists management to identify, assess and mitigate business, financial, 
operational and compliance risks. The Board views risk management 
as integral to good business practice and protecting the best interests 
of shareholders. Executive management of the Group has direct 
responsibility for the risk management programmes of their businesses. 
The Board’s focus is primarily on reviewing the effectiveness of these 
processes, more than involving itself in the processes themselves. 
Specific controls and processes are detailed further below.
The Group’s risk management framework aims to:
 + assist management to implement effective means of risk 
identification, assessment and mitigation;
 + instil a risk-based approach and awareness into the Group’s culture;
 + encourage accountability for identifying and managing the risks 
specific to line managers’ respective areas of the business; and
 + create and implement risk management strategies which 
address all types of risks.
The Group maintains a risk register, and all senior managers within 
the business are responsible for managing and monitoring the risks 
identified within their areas, and identifying new risks as they arise. 
The risk register is reviewed and updated at each of the tri-annual 
meetings of the Committee, with informal tracking taking place every 
two months. Each risk identified is ranked according to a weighted 
score based on the risk category, the likelihood of an event occurring 
and its impact on the business should it occur due to either failure 
or absence of mitigating controls. Mitigating controls in place are 
also documented.
B. INTERNAL CONTROL
As in any business, the Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties 
on a daily basis, and a detailed internal control framework exists so 
as to mitigate these risks and protect the interests of shareholders. 
The directors have overall responsibility for the Group’s systems of 
internal control and for reviewing effectiveness, and they discharge 
this responsibility by performing the following:
 + determining the Group’s risk appetite and tolerance;
 + overseeing the risk management strategy; and
 + ensuring that management implements effective systems of risk 
identification, assessment and mitigation.
The Board delegates to executive management the responsibility 
for designing, operating and monitoring these systems. The systems 
are based on a process of identifying, evaluating and managing 
significant risks and include the risk management processes 
set out above.
1. CONSIDERATION OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING MATTERS CONTINUED
SIGNIFICANT ISSUES 
AND AREAS OF JUDGEMENT HOW THE ISSUE WAS ADDRESSED BY THE COMMITTEE
Closure of French operations The closure of the Group’s French operations has required management judgement 
in a number of areas, particularly in relation to the recognition of provisions for committed 
closure costs. The Committee reviewed management’s assumptions when performing 
these calculations and is comfortable that the amounts recognised up to 29 March 2014 
appropriately reflect the costs incurred up to, and liabilities assumed as at, this date.
Taxation The Group operates across multiple tax jurisdictions, and the complex nature of tax 
legislation in these jurisdictions necessitates the use of judgement; additionally, 
management uses assumptions and judgements to assess the likelihood of utilisation 
of available tax losses. The Committee considered the material judgements made by 
management, with reference to the assumptions made, progress made on matters 
being discussed with tax authorities and advice provided by external advisers where 
applicable. The Committee was satisfied that the conclusions reached by management 
were appropriate.
Going concern The Committee assessed the Group’s available facilities, facility headroom, banking 
covenants and the results of a sensitivity analysis performed. The Committee also 
reviewed management’s analysis which was performed with reference to budgeted 
revenue and earnings levels for the coming years and were satisfied that the going 
concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate for the Group.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 40
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The systems of internal control described in this report were in place 
throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the annual 
report and financial statements. The effectiveness of these systems 
is periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee in accordance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, Internal Control: Guidance to 
Directors (formerly known as the Turnbull Guidance). These systems 
are also refined as necessary to meet changes in the Group’s business 
and associated risks. They can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or 
breaches of laws and regulations.
The Company has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness 
of the systems of risk management and internal control in operation 
during the year and up to the date of the approval of the annual 
report and financial statements and this was approved by the 
Audit Committee and the Board. 
At each of its meetings the Audit Committee reviewed and 
considered reports on the status of the Group’s risk management 
systems, findings from reviews of internal controls and reports on 
the status of any weaknesses in internal controls identified by the 
internal or external auditors.
C. JOINT VENTURE CONTROL PROCESSES
The Board places reliance as far as possible on the risk management 
processes of the Virgin Mobile France joint venture board. The risk 
management processes of Virgin Mobile France have involved 
assessments of significant business risks which are wide-ranging, 
covering risks arising from the regulatory environment, strategy, 
counterparties and organisational change associated with major 
projects. The output from each assessment is a list of strategic, 
financial, operational and compliance risks. Associated action 
plans and controls to mitigate them are also put in place where 
this is possible and to the extent considered appropriate, taking 
account of costs and benefits.
Reports, action plans and any changes to the status of significant 
risks and risk matrices are reported at each Audit Committee 
meeting and at Board meetings where applicable. During the year 
the Board has not identified or been advised of any significant 
control failings.
Other controls in place for Virgin Mobile France are as follows:
 + Roger Taylor and Nigel Langstaff are directors of Virgin Mobile 
France. Its board ordinarily meets monthly and has ultimate 
responsibility for strategic, operational, risk and compliance 
matters for the business.
 + There is frequent informal interaction between shareholders 
and management on strategic and operational matters.
D. INTERNAL AUDIT
The Group has an internal audit department which conducts reviews 
of selected business processes each year. The internal audit programme 
for the 2013–14 financial year consisted of reviews across a range of 
areas documented and prioritised in the Group’s internal audit plan, 
which was prepared and approved with input from management and 
the Committee. The plan is designed each year to test the robustness 
of mitigating controls and procedures are designed to identify any areas 
of improvement. Part of the approval process of this plan involves the 
Committee’s consideration of alignment of the proposed test plan with 
the principal risks faced by the Group. 
The Committee receives and reviews reports from the internal audit 
department detailing its material findings from testing performed 
and any recommendations for improvement. The progress and 
implementation of ensuing action plans are tracked to completion 
by the internal audit department, and areas where additional controls 
have been put in place are subsequently re-tested to ensure the 
process is fully complete. 
The Committee considered the effectiveness of the internal audit 
department through holding discussions with management, considering 
the quality of reports submitted to the Committee, the timeliness of 
the clearance of action points, and the perceived impartiality of the 
audit team itself. The Committee concluded that the internal audit 
department has in all respects been effective during the 2013–14 
financial year.
3. EXTERNAL AUDIT
The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide 
an opinion on the financial statements and certain disclosures 
prepared by Group management. Deloitte LLP acted as the external 
auditors to the Group throughout the year. The Committee is 
responsible for oversight of the external auditors, including 
approving the annual audit plan and all associated audit fees.
A. OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS
On an annual basis the Committee receives a detailed audit plan 
from Deloitte LLP, which outlines their assessment of the significant 
Group audit risks, and how their audit procedures will address these 
risks. The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the audit process 
through consideration of formal reports received from Deloitte LLP 
at the conclusion of the year-end audit. The Committee also obtains 
feedback on the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing 
areas of key audit risk. Feedback is sought from employees who 
have the most exposure to the external audit team, such as the 
financial management team at corporate and business levels, the 
Company Secretary, and the tax and internal audit departments. 
The following points are also considered:
 + the external auditors’ progress against the agreed audit plan 
and communication of changes to the plan;
 + the competence with which the external auditors handle key 
accounting and audit judgements and the way in which these 
matters are communicated to management and the Committee;
 + the qualifications, expertise, resources and composition of the 
audit team; and
 + the cost effectiveness of the engagement, weighing up the extent 
and quality of services received against agreed fees.
The results of all of these considerations are subsequently reviewed 
by the Committee.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 41
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report continued
3. EXTERNAL AUDIT CONTINUED
A. OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS continued
The Audit Committee continues to be satisfied with the quality of 
the audit. The Committee holds private meetings with Deloitte LLP 
to allow opportunity for open dialogue and feedback without the 
presence of management. This allows the Committee to ensure 
that management are acting appropriately in response to significant 
risks, that no audit procedures were hindered by management, and 
that there were no compromises to auditor independence during 
the audit process.
In light of the assessments and review undertaken, the Audit 
Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be retained 
as auditors of the Company. This recommendation was endorsed 
by the Board.
B. CONSIDERATION OF AUDITOR APPOINTMENT 
AND INDEPENDENCE
On an ongoing basis the Committee considers the appropriateness 
of the re-appointment of the external auditors, including rotation 
of the audit partner. Matters considered during these deliberations 
include the deemed effectiveness of audit procedures performed, 
and the independence of the external auditors. The Group has a number 
of policies in place to help safeguard the independence of external 
auditors. For example, the external auditors are not permitted 
to perform any work which they may subsequently need to audit 
or which might create a conflict of interest. The Committee’s 
consideration of non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP 
has been set out separately below.
Recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code include 
a new provision that FTSE 350 companies put the external audit 
contract out to tender at least every ten years. Guidance issued by the 
Financial Reporting Council suggests that for ease of transition it 
is acceptable for a formal audit tender to be delayed if necessary 
to the end of the current lead audit partner’s tenure. Deloitte LLP 
has been the external auditor since the Group’s formation in 2010 
(following the demerger of Old Carphone Warehouse into the Group 
and TalkTalk Group), and was also the external auditor prior to this 
of Old Carphone Warehouse. The current lead audit partner has been 
in place for three years (partner rotation is required on a five-yearly 
basis). The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP 
be retained for the 2014–15 financial year and a resolution proposing 
the re-appointment will be put to shareholders at the Company’s 
forthcoming annual general meeting. The Committee will continue 
to consider the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and also recent proposals by the Competition Commission and the 
European Union on audit tendering and rotation, and will make 
a decision at the appropriate time to tender the audit once these 
proposals are finalised, in order to ensure compliance with the 
relevant regulations.
C. CONSIDERATION OF NON‑AUDIT SERVICES
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, 
the Committee has established a formal policy regarding the provision 
of non-audit services by the external auditors. The policy specifies 
the types of work from which the external auditors are excluded, those 
which do not require referral to the Audit Committee, and instances 
where a case-by-case decision is required. Having undertaken a 
review of the non-audit related work, the Audit Committee has satisfied 
itself that the services undertaken during the year did not prejudice 
the external auditors’ independence. The non-audit services performed 
by the external auditors during the year involved assignments which 
were closely related to the annual audit or work of such a nature 
that a detailed understanding of the Group was necessary. As such 
it was considered appropriate that these services be performed 
by Deloitte LLP.
D. FEES PAID
A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the external 
auditors during the year is set out below. The ratio of non-audit fees 
to audit fees is monitored by the Audit Committee within an overall 
limit set by the Board on the recommendation of the Audit Committee. 
2014 2013
£m £m
Audit services – statutory audit 1.4 0.1
Tax advisory services 0.5 —
Tax compliance services 0.2 —
Other assurance services 0.6 — 
Total 2.7 0.1
The Group’s share of the external auditors’ statutory audit fees for 
joint ventures was £0.1m (2013: £0.5m) and the Group’s share of 
their fees for tax and other services was £0.1m (2013: £0.2m).
Fees paid in relation to non-audit services primarily related to the 
CPW Europe Acquisition, in respect of which the external auditors 
acted as reporting accountant.
The Committee approved the fees proposed for audit services for 
2013–14 following a review of the level of work to be performed by 
Deloitte LLP, including the impact of significant one-off transactions 
which took place during the year.
John Allwood Chairman, Audit Committee
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 42
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Over the past 12 months Carphone Warehouse has continued 
to deliver solid performance in its core business whilst outlining 
a compelling growth strategy for the future. It has also seen the 
business re-enter the FTSE 250 as a company with a premium 
listing on the London Stock Exchange and managed the smooth 
transition of senior level Board changes with Roger Taylor moving 
from Chief Executive Officer to Deputy Chairman and Andrew Harrison 
joining the Board as Chief Executive Officer. 
We have used this opportunity to review our approach to remuneration 
to ensure it is aligned to our strategic direction, appropriate for a 
FTSE company and focused on driving superior shareholder returns.
As a result we have made a number of changes this year including 
the introduction of new long-term incentive plans that align the 
interests of our senior managers with our shareholders, providing 
the opportunity for them to earn significant value but only if superior 
returns are delivered to our shareholders. We were pleased to see 
this new plan receive 96% support from our shareholders at the 
general meeting on 24 June 2013.
We have also taken the opportunity to bring our executive directors’ 
salary and notice periods in line with the market and normal 
practice for a FTSE 250 business. 
No changes are proposed to the basic salaries of the executive 
directors as part of the annual pay review process. Bonus payments 
will be at slightly above target levels. No long-term incentives 
vested during the year.
In relation to our other remuneration policies we have maintained 
our approach of providing a strong link between our overall reward 
packages and performance and the delivery of our strategic priorities, 
which we have stated as continuing to grow our core business, 
creating partnerships across Mainland Europe and developing 
Connected World Services. 
We are also acutely aware that our success is largely down to the 
dedication and hard work of all our employees and that it is vital that 
they continue to feel fairly and appropriately rewarded and that they 
are able to share in the success of the business. We are therefore 
very pleased this year to have been able to reintroduce a sharesave 
plan for all UK employees, which has enjoyed a good take-up rate.
If the Merger is completed, the Group’s remuneration policy 
will be changed accordingly. In particular this will reflect changes 
in remuneration for executive directors and changes to their 
participation in our long-term incentive plans with the intention to 
have consistent alignment between existing executives and those 
who join the Group as part of the Merger. The Prospectus and 
Circular also set out details in respect of the existing incentive 
schemes of Dixons Retail plc and how these will be affected by the 
Merger. The new policy will be set out in next year’s annual report 
and put to shareholders for approval at next year’s annual general 
meeting. The current remuneration report and policy should 
therefore be considered by shareholders in this context.
John Gildersleeve Chairman, Remuneration Committee
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT
The Remuneration Policy set out in this report will be put to 
shareholders for approval in a binding vote at the annual general 
meeting on 23 July 2014 and the policy will be effective from that 
date. Shareholders will be asked to approve the policy for a period 
of three years starting from the effective date of the policy. 
REMUNERATION STRATEGY
Put simply, our aim is to generate superior returns for our 
shareholders and the key to achieving this is our people.
Our remuneration strategy is underpinned by remuneration 
packages that are designed to motivate high-performing people 
to deliver our strategy. The remuneration packages:
 + are transparent and demonstrably aligned with the interests 
of shareholders;
 + are weighted to variable pay that incentivises outperformance 
over the short and long term;
 + are structured to ensure that superior rewards are only paid 
for exceptional performance against challenging targets;
 + are consistently applied across the Group to promote alignment 
and teamwork;
 + recognise the importance of delivering across a balanced set 
of metrics to ensure the right behaviours are adopted and the 
long-term health of the business is protected; and
 + encourage management to have a significant personal stake 
in the long-term success of the business.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 43
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE
The individual elements of the remuneration packages offered to executive directors are summarised in the following table:
ELEMENT
PURPOSE AND 
LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY
ASSESSMENT OF 
PERFORMANCE
Base salary (fixed) To aid the 
recruitment, 
retention and 
motivation of 
high-performing 
people.
To reflect their 
experience and 
importance to 
the business.
Reviewed annually with effect from 1 July.
The review reflects a range of factors 
including merit levels, internal relativity and 
cost. Typically increases for executive 
directors will be in line with increases 
across the Group. Increases beyond those 
granted across the Group may be awarded in 
certain circumstances such as changes 
in responsibilities, progression in the role 
and significant increases in the size, 
complexity or value of the Group.
Our overall policy, having due regard to the 
factors noted, is normally to target salaries 
up to the median level.
Salaries for new appointments as executive 
directors will be set in accordance with the 
Recruitment Policy set out on page 47 of the 
Remuneration Policy Report.
No changes to the 
base salaries of the 
executive directors 
are proposed for 
the coming year.
Salary levels for 
current incumbents 
are as follows:
–  Chief Executive 
Officer £475,000
–  Chief Financial 
Officer £350,000
Salaries are 
reviewed annually 
by the Committee 
at the appropriate 
meeting having 
due regard to the 
factors noted in 
the Remuneration 
Policy.
Benefits (fixed) In line with the 
Company’s 
strategy to keep 
remuneration 
weighted to variable 
pay that incentivises 
outperformance, 
a modest range of 
benefits is provided. 
Directors are entitled to a combination of 
benefits which, with the exception of the car 
allowance, are provided to all UK-based 
employees. They include: 
 + car allowance;
 + subsidised private medical cover;
 + long-term incapacity cover; 
 + life assurance;
 + holiday and sick pay; and
 + eligibility to participate in employee 
Save As You Earn schemes. 
Should an executive director be recruited 
from or in a non-UK location, benefits may 
be determined by those typically provided 
in the normal country of residence. 
The cost to the 
Group of providing 
such benefits will 
vary from year to 
year in accordance 
with the cost of 
providing such 
benefits. 
Not applicable.
Pension (fixed) A modest pension 
is provided which 
is consistent with 
that provided to 
managers across 
the Group and in line 
with our strategy to 
keep remuneration 
weighted to variable 
pay that incentivises 
outperformance.
The Company makes a modest contribution 
to defined contribution pension schemes 
or self-invested pension plans. 
Executive directors may chose to receive a 
cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution.
Executive directors 
typically receive a 
pension contribution 
or allowance of 
5% of salary; 
however a greater 
contribution of up 
to 20% of salary 
may be made 
where necessary to 
recruit or retain an 
executive director.
Not applicable.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 44
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ELEMENT
PURPOSE AND 
LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY
ASSESSMENT OF 
PERFORMANCE
Annual 
performance 
bonus (short-term 
variable)
Annual performance 
bonuses are in place 
to incentivise the 
delivery of stretching, 
near-term business 
targets based on our 
business strategy. 
These bonuses 
provide a strong link 
between reward and 
performance and drive 
the creation of further 
shareholder value.
The principles and 
approach are 
consistently applied 
across the Group 
ensuring alignment 
to a common vision 
and strategy.
They are based on a 
balanced approach 
ensuring appropriate 
behaviours are 
adopted and 
encouraging a 
longer-term focus.
All measures and targets are reviewed 
and set by the Committee at the beginning 
of the financial year. 
The bonus scheme has targets based on 
financial measures including profit and cash 
and a balanced scorecard. The balanced 
scorecard may include financial, employee, 
customer and strategic measures. The 
weighting of measures will be determined by 
the Committee each year. Financial measures 
(e.g. profit) will represent the majority of the 
bonus, with other measures representing 
the balance. 
Bonus payments are subject to a minimum 
profit gate being achieved before payment 
is due against any objectives achieved. 
The annual bonus is typically paid in June 
based on the audited performance over the 
previous financial year.
With effect from the 2014–15 financial year 
clawback and/or malus provisions will be 
introduced to the Group’s annual bonus 
scheme enabling performance adjustments 
and/or recovery of sums already paid.
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and 
non-executive directors do not receive 
an annual performance bonus.
The Committee retains the discretion to 
establish additional bonus schemes and 
to set stretching targets focused on the 
delivery of specific business strategies in 
the event of substantial business change.
Maximum annual 
bonus potential 
of 200% of salary.
No bonus is payable 
if the minimum profit 
gate is not achieved.
Performance is 
reviewed by the 
Committee using 
its judgement 
where necessary 
to assess the 
achievement 
of targets.
The Committee 
retains the 
discretion to adjust 
downwards bonus 
payments where 
achievement of 
targets would 
result in a payment 
of a bonus at a 
level which would 
not be consistent 
with the interests 
of the Company 
and its 
shareholders. 
Clawback and/or 
malus provisions 
will be introduced 
with effect from the 
2014–15 financial 
year.
Mid-term 
incentive plan 
This incentive 
plan will only be 
implemented 
should the Merger 
complete.
The purpose 
would be to 
motivate selected 
key individuals to 
deliver specific 
objectives relating 
to the Merger 
and reward them 
for doing so.
Executive directors and selected other key 
individuals would be eligible to participate 
in this scheme. 
Pay-outs under this scheme will be made 
only if participants deliver exceptional 
performance over and above the 
business plan.
Maximum bonus 
potential of up to 
200% of salary.
The performance 
conditions for this 
scheme would be 
based on the 
achievement of 
specific objectives 
relating to the 
successful 
implementation 
of the Merger and 
integration of the 
businesses, such 
as the delivery of 
targeted levels 
of synergies.
It is intended that 
performance 
conditions 
applicable to this 
scheme will be set 
at a stretching level 
with separate and 
incremental targets 
to those rewarded 
by the annual 
bonus plan.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 45
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued
ELEMENT
PURPOSE AND 
LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY
ASSESSMENT OF 
PERFORMANCE
Mid-term 
incentive plan 
continued
Since the 
implementation of 
this arrangement is 
contingent on the 
completion of the 
Merger , the Committee 
has not yet finalised 
the measures and 
targets. Further details 
on the performance 
conditions will be 
disclosed to 
shareholders in next 
year’s annual report 
if the arrangement is 
implemented following 
the completion of 
the Merger.
Long-term 
incentive schemes 
(long-term 
variable)
Long-term 
incentive schemes 
are transparent 
and demonstrably 
aligned with the 
interests of 
shareholders over 
the long term.
The schemes 
reward execution 
of our strategy only 
when they have 
delivered superior 
value to 
shareholders.
The executive directors participate in the 
Carphone Warehouse Share Plan approved 
by shareholders in June 2013. 
New executive directors appointed 
from time to time may participate in 
the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan 
(or a comparable plan implemented with 
shareholder approval) or the Carphone 
Warehouse Share Scheme approved by 
shareholders in 2010 and amended in June 
2013. Maximum returns for executive 
directors (excluding any buy-out 
arrangements provided for in the 
Recruitment Policy) will be consistent with 
existing executive directors and the limits 
set out in this Policy Table.
Further details of the Carphone Warehouse 
Share Plan and Carphone Warehouse 
Share Scheme are provided on page 47.
The total pool for 
distribution to 
participants is 
subject to a cap of 
4% of the total issued 
share capital of the 
Company on the 
measurement date. 
The Chief Executive 
Officer allocation is 
7% of the total pool and 
Chief Financial Officer 
allocation is 6%.
Grants under the 
Carphone Warehouse 
Share Scheme are 
subject to overall 
dilution limits and 
a maximum grant 
per participant in 
any financial year 
of a market value of 
300% of basic salary.
Performance will be 
determined by the 
Committee against 
the stretching 
targets agreed by 
shareholders in 
June 2013.
Save As You Earn Encourages 
employees to make 
a long-term 
investment in the 
Company’s shares 
and therefore be 
aligned to the 
long-term success 
of the Company.
Executive directors are eligible to 
participate in all employee share plans.
An HMRC approved Save As You Earn 
scheme was introduced in the UK in 
December 2013 and a comparable scheme 
will be launched in Ireland in due course.
Participants can 
save up to £250 per 
month for either three 
or five years. This 
limit may be increased 
for future schemes in 
accordance with the 
statutory limits in place 
from time to time.
At the end of the 
savings period 
participants can 
purchase shares in 
the Company based 
on a discounted share 
price determined at 
the commencement 
of the scheme.
The performance of 
the scheme will be 
determined by the 
share price of the 
Company at the end 
of the relevant 
savings period.
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE continued
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 46
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LONG‑TERM INCENTIVES
CARPHONE WAREHOUSE SHARE PLAN
Under the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan, participants share 10% 
of the incremental value created in CPW in excess of an opening 
valuation (assessed over a three month period prior to approval 
by shareholders in June 2013) and beyond an annual rate of return 
of 7% on invested capital. The plan is underpinned by a minimum 
annual compound TSR growth of 5% and outperformance of the 
median TSR of the FTSE 250.
Participants acquired at market value participation shares in a 
subsidiary company that holds the Company’s interests in CPW 
Europe. The Group granted loans to participants at a commercial 
rate of interest to acquire the shares. Loans are ordinarily 
repayable in full if performance conditions are met. 
The performance of the scheme will ordinarily be measured in or 
around June 2017, when 60% of the shares vest, with 40% deferred for 
a further year. When the awards vest, the value of the shares held 
by participants will be based on the incremental value (if any) of 
CPW in excess of the opening valuation together with the minimum 
return on invested capital. These shares will then be purchased by 
the Company for cash and/or the Company’s ordinary shares.
A ‘bad leaver’ will be required to transfer the participation shares 
to such party as the Company designates for an amount equal to 
the total amount outstanding under the loan. If the market value of 
the shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan (and any 
accrued interest) then the participant may be required to repay 20% 
of the shortfall out of their own resources.
A participant shall only be a ‘good leaver’ at the sole discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee and may be permitted to retain 
an award notwithstanding the termination of their employment.
The mechanics of the plan may be varied by the Remuneration 
Committee if necessary to ensure that participants are neither 
advantaged nor disadvantaged by a variation of the share capital 
of the Company, bona fide merger, reconstruction or similar 
reorganisation. As part of the Merger, proposals to amend 
the plan are set out in the Prospectus and Circular.
CARPHONE WAREHOUSE SHARE SCHEME
The Carphone Warehouse Share Scheme allows nil-priced 
and market-priced options to be offered to senior employees 
who are not participants in the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan. 
Options granted in January 2014 are subject to continuing 
employment and are subject to performance conditions based 
on a combination of absolute TSR performance and relative TSR 
performance against the FTSE 250.
RECRUITMENT POLICY
On appointment, base salary levels will be set taking into account 
a range of factors including market levels, experience, internal 
relativities and cost. If an individual is appointed on a base salary 
below the desired market positioning, the Committee retains the 
discretion to re-align base salary over one to three years, contingent 
on individual performance, which may result in an exceptional rate 
of annualised increase above ordinary levels. If the Committee intends 
to rely on this discretion, it will be noted in the first remuneration 
report following an individual’s appointment. Other elements of 
annual remuneration will be in line with the policy set out in the 
Policy Table. As such, short-term variable remuneration will be 
capped as set out in the Policy Table. 
The following exceptions will apply:
 + in the event that an internal appointment is made or an executive 
director joins as a result of a transfer of an undertaking, merger, 
reconstruction or similar reorganisation, the Committee retains 
the discretion to continue with existing remuneration provisions 
relating to pensions and benefits;
 + as deemed necessary and appropriate to secure an appointment, 
the Committee retains the discretion to make additional payments 
linked to relocation; and
 + the Committee retains the discretion to provide an immediate 
interest in Company performance by making a long-term incentive 
award on recruitment in accordance with the Policy Table under 
its existing long-term incentive schemes or such future schemes as 
are introduced by the Company with the approval of its shareholders. 
The Committee will determine the level of the award, the performance 
conditions and time horizon that would apply to such awards at 
the time of award, taking into account the strategy and business 
circumstances of the Company.
Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those 
for the existing executive directors, summarised in the Recruitment 
Table; however, the Committee may authorise the payment of a 
relocation and/or repatriation allowance, as well as other associated 
international mobility terms and benefits, such as tax equalisation 
and financial advice. 
In addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, 
the Committee may consider buying out bonuses and/or incentive 
awards that an individual forfeits in accepting the appointment. The 
Committee will have the authority to rely on Listing Rule 9.4.2(2) or 
exceptional limits within the existing shareholder approved share 
and share option plans to make awards. If made, the Committee will 
be informed by the structure, time horizons, value and performance 
targets associated with any forfeited awards while retaining the discretion 
to make any payment or award deemed necessary and appropriate. 
The Committee may also require the appointee to purchase shares 
in the Company in accordance with its shareholding policy.
ELEMENT
PURPOSE AND 
LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY
ASSESSMENT OF 
PERFORMANCE
Share ownership 
guidelines
Provides close 
alignment between 
the longer-term 
interests of executive 
directors and 
shareholders in 
terms of the 
Company’s growth 
and performance.
We recognise that senior employees should 
hold a minimum level of shares in the Company 
and we currently believe the number of shares 
held by our executive directors as set out in 
this report satisfies this requirement without 
the need currently to specify a precise minimum 
number. However, this policy will be regularly 
reviewed by the Committee, in particular in 
light of the Merger, and any proposed changes 
will be set out in next year's report.
Not applicable. Not applicable.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 47
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued
RECRUITMENT TABLE
AREA FEATURE POLICY
Service contract and 
incentive plan provisions
Notice period + Up to 12 months from either side.
Entitlements on termination + As summarised in the Policy on Loss of Office.
 + Provisions for mitigation and payment in lieu of notice.
Restrictive covenants + Gardening leave provisions.
 + Non-compete, non-solicitation, non-dealing 
and confidentiality provisions.
Variable elements + The Committee has the discretion to determine whether 
an individual shall participate in any incentive in the year 
of appointment.
 + The Committee shall have the discretion to determine 
appropriate bonus performance targets if participating 
in the year of appointment.
Annual remuneration Salary + To be determined on appointment, taking into account 
factors including market levels, experience, internal 
relativities and cost.
Salary progression + If appointed at below market levels, salary may be re-aligned 
over the subsequent one to three years subject to performance 
in role. In this situation, the Committee reserves the 
discretion to make increases above ordinary levels.
 + This initial market positioning and intention to increase pay 
above the standard rate of increase in the Policy Table 
(subject to performance) will be disclosed in the first 
remuneration report following appointment.
Pension + In line with the Policy Table.
Benefits and allowances + In line with the Policy Table.
 + The Committee retains the discretion to provide additional 
benefits as reasonably required. These may include, but are 
not restricted to, relocation payments, housing allowances 
and cost of living allowances.
Variable pay + In line with the Policy Table.
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONTINUED
RECRUITMENT POLICY continued
With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive 
director, contractual terms will be consistent with those currently 
adopted. Variable pay will not be considered and as such no maximum 
applies. With respect to non-executive directors, fees will be consistent 
with policy at the time of appointment. If necessary, to secure the 
appointment of a new Chairman not based in the UK, payments 
relating to relocation and/or housing can be considered.
Elements of remuneration on appointment are set out in the 
Recruitment Table.
A timely announcement with respect to any director’s appointment 
and remuneration will be made to the regulatory news services and 
posted on the Company’s website.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 48
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION DETAILS
Deloitte LLP has audited the following items in the Remuneration 
Report as stipulated in the regulations:
 + the single total figure of remuneration;
 + the directors’ interests in shares; and
 + the disclosure of directors’ interests in the Carphone Warehouse 
Share Plan on page 46.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
The Board supports executive directors taking non-executive 
directorships as a part of their continuing development, and has 
also agreed that the executive directors may retain their fees from 
such appointments. The Board has reviewed all such appointments 
and concluded that there are no appointments that require 
disclosure pursuant to the Code.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT 
The following table summarises key terms from service contracts 
in place with directors; other terms are as set out in the 
Recruitment Table.
Date of
contract/
letter of Notice
appointment period
Sir Charles Dunstone 28 January 2010 12 months
Andrew Harrison 29 October 2013 12 months
Nigel Langstaff 20 June 2014 12 months
Roger Taylor 28 January 2010 6 months
John Allwood 28 January 2010 3 months
John Gildersleeve 28 January 2010 3 months
Baroness Morgan of Huyton 28 January 2010 3 months
Gerry Murphy 13 November 2013 3 months
Andrew Harrison was appointed to the Board in August 2013 under 
a new service agreement. The notice periods for Andrew Harrison 
and Nigel Langstaff have been increased from six months to 12 months 
reflecting standard market practice. Gerry Murphy was appointed 
to the Board on 2 April 2014. There were no other changes to these 
service contracts during the financial year. 
Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of appointment 
substantially in the form suggested by the Code. The Company 
has no age limit for directors.
Any changes to service contracts and appointment letters, including 
fees, following the Merger will be set out in next year's annual report.
POLICY ON LOSS OF OFFICE
Notice provisions in service contracts will be on terms similar 
to those for the existing executive directors and shall be up to 
12 months on either side. 
The Company shall have a right to make a payment in lieu of notice 
in respect of basic salary, private medical contributions and pension 
contributions only for the director’s contractual period of notice or, 
if termination is part way through the notice period, the amount 
relating to any unexpired notice to the date of termination. There is 
an obligation on directors to mitigate any loss which they may suffer 
if the Company terminates their service contract. The Committee 
will take such mitigation obligation into account when determining 
the amount and timing of any compensation payable to any 
departing director.
A director shall also be entitled to a payment in respect of accrued 
but untaken holiday and any statutory entitlements on termination. 
No compensation is paid for summary dismissal, save for any 
statutory entitlements.
A director shall be entitled to receive a redundancy payment in 
circumstances where in the judgement of the Committee they satisfy 
the statutory tests governing redundancy payments. Any redundancy 
payment shall be calculated by reference to the redundancy payments 
policy in force for all employees in the UK at the time of the redundancy. 
If a director’s employment terminates prior to the relevant annual bonus 
payment date, ordinarily no bonus is payable for that financial year. 
The Remuneration Committee shall retain discretion to make 
a pro rated bonus payment and/or payment of a retention bonus 
in circumstances where it would be appropriate to do so having 
regard to the contribution of the director during the financial year, 
the circumstances of the departure and the best interests 
of the Company. 
Any entitlements under long-term incentive schemes operated by 
the Company shall be determined based on the rules of the relevant 
scheme. The default position under the Carphone Warehouse Share 
Plan is that awards will lapse on the termination of employment 
unless the Committee exercises the discretion set out in the scheme 
rules. The Committee retains the discretion to prevent awards from 
lapsing depending on the circumstances of the departure and the best 
interests of the Company. 
The Committee shall be entitled to exercise its judgement with regard 
to settlement of potential claims, including but not limited to wrongful 
dismissal, unfair dismissal, breach of contract and discrimination, 
where it is appropriate to do so in the interests of the Company 
and its shareholders. 
In the event that any payment is made in relation to termination 
for an executive director, this will be fully disclosed in the following 
remuneration report.
A timely announcement with respect to the termination of any 
director’s appointment will be made to the regulatory news services 
and posted on the Company’s website.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 49
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued
REMUNERATION DETAILS CONTINUED
SCENARIO CHARTS
The charts below provide estimates of the potential future remuneration for each executive director based on the total opportunity available 
for the 2014–15 financial year including an annualised share of the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan.
ANDREW HARRISON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
£’000
Minimum Stretch
1
Super 
stretch
1
Maximum
2
35%
41%
100%
47%
42%
18%
35%
£2,195
£1,240
£511
£2,885
18% 23% 41%
• Long-term incentive
1,3
• Annual variable
• Fixed
NIGEL LANGSTAFF, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
£’000
Minimum Stretch
1
Super 
stretch
1
Maximum
2
33%
40%
100%
51%
46%
20%
33%
£1,727
£939
£376
£2,288
16% 21% 40%
• Long-term incentive
3
• Annual variable
• Fixed
1. Fixed remuneration comprises basic salary, committed taxable benefits and pension contributions.
2.  Annual variable remuneration represents the annual bonus entitlement. No bonus is assumed at the minimum performance level. Stretch performance 
assumes 50% of the maximum pay-out, super stretch assumes 75% of the maximum pay-out, while maximum assumes 100% of the maximum pay-out.
3.  Long-term incentives relate to the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan, in which the executive directors participate. This incentive scheme vests in 2017 and 2018, 
and the total value of scheme has been annualised over a period of five years.
  No reward is assumed at the minimum level of performance. Stretch performance reflects the generation of shareholder returns of £0.5bn over the term 
of the scheme, while super stretch performance reflects the generation of £1bn of incremental returns on the same basis.
  Maximum performance is fixed at the point at which the dilution cap of 4% associated with the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan is expected to apply, being £1.3bn 
of incremental shareholder returns over the term of the scheme.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE 
IN THE GROUP
With the exception of the salary increases reflecting the Company’s 
increased profile following the CPW Europe Acquisition, no increase to 
the remuneration of the executive directors is proposed. In arriving at 
this conclusion the Remuneration Committee was mindful that on 
average, the pay increase for other UK employees is approximately 
2%. Whilst employees were not formally consulted on executive 
remuneration a number of them are shareholders and as such are able 
to exercise their influence; we also monitor our employee discussion 
boards and employee forums to ensure employee feedback in general 
is considered in all our strategy execution.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS 
IN DEVELOPING POLICY
In 2013 we undertook an extensive consultation exercise with our 
shareholders to seek their views on the Carphone Warehouse Share 
Plan. As a result of this feedback a number of changes were made to the 
scheme design, including the introduction of a cap, greater transparency 
regarding the opening value calculation and the introduction 
of shareholding guidelines.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION
 Basic salary/ Taxable Pension Annual Total
 fees benefits contributions bonuses 2014
2014 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Sir Charles Dunstone 240 — — — 240
Andrew Harrison* 317 8 15 339 679
Roger Taylor 293 5 7 — 305
Nigel Langstaff 325 10 16 375 726
John Allwood 74 — — — 74
John Gildersleeve 81 — — — 81
Baroness Morgan of Huyton 60 — — — 60
Gerry Murphy — — — — —
*  Andrew Harrison joined the board on 1 August 2013. His remuneration presented above is for the period for which he was a director.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 50
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Basic salary/ Taxable Pension Annual Total
 fees benefits contributions bonuses 2013
2013 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Sir Charles Dunstone 240 — — — 240
Roger Taylor 440 12 22 484 958
Nigel Langstaff 275 10 14 303 602
John Allwood 62 — — — 62
John Gildersleeve 79 — — — 79
Baroness Morgan of Huyton 55 — — — 55
No long-term incentive schemes vested during the year. The share schemes approved by shareholders in June 2013 vest in 2017 (60%) 
and 2018 (40%). Loans of £0.4m and £0.3m were granted to Andrew Harrison and Nigel Langstaff respectively to enable them to subscribe 
for shares under those schemes as described on page 47.
No payments were made to former directors and no payments for loss of office were made during the year.
ANNUAL BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND AWARDS FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2013–14
As a percentage
of maximum
Measure bonus opportunity Threshold Maximum Actual Pay-out 
Pro forma Headline EBIT (£m)
1
50% £140m £170m £151m 31%
Reduction in average net debt
2
20% £25m £100m Missed —
Number of markets achieving 
a stretching employee 
engagement target
7.5% 5 or more 
markets out of 7
As threshold Missed —
Number of markets 
achieving a stretching 
customer NPS target
7.5% 5 or more 
markets out of 7
As threshold Achieved 7.5%
Personal targets based on 
the delivery of key elements 
of business strategy
15% Discretionary Discretionary Maximum 15%
1. Excludes Virgin Mobile France.
2. Reduction in average net debt after applying adjustments in relation to the CPW Europe Acquisition and other one–off items at the discretion of the Committee.
A sliding scale of targets for each objective was set at the start of the financial year, apart from the customer and employee engagement 
objectives which are either achieved or not met.
FEES FOR NON‑EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The fees for the independent non-executive directors are determined 
by the Board (excluding non-executive directors) after considering 
external market research, and are reviewed on an annual basis. 
Factors taken into consideration include the required time commitment, 
specific experience and/or qualifications. A base fee is payable and 
additional fees are paid for chairing and membership of committees.
Non-executive directors receive no variable pay and receive 
no additional benefits. 
Sir Charles Dunstone and Roger Taylor are employed by the 
Company and their pay is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee 
as part of the executive director pay review. 
For the 2014–15 financial year, independent non-executive directors 
will receive a basic fee of £45,000 (2014: £43,000) and additional fees 
for chairing or membership of committees. The increase in fees 
paid to non-executive directors reflects the increased profile 
of the Company following the CPW Europe Acquisition.
2014 2013
£000 £000
Chair of Audit Committee 15 15
Member of Audit Committee 5 4
Chair of Nomination Committee 8 5
Member of Nomination Committee 5 4
Chair of Remuneration Committee 10 10
Member of Remuneration Committee 5 4
Chair of Consumer Regulatory 
and Compliance Committee 3 —
John Gildersleeve will also receive an additional fee, consistent with 
the years to March 2014 and March 2013, of £17,000, in recognition 
of his serving part of the period as deputy chairman and for additional 
services he carried out during the period in his capacity as a non-executive 
director. John Allwood will also receive an additional fee of £15,000 
in his capacity as Senior Independent Director, continuing the 
arrangement since his appointment to that role.
LONG‑TERM INCENTIVES
Shareholders approved two new incentive schemes during the year, 
information on which is provided on page 47. Details of the Carphone 
Warehouse Share Plan and Carphone Warehouse Share Scheme and 
the grants made to Andrew Harrison and Nigel Langstaff are set out 
in the Policy Table. 
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 51
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued
REMUNERATION DETAILS CONTINUED
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION 
The percentage change in remuneration in the 2013–14 financial 
year compared with the prior year for the Company’s Chief Executive 
Officer and for all UK head office-based employees is shown below. 
Changes in salary relating to changes in roles and/or responsibilities 
have been excluded from the increase presented for the wider group 
in order to provide a like-for-like comparison.
Chief Chosen group
Executive of other
Officer employees
Salary and fees 5% 2%
Taxable benefits* n/a n/a
Annual bonuses (28%) (16%)
*  Taxable benefits have not been separately measured since there have been no 
material changes in Group benefits year-on-year.
To ensure comparability, the Chief Executive Officer’s salary in the 
table above excludes long-term incentive schemes.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The following table sets out both the total cost of remuneration 
for the Group compared with pro forma Headline EBIT and profits 
distributed for the 2013–14 financial year and the prior year.
Total
employee pay
(£m)
Pro forma
Headline EBIT
(pence)
Ordinary 
dividends paid
(£m)
354
23
• 2014
• 2013
132
30
151
351
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING 
TO REMUNERATION
The Committee retained Towers Watson throughout 2013–14 as 
independent advisers. Towers Watson is engaged to provide advice 
to the Committee and to work with the directors on matters relating 
to the Group’s executive remuneration and its long-term incentives. 
Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and operates under its code of conduct in relation to the provision of 
executive remuneration advice in the UK. Towers Watson has confirmed 
that it adhered to the Code throughout 2013–14 for all remuneration 
services provided to the Group. Towers Watson received fees of 
£84,000 in relation to the provision of those services. The Committee 
may also take external legal advice, where required, to assist it in 
carrying out its duties.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS
This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance 
with the Regulations, the relevant Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority and the Code. The constitution and operation of 
the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the Code. In 
framing its Remuneration Policy the Remuneration Committee has 
given full consideration to the matters set out in Schedule A of the 
Code. The Company is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue 
in respect of directors’ remuneration, and takes an active interest 
in voting outcomes. Where there are substantial votes against 
resolutions, explanatory reasons will be sought, and any actions 
in response will be communicated to shareholders.
The following table sets out the voting results in relation to the 
resolution to approve the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan 
at the general meeting in June 2013:
Votes cast Number %
For 395,813,705 96.0
Against 16,663,325 4.0
Total 412,477,030
Withheld 16,650
The following table sets out the voting results in relation to the 
Remuneration Report at the annual general meeting in July 2013:
Votes cast Number %
For 413,724,142 96.4
Against 15,371,547 3.6
Total 429,095,689
Withheld 6,216,641
ANNUAL BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURE FOR FINANCIAL 
YEAR 2014–15
The annual bonus for the 2014–15 financial year will operate on a 
similar basis as for the 2013–14 financial year and will be consistent 
with the policy detailed in the Remuneration Policy section of this report. 
The measures have been selected to reflect our key strategic objectives 
and are aligned to our Group balanced scorecard, with a minimum 
profit gate that must be achieved before any bonus is paid out.
The performance measures and weighting will be as follows:
As a percentage
of maximum
Measure bonus opportunity 
Headline EBIT 50%
Reduced net debt 20%
Customer NPS 7.5%
Employee engagement 7.5%
Personal targets focused on delivery 
of business strategy 15%
The proposed target levels for financial year 2014–15 have been set 
to be challenging relative to the business plan. The targets themselves, 
as they relate to the 2014–15 financial year, are deemed to be 
commercially sensitive. However, retrospective disclosure of the 
targets and performance against them will be provided in next 
year’s Remuneration Report to the extent that they do not 
remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 52
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The graph shows the Group’s performance measured through TSR, 
compared with the FTSE 250 Index, since 29 March 2010 when the 
Company was first admitted to the London Stock Exchange following 
the Demerger. The FTSE 250 Index was selected as it is a broad 
market which includes competitors of the Company.
Carphone Warehouse 
Group plc
FTSE 250 Index
Mar 10
80
130
180
230
280
330
380
430
480
530
580
Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE PAY 
The following table shows the Chief Executive Officer’s single total 
figure of remuneration, the amount of bonus earned as a percentage 
of the maximum remuneration possible, and the vesting of long-term 
awards as a percentage of the maximum number of shares that 
could have vested where applicable. 
Long-term
Annual incentive
bonus vesting 
CEO single pay-out rates against
total figure of against maximum
remuneration
1
maximum opportunity
Year £000 % %
2014 Andrew Harrison 679 54% n/a
Roger Taylor
3
159 n/a n/a
Total 845 n/a
2013 Roger Taylor 958 55% n/a
2012 Roger Taylor 474 0%
2
n/a
2011 Roger Taylor 1,193 82% n/a
1.  Excludes remuneration received from long-term incentive schemes 
established by Old Carphone Warehouse prior to the Demerger because 
that company is not part of the current Group. Details of remuneration associated 
with Old Carphone Warehouse incentive schemes were provided in the Company’s 
annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012. Future reports will include 
long-term incentives operated by the current Group when they have vested. 
Future reports will also reflect any necessary changes if the Merger completes.
2.  In 2012 Roger Taylor waived a bonus of 25% of maximum potential and instead 
chose for it to be paid directly to charity.
3.  The amount quoted relates only to remuneration received whilst Roger Taylor 
held the position of Chief Executive Officer.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
Details of directors’ interests in shares of the Company 
at 31 March 2014 are shown in the following table:
Ordinary shares
2014 2013
Sir Charles Dunstone 135,083,481 132,833,481
Andrew Harrison* 5,000,000 n/a
Nigel Langstaff* 3,654,180 3,609,180
Roger Taylor 9,808,554 9,693,554
John Allwood 10,000 10,000
John Gildersleeve 122,568 123,000
Baroness Morgan of Huyton 991 991
Gerry Murphy — —
*  In order to participate in the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan Andrew Harrison 
and Nigel Langstaff have also subscribed for 700 and 600 participation shares 
respectively in New CPW Limited. 
We recognise that senior employees should hold a minimum level 
of shares in the Company and we currently believe the number of 
shares held by our executive directors as set out in this report satisfies 
this requirement without the need currently to specify a precise 
minimum number. However, this policy will be regularly reviewed by 
the Committee, in particular in light of the Merger and any proposed 
changes will be set out in next year's Remuneration Report.
COMPLIANCE
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve this 
Remuneration Report will be proposed at the annual general 
meeting to be held on 23 July 2014.
This report was approved by the Board on 25 June 2014.
John Gildersleeve Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 53
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
The Group places significant emphasis on its employees’ involvement 
in the business at all levels. Managers are remunerated according to 
results wherever possible and employees are kept informed of issues 
affecting the Group through formal and informal meetings and 
through the Group’s internal publications. The management team 
regularly communicates matters of current interest and concern 
with employees. Further information on employee engagement is 
included in the report on corporate responsibility on pages 25 to 30.
EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED PEOPLE
It is the Group’s policy to encourage application for employment 
from disabled people and to assist with their training and career 
development, having regard to particular aptitudes and abilities. 
Every endeavour is made to find suitable alternative employment 
and to re-train any employee who becomes disabled while 
serving the Group.
SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY
The Group’s policy is to agree terms of transactions, including 
payment terms, with suppliers and, provided that suppliers perform 
in accordance with the agreed terms, it is the Group’s normal 
practice that payment is made accordingly. The average credit 
period taken on trade payables, calculated by reference to the 
amounts owed at the year end as a proportion of the amounts 
invoiced by suppliers in the year, adjusted to take account of the 
timing of acquisitions, was 59 days. Trade payables were not 
material at 31 March 2013.
DONATIONS
Information on the Group’s charitable activities and donations is 
included in the report on corporate responsibility on pages 25 to 30. 
No political donations were made during either year by the Group 
or its joint venture businesses.
INFORMATION SECURITY
The Group is committed to protecting both electronic and physical 
information from unauthorised access, processing, modification or 
destruction. There are a number of pieces of legislation relevant to 
information security to which the Group must adhere, including the 
Data Protection Act 1998 and EU’s Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC. 
The Group has a dedicated information security team. Security controls 
and awareness remain an area of significant focus for the Board.
DATA PROTECTION
The Group has a responsibility to ensure that all information is 
collected, stored, processed and disposed of in a secure way. In 
the UK, it is required to adhere to the UK Data Protection Act 1998. 
This legislation was enacted to bring UK law in line with the EU 
Data Protection Directive (the "Directive"), which is applicable to the 
rest of the Group’s European markets. The European Commission 
has recently unveiled its draft European Data Protection Regulation 
which will supersede the Directive. Ahead of the adoption of the new 
regulation, the business is engaged to prepare for changes in this 
area. The Group is committed to the ongoing monitoring of its 
data protection policies and procedures, and the implementation 
of improvements where necessary.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
(as defined in the Companies Act 2006) for the benefit of its directors 
during the year; these provisions remain in force at the date 
of this report.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
Details of the movements in issued share capital during the year 
are provided in note 20 to the Group financial statements. Ordinary 
shares of the Company carry the right to one vote at a general 
meeting of the Company and have no right to fixed income. 
Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 5 to the 
Group financial statements. The Group’s ESOT held 4.9m shares on 
29 March 2014 (2013: 0.04m) and has waived its right to receive dividends.
The shareholder agreement of Virgin Mobile France includes a 
change of control clause, whereby if there is a change of control 
event in relation to the Company, the other shareholders have the 
option to acquire the Company’s ownership of Virgin Mobile France, 
or require the Company to acquire the other shareholders’ interests.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 11 
to the Group financial statements. In the opinion of the directors the 
current open market value of the Group’s interests in freehold land 
and buildings exceeds the book value by £4m at 29 March 2014.
SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS
At 25 June 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance with 
Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK 
Financial Conduct Authority, of the following interests of over 3% 
of issued share capital of 576,067,769 ordinary shares:
  Percentage
 Number of share
Name of shares capital
D P J Ross 56,388,699 9.79%
M&G Investment Management Ltd 37,398,599 6.49%
Odey Asset Management LLP 34,132,735 5.93%
Kames Capital 29,793,129 5.17%
BlackRock, Inc. 27,011,855 4.69%
Newton Investment Management Ltd 22,329,216 3.88%
Capital World Investors 22,195,000 3.85%
Aviva Investors 20,754,999 3.60%
Directors’ interests in the Company’s shares and the movements 
thereon are detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 53.
AUDITORS
Each director at the date of approval of this annual report 
confirms that:
 + so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
 + the director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office 
as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed 
at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
By order of the Board on 25 June 2014
Tim Morris Company Secretary
Other statutory information
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 54
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to 
prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare 
the Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP. 
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss 
of the Company and Group for that period. 
In preparing the Company financial statements, the directors 
are required to:
 + select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 + make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 + state whether applicable UK GAAP has been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and
 + prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, IAS 1 
‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ requires that directors:
 + properly select and apply accounting policies;
 + present information, including accounting policies, 
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable 
and understandable information; 
 + provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the Group’s financial position and financial performance; and
 + make an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Group’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. 
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 + the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant 
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
 + the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face; and
 + the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, 
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
By order of the Board on 25 June 2014
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer
Nigel Langstaff Chief Financial Officer
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 55
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
57 Independent auditors’ report
60 Consolidated income statement
61 Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
61 Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
62 Consolidated balance sheet
63 Consolidated cash flow statement
64 Notes to the Group financial statements
97 Five-year record
98 Company balance sheet
99 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
56
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 56 Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 57
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditors’ report
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CARPHONE 
WAREHOUSE GROUP PLC
In our opinion:
 — the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 29 March 2014 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 — the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRS;
 — the Company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with UK GAAP; and
 — the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, 
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity, the consolidated balance sheet, 
the consolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 29 
and the Company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 12. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law 
and IFRS. The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable 
law and UK GAAP.
GOING CONCERN
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ 
statement contained on page 24 of the Strategic Report that the 
Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
 — we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern 
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 
is appropriate; and
 — we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation 
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Revenue recognition
Commission receivable for certain transactions is dependent on 
customer behaviour beyond the point of sale. Management is therefore 
required to exercise judgement in respect of the level of customer 
default within the contract period, expected levels of customer 
spend and customer behaviour beyond the initial contract period.
The key judgements and estimates involved are described in more 
detail on page 69.
We evaluated the design and implementation of both the manual 
and automated controls over the revenue recognition process 
in respect of commissions receivable. In addition we tested that 
these controls were operating effectively throughout the year. 
We have tested the valuation of revenue recognised through review 
of the Group’s contractual arrangements, substantive testing of 
management assumptions to third party network data and testing 
of subsequent cash receipts. We have also assessed the validity 
of those judgements made in prior years against actual outcomes. 
Acquisition accounting
The identification and the determination of the fair value of intangible 
assets arising from the CPW Europe Acquisition and the recognition 
of fair value adjustments through the associated purchase price 
allocation process involves complex accounting considerations. 
The intangible asset identification process requires management 
judgement in respect of estimates of future cash flows and associated 
discount rates in addition to economic lives. Management engaged 
external valuation experts in relation to this process. Fair value 
adjustments, in particular those arising from property, plant and 
equipment, pre-existing intangible assets and property operating 
leases, require significant judgement in relation to fair value at the 
date of acquisition, for which management also engaged external 
valuation experts. 
We tested the design and implementation of the controls around 
management’s process for both the identification of intangible 
assets and fair value adjustments. We used our internal valuation 
specialists to consider the appropriateness of methodology applied 
and to test the inputs to the valuation models used to determine the 
value of the intangible assets, including the discount rates, growth 
rates and useful economic lives, through comparing these against 
industry benchmarks on similar assets and our understanding of the 
future prospects of the business. We also challenged and tested the 
appropriateness of the cash flow projections used in the valuations. 
For the other significant fair value adjustments, we used our internal 
valuation specialists to benchmark the assumptions against relevant 
industry data to assess the appropriateness of the adjustments. 
Impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets
The Group’s assessment of impairment of acquisition-related 
intangible assets, including goodwill, primarily arising from the 
CPW Europe Acquisition, is a judgemental process which requires 
estimates concerning the future cash flows and associated discount 
rates and growth rates based on management’s view of future 
business prospects.
We assessed the assumptions used by management in the 
impairment model for goodwill and acquisition-related intangible 
assets, including the allocation to cash generating units, described 
in note 10 to the Group financial statements, and more specifically 
the cash flow projections, discount rates and long-term growth 
rates used against our understanding of the future prospects of the 
business and the prevailing Group cost of capital at the year end.  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 58
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditors’ report continued
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Closure of French operations
The Group announced its planned exit from the French retail 
market in April 2013. As part of this exit, the Group has completed 
necessary restructuring activities and a disposal programme in 
respect of its store portfolio, for which consideration of onerous 
lease contracts and asset impairment was required. As this process 
is ongoing, this requires significant judgement and use of assumptions 
by management in respect of the quantum of the associated provisions.
We tested the design and implementation of the controls operating 
around the accounting for the closure. We reviewed the associated 
contractual agreements as part of this disposal as well as substantively 
testing a sample of costs incurred through the year. For those 
provisions remaining at year end, we have compared management 
assumptions to contractual agreements and recent market data.
Taxation
The Group operates in a number of different tax jurisdictions. 
The nature of the Group’s operations and related transactions 
can give rise to uncertain tax treatments, including with respect 
to transfer pricing, thereby requiring the use of estimates and 
assumptions which may be subsequently challenged by the 
relevant tax authorities.
We used our internal tax specialists to evaluate and test 
management’s assumptions in respect of tax-related provisions, 
including assessment against local tax legislation and review 
of supporting documentation. 
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on page 39.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the 
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not 
to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our 
opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to 
any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion 
on these individual matters.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed 
or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our 
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £6m, which is below 5% 
of Headline profit before tax, and below 2% of equity. In using Headline 
profit before tax, we have followed the Group’s definition of Headline 
and non-Headline results on page 68. We have assessed the use 
of a Headline measure to be appropriate as this continues to be a 
key driver of business value, is a critical component of the financial 
statements and the main measure which management uses 
to monitor the performance of the business and communicate 
this to shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences identified in excess of £120,000, as 
well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. We also reported to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing 
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of 
the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, 
and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group 
level. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope 
primarily on audit work at eight locations, being the retail operations 
in the UK, France, Spain, Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland and 
Portugal and the insurance operations in Ireland. Each of these 
components requires a local statutory audit. In addition, a full scope 
audit was completed on the Group’s joint venture, Virgin Mobile France. 
These eight locations, and Virgin Mobile France, represent the principal 
business units and account for approximately 95% of the Group’s 
revenue. They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for 
undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement 
identified above. Our audit work at the eight locations was executed 
at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which 
were lower than Group materiality. 
At the Company level we also tested the consolidation process 
and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion 
that there were no significant risks of material misstatement 
in the aggregated financial information of the remaining 
components not subject to audit.
The Group audit team is directly responsible for the audit of the UK 
component, which is the largest. In addition, the Group audit team 
continued to follow a programme of planned visits to overseas 
components that has been designed so that a senior member of 
the Group audit team visits the most significant locations each year. 
In the year ended 29 March 2014, the three largest overseas component 
locations were visited by a senior member of the Group audit team. 
In years when we do not visit a particular significant component we will 
include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss their 
risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from 
their work.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES 
ACT 2006
In our opinion:
 — the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
 — the information given in the Strategic Report and the Other 
Statutory Information on page 54 for the financial year for which 
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT 
BY EXCEPTION
ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED 
AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 — we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
 — the Company financial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT continued Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 59
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT 
BY EXCEPTION continued
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in 
our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not 
been made or the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited is 
not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of 
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION 
IN THE ANNUAL REPORT
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual 
report is:
 — materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
 — apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
 — otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual 
report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual 
report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated 
to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any such 
inconsistencies or misleading statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality 
Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to 
ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood 
and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated 
professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 
we have formed.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
John Adam (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
25 June 2014 Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 60
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated income statement
for the years ended 29 March 2014 and 31 March 2013
Restated* Restated* Restated*
  Headline Non-Headline* Statutory Headline Non-Headline* Statutory
  2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013
 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 2, 4 2,505 71 2,576 11 — 11
Cost of sales 4 (1,864) (48) (1,912) — — —
Gross profit 641 23 664 11 — 11
Operating expenses 4 (508) (60) (568) (8) — (8)
Profit (loss) from operations before share of results 
of joint ventures
133 (37) 96 3 — 3
Share of results of joint ventures 2, 4, 24 3 (23) (20) 48 (50) (2)
Profit (loss) before interest and taxation 3 136 (60) 76 51 (50) 1
Interest income 6 8 — 8 2 — 2
Interest expense 6 (17) — (17) — — —
Profit (loss) before taxation 127 (60) 67 53 (50) 3
Taxation 4, 7 (25) 6 (19) (1) — (1)
Profit (loss) from continuing operations 102 (54) 48 52 (50) 2
Profit (loss) from discontinued operations 24 — — — 3 (1) 2
Net profit (loss) for the year 102 (54) 48 55 (51) 4
Earnings per share     
Basic     
Continuing operations 9 18.4p 8.6p 10.9p 0.3p
Discontinued operations 9 0.0p 0.0p 0.7p 0.6p
Total 9 18.4p 8.6p 11.6p 0.9p
Diluted
Continuing operations 9 18.1p 8.5p 10.8p 0.3p
Discontinued operations 9 0.0p 0.0p 0.7p 0.6p
Total 9 18.1p 8.5p 11.5p 0.9p
*  Non-Headline items comprise exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and the results of the Group's retail operations in France, which are in 
the process of closure (see note 4). Prior year comparatives have been restated to classify the results of the French business as non-Headline and to classify the 
results of Virgin Mobile France as discontinued operations. A reconciliation of Headline results to statutory results is provided in note 8.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated income statement.  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 61
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the years ended 29 March 2014 and 31 March 2013
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 29 March 2014 
 Share Capital
 Share premium Accumulated Translation Demerger redemption
 capital reserve profits reserve reserve reserve Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At the beginning of the year 1 170 1,238 2 (750) — 661
Net profit for the year — — 48 — — — 48
Other comprehensive income (expense) — — 2 (11) — — (9)
Issue of shares — 113 103 — — — 216
Net purchase of own shares — — (12) — — — (12)
Equity dividends — — (30) — — — (30)
Tax on items recognised directly through reserves — — 6 — — — 6
At the end of the year 1 283 1,355 (9) (750) — 880
for the year ended 31 March 2013
 Share Capital
 Share premium Accumulated Translation Demerger redemption
 capital reserve profits reserve reserve reserve Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At the beginning of the year 34 170 697 — (750) 557 708
Net profit for the year — — 4 — — — 4
Other comprehensive income — — — 2 — — 2
Redemption of shares (33) — (33) — — 33 (33)
Equity dividends — — (23) — — — (23)
Capital reduction — — 590 — — (590) —
Share of other reserve movements of joint ventures — — 3 — — — 3
At the end of the year 1 170 1,238 2 (750) — 661
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of changes in equity.
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Net profit for the year 48 4
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit and loss:
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (8) 2
Other foreign exchange differences (3) —
Movements in relation to interest rate hedges 2 —
Total recognised income and expenses for the year 39 6
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 62
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 29 March 2014 and 31 March 2013
  2014 2013
 Notes £m £m
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 10 481 —
Intangible assets 10 136 —
Property, plant and equipment 11 90 27
Trade and other receivables 14 191 —
Interests in joint ventures 24 — 537
Deferred tax assets 7 54 1
  952 565
    
Current assets   
Stock 13 240 —
Trade and other receivables 14 821 3
Assets held for sale 24 11 —
Cash and cash equivalents 15 283 117
  1,355 120
Total assets 2,307 685
    
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 16 (869) (17)
Deferred consideration 17 (25) —
Provisions 18 (50) (7)
Corporation tax liabilities (36) —
Finance lease obligations 19 (1) —
 (981) (24)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 (113) —
Deferred consideration 17 (25) —
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (18) —
Loans and other borrowings 19 (290) —
(446) —
Total liabilities (1,427) (24)
Net assets 880 661
    
Equity   
Share capital 20, 21 1 1
Share premium reserve 21 283 170
Accumulated profits 21 1,355 1,238
Translation reserve 21 (9) 2
Demerger reserve 21 (750) (750)
Funds attributable to equity shareholders 880 661
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated balance sheet.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company on pages 60 to 96 were approved by the Board on 25 June 2014 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer Nigel Langstaff Chief Financial Officer Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 63
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the years ended 29 March 2014 and 31 March 2013
Restated
 2014 2013
 Notes £m £m
Operating activities  
Profit before interest and taxation 76 1
Adjustments for non-cash items:  
Share-based payments 4 —
Non-cash movements on joint ventures 19 2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18 1
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 16 —
Amortisation of other intangibles 16 —
Impairment of property, plant and equipment — 1
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment — (3)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 149 2
Decrease in trade and other receivables 107 19
Decrease in stock 97 —
Increase in trade and other payables 125 7
Decrease in provisions (20) (3)
Cash flows from operating activities 458 25
Taxation paid (16) (1)
Net cash flows from operating activities 442 24
   
Investing activities  
Interest received 2 2
Net cash outflow arising from CPW Europe Acquisition 23 (317) —
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 40
Proceeds on sale of current investments 5 —
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (18) —
Acquisition of intangible assets (42) —
Net receipts from joint ventures 2 4
Cash flows from investing activities (358) 46
   
Financing activities  
Settlement of financial instruments 3 —
Interest paid (14) —
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (2) —
Net purchase of own shares (12) —
Equity dividends paid 22 (30) (23)
Net drawdown of borrowings 19 19 —
Facility arrangement fees paid (6) —
Issue of shares 124 —
Shares redeemed 22 — (33)
Cash flows from financing activities 82 (56)
   
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 166 14
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 117 103
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 15 283 117
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated cash flow statement. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 64
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
a) BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales. The financial statements of the Group have been prepared on a going concern basis 
in accordance with IFRS as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements have been presented in UK Sterling, the functional currency of the Company, on the historical cost basis except for 
the revaluation of certain financial instruments, as explained below. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest one million pounds, 
unless otherwise stated. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
On 26 June 2013 the Group completed the CPW Europe Acquisition for a net consideration of £471m, at which point CPW Europe became 
a 100% owned subsidiary of the Group. In these financial statements, CPW Europe is treated as a joint venture prior to 26 June 2013 
and a wholly owned subsidiary from 26 June 2013 onwards.
In prior periods the Group reported to a financial year end of 31 March. CPW Europe reports to a retail calendar, whereby its year-end date is 
normally the Saturday closest to 31 March. Following the CPW Europe Acquisition the Group is reporting to the same retail calendar as CPW 
Europe and has consequently prepared financial statements for the period from 1 April 2013 to 29 March 2014 (the "year ended 29 March 2014"). 
GOING CONCERN
Note 25 to the financial statements includes the Group’s policies and processes for managing its exposure to liquidity risk. 
In their consideration of going concern, the directors have reviewed the Group’s future cash forecasts and profit projections, which are based 
on market data and past experience. This review considered the implications of the CPW Europe Acquisition during the year, including the effect 
on forecast cash flows and changes to the Group’s financing facilities. The directors are of the opinion that the Group’s forecasts and projections, 
which take into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group is able to operate within its current facilities 
and comply with its banking covenants for the foreseeable future. In arriving at their conclusion that the Group has adequate financial resources, 
the directors were mindful that the Group has a robust policy towards liquidity and cash flow management and that it is financed through facilities, 
excluding overdrafts repayable on demand, totalling a maximum of £650m (of which £360m was undrawn at 29 March 2014) committed to 
April 2017. The Group’s operations are financed by these committed facilities (further described in note 19), retained profits and equity.
Accordingly the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for 
the foreseeable future and consequently the directors continue to apply the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements. 
JOINT VENTURES
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of the Group’s joint ventures to bring accounting policies used into line 
with those used by the Group. The accounting policies below also relate to those applied to the Group’s joint ventures.
b) BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. Intercompany transactions and 
balances between subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation. 
c) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND TRANSACTIONS
Material transactions in foreign currencies are hedged using forward purchases or sales of the relevant currencies and are recognised in the 
financial statements at the exchange rates thus obtained. Unhedged transactions are recorded at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. 
Material monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are hedged, mainly using forward foreign exchange contracts to create 
matching liabilities and assets, and are retranslated at each balance sheet date. Hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’ has been applied by marking to market the relevant financial instruments at the balance sheet date and 
recognising the gain or loss in reserves in respect of cash flow hedges, and through profit or loss in respect of fair value hedges.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average foreign exchange rates for the year, and their balance sheets are translated at 
the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Goodwill is held in the currency of the operation to which it relates. Exchange differences arising on 
the translation of net assets, goodwill and results of overseas operations are recognised in the translation reserve. All other exchange differences 
are included in profit or loss in the year in which they arise except as follows:
 — where the Group designates financial instruments held for the purpose of hedging the foreign currency exposures that result from material 
transactions undertaken in foreign currencies as cash flow hedges, hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement’ is applied. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated as cash flow 
hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
In the event that a foreign operation is disposed of, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in profit or loss is determined after taking into 
account the cumulative currency translation differences that are attributable to the operation. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 65
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
c) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND TRANSACTIONS continued
The principal exchange rates against UK Sterling used in these financial statements are as follows:
 Average Closing
 2014 2013 2014 2013
Euro 1.19 1.22 1.21 1.19
Swedish Krona 10.36 10.56 10.82 9.91
d) REVENUE
All revenue is stated net of VAT and other sales-related taxes. The following accounting policies are applied to the various 
revenue-generating activities in which the Group is engaged:
 — revenue arising on the sale of mobile and other products and services is recognised when the relevant products or services are provided;
 — commission receivable on sales, being commission which is contractually committed, and for which there are no ongoing performance 
criteria, is recognised when the sales to which the commission relates are made, net of any provision for promotional offers and network 
operator performance penalties. Commission includes a share of customer airtime spend, to the extent that it can be reliably measured 
and there are no ongoing service obligations (see ‘Use of critical accounting estimates and assumptions’ in note 1u). Where the time 
value of money has a material impact, an appropriate discount is applied such that revenue is recognised at an amount equal to the 
present value of the future consideration received;
 — other ongoing revenue is recognised as it is earned over the lives of the relevant customers;
 — volume bonuses receivable from network operators are recognised when the conditions on which they are earned have been met;
 — volume bonuses received from suppliers of products are recognised as an offset to product cost when the conditions on which they are earned 
have been met, and are recognised within cost of sales when the products to which the volume bonuses relate have been sold;
 — insurance premiums are typically paid either monthly or quarterly in advance. Sales commission paid by third parties is recognised when 
the insurance policies to which it relates are sold, to the extent that it can be reliably measured and there are no ongoing service obligations. 
Insurance premium income for the provision of ongoing insurance services is recognised over the lives of the relevant policies;
 — revenue from the sale of prepaid credits is deferred until the customer uses the airtime or the credit expires;
 — revenue generated from the provision of fixed and mobile network services is recognised as it is earned over the lives of the relevant 
customers;
 — rental income from investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease;
 — consultancy income is recognised as the services are provided; and
 — all other revenue is recognised when the relevant goods or services are provided.
e) SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant, and expensed over the vesting period, 
based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Binomial model for share-based payments with internal performance criteria (such as EPS targets) 
and a Monte Carlo model for those with external performance criteria (such as TSR targets).
For schemes with internal performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is recalculated at each balance sheet date, based 
on expectations of performance against target and of leavers prior to vesting. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous 
balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in reserves.
For schemes with external performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is adjusted only for expectations of leavers 
prior to vesting. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, 
with a corresponding entry in reserves.
If a share-based payment scheme is cancelled, any remaining part of the fair value of the scheme is expensed through the income 
statement. If a share-based payment scheme is forfeited, no further expense is recognised and any charges previously recognised through 
the income statement are reversed.
Charges also arise on loans that are provided to employees to fund the purchase of shares as part of long-term incentive plans, 
to the extent to which the loans are not, in certain circumstances, repayable; the cost of the relevant part of such loans is expensed 
over the course of the relevant incentive plans. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 66
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
f) PENSIONS
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules 
of the schemes.
g) DIVIDENDS
Dividend income is recognised when payment has been received. Final dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the financial 
statements in the year in which they are approved by shareholders. Interim and other dividends are recognised in the year in which they are paid.
h) LEASES
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 
THE GROUP AS LESSOR
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred 
in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line 
basis over the lease term.
THE GROUP AS LESSEE
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet 
as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless they are 
directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on borrowing 
costs (see note 1r). Contingent rentals are recognised as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. 
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease except 
where another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the lease asset are 
consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 
In the event that lease incentives and rent-free periods are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are amortised through 
the income statement over the period of the lease. 
i) TAXATION
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates 
and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet 
and its tax base.
Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets represent 
tax recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax losses and credits. 
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected 
to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset 
can be utilised. Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except where it relates to an item recognised directly 
in reserves, in which case it is recognised directly in reserves.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legal right to do so in the relevant jurisdictions.
j) GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
GOODWILL
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration 
given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is recognised initially as an asset at cost and is subsequently 
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. At the acquisition date, goodwill is allocated to each of the CGUs expected to 
benefit from the combination and held in the currency of the operations to which the goodwill relates. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for 
impairment, or more frequently where there is an indication that goodwill may be impaired. Impairment is determined by assessing the future 
cash flows of the CGUs to which the goodwill relates. Where the future cash flows are less than the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment 
charge is recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, the relevant goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 67
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
j) GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued
SOFTWARE AND LICENCES
Software and licences includes internal infrastructure and design costs incurred in the development of software for internal use. Internally 
generated software is recognised as an intangible asset only if it can be separately identified, it is probable that the asset will generate future 
economic benefits, and the development cost can be measured reliably. Where these conditions are not met, development expenditure is 
recognised as an expense in the year in which it is incurred. Software and licences are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful economic lives of up to eight years.
KEY MONEY
Key money paid to enter a property is stated at cost, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment. Amortisation is provided on key 
money at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over ten years or the lease term if less.
ACQUISITION INTANGIBLES
Acquisition intangibles include customer relationships and brands arising on the CPW Europe Acquisition. These intangible assets are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives of up to eight years for customer relationships and up to ten years for 
brands. The value attributed to such assets is based on the future economic benefit that is expected to be derived from them, calculated 
as the present value of future cash flows after a deduction for contributory assets.
k) PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Any gain 
or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in profit or loss.
Depreciation is provided for on all property, plant and equipment (excluding land) at rates calculated so as to write off the cost, less 
the estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life from the date it is brought into use. 
Rates applied to different classes of property, plant and equipment are as follows:
Short leasehold costs:    10% per annum or the lease term if less
Network equipment and computer hardware: 12.5–50% per annum
Fixtures and fittings:    20–25% per annum
Investment property (property held to earn rental income and/or for capital appreciation) is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation 
and provisions for impairment. Depreciation is applied at 2–4% per annum.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
l) RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of impairment 
exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s 
or CGU’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately 
in the income statement.
m) INVESTMENTS
Investments, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given plus 
any transaction costs associated with the acquisition. Investments are categorised as available-for-sale and are then recorded at fair value. 
Changes in fair value, together with any related taxation, are taken directly to reserves, and recycled to the income statement when the 
investment is sold or determined to be impaired.
n) INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES
Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The consolidated income statement includes the Group’s share of the 
post-tax profits or losses of the joint ventures based on their financial statements for the year. In the consolidated balance sheet, the Group’s 
interests in joint ventures are shown as a non-current asset in the balance sheet, representing the Group’s investment in the share capital 
of the joint ventures, as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets or liabilities less provision for any impairment. 
Any associated goodwill is included within the carrying value of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Where a joint venture has net liabilities, any loans advanced to it are included in the Group’s equity-accounted investment in it. Where a joint 
venture has net assets, any loans advanced to it are shown separately in the balance sheet, as a receivable to the Group.
o) ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through 
sale rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal 
group is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify 
for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. Such assets, or disposal groups, are generally measured 
at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Any impairment loss on a non-current asset or disposal group is allocated 
first to goodwill, and then to the remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is booked to stock, financial assets, 
deferred tax assets, employee benefits assets or investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Group’s other 
accounting policies. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains and losses on re-measurement are 
recognised in profit or loss. Once classified as held for sale, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are no longer amortised 
or depreciated, and any equity-accounted investee is no longer equity accounted. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 68
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
p) STOCK
Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost, net of discounts and volume bonuses from product suppliers (see note 
1d), includes all direct costs incurred in bringing stock to its present location and condition and represents finished goods and goods for 
resale. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to disposal. Provision is made 
for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
q) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents represent cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible 
to known amounts of cash.
r) LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS
Loans and other borrowings in the Group's balance sheet represent committed and uncommitted bank loans. Loans and other borrowings 
in the balance sheets of joint ventures represent committed and uncommitted bank loans and loans from shareholders other than the Group.
Bank fees and legal costs associated with the securing of external financing are ordinarily capitalised and amortised over the term of the 
relevant facility. Borrowing costs associated with qualifying assets are included in the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are 
recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
s) PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when a legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions 
are discounted where the time value of money is considered to be material.
Provisions fall into the following categories:
SALES
Sales provisions relate to ‘cash-back’ and similar promotions, product warranties, product returns, and network operator performance 
penalties. The anticipated costs of these items are assessed by reference to historical trends and any other information that is considered 
to be relevant.
REORGANISATION
Reorganisation provisions relate principally to redundancy costs, the costs of onerous leases and other onerous contracts, and are only 
recognised where plans are demonstrably committed and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken 
at the balance sheet date. Provisions are not recognised in respect of future operating losses.
OTHER
Other provisions relate to warranties provided in relation to the Best Buy Joint Venture Transaction, dilapidations and similar property 
costs, and all other provisions, principally being the anticipated costs of unresolved tax issues and legal disputes, the expected costs 
of insurance claims, and costs associated with onerous contracts. All such provisions are assessed by reference to the best available 
information at the balance sheet date.
t) HEADLINE RESULTS
Headline results are stated before the results of discontinued businesses, including those within joint ventures, any exceptional items that 
are considered to be one-off and so material that they require separate disclosure to avoid distortion of underlying performance, and the 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
u) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
Estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements are continually reviewed and revised as necessary. 
Whilst every effort is made to ensure that such estimates and assumptions are reasonable, by their nature they are uncertain, and as such 
changes in estimates and assumptions may have a material impact.
The principal items in the financial statements where changes in estimates and assumptions may have a material impact are as follows:
RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS
All non-current assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, are reviewed for potential impairment using estimates of the future 
economic benefits attributable to them. Any estimates of future economic benefits made in relation to non-current assets may differ from 
the benefits that ultimately arise and materially affect the recoverable value of the asset. Further details on the key assumptions utilised 
in assessing the carrying value are provided in note 10.
ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING
Accounting for the CPW Europe Acquisition involved the use of assumptions in relation to the future cash flows associated with acquisition 
intangibles, and the use of valuation techniques in order to arrive at the fair value of the other non-current assets and liabilities acquired. 
The assumptions applied were based on the best information available to management and valuation techniques were supported by third 
party valuation experts. Nevertheless, the actual performance of these assets and liabilities may differ from the valuations derived through 
this exercise. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 69
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
u) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY continued
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Provisions for irrecoverable receivables are based on extensive historical evidence and the best available information in relation to specific 
issues, but are unavoidably dependent on future events.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Commission receivable on sales depends for certain transactions on customer behaviour after the point of sale. Assumptions are therefore 
required, particularly in relation to levels of customer default within the contract period, expected levels of customer spend, and customer 
behaviour beyond the initial contract period. Such assumptions are based on extensive historical evidence, and provision is made for the risk of 
potential changes in customer behaviour, but they are nonetheless inherently uncertain. Changes in estimates recognised as an increase to 
revenue may be made, where for example more reliable information is available, and any such changes are required to be recognised in the 
income statement. Changes of estimates during the year ended 29 March 2014 in relation to commission receivable after the initial contract term 
for sales originating in previous years totalled £18m (2013: £21m). The total value of ongoing revenues receivable at 29 March 2014 was £525m. 
The value of ongoing revenues receivable within CPW Europe at 31 March 2013 was £550m.
CURRENT TAXATION
The complex nature of tax legislation across the tax jurisdictions in which the Group and its joint ventures operate necessitates the use 
of many estimates and assumptions, where the outcome may differ from that assumed.
DEFERRED TAXATION
The extent to which tax losses can be utilised depends on the extent to which taxable profits are generated in the relevant jurisdictions 
in the foreseeable future, and on the tax legislation then in force, and as such the value of associated deferred tax assets is uncertain.
PROVISIONS
The Group’s provisions are based on the best information available to management at the balance sheet date. However, the future costs 
assumed are inevitably only estimates, which may differ from those ultimately incurred.
Provisions relating to the disposal of excess property necessitate assumptions in respect of the period to disposal and exit costs, which 
may differ from the ultimate cost of disposal.
v) RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS
In the current year the Group has applied for the first time certain new standards and interpretations, with only IFRS 13 and Amendments 
to IAS 1 affecting the Group. The impact of the application of these standards is as follows:
 — IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ – provides guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures about fair value measurements. 
IFRS 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the 
principal (or most advantageous) market under current market conditions. Other than the additional disclosures, the application of IFRS 13 
has not had any material impact on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
 — IAS 1 (amended) ‘Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income’ – requires certain groupings of items presented in the 
statement of comprehensive income. Items that will be reclassified (or recycled) to profit or loss in the future are presented separately 
from items that will never be reclassified.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective, and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU:
 — IAS 36 (amended) ‘Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets’
 — IAS 39 (amended) ‘Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting’
 — IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
 — IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 (amended) ‘Investment Entities’
 — IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’
 — IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’
A detailed review of the impact of the adoption of these standards, amendments or interpretations will be performed in due course; 
however the directors do not currently expect that they will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 70
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
2 OPERATING SEGMENTS
a) BASIS FOR SEGMENTATION
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ requires that operating segments mirror the segments that are routinely reviewed by the Board, and which 
are used to manage performance and allocate resources.
Following the acquisition of CPW Europe, the Group's wholly owned operations consist of two segments, being the UK and Ireland and 
Mainland Europe (comprising operations in France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Sweden). This classification is consistent 
with the management structure of the Group, and the way in which information is reported to the Board. Connected World Services, our B2B 
business, is not considered to be a separate segment since its operations are currently integrated with those of our retail business in each 
market, and are therefore not separable. Virgin Mobile France has previously been reported separately as it has a distinct and separate 
management team and discrete financial information. In light of the Group's intention to sell this business, Virgin Mobile France is now reported 
as a discontinued operation and its results are therefore excluded from the segmental results analysis below. Details of its profits and losses 
are provided in note 24.
The Group’s reportable segments under IFRS 8 are as follows:
Reportable segment Operations
UK and Ireland Retail, distribution, insurance and telecoms services in the UK and Ireland
Mainland Europe Retail, distribution, insurance and telecoms services in Mainland Europe
CPW Europe Retail, distribution, insurance and telecoms services when held by the Group as a joint venture
Virgin Mobile France MVNO
b) SEGMENTAL RESULTS
Segmental results for continuing operations are analysed as follows:
CPW
Joint ventures
(see note 24)
 
CPW
Europe Virgin
 UK and Mainland (to 26 June Mobile 
 Ireland Europe 2013) France Unallocated* Total
2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Headline revenue** 1,470 1,035 — — — 2,505
Headline EBIT before share of results of joint ventures 126 7 — — — 133
Share of Headline results of joint ventures (post-tax) — — 3 — — 3
Headline EBIT 126 7 3 — — 136
Exceptional items*** (11) (4) — — — (15)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles*** (10) (6) — — — (16)
French operations (in process of closure)*** — (6) (23) — — (29)
Statutory EBIT (segment results) 105 (9) (20) — — 76
      
Assets 1,841 455 — 11 — 2,307
Liabilities (828) (309) — — (290) (1,427)
Net assets 1,013 146 — 11 (290) 880
Capital expenditure 60 8 — — — 68
* Unallocated liabilities reflect the loans and other borrowings of the Group.
** Non-Headline revenue of £71m (2013: nil) relates to operations in France.
*** See note 4 for further details.
Included within UK and Ireland and Mainland Europe revenue is income from two MNOs of approximately £450m and £400m respectively. 
No other customers or MNOs represent more than 10% of the Group’s revenue. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 71
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2 OPERATING SEGMENTS continued
b) SEGMENTAL RESULTS continued
 
CPW
Joint ventures
(see note 24)
 
 UK and CPW
Virgin
Mobile 
  Ireland Europe France Total
2013 (restated) £m £m £m £m
Revenue 11 — — 11
Headline EBIT before share of results of joint ventures 3 — — 3
Share of Headline results of joint ventures (post-tax) — 48 — 48
Headline EBIT 3 48 — 51
Share of joint venture exceptional items (post-tax)* — (5) — (5)
French operations (in process of closure)* — (45) — (45)
Statutory EBIT (segment results) 3 (2) — 1
     
Assets 148 524 13 685
Liabilities (24) — — (24)
Net assets 124 524 13 661
Capital expenditure — — — —
* See note 4 for further details.
Transactions between segments are on an arm’s length basis.
c) GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION
The geographical information below further analyses the Group’s revenue and non-current assets. Revenue and non-current assets 
are allocated based on the location of customers and assets.
2014 2013
i) Headline revenue* £m £m
United Kingdom 1,402 11
Netherlands 127 —
Spain 386 —
Germany 395 —
Other 195 —
2,505 11
* Non-Headline revenue of £71m (2013: nil) relates to French retail operations, which are in the process of closure.
2014 2013
ii) Non-current assets £m £m
United Kingdom 779 552
Netherlands 60 —
Spain 60 —
Germany 26 —
Other 27 13
952 565 Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 72
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
3 PROFIT (LOSS) BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXATION
Profit (loss) before interest and taxation is stated after charging (crediting) the following:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18 1
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 16 —
Amortisation of other intangibles 16 —
Impairment of property, plant and equipment — 1
Impairment of trade receivables 19 —
Impairment of stock 38 —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment — (3)
Investment property rental income (2) (6)
Cost of stock recognised as an expense 1,782 —
Net rental expense 88 —
Share-based payments expense 4 —
Other employee costs (see note 5) 284 5
Auditors’ remuneration comprises the following:
2014 2013
£m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for their audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 1.3 —
Tax advisory services 0.5 —
Tax compliance services 0.2 —
Other assurance services 0.6 —
2.7 0.1
The Group’s share of audit fees in the year for joint ventures was £0.1m (2013: £0.5m) and the Group’s share of fees for their tax and other 
services was £0.1m (2013: £0.2m). Other assurance services for the year ended 29 March 2014 relate primarily to the CPW Europe Acquisition, 
in respect of which the external auditors acted as reporting accountant. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 73
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4 NON‑HEADLINE ITEMS
Non-Headline items comprise: 
i) French operations
 — The results, including closure provisions, of the Group's French retail business, which is in the process of closure. 
ii) CPW Europe Acquisition
 — Exceptional items associated with the transaction.
iii) CPW Europe Reorganisation
 — Exceptional items incurred in the prior year in relation to restructuring activity within CPW Europe.
iv) Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
 — Amortisation of acquisition intangibles, relating principally to the CPW Europe Acquisition.
The items above have affected the results of both the wholly owned Group and the Group's joint ventures and are analysed as follows:
Restated
  2014 2013
 Notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue:
French operations i) 71 —
Cost of sales:
French operations i) (48) —
Operating expenses:   
French operations i)  (29)  —
CPW Europe Acquisition ii) (15) —
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles iv) (16) —
  (60) —
Share of results of joint ventures (post-tax):   
French operations i) (23) (45) 
CPW Europe Reorganisation iii) — (5)
  (23) (50)
Taxation:   
CPW Europe Acquisition ii) 3 —
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles iv) 3 —
  6 —
    
Loss for the year from continuing operations (54) (50)
Discontinued operations: 
Amortisation of joint venture acquisition intangibles — (1)
Loss for the year (54) (51) Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 74
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
4 NON‑HEADLINE ITEMS continued
i) FRENCH OPERATIONS
In light of an increasingly challenging market context, CPW Europe commenced an exit from the French retail market in April 2013. The exit costs 
and results of this business during this process have been excluded from Headline earnings, with comparatives restated on the same basis.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, a pre-tax charge of £7m was booked in relation to redundancies, lease exit costs and other cash 
restructuring costs relating to approximately 75 stores which the business had committed to exit at the year end. In addition, the goodwill 
associated with the French business was written off during the same period, alongside various other non-current assets in the business. 
Together with asset write-downs associated with store closures that were committed during the year, total non-cash asset write-downs of 
£94m were booked in the year. A tax credit of £5m was booked against these charges, principally reflecting the de-recognition of deferred 
tax liabilities.
CPW Europe’s French operations recorded an EBIT of £8m in the year ended 31 March 2013, against which a tax charge of £1m was recognised.
The Group’s post-tax share of these restructuring costs, asset write-downs and operating results was £45m.
In the year ended 29 March 2014, prior to the CPW Europe Acquisition and in light of the commitment to exit the business, CPW Europe 
recorded further non-cash asset write-downs of £8m, and provided £32m for estimated future exit costs, principally covering redundancies 
and lease exit costs. Operating losses of £10m were incurred prior to the CPW Europe Acquisition, resulting from the challenging environment 
that prompted the decision to exit the French market, together with the effects of the announcement of this decision. A tax credit of £3m was 
recognised against these items. The Group’s post-tax share of these restructuring costs, asset write-downs and operating results was £23m.
Since the CPW Europe Acquisition, the French business incurred further EBIT losses of £6m, representing gross margin of £23m and operating 
expenses of £29m. 
Following our initial decision to exit the French retail market, it has become apparent that there is an opportunity to develop a new 
Connected World Services business in France, focusing initially on leveraging our French insurance business, as we did following our exit 
from retail operations in Belgium. Since the year end, we have put in place a team to develop this business, which has already secured its 
first two third party clients and is actively engaged in tenders for other business. While the value of the run-off base, in the absence of the 
retail infrastructure to support it, is clearly uncertain, we will aim to use it to grow the Connected World Services business as part of 
continuing operations going forward and will present this within Headline results.
ii) CPW EUROPE ACQUISITION
The CPW Europe Acquisition gave rise to a number of exceptional items.
Operating expenses include banking and professional fees of £7m in relation to the transaction. Additionally, as a result of the transaction, 
a number of incentive schemes could not be maintained in their existing form, and they were either allowed to vest early or were replaced 
during the year. This resulted in cash costs of £8m and an acceleration of non-cash accounting charges of £3m. A tax credit of £3m has 
been recognised in respect of these costs.
The CPW Europe Acquisition required the Group to fair value its existing 50% interest in CPW Europe, which was considered to be equal 
to the £500m gross consideration for Best Buy’s 50% interest, giving rise to a non-cash gain of £1m.
Arrangements with Best Buy allowed the Group to manage the disposal of the Consideration Shares issued to Best Buy, and to benefit from 
any gain on disposal above a share price of £1.90. The Consideration Shares were placed at a price of £2.44, resulting in a net cash gain of £23m 
for the Group. The gain implied by comparing the share price at completion, being £2.38, and £1.90, is treated as an adjustment to consideration 
(see note 23) and the remaining gain of £2m is recorded in the income statement.
iii) CPW EUROPE REORGANISATION
During the prior year, CPW Europe undertook a review of its UK and group operations, with a view to simplifying group functions and giving 
more autonomy and accountability to individual business units. CPW Europe also initiated plans to reduce its store portfolio and operating 
cost base across certain Mainland European markets. As a result of this exercise, the business booked an exceptional charge of £18m in 
relation to redundancies, lease exit costs and other cash restructuring costs.
A tax credit of £7m was recognised against these charges, principally in respect of relief anticipated on cash reorganisation costs and the 
de-recognition of deferred tax liabilities.
The Group’s post-tax share of these charges was £5m.
iv) AMORTISATION OF ACQUISITION INTANGIBLES
A charge of £16m arose during the year in relation to acquisition intangibles arising on the CPW Europe Acquisition, against which a tax 
credit of £3m has been recognised.
Amortisation in the prior year within discontinued operations relates to acquisition intangibles within Virgin Mobile France which arose 
on the acquisition of Tele2 France in December 2009. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 75
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5 EMPLOYEE COSTS AND SHARE‑BASED PAYMENTS
a) EMPLOYEE COSTS
The aggregate remuneration recognised in the income statement in each year is as follows:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Salaries and performance bonuses 246 4
Social security costs 34 1
Other pension costs 4 —
 284 5
Share-based payments 4 —
 288 5
The average number of employees (including directors) during the year ended 29 March 2014 was:
 2014 2013
Administration 1,464 22
Sales and customer management 7,243 —
8,707 22
Compensation earned by key management, comprising the Board of directors and senior executives, was as follows:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Salaries 4 2
Performance bonuses 4 1
Social security costs 2 —
Share-based payments 1 —
 11 3
During the year loans were advanced to key management to cover the tax arising on the exercise of share options that vested as part of the 
CPW Europe Acquisition. In addition, loans were advanced to members of key management in relation to the Carphone Warehouse Share 
Plan. At 29 March 2014 loans to key management in relation to these schemes totalled £10m (2013: £1m). Interest is charged on loans at market 
rates and interest of £0.3m (2013: nil) has been recognised during the year ended 29 March 2014.
b) SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
i) CARPHONE WAREHOUSE SHARE PLAN
During the year the Group introduced the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan which allows participants to share 10% of the incremental value 
created in CPW in excess of an opening value (assessed over a three month period prior to approval by shareholders in June 2013) and beyond 
an annual rate of return of 7% on invested capital. The plan is underpinned by a minimum annual compound TSR growth of 5% and 
outperformance of the median TSR of the FTSE 250. 
Participants acquired at market value participation shares in a subsidiary company that holds the Company’s interests in CPW Europe. The 
Group granted loans to participants at a commercial rate of interest to acquire the shares. Loans are ordinarily repayable in full if performance 
conditions are met. 
The performance of the scheme will ordinarily be measured in or around June 2017, when 60% of the shares vest, with 40% deferred for a 
further year. When the awards vest, the value of the shares held by participants will be based on the incremental value (if any) of CPW in 
excess of the opening valuation together with the minimum return on invested capital. These shares will then be purchased by the Company 
for cash and/or the Company’s ordinary shares.
A ‘bad leaver’ will be required to transfer the participation shares to such party as the Company designates for an amount equal to the total 
amount outstanding under the loan. If the market value of the shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan (and any accrued 
interest) then the participant may be required to repay 20% of the shortfall out of their own resources.
A participant shall be a ‘good leaver’ at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee and may be permitted to retain an award 
notwithstanding the termination of their employment. 
The mechanics of the plan may be varied by the Remuneration Committee if necessary to ensure that participants are neither advantaged 
nor disadvantaged by a variation of the share capital of the Company, bona fide merger, reconstruction or similar reorganisation. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 76
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
5 EMPLOYEE COSTS AND SHARE‑BASED PAYMENTS continued
b) SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
ii) SHARE OPTION SCHEMES
During the year the Group introduced the Carphone Warehouse Share Scheme which allows nil-priced options to be offered to senior 
employees who are not participants in the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan. 
Options were first granted under the scheme in January 2014. The options are subject to continuing employment and are subject to performance 
conditions based on a combination of absolute TSR performance and relative TSR performance against the FTSE 250.
Prior to the CPW Europe Acquisition, CPW Europe had a share option scheme, under which participants received options over A shares in 
New CPW and each of Best Buy and the Company had an obligation to acquire 50% of these shares at a value based on the Headline PBT of 
CPW Europe over the vesting period. The pool was based on earnings in excess of minimum growth targets, against the earnings for the year 
ended 31 March 2009. The Company and Best Buy agreed a minimum value of the pool, in recognition of the value that had already accrued 
in the scheme in relation to Best Buy Mobile.
In order to align the interests of participants with those of the Company, the value of the A shares in New CPW were assessed at defined points 
during the vesting period, and nil-priced options over shares in the Company were granted to participants through the Participation Plan to 
match this value, so that participants benefited from any growth in the market capitalisation of the Company during the vesting period.
Further to the CPW Europe Acquisition the Remuneration Committee allowed the scheme to vest based on performance achieved to 31 March 2013. 
In addition to the Group’s obligations under the scheme the Group also agreed to satisfy Best Buy’s obligations under the scheme. The Company 
issued 14m shares in relation to these obligations. 
The following table summarises the number and weighted average exercise price ("WAEP") of share options for these schemes:
 
2014 2013
 Number WAEP Number WAEP
 million £ million £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5 — — —
Granted during the year 18 — 7 —
Lapsed during the year — — (2) —
Exercised during the year (14) — — —
Outstanding at the end of the year 9 — 5 —
Exercisable at the end of the year — — — —
Options exercised during the year were exercised at a weighted average market price of £2.48.
All options outstanding at the end of the year were nil-priced and had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 9.8 years.
iii) SAVE AS YOU EARN SCHEME
During the year the Group introduced a Save As You Earn scheme which allows participants to save up to £250 per month for either three 
or five years. At the end of the savings period participants can purchase shares in the Company based on a discounted share price determined 
at the commencement of the scheme. The following table summarises the number and WAEP of share options for these schemes:
 
2014 2013
 Number WAEP Number WAEP
 million £ million £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year — — — —
Granted during the year 3 2.24 — —
Outstanding at the end of the year 3 2.24 — —
Exercisable at the end of the year — — — —
All options outstanding at the end of the year had an exercise price of £2.24. Options outstanding at the end of the year had a weighted 
average remaining contractual life of 3.9 years.
iv) JOINT VENTURE INCENTIVE SCHEMES
Virgin Mobile France has issued market-priced and nil-priced share options in Virgin Mobile France to certain employees of the business. 
These options vest over periods of two to four years.
v) FAIR VALUE MODEL
The fair value of options with external performance targets was estimated at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model. The model 
combines the market price of a share at the date of grant with the probability of meeting performance criteria, based on the historical 
performance of Carphone Warehouse and Old Carphone Warehouse shares.
vi) CHARGE TO INCOME STATEMENT AND ENTRIES IN RESERVES
During the year ended 29 March 2014, the Group recognised a non-cash accounting charge to profit and loss of £4m (2013: nil) in respect of 
equity settled share-based payments, which is offset by an entry through reserves. This entry is offset in reserves by the non-recourse 
element of loans provided to participants in the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 77
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5 EMPLOYEE COSTS AND SHARE‑BASED PAYMENTS continued
c) EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUST
The Group has an ESOT, which held 4.9m shares in the Company at 29 March 2014 (2013: 0.04m) for the benefit of the employees of the Group. 
The maximum number of shares held by the Group’s ESOT during the year was 4.9m, from July 2013 to March 2014 (2013: 0.2m, from April 2012 
to August 2012), which represented 0.9% (2013: 0.04%) of the Company’s issued share capital. The ESOT has waived its rights to receive dividends 
and its shares have not been allocated to specific schemes. At 29 March 2014 the shares had a market value of £16.3m (2013: £0.1m).
6 INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE 
Interest income is analysed as follows:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Interest on cash and cash equivalents 1 1
Interest and other finance income from joint ventures 1 1
Unwind of discounts on trade receivables 6 —
 8 2
Interest expense is analysed as follows:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (11) —
Interest on deferred consideration (1) —
Other interest expense (5) —
 (17) —
7 CORPORATION TAX
a) AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN PROFIT OR LOSS
The corporation tax charge comprises:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Current tax:  
UK corporation tax 10 —
Overseas tax 3 —
13 —
Adjustments made in respect of prior years:
UK corporation tax 1 —
Overseas tax (6) —
 (5) —
Total current tax 8 —
Deferred tax:  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 18 —
Adjustments in respect of prior years (7) 1
Total deferred tax 11 1
Total tax charge 19 1
The standard rate of corporation tax reduced from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013 in accordance with the Finance Act 2012. In addition, 
the Finance Act 2013 was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013, further reducing the standard rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% with 
effect from 1 April 2014, and from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. The reduced rates have been reflected in the calculation of deferred tax. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 78
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
7 CORPORATION TAX continued
b) RECONCILIATION OF EFFECTIVE TAX RATE
The Group’s effective rate of tax before non-Headline items for the year ended 29 March 2014 is 20%. The principal differences between the 
total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 23% (2013: 24%) to profit (loss)
before taxation are as follows:
Restated
Non- Restated Non- Restated
Headline Headline Statutory Headline Headline Statutory
 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit (loss) before taxation 127 (60) 67 53 (50) 3
Income tax expense at 23% (2013: 24%) 29 (14) 15 13 (12) 1
Adjustments in respect of prior years (9) (3) (12) 1 — 1
Items attracting no tax relief or liability 2 11 13 (13) 12 (1)
Movement in unprovided deferred tax (1) — (1) — — —
Exceptional write-off of tax assets and liabilities — 1 1 — — —
Change in tax rate 4 (1) 3 — — —
Total tax charge (credit) 25 (6) 19 1 — 1
Items attracting no tax relief or liability in the current year relate primarily to French operations, while items attracting no relief or liability in the 
prior year relate primarily to results of joint ventures, the Group's share of which is reported within profit before taxation on a post-tax basis. 
c) MOVEMENTS ON DEFERRED TAX BALANCES
Deferred tax balances recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year are as follows:
CPW Recognised Recognised
Opening Europe directly in in profit or Closing
 balance Acquisition equity loss balance
 2014 £m £m £m £m £m
Temporary differences on capitalised costs — 27 — (6) 21
Carried forward tax losses — 3 — — 3
Other temporary differences 1 14 2 (5) 12
Deferred tax assets (liabilities) 1 44 2 (11) 36
Recognised
Opening in profit or Closing
 balance loss balance
 2013 £m £m £m
Temporary differences on capitalised costs — — —
Carried forward tax losses — — —
Other temporary differences 2 (1) 1
Deferred tax assets (liabilities) 2 (1) 1
Deferred tax comprises the following balances:
2014 2013
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 54 1
Deferred tax liabilities (18) —
36 1
d) UNRECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
At 29 March 2014, the Group had approximately £69m (2013: £24m) of unused tax losses available for offset against future taxable profits. 
The majority of these losses are within CPW Europe, which were acquired through the CPW Europe Acquisition. A deferred tax asset of 
£3m (2013: nil) has been recognised in respect of these unused losses. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 
losses due to lack of certainty regarding the availability of future taxable profits. Such losses are only recognised in the financial statements 
to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that sufficient future taxable profits will be available for offset.
There were no temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities had not been 
recognised at the end of either year. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 79
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8 RECONCILIATION OF HEADLINE RESULTS TO STATUTORY RESULTS
Profit (loss) Profit (loss) Profit (loss)
before Profit (loss) from from Net
 interest and before continuing discontinued profit (loss)
 taxation taxation operations operations for the year
 2014 £m £m £m £m £m
Headline results 136 127 102 — 102
Exceptional items* (15) (15) (12) — (12)
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles* (16) (16) (13) — (13)
French operations (in process of closure)* (29) (29) (29) — (29)
Statutory results 76 67 48 — 48
* See note 4 for further details.
Profit (loss) Profit (loss) Profit (loss) 
before Profit (loss) from from Net
 interest and before continuing discontinued profit (loss)
 taxation taxation operations operations for the year
 2013 (restated) £m £m £m £m £m
Headline results 51 53 52 3 55
Share of joint venture exceptional items (post-tax)* (5) (5) (5) — (5)
French operations (in process of closure)* (45) (45) (45) — (45)
Share of discontinued joint venture amortisation of acquisition intangibles* — — — (1) (1)
Statutory results 1 3 2 2 4
* See note 4 for further details.
Headline information is provided because the directors consider that it provides assistance in understanding the Group’s underlying performance.
9 EARNINGS PER SHARE
a) PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS
The calculation of both basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following profit attributable to ordinary shareholders:
Restated
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Headline earnings
Continuing operations 102 52
Discontinued operations — 3
Total 102 55
Statutory earnings
Continuing operations 48 2
Discontinued operations — 2
Total 48 4
b) WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following weighted average number of ordinary shares, with the 
number of shares used for the diluted calculation being adjusted for the dilutive effect of share options and other incentive schemes:
 2014 2013
 million million
Weighted average number of shares  
Average shares in issue 558 473
Less average holding by Group ESOT (3) —
For basic earnings per share 555 473
Dilutive effect of share options and other incentive schemes 7 6
For diluted earnings per share 562 479
The average market value of the Company’s shares for the purpose of calculating the dilutive effect of share options was based on quoted 
market prices for the year during which the options were outstanding.
The number of shares in issue at 29 March 2014 was 576m, of which 5m were held by the Group’s ESOT. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 80
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
9 EARNINGS PER SHARE continued
c) BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share 
(pence)
Diluted earnings per share
(pence)
2014 2013 2014 2013
Headline earnings
Continuing operations 18.4p  10.9p  18.1p  10.8p 
Discontinued operations 0.0p  0.7p  0.0p  0.7p 
Total 18.4p  11.6p  18.1p  11.5p 
Statutory earnings
Continuing operations 8.6p  0.3p  8.5p  0.3p 
Discontinued operations 0.0p  0.6p  0.0p  0.6p 
Total 8.6p  0.9p  8.5p  0.9p 
10 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Software Customer Intangible
and licences relationships Brands assets Goodwill
Cost £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2013 — — — — —
CPW Europe Acquisition 54 56 10 120 484
Additions 48 — — 48 —
Foreign exchange — — — — (3)
Balance at 29 March 2014 102 56 10 168 481
Software Customer Intangible
and licences relationships Brands assets Goodwill
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2013 — — — — —
Amortisation (16) (14) (2) (32) —
Balance at 29 March 2014 (16) (14) (2) (32) —
Software Customer Intangible
and licences relationships Brands assets Goodwill
Carrying amounts £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2013 — — — — —
At 29 March 2014 86 42 8 136 481
Software and licences include assets with a cost of £14m (2013: nil) on which amortisation has not been charged as the assets have not yet been 
brought into use. 
i) ALLOCATION OF GOODWILL TO CGUs
The goodwill arising on the CPW Europe Acquisition was allocated to the Group’s cash generating units ("CGUs") which were expected 
to benefit from the acquisition, based on value in use calculations. At 29 March 2014 goodwill was allocated to CGUs as follows:
£m
UK 406
Netherlands 36
Spain 31
Ireland 8
481 Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 81
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued
ii) GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations or fair market value as appropriate. The Group prepared 
cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets and long-term plans approved by management and extrapolated cash flows in 
perpetuity based on country-specific growth rates. The cash flow forecasts reflect management’s expectations of EBITDA, capital expenditure 
and working capital, all of which are based on historical patterns and expectations of future market developments. 
Other key assumptions for the value in use calculations are growth rates and discount rates. Growth rates used were between 1.0% to 1.9% 
(2013: 1.5% to 4.5%) and are determined based on third party long-term growth rate forecasts for the regions in which the CGUs operate. 
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets. The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash 
flows reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs, and ranged between 9.3% and 
11.9% (2013: 7.7% to 10.2%).
The carrying value of goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill might 
be impaired, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
As explained in note 1u, expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain and may differ from the cash flows that ultimately arise which may 
affect the recoverable value of the CGU. The Group conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests of CGUs. The directors consider that 
the Netherlands is the only CGU for which a reasonably possible change in key assumptions during the next year would cause the recoverable amount 
of the CGU to fall below its carrying amount. At 29 March 2014, the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value by £7m in the Netherlands, 
incorporating a long-term growth rate of 1.2% and a pre-tax discount rate of 9.3% as key assumptions. If the pre-tax discount rate increased above 
10.1% or forecast EBITDA reduced by more than 7%, the recoverable amount in the Netherlands would fall below its carrying amount.
iii) INTANGIBLES ACQUIRED DURING THE YEAR AS PART OF CPW EUROPE ACQUISITION
a)  Acquisition intangibles included customer relationships and brands. Each class of intangible asset was independently valued by experts 
using appropriate valuation techniques.
b)  Software and licences were independently valued using an amortised replacement cost method. Amortisation commences from the 
point at which the software comes into use. 
11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Short
Freehold land leasehold Fixtures Computer 
and buildings costs and fittings hardware Total
Cost £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2012 72 — — — 72
Disposals (42) — — — (42)
Balance at 31 March 2013 30 — — — 30
CPW Europe Acquisition — 27 24 21 72
Additions — 2 11 7 20
Disposals (12) — — — (12)
Foreign exchange — — (1) — (1)
Balance at 29 March 2014 18 29 34 28 109
Short
Freehold land leasehold Fixtures Computer 
and buildings costs and fittings hardware Total
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2012 (6) — — — (6)
Depreciation (1) — — — (1)
Impairment (1) — — — (1)
Disposals 5 — — — 5
Balance at 31 March 2013 (3) — — — (3)
Disposals 2 — — — 2
Depreciation (1) (5) (7) (5) (18)
Balance at 29 March 2014 (2) (5) (7) (5) (19) Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 82
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued
Short
Freehold land leasehold Fixtures Computer 
and buildings costs and fittings hardware Total
Carrying amounts £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2013 27 — — — 27
At 29 March 2014 16 24 27 23 90
Freehold land and buildings comprise the Group’s investment property. The fair value of investment property as at 29 March 2014 was 
determined by an external, independent property valuation expert as £22m (2013: £31m). The valuation expert has appropriate recognised 
professional qualifications as well as recent experience in the location and category of the properties being valued. The valuation of 
properties was performed by reference to appropriate yield rates and market evidence of recent transactions.
Future minimum lease payments in respect of the Group’s investment properties are detailed in note 28.
12 PRINCIPAL COMPANY INVESTMENTS
The Company has investments in the following subsidiary undertakings, which, alongside joint ventures, principally affected the profits or 
losses or net assets of the Group. To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted. 
All holdings are in equity share capital and give the Group an effective holding of 100% on consolidation.
Country of incorporation
Name or registration Nature of business
The Carphone Warehouse Limited England and Wales Distribution
The Phone House Spain S.L.U Spain Distribution
The Phone House Deutschland GmbH Germany Distribution
The Phone House Telecom GmbH Germany Distribution
The Phone House Netherlands B.V. Netherlands Distribution
GEAB The Phone House AB Sweden Distribution
The Carphone Warehouse Limited Ireland Distribution
The Phone House Comercio e Aluguer de bens e Serviços Lda Portugal Distribution
New Technology Insurance Ireland Insurance
ISE-Net Solutions Limited England and Wales IT
New CPW Limited* England and Wales Holding company
Carphone Warehouse Europe Limited England and Wales Holding company
* Held directly by the Company.
The following subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in England and Wales, are exempt from the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 
relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of that Act:
Company
registration
Name number
CPW Tulketh Mill Limited 06585719
CPW Irlam Limited 05825842
CPW Brands 2 Limited 07135355
The Carphone Warehouse (Digital) Limited 03966947
CPW Acton Five Limited 05738735
CPW Consultancy Limited 07881879
CWIAB Limited 02441554
The Carphone Warehouse UK Limited 03827277
CPW CP Limited 06585457
13 STOCK
2014 2013
 £m £m
Finished goods and goods for resale 240 —
 240 — Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 83
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Trade receivables 935 —
Less provision for impairment (20) —
Trade receivables net of provision for impairment 915 —
Prepayments and other receivables 90 3
Accrued income 5 —
Derivative financial assets 2 —
1,012 3
   
Non-current 191 —
Current 821 3
1,012 3
Non-current receivables represents commission receivable on sales which is due after more than one year. Trade and other receivables 
are discounted using discount rates which reflect the relevant costs of financing when the receivable is recognised, where the time value 
of money is considered to be material.
The Group’s gross trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Sterling 698 —
Euro 229 —
Other 8 —
 935 —
The ageing of gross trade receivables is as follows:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Not yet due 795 —
Under 2 months 49 —
2 to 4 months 39 —
Over 4 months 52 — 
 935 —
The ageing of provisions for impairment of trade receivables is as follows:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Not yet due (2) —
Under 2 months (3) —
2 to 4 months (1) —
Over 4 months (14) —
 (20) — Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 84
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
14 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued
Movements in provisions for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Opening balance — —
CPW Europe Acquisition (23) —
Charged to the income statement (19) —
Receivables written off as irrecoverable 22 —
Closing balance (20) —
As at 29 March 2014, trade receivables of £122m (2013: nil) were past due but not impaired. The Group made provision based on historical 
rates of recoverability and all unprovided amounts are considered to be recoverable. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is 
as follows:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Under 2 months 46 —
2 to 4 months 38 —
Over 4 months 38 —
 122 —
15 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Cash at bank and on deposit 283 117
Cash and cash equivalents include short-term bank deposits which are available on demand. Within cash and cash equivalents, £25m (2013: nil) 
is held by the Group’s insurance business to cover regulatory reserve requirements. As such, these funds are not available to offset against 
other Group borrowings. A further £1m is held to cover obligations on third party insurance accounts.
Loans and other borrowings are set out in note 19.
16 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
 2014 2013
£m £m
Current
Trade payables 565 1
Accruals 166 15
Deferred income 11 1
Other taxes and social security amounts payable 127 —
869 17
Non-current
Trade and other payables 113 —
Total trade and other payables 982 17
Non-current trade and other payables relate principally to property leases that are deemed to be over-rented. These liabilities are unwound 
over the period of the relevant lease, of up to 22 years. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 85
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES continued
The Group’s gross trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Sterling 655 17
Euro 313 —
Other 14 —
 982 17
17 DEFERRED CONSIDERATION
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Current 25 —
Non-current 25 —
50 —
Deferred consideration arose on the CPW Europe Acquisition and is payable to Best Buy in two equal instalments of £25m due in June 2014 
and June 2015. These amounts bear interest at 2.5% per annum.
18 PROVISIONS
Reorganisation Sales Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 April 2012 — — 9 9
Released in the year — — (2) (2)
Balance at 31 March 2013 — — 7 7
CPW Europe Acquisition 35 11 17 63
Charge in profit or loss — 3 4 7
Released in the year — — (3) (3)
Utilised in the year (13) (4) (7) (24)
Balance at 29 March 2014 22 10 18 50
19 LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS AND FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Current liabilities
Finance lease obligations (1) —
Non-current liabilities
Loans and other borrowings (290) —
(291) — Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 86
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
19 LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS AND FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS continued
a) LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS
i) COMMITTED FACILITIES
The Group has a £650m multi-currency term and revolving credit facility which matures in April 2017. This facility is split into two tranches: 
a £400m revolving tranche and a term loan tranche of £250m, which amortises by £25m on 30 June 2015 and by a further £50m on 30 June 2016. 
The rate of interest payable on borrowings is the aggregate of the applicable margin which depends on performance against one of the 
facility’s financial covenants and LIBOR (or an equivalent benchmark rate for other currencies). Commitment and utilisation fees are also 
payable under the terms of the facility. 
ii) BANK OVERDRAFTS AND UNCOMMITTED FACILITIES
The Group has overdraft and uncommitted money market facilities totalling approximately £95m (2013: £3m). 
b) FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Future minimum 
lease payments Interest
Present value of minimum 
lease payments
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 1 — — — 1 —
1 — — — 1 —
c) ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN FUNDS (DEBT)
At
At 1 April CPW Europe Cash 29 March
2013 Acquisition flows 2014
£m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 117 — 166 283
117 — 166 283
Loans and other borrowings — (271) (19) (290)
Finance lease obligations — (3) 2 (1)
— (274) (17) (291)
Net funds (debt) 117 (274) 149 (8) Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 87
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19 LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS AND FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS continued
c) ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN FUNDS (DEBT) continued
At
At 1 April Cash 31 March 
2012 flows 2013
£m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 103 14 117
Net funds 103 14 117
20 SHARE CAPITAL
2014 2013 2014 2013
 million million £m £m
Allotted, called-up and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1p each 576 473 1 1
2014 2013 2014 2013
 million million £m £m
Ordinary shares in issue at the beginning of the year 473 473 1 1
Issued for cash 47 — — —
Exercise of share options 14 — — —
Issue of Consideration Shares 42 — — —
Ordinary shares in issue at the end of the year 576 473 1 1
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings 
of the Company. On 30 April 2013 the Group placed 47.2m ordinary shares at 222 pence per share, raising net proceeds of £103m which were 
used to fund part of the consideration for the CPW Europe Acquisition. On 25 June 2013 the Group issued 42.1m Consideration Shares to Best Buy. 
Best Buy agreed to waive rights to dividends payable on these shares for the period in which they were in their ownership. The Consideration 
Shares were placed by the Group in July 2013 and from this point held the same rights as other ordinary shares. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 88
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
21 RESERVES AND ACCUMULATED PROFITS
  Share    Capital 
 Share premium Accumulated Translation Demerger redemption 
 capital reserve profits reserve reserve reserve Total
2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At the beginning of the year 1 170 1,238 2 (750) — 661
Net profit for the year — — 48 — — — 48
Other comprehensive income (expense) — — 2 (11) — — (9)
Issue of shares — 113 103 — — — 216
Net purchase of own shares — — (12) — — — (12)
Equity dividends — — (30) — — — (30)
Tax on items recognised directly through reserves — — 6 — — — 6
At the end of the year 1 283 1,355 (9) (750) — 880
  Share    Capital 
 Share premium Accumulated Translation Demerger redemption 
 capital reserve profits reserve reserve reserve Total
2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At the beginning of the year 34 170 697 — (750) 557 708
Net profit for the year — — 4 — — — 4
Other comprehensive income — — — 2 — — 2
Redemption of shares (33) — (33) — — 33 (33)
Equity dividends — — (23) — — — (23)
Capital reduction — — 590 — — (590) —
Share of other reserve movements of joint ventures — — 3 — — — 3
At the end of the year 1 170 1,238 2 (750) — 661
22 EQUITY DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS
The following dividends and distributions were paid during the year:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Redemption of 172p per B share through the B/C Share Scheme — 33
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 of 3.25p per ordinary share — 15
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 1.75p per ordinary share — 8
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 3.25p per ordinary share 19 —
Interim dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 of 2.00p per ordinary share 11 —
 30 56
The following distribution is proposed but had not been effected at 29 March 2014:
 £m
Final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 of 4.00p per ordinary share 23
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 is subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming annual general 
meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.  Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 89
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23 CPW EUROPE ACQUISITION
On 26 June 2013 the Group completed the CPW Europe Acquisition for a gross consideration of £500m, bringing the Group’s ownership interest 
to 100%. CPW Europe is one of the largest independent telecommunications specialists in Europe, operating retail stores, principally under the 
Carphone Warehouse and Phone House brands, together with well-developed online propositions. CPW Europe is also increasingly focused 
on leveraging its assets and expertise to provide services to third parties through its Connected World Services business.
The primary reasons for the acquisition were to bring a simplified ownership structure, making day-to-day management easier and 
the strategic decision-making process more streamlined, and enabling the Group to better leverage CPW Europe’s asset base and 
know-how. 
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of CPW Europe as at the acquisition date were as follows:
Notes £m
Intangible assets 120
Property, plant and equipment 72
Deferred tax assets 44
Stock 343
Trade and other receivables a) i) 1,112
Net cash and cash equivalents 53
Current asset investments 5
Trade and other payables (836)
Corporation tax liabilities (48)
Provisions a) ii) (63)
Loans and other borrowings (271)
Finance lease obligations (3)
Identifiable net assets 528
Goodwill a) iii) 484
Total consideration 1,012
Satisfied by:
Fair value of existing joint venture investment b) i) 500
Cash b) ii) 370
Deferred consideration b) iii) 50
Equity b) iv) 113
Derivative asset b) iv) (21)
 1,012
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration 370
Less net cash and cash equivalents acquired (53)
 317
a) NET ASSETS ACQUIRED
i)  The fair value of trade and other receivables represents gross contractual amounts receivable of £1,135m, less amounts not considered 
collectable of £23m.
ii)  Provisions include the recognition of contingent liabilities of £8m in relation to legal claims and other potential exposures. It is expected 
that any costs associated with these contingent liabilities will be incurred over the next four years.
iii)  The goodwill of £484m arising on the acquisition reflects the fact that CPW Europe’s value is based on its cash generating potential 
rather than its existing assets, and the fact that many of its key strengths, such as its scale and expertise, do not represent intangible 
assets as defined by IFRS. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 90
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
23 CPW EUROPE ACQUISITION continued
b) CONSIDERATION
 i)  IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ requires that the Group’s existing 50% interest in CPW Europe be revalued to its fair value as part 
of the acquisition accounting process. The fair value of this interest is considered to be equal to the gross consideration of £500m 
paid by the Group to acquire Best Buy’s 50% interest in CPW Europe. As the carrying value of the Group’s investment in CPW Europe 
was £499m at the acquisition date, a gain of £1m was recognised in non-Headline operating expenses in respect of this revaluation. 
 ii)  Gross cash consideration of £370m was settled on completion, offset by payments from Best Buy of £29m in respect of the prepayment 
or termination of the Group’s other interests with Best Buy. 
 iii)  The £50m of deferred cash consideration, which bears interest at 2.5% per annum, is payable to Best Buy in two equal instalments 
of £25m in June 2014 and June 2015.
 iv)  A further £80m of consideration was provided through the issue on completion of 42.1m shares to Best Buy, at a price of £1.90 per share. 
The Group had the right to place the Consideration Shares on Best Buy’s behalf during the 12 month period to June 2014, and to retain 
any upside on disposal. The value of the Consideration Shares on completion was £101m, based on a share price at that date of £2.38, 
and this value is recorded as consideration, with the value associated with the right to place the Consideration Shares recognised as 
a derivative financial asset of £21m. The Consideration Shares were placed in July 2013 at an average price of £2.44, resulting in a net 
cash gain of £23m for the Group. The difference between the disposal proceeds and the value of the derivative financial asset has 
been recognised as a gain of £2m in non-Headline operating expenses. 
   As part of the transaction, the Group agreed to satisfy Best Buy’s obligations in relation to certain incentive schemes. Shares with 
a value of £12m were issued in respect of Best Buy’s obligations and have been included in consideration.
c) OTHER INFORMATION
The results of CPW Europe have been consolidated into the Group’s income statement from 26 June 2013, contributing £2,561m of revenue 
and a profit before tax of £61m in the period to 29 March 2014. If the acquisition had completed on 1 April 2013, being the first day of the 
financial year, the Group’s revenue would have been £3,402m and the Group’s profit before tax would have been £46m.
Transaction-related charges of £18m, comprising banking and professional fees of £7m and cash and non-cash charges relating 
to incentive schemes of £11m have been included in non-Headline operating expenses.
24 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
Interests in joint ventures are as follows:
Country of 2014 2013
Business Principal activities incorporation interest interest
CPW Europe Retail, distribution, insurance, telecoms services England and Wales n/a 50.0%
Virgin Mobile France MVNO England and Wales 46.3% 46.3%
The Group acquired Best Buy’s 50% interest in CPW Europe on 26 June 2013, following which the Group’s joint venture interest in CPW 
Europe was derecognised and the Group consolidated the results of CPW Europe. Refer to note 23 for further details.
Management of Virgin Mobile France hold share options in the business as explained in note 5b. In addition to share options, management 
of Virgin Mobile France hold warrants that give them the right to acquire new shares at a price based on the value of existing shareholder 
funding and an additional amount which increases with the quantity of shares being acquired. The maximum potential dilution to the Group’s 
stake if all existing share options and warrants were exercised is approximately 5.0%, although the value of this dilution would be partially 
offset by cash inflows in relation to the proceeds on exercise.
On 16 May 2014 the Group announced that it had entered into an exclusivity agreement for the sale of Virgin Mobile France (see note 29). 
The results of Virgin Mobile France are therefore presented within discontinued operations and the Group’s interest in that business 
is presented as an asset held for sale. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE continued
a) GROUP BALANCE SHEET INTERESTS
The Group’s interests in joint ventures are analysed as follows:
 Net assets    
 (liabilities) Goodwill Loans Total
2014 £m £m £m £m
Opening balance 414 103 20 537
Share of results (20) — — (20)
Loans repaid (net) — — (2) (2)
Revaluation of interest in CPW Europe 1 — — 1
Disposal of interest in CPW Europe (397) (103) — (500)
Reclassification of Virgin Mobile France to assets held for sale 7 — (18) (11)
Foreign exchange (5) — — (5)
Closing balance — — — —
CPW Europe — — — —
Virgin Mobile France — — — —
Closing balance — — — —
 Net assets    
 (liabilities) Goodwill Loans Total
2013 £m £m £m £m
Opening balance 409 103 24 536
Share of results — — — —
Loans repaid (net) — — (4) (4)
Share of other reserve movements 3 — — 3
Foreign exchange 2 — — 2
Closing balance 414 103 20 537
CPW Europe 421 103 — 524
Virgin Mobile France (7) — 20 13
Closing balance 414 103 20 537
b) ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
The Group’s assets held for sale are analysed as follows:
 2014 2013
Virgin Mobile France £m £m
Share of net liabilities (7) —
Loans 18 —
Assets held for sale 11 —
Loans are provided to Virgin Mobile France under a shareholder agreement; funding requirements are agreed between the shareholders on a 
regular basis and are provided in proportion to each party’s shareholding. Virgin Mobile France also has an overdraft facility and a third party 
three-year financing arrangement to provide funding up to €25m in respect of capital expenditure. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 92
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
24 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE continued
c) ANALYSIS OF PROFITS AND LOSSES
The Group’s share of the results of its joint ventures within continuing operations is as follows:
Period ended
26 June Restated
2013 2013*
CPW Europe £m £m
Headline revenue* 777 3,337
Headline EBIT** 12 129
Net interest expense (2) (9)
Taxation on Headline results (5) (25)
Headline profit after taxation 5 95
Group share of Headline profit after taxation 3 48
Group share of French operations (in process of closure) (post-tax) (23) (45)
Group share of exceptional items (post-tax) — (5)
Group share of loss after taxation (20) (2)
*  Prior year comparatives have been restated to classify the results of the Group's operations in France as non-Headline. Revenue associated with this business 
prior to the CPW Europe Acquisition was £49m (2013: £357m). Reported revenue on a statutory basis is £826m (2013: £3,694m).
**  Headline EBIT includes the unwinding of discounts for the time value of money on network commissions receivable over the life of the customer. This unwind 
has a value of £3m for the period ended 26 June 2013 (year ended 31 March 2013: £9m) and is treated as interest income in the joint venture's statutory results.
The Group's share of the results of its joint ventures within discontinued operations is analysed as follows:
 2014 2013
Virgin Mobile France £m £m
Revenue* 346 385
Headline EBIT 3 12
Net interest expense (1) (1)
Taxation on Headline results (1) (4)
Headline profit after taxation 1 7
Group share of Headline profit after taxation — 3
Group share of amortisation of acquisition intangibles (post-tax) — (1)
Group share of profit after taxation — 2
*  Revenue excludes contributions towards subscriber acquisition costs from network operators and customers, as the directors consider that this provides a better 
representation of underlying performance. These items, which have a value of £48m in the year ended 29 March 2014 (2013: £74m), are netted off against acquisition 
costs within Headline EBIT. Reported revenue on a statutory basis for the year ended 29 March 2014 is £394m (2013: £459m).
d) ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
The Group’s share of the assets and liabilities of CPW Europe is as follows:
2014 2013
£m £m
Non-current assets — 548
Cash and overdrafts (net) — 124
Other borrowings — (3)
Other assets and liabilities (net) — 172
Net assets — 841
Group share of net assets — 421 Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 93
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE continued
d) ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued
The Group’s share of the assets and liabilities of Virgin Mobile France is as follows:
 2014 2013
£m £m
Non-current assets 98 100
Cash and overdrafts (net) 2 2
Loans from the Group (18) (20)
Other borrowings (34) (22)
Other assets and liabilities (net) (62) (75)
Net liabilities (14) (15)
Group share of net liabilities (7) (7)
There are no material contingent liabilities in relation to Virgin Mobile France, which had no capital commitments at the end of either year.
2014 2013
£m £m
Total Group share of net (liabilities) assets of joint ventures (7) 414
25 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the financial statements require disclosure of fair value measurements by level 
based on the following fair value measurement hierarchy:
 — Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities;
 — Level 2 –  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices); and
 — Level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs).
The significant inputs required to fair value all of the Group’s financial instruments are observable. The Group only holds Level 2 financial 
instruments. There have also been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Fair values have been arrived at by discounting future cash flows, assuming no early redemption, or by revaluing forward currency 
contracts to year-end market rates as appropriate to the instrument.
The directors consider that the book value of financial assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost and their fair value are 
approximately equal.
The book value and fair value of the Group’s financial assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments is as follows:
2014 2013
 £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 283 117
Trade and other receivables excluding derivative financial assets 1,010 3
Derivative financial assets 2 —
Loans to Virgin Mobile France (see note 24) 18 20
Trade and other payables (869) (17)
Finance leases (1) —
Deferred consideration (50) —
Loans and other borrowings (290) —
a) FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES
The Group’s activities expose it to certain financial risks including market risk (such as foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk), credit 
risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s treasury function, which operates under approved treasury policies, uses certain financial instruments 
to mitigate potentially adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance from these risks. These financial instruments consist of bank 
loans and deposits, spot and forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps. 
b) FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK
The Group undertakes certain transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies and as a consequence has exposure to exchange rate 
fluctuations. These exposures primarily arise from stock purchases, with most of the Group’s exposure being to Euro fluctuations. The Group 
uses spot and forward currency contracts to mitigate these exposures. The translation risk on converting overseas currency profits or losses 
is not hedged and such profits or losses are converted into Sterling at average exchange rates throughout the year. Hedge accounting is not 
applied to other outstanding currency contracts and gains and losses are therefore recognised directly in profit or loss.
No contracts with embedded derivatives have been identified and, accordingly, no such derivatives have been accounted for separately. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 94
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements continued
25 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
b) FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK continued
At 29 March 2014, the total notional principal amount of outstanding currency contracts was £68m (2013: £20m). Currency loans and foreign 
exchange contracts are sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. This sensitivity can be analysed in comparison to year-end rates 
(assuming all other variables remain constant) as follows:
2014 2013
Income Income
statement statement
movement movement
 £m £m
10% movement in the Sterling/Euro exchange rate 6 —
10% movement in the Sterling/Swedish Krona exchange rate 1 —
c) INTEREST RATE RISK
The Group’s interest rate risk arises primarily on cash, cash equivalents and loans and other borrowings, all of which are at floating rates 
of interest and which therefore expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. These floating rates are linked to LIBOR and other interest 
rate bases as appropriate to the instrument and currency. Future cash flows arising from these financial instruments depend on interest 
rates and periods agreed at the time of rollover. Group policy permits the use of long-term interest rate derivatives in managing the risks 
associated with movements in interest rates.
The effect on the income statement and equity of 1% movements in the interest rate for the currencies in which most Group cash, cash 
equivalents, loans and other borrowings are denominated and on which the valuation of most derivative financial instruments is based 
is as follows, assuming that the year-end positions prevail throughout the year: 
2014 2013
Income Income
statement statement
movement movement
 £m £m
1% movement in the Sterling interest rate 4 1
1% movement in the Euro interest rate — —
d) LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are 
settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by regularly reviewing the long-term 
and short-term cash flow projections for the business against the resources available to it. 
In order to ensure that sufficient funds are available for ongoing and future developments, the Group has committed bank facilities, 
excluding overdrafts repayable on demand, totalling £650m (2013: nil). In the prior year, CPW Europe had a committed £400m revolving 
credit facility which was due to expire in July 2015 and which was replaced as part of the CPW Europe Acquisition by the £650m term and 
revolving credit facility described in note 19.
The table below analyses the Group’s financial assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings. The amounts disclosed in the table 
are the contractual undiscounted cash flows assuming that interest rates remain constant and that borrowings are paid in full in the year 
of maturity.
 <1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years >3 years Total
2014 £m £m £m £m £m
Finance leases (1) — — — (1)
Derivative financial instruments – payable:
Forward foreign exchange contracts (68) — — — (68)
Interest rate swaps (1) — — — (1)
Derivative financial instruments – receivable:
Forward foreign exchange contracts 68 — — — 68
Interest rate swaps — 1 3 — 4
Loans and other borrowings (8) (32) (56) (215) (311)
Deferred consideration (25) (25) — — (50)
Trade and other payables (869) — — — (869) Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 95
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
d) LIQUIDITY RISK continued
 <1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years >3 years Total
2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables (17) — — — (17)
e) CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is regularly monitored 
and the Group’s policy is updated as appropriate. 
The large majority of the Group’s trade receivables are balances due from MNOs, which are generally major multi-national enterprises 
with whom the Group has well-established relationships and are consequently not considered to add significantly to the Group’s credit risk 
exposure. The Group's trade receivables also include balances due from equipment manufacturers, dealer customers and Connected 
World Services customers. Where it is considered appropriate, the Group obtains credit insurance on accounts receivable. Provision is 
made for any receivables that are considered to be irrecoverable. Details of trade receivables which are past due but not impaired are 
provided in note 14.
The credit risks on cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments are closely monitored and credit ratings are used 
in determining maximum counterparty credit risk. 
The Group’s funding is reliant on its £650m bank facilities, which are provided by nine banks; these institutions are considered to be 
adequately capitalised to continue to meet their obligations under the facility.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Group's 
maximum exposure to credit risk.
f) CAPITAL RISK
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns, whilst maximising the 
return to shareholders through a suitable mix of debt and equity. The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, 
loans and other borrowings and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company, comprising issued capital, reserves and accumulated 
profits. Except in relation to minimum capital requirements in its insurance business, the Group is not subject to any externally imposed 
capital requirements. The Group monitors its capital structure on an ongoing basis, including assessing the risks associated with each 
class of capital. 
26 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
During the year, the Group had the following transactions and balances requiring disclosure with its joint ventures (see also note 24):
Virgin Virgin
CPW Mobile CPW Mobile
Europe France Europe France
2014 2014 2013 2013
£m £m £m £m
Revenue for services provided — 1 4 —
Net interest and other finance income — 1 — 1
Loans owed to the Group — 18 — 20
Other amounts owed to the Group — — 1 —
Other amounts owed by the Group — — (6) —
Revenue for services provided in the prior year relates to investment property rental income.
Revenue for services provided to Virgin Mobile France in the current year relates to commissions on sales of Virgin Mobile France 
connections by the Group’s wholly owned operations in France.
All transactions entered into with related parties were completed on an arm’s length basis.
27 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
2014 2013
£m £m
Expenditure contracted, but not provided for in the financial statements — — Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28 OPERATING LEASES
a) LEASES AS LESSEE
The Group leases a number of retail units and offices under operating leases. The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation 
clauses and renewal rights. 
i) FUTURE MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS
At 29 March 2014, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 
which fall due over the following periods:
2014 2013
£m £m
Less than one year 93 —
Between one and five years 249 —
More than five years 130 —
472 —
The Group has some leases that include revenue-related rental payments that are contingent on store performance. The analysis above 
includes only the minimum rental component.
The total amount of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases is £39m (2013: nil).
ii) AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN PROFIT OR LOSS 
2014 2013
£m £m
Fixed rent expense 89 —
Sub-lease income (1) —
88 —
b) LEASES AS LESSOR
The Group has investment properties which are let to third parties on long-term leases.
i) FUTURE MINIMUM LEASE RECEIPTS
At 29 March 2014, the Group had non-cancellable operating leases which provided for receipts over the following periods:
2014 2013
£m £m
Within one year 2 2
In two to five years 8 8
After five years 12 14
 22 24
ii) AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN PROFIT OR LOSS
During the year ended 29 March 2014, the Group recorded £2m (2013: £6m) of investment property rental income within revenue.
29 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 15 May 2014, the Company announced that it had reached agreement on the terms for an all-share merger with Dixons Retail plc 
(the "Merger"). Under the terms of the Merger, ordinary shareholders in Dixons Retail plc will for each of their shares in Dixons Retail plc 
receive 0.155 shares in the Company, which will be renamed Dixons Carphone plc. The Board considers that the Merger will deliver 
significant value to Carphone shareholders through a combination of enhanced commercial opportunities and operating synergies, which 
are expected to deliver recurring annual benefits of at least £80m by the 2017–18 financial year. The Merger is expected to be effected by 
way of a scheme of arrangement and is conditional on the approval of the ordinary shareholders of both the Company and Dixons Retail plc 
and the sanction of the court.
On 16 May 2014, the Company announced that, alongside the other shareholders in the business, it had entered into an exclusivity agreement 
in respect of the proposed sale of Virgin Mobile France to Numericable Group for an enterprise value of €325m. During the exclusivity period 
the parties have carried out the necessary consultations with employee work councils, and the transaction is subject to the approval of the 
French competition authority.
Notes to the Group financial statements continued Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 97
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Five-year record (unaudited)
HEADLINE RESULTS – CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Restated Restated Restated Restated
 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m £m
Group
Revenue 2,505 11 6 6 6
Share of results of CPW Europe 3 48 46 43 36
Other 99 4 3 (1) (2)
Net profit 102 52 49 42 34
Earnings per share
– Basic 18.4 10.9  10.7  9.3  7.5 
– Diluted 18.1 10.8  10.2  8.9  7.4 
CPW pro forma results*
Revenue 3,282 3,348 2,983 3,227 3,269
EBITDA 201 208 208 198 193
EBIT 151 132 128 118 106
Interest (18) (7) (14) (11) (18)
Taxation (30) (26) (19) (22) (19)
Profit after taxation 103 99 95 85 69
* Results are shown on a pro forma basis, as though CPW Europe had been 100% owned by the Group throughout the current and preceding periods.
The financial results for the periods prior to the Demerger have been prepared on the basis that the structure of the Group at Demerger 
had been in place for the duration of all periods reported. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 98
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Company balance sheet
as at 29 March 2014 and 31 March 2013
 2014 2013
 Notes £m £m
Fixed assets  
Investments 4 753 741
    
Current assets   
Cash and cash equivalents 28 137
Debtors: due within one year 5 644 26
  672 163
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 (54) (22)
Net current assets 618 141
    
Total assets less current liabilities 1,371 882
Provisions 7 (2) (6)
Loans payable 8 (290) —
Net assets 1,079 876
    
Equity   
Share capital 9 1 1
Share premium reserve 9 283 170
Profit and loss account 9 795 705
Capital redemption reserve 9 — —
Total capital employed 1,079 876
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this Company balance sheet.
The financial statements of the Company on pages 98 to 103 were approved by the Board on 25 June 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer Nigel Langstaff Chief Financial Officer Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 99
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Company financial statements
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
a) BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis (see note 1 to the 
Group financial statements) and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards under the historical cost convention, 
as modified by FRS 26 ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’.
The Group’s financial statements for the year ended 29 March 2014 contain a consolidated cash flow statement. Consequently, the Company 
has applied the exemption in FRS 1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’ not to present its own cash flow statement.
The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout both years.
b) INVESTMENTS
Investments held in subsidiaries and joint ventures are recognised at cost, being the fair value of consideration, acquisition charges 
associated with the investment and capital contributions by way of share-based payments, less any provision for permanent diminution 
in value.
Investments where the Company does not have control or significant influence are treated as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value. 
Changes in fair value, together with any related deferred taxation, are taken directly to reserves, and recycled to the profit and loss account 
when the investment is sold or is determined to be impaired.
c) SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed over the vesting period, based 
on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Binomial model for share-based payments with internal performance criteria (such as EPS targets) 
and a Monte Carlo model for those with external performance criteria (such as TSR targets).
For schemes with internal performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is recalculated at each balance sheet date, based 
on expectations of performance against target and of leavers prior to vesting. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous 
balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding entry in reserves.
For schemes with external performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is adjusted only for expectations of leavers prior 
to vesting. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, 
with a corresponding entry in reserves.
If a share-based payment scheme is cancelled, any remaining part of the fair value of the scheme is expensed through the profit and loss 
account. If a share-based payment scheme is forfeited, no further expense is recognised and any charges previously recognised through 
the profit and loss account are reversed.
Charges also arise on loans that are provided to employees to fund the purchase of shares in the Group as part of long-term incentive 
plans, to the extent to which the loans are not, in certain circumstances, repayable; the cost of the relevant part of such loans is expensed 
over the course of the relevant incentive plans.
d) DIVIDENDS
Dividends receivable from the Company’s subsidiaries are recognised only when they are approved by shareholders.
Final dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the year in which 
they are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim and other dividends are recognised in the year in which they are paid.
e) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Material transactions in foreign currencies are hedged using forward purchases or sales of the relevant currencies and are recognised in 
the financial statements at the exchange rates thus obtained. Unhedged transactions are recorded at the exchange rate on the date of the 
transaction. Material monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are hedged, mainly using forward foreign exchange 
contracts to create matching liabilities and assets, and are retranslated at each balance sheet date. Hedge accounting as defined by FRS 26 
has been applied in the both years.
f) LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS
Bank fees and legal costs associated with the securing of external financing are capitalised and amortised over the term of the relevant 
facility. All other borrowing costs are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which they are incurred.
g) PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when a legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions 
are discounted where the time value of money is considered to be material. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
2 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
In accordance with the exemption permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not 
presented separately. The profit recognised for the year to 29 March 2014 was £19m (2013: loss of £4m). Information regarding the audit 
fees for the Group is provided in note 3 to the Group financial statements.
3 EQUITY DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS
The following dividends and distributions were paid during the year:
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Redemption of 172p per B share through the B/C Share Scheme — 33
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 of 3.25p per ordinary share — 15
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 1.75p per ordinary share — 8
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 3.25p per ordinary share 19 —
Interim dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 of 2.00p per ordinary share 11 —
 30 56
The following distribution is proposed but had not been effected at 29 March 2014:
 £m
Final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 of 4.00p per ordinary share 23
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 is subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming annual general 
meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements. 
4 FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Opening balance 741 750
Additions 12 —
Impairments — (9)
Closing balance 753 741
Cost 851 839
Accumulated impairments (98) (98)
Net carrying amount 753 741
Fixed asset investments comprise investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint venture investments and other minority investments. 
Details of the Company’s investments in material subsidiary undertakings are provided in note 12 to the Group financial statements.
Additions during the year ended 29 March 2014 primarily reflect the cost of shares issued to satisfy Best Buy’s obligations in relation 
to incentive schemes (see note 23 to the Group financial statements).
In the prior year, CPW Acton One Limited disposed of its investment property in Acton, London, for £40.5m in cash. Following this transaction 
the net assets of CPW Acton One Limited fell below the value of the Company’s investment in that company, resulting in an impairment. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 101
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5 DEBTORS: DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 614 4
Loans to joint ventures 18 20
Deferred tax asset 2 1
Prepayments 5 —
Other debtors 5 1
 644 26
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Other debtors include loans of £1m to senior employees of the Group in relation to the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan as explained in 
note 5b to the Group financial statements.
6 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 21 1
Other creditors 5 1
Accruals and deferred income 28 20
 54 22
7 PROVISIONS
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Opening balance 6 9
Utilised in the year (4) —
Released in the year — (3)
Closing balance 2 6
8 LOANS PAYABLE
 2014 2013
 £m £m
Loans payable 290 —
290 —
Details of loans payable are provided in note 19 to the Group financial statements. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
9 SHARE CAPITAL, RESERVES AND ACCUMULATED PROFITS
a) SHARE CAPITAL
 2014 2013 2014 2013
 million million £m £m
Allotted, called-up and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1p each 576 473 1 1
  Share Profit Capital 
 Share premium and loss redemption 
 capital reserve account reserve Total
2014 £m £m £m £m £m
Opening balance 1 170 705 — 876
Net profit for the year — — 19 — 19
Other comprehensive income — — 2 — 2
Issue of shares — 113 103 — 216
Equity dividends — — (30) — (30)
Net movement in relation to share schemes — — (4) — (4)
Closing balance 1 283 795 — 1,079
  Share Profit Capital 
 Share premium and loss redemption 
 capital reserve account reserve Total
2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Opening balance 34 170 175 557 936
Net loss for the year — — (4) — (4)
Redemption of shares (33) — (33) 33 (33)
Equity dividends — — (23) — (23)
Capital reduction — — 590 (590) —
Net movement in relation to share schemes — — — — —
Closing balance 1 170 705 — 876
Note 20 to the Group financial statements provides further details of the issue of shares. 
For details of the Company’s equity dividends and other distributions see note 3. Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 103
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company has applied the exemption under FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ not to disclose details of financial instruments 
held by the Company. Full disclosure of the Group’s financial instruments under FRS 29 (IFRS 7) ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ and IAS 39 
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ is provided in note 25 to the Group financial statements.
11 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 15 May 2014, the Company announced that it had reached agreement on the terms for an all-share merger with Dixons Retail plc (the "Merger"). 
Under the terms of the Merger, ordinary shareholders in Dixons Retail plc will for each of their shares in Dixons Retail plc receive 0.155 shares 
in the Company, which will be renamed Dixons Carphone plc. The Board considers that the Merger will deliver significant value to Carphone 
shareholders through a combination of enhanced commercial opportunities and operating synergies, which are expected to deliver recurring 
annual benefits of at least £80m by the 2017–18 financial year. The Merger is expected to be effected by way of a scheme of arrangement 
and is conditional on the approval of the ordinary shareholders of both the Company and Dixons Retail plc and the sanction of the court. 
On 16 May 2014, the Company announced that, alongside the other shareholders in the business, it had entered into an exclusivity agreement 
in respect of the proposed sale of Virgin Mobile France to Numericable Group for an enterprise value of €325m. During the exclusivity period 
the parties have carried out the necessary consultations with employee work councils, and the transaction is subject to the approval of the 
French competition authority.
12 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ not to provide details of related party 
transactions with other Group companies, as the Company’s financial statements are presented together with the consolidated Group 
financial statements.
During the year, the Company had the following disclosable transactions and balances with its joint ventures:
 2014 2013
  Virgin Virgin
 CPW Mobile CPW Mobile
 Europe France Europe France
 £m £m £m £m
Net interest and other finance income — 1 — 1
Loans owed to the Company — 18 — 20
Other amounts owed to the Company — — — —
Other amounts owed by the Company — — (6) — Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 104
OTHER STATUTORY 
INFORMATION
Shareholder and corporate information
Carphone Warehouse is listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange (stock symbol: CPW). 
It became eligible for FTSE UK index series inclusion during December 2013 and is a constituent 
of the FTSE 250.
REGISTRAR
EQUINITI LIMITED
Aspect House 
Spencer Road, Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA  
United Kingdom 
0871 384 2089 (UK only)*/+44 (0)121 415 7047 (from outside the UK)
* Calls to the 0871 number cost 8p per minute plus network extras. 
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
You can manage your shareholdings via an electronic communications 
service called Shareview - www.shareview.co.uk. To register, you 
will need your shareholder reference number, which can be found 
on your share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card. 
Registration is free.
UK CAPITAL GAINS TAX
Please refer to the corporate website for guidance on the apportionment 
of the tax cost base of Carphone Warehouse shares for UK capital 
gains tax purposes. 
www.cpwplc.com/investor-relations/shareholder-information/capital-gains-tax/.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2014
Financial year end 29 March
Preliminary results 2013–14 26 June
Ex-dividend date (final dividend 2013–14) 9 July
Record date (final dividend 2013–14) 11 July
Annual general meeting 23 July
Intended dividend payment date 
(final dividend 2013–14) 1 August
REGISTERED OFFICE/HEAD OFFICE
1 Portal Way 
London W3 6RS 
United Kingdom 
+44 (0)20 8617 6002  
www.cpwplc.com
COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER
07105905
COMPANY SECRETARY
Enquiries should be directed to:
Tim Morris 
Company Secretary and General Counsel 
cpwplclegal@cpwplc.com
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Enquiries should be directed to:
Kate Ferry, Investor Relations Director 
Kerry Becker, Investor Relations Manager 
ir@cpwplc.com
ADVISERS TO THE COMPANY
AUDITORS
DELOITTE LLP
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ
JOINT STOCKBROKERS
DEUTSCHE BANK AG
1 Great Winchester Street 
London EC2N 2DB
UBS INVESTMENT BANK
1 Finsbury Avenue 
London EC2M 2PP Glossary and definitions
The following definitions apply throughout this annual report unless the context otherwise requires:
ACQUISITION 
INTANGIBLES
Acquired intangible assets such as customer bases, 
brands and other intangible assets acquired through 
a business combination capitalised separately 
from goodwill.
ARPU Average revenue per user.
B/C SHARE SCHEME The scheme used to return the initial proceeds from 
the Best Buy Mobile Disposal to shareholders.
BEST BUY Best Buy Co., Inc. (incorporated in the United States) 
and its subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures 
and associates.
BEST BUY EUROPE Best Buy Europe Distributions Limited and its subsidiaries 
and interests in joint ventures and associates 
(incorporated in England and Wales).
BEST BUY 
JOINT VENTURE 
TRANSACTION
Old Carphone Warehouse’s disposal of a 50% 
interest in its mobile retail and distribution business 
(Best Buy Europe), including its economic interests 
in Best Buy Mobile, in June 2008.
BEST BUY MOBILE Best Buy’s retail operations in respect of mobile phones 
and other connected devices in which Best Buy Europe 
had a profit share arrangement.
BEST BUY MOBILE 
DISPOSAL
The disposal of the Group’s interest in Best Buy Mobile 
to Best Buy.
BEST BUY UK Best Buy Europe’s Best Buy branded Big Box stores 
and online business.
BOARD The Board of directors of the Company.
CARPHONE 
OR THE COMPANY 
Carphone Warehouse Group Public Limited Company 
(incorporated in England and Wales under the Act, 
with registered number 07105905), whose registered 
office is at 1 Portal Way, London W3 6RS.
CARPHONE GROUP 
OR GROUP
The Company, its subsidiaries, interests in joint 
ventures and other investments.
CGU Cash generating unit.
CIRCULAR The circular being sent to shareholders in respect 
of the Merger.
CONSIDERATION 
SHARES
The 42.1m ordinary shares in the Company issued 
to Best Buy on 25 June 2013 at a price of £1.90 per share, 
in connection with the CPW Europe Acquisition.
CPW OR CARPHONE 
WAREHOUSE
The continuing business of the Carphone Group, 
excluding its interest in Virgin Mobile France.
CPW EUROPE Best Buy Europe’s core continuing operations.
CPW EUROPE 
ACQUISITION 
The Company’s acquisition of Best Buy’s interest 
in CPW Europe, which completed on 26 June 2013.
DEMERGER The demerger of Old Carphone Warehouse into the 
Group and TalkTalk Group, effective on 26 March 2010.
EARNINGS Profit or loss after taxation, unless the context 
otherwise requires.
EBIT Earnings before investment income, interest 
and taxation.
EBITDA Earnings before investment income, interest, taxation, 
depreciation and amortisation.
EPS Earnings per share (basic unless otherwise indicated).
ESOT Employee share ownership trust.
HEADLINE RESULTS Results before non-Headline results. The phrases 
"Headline earnings", "Headline EBIT", "Headline 
EBITDA" and "Headline EPS" should be interpreted 
in the same way. The Headline results of the Group’s 
joint ventures also include certain reclassifications, 
as detailed in note 24 to the Group financial statements, 
to aid understanding of underlying performance.
HMRC Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the European Union.
MERGER The proposed merger of Dixons Retail plc 
and Carphone.
MNO Mobile network operator.
MVNO Mobile virtual network operator.
MTR Mobile termination rates.
NEW CPW New CPW Limited (incorporated in England 
and Wales).
NON‑HEADLINE 
RESULTS
Items which have been excluded from Headline 
results to avoid distortion of underlying performance. 
Comprises exceptional items which are considered 
to be one-off and so material that they require separate 
disclosure to avoid distortion of underlying performance, 
the results of businesses which have been discontinued 
and amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
NPS Net promoter score, a rating used by the Group to 
measure customers’ likelihood to recommend CPW.
OLD CARPHONE 
WAREHOUSE 
TalkTalk Telecom Holdings Limited (formerly 
"The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC") 
(incorporated in England and Wales).
OLD CARPHONE 
WAREHOUSE GROUP 
Old Carphone Warehouse and its subsidiaries and 
interests in joint ventures prior to the Demerger.
OPERATING FREE 
CASH FLOW
EBITDA, less capital expenditure and operating cash 
flows in respect of working capital, used as a measure 
of operating cash generation.
PARTICIPATION PLAN The Carphone Warehouse Group plc Participation 
Plan 2011.
PAT Profit after taxation.
PBT Profit before taxation.
PRO FORMA Results aggregating CPW Europe and the Group’s 
wholly owned businesses, as though CPW Europe had 
been 100% owned by the Group in the relevant period.
PROSPECTUS The prospectus being sent to shareholders in respect 
of the Merger.
ROCE Return on capital employed. Net profit as a percentage 
of capital employed, calculated using Headline earnings 
and with capital employed defined as average equity 
and average non-current debt. Averages are calculated 
based on the opening and closing positions for the 
relevant year.
RCF Revolving credit facility.
TALKTALK OR 
TALKTALK GROUP 
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC and its subsidiaries 
and other investments.
TSR Total shareholder return.
UK GAAP United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
and applicable law.
VES Value enhancement scheme.
VIRGIN MOBILE 
FRANCE 
Omer Telecom Limited (incorporated in England 
and Wales) and its subsidiaries, operating an MVNO 
in France as a joint venture between the Company, 
Bluebottle UK Limited and Financom S.A.S.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 105 Carphone Warehouse Group plc 
1 Portal Way, London W3 6RS, United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0)20 8617 6002
Email: ir@cpwplc.com 
Registered no. 07105905
www.cpwplc.com
Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certified paper. 
Park is EMAS certified; its Environmental Management System 
is certified to ISO 14001 and it is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company. 
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 
99% of any waste associated with this production will be 
recycled. This document is printed on Challenger Offset, 
a paper containing 100% Environmental Chlorine Free 
(ECF) virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, 
responsible, FSC
®
 certified forests.
