 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
achievement
a year of Statutory numbers are given in the Chairman’s Statement and reconciliations are given in the Notes to the
Financial Statements 
2004 prepared under UK GAAP and 2005 - 2008 under IFRS
*excludes non-recurring items and amortisation of intangible assets
04 05 06 07 08
156
192
243
253
372
Revenue £m
5.0
6.7
7.3
6.1
12.8
Profit before 
tax* £m
39.9
50.9
59.7
56.0
108.6
Earnings per
share* (p)
13.5
16.0
18.0
19.0
23.0
Dividends (p)
04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08
Contents
IFC Financial Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Operating and Financial Review
16 Board of Directors
16 Registered Office and Advisers
17 Directors’ Report
20 Corporate Governance
23 Directors’ Remuneration Report
27 Independent Auditors’ Report
28 Consolidated Income Statement
29 Consolidated and Company Statement 
of Recognised Income and Expense
30 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheet
31 Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statement
32 Principal Accounting Policies
37 Notes to the Financial Statements
80 Five Year Statement
82 Directory of Operations
ANNIVERSARY
th
CARR’S MILLING
Jonathan Dodgson Carr created Carr & Co in 
1831 so we celebrated 175 years of trading as 
Carr’s Flour in 2006.
In June 1908 the Carr family built the mill at 
Silloth and created a new company which is 
today Carr’s Milling Industries PLC.
financial highlights
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk Revenue up 47% to £372.3m
Profit before tax up 133% at £12.9m
Basic earnings per share up 83% at 92.7p
Dividend up 21% to 23.0p per share
Shareholders’ equity down 7% to £25.0m
Carr’s Milling Industries 
activities are focussed on 
Agriculture, Food and Engineering.
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 01 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
The 52 weeks to 30 August 2008 stand out as a tremendously successful year for Carr’s,
with revenue up by almost 50% and pre-tax profit more than doubling. This performance,
driven by our largest Division, Agriculture, reflects our continuing strategy of growing our
core businesses in new areas by developing new brands and new markets, as well as the
incidence of one-off favourable factors relating to the purchase of commodities at a time 
of substantially rising prices. We have well invested facilities that efficiently produce the
cost-effective products we manufacture and sell.
The year was an extraordinary one for
commodity prices. Many of our key raw
materials in the UK - feed and milling wheat,
soya and rape meal - more than doubled 
and fertiliser rose three to four fold. These
increases reflected increased demand from
China and India for agricultural products,
combined with low world commodity stocks
and growth in bio-fuel production, after 
many years of static markets. 
Less dramatic than the rise in commodity
prices was the 40% increase in the farm-gate
milk price paid to the Group’s dairy farming
customers. This increase provided a
substantial boost to the Group’s business. 
Financial Review 
Revenue in the 52 weeks to 30 August 2008
increased by 47% to £372.3m (2007:
£252.8m). The pre-tax profit was up 133% 
to £12.9m (2007: £5.5m), and fully diluted
earnings per share were 91.2p (2007: 49.9p),
up 83%. Net finance costs of £1.6m (2007:
£1.0m) were covered 8.0 times (2007: 5.8
times) by Group operating profit of £12.9m
(2007: £5.8m), up 123%. Adjusted to subtract
non-recurring items and amortisation of
intangible assets totalling £0.1m (2007: to
add £0.6m), adjusted pre-tax profit was up
111% to £12.8m (2007: £6.1m) and fully-
diluted adjusted earnings per share were up
94% at 106.9p (2007: 55.0p). 
The Board estimates that in the region of
£4.1m of the pre-tax profit was of an
02   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 exceptional trading nature: £2.9m inventory
gain, when the cost of raw materials was
rising very fast; £0.7m due to the early buying
of fertiliser by farmers for the autumn 2008
and spring 2009 season so as to avoid
anticipated price increases; and £0.5m
currency appreciation on forward foreign
exchange contracts.
Total shareholders’ equity decreased by 7% 
to £25.0m (2007: £26.8m), the profit for the
period of £8.3m being off-set by £8.8m of
actuarial losses net of tax in the retirement
benefit obligation as a consequence of poor
investment returns, increased inflation, and
strengthened mortality assumptions. Despite
substantial increases in revenue and working
capital, up £6.9m in the period, net debt
increased by only £2m to £17.4m (2007:
£15.4m), representing gearing of 70% (2007:
57%). 
Subsequent to the year end, in September
2008, £2.5m (net) was raised in a placing 
of 410,000 new Ordinary Shares (4.9% of 
the issued share capital) at 660p per share. 
The object of the placing was to fund, in 
part, the additional working capital
requirement and to widen the institutional
shareholder base. Reflecting the placing, pro
forma gearing at 30 August 2008 falls to 55%.
Dividends
As announced on 5 September 2008, the
Board is proposing a 26% increase in the 
final dividend per share to 17.0p (2007:
13.5p). If approved by shareholders at the
Annual Meeting on 6 January 2009, the
dividend will be paid on 16 January 2009 
to shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 19 December 2008, with the
shares going ex-dividend on 17 December
2008.
Together with the interim dividend per share
of 6.0p (2007: 5.5p), up 9%, paid on 9 May
2008, the proposed dividends per share for 
the year total 23.0p (2007: 19.0p), up 21%,
covered 4.0 times (2007: 2.7 times) by basic
earnings per share and 4.7 times (2007: 2.9
times) by adjusted earnings per share. This
would be the seventh successive annual
increase in dividends per share and the total
proposed for the year is almost three times 
the 8.0p paid seven years ago, in 2001 – 
a compound annual increase of 16%.
Outlook
Agriculture is most unlikely to enjoy a
repetition of this year’s exceptionally
favourable commodity prices. It will, however,
be boosted by its UK dairy-farming customers
benefiting from October’s 1p increase in the
farm-gate milk price, which was badly needed
in the context of increases in input costs. US
animal feed will benefit from the continuing
success of that business, as well as the
translation effect of the strengthening US
dollar. 
Food will benefit from a better start to the
current year and lower milling wheat prices,
but has to contend with higher energy costs. 
Our Engineering business commences the
year with a strong order book, with contracts
for the nuclear decommissioning programme
and the oil and gas sectors. 
Overall, the Group remains well-placed for
the current year, albeit without the benefit 
of exceptional trading conditions in its largest
Division, Agriculture. 
Richard Inglewood
Chairman
17 November 2008
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 03 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
a year of
achievement
04   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 It was 100 years ago, in June 1908, that the
Directors of Carr & Co created for its flour
milling activities the company that now 
trades as Carr’s Milling Industries PLC. It is
particularly special to celebrate this centenary
with a year of outstanding financial results.
In the 52 weeks to 30 August 2008,
the average annual farm gate milk
price increased by 38.4%, from
18.49p to 25.59p. The average price
in the period 1997-2007 had been
increasingly unsustainable. The
consequence, to the disadvantage 
of UK plc, was a massive exit from
dairying, which is a capital intensive
industry in terms of land, buildings
and animals, as well as one
involving the sustained working 
of unsocial hours.
With Agriculture again capitalising 
on its innovative niche products 
- the benefit of a focus on product
development and the creation of
intellectual property - and its strong
market position in North West
England and Scotland, the pre-tax
profit for the year was easily a record. 
Agriculture operating profit*
£11.7m
Food operating profit*
£2.0m
Engineering operating profit*
£1.1m
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 05
* before retirement benefit charge agriculture
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
06   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge) of £11.7m (2007: £5.1m), a
128% increase, was achieved on revenue up 48% at £275.8m (2007: £185.9m).
Operating profit
(before retirement benefit charge) of
£11.7m
(2007: £5.1m) up 128%
Revenue
up 48% 
at £275.8m
(2007: £185.9m)
United Kingdom
In the year under review, the Agriculture Division saw
enormous changes. Whilst raw material prices increased
hugely, farm incomes also rose dramatically, due to badly
needed increases in grain and farm-gate milk prices. 
This time last year, we decided to buy forward many of our
key raw materials, as did many of our competitors, so we
were able to protect our customers from the full impact of
the animal feed price increases over the winter. However,
our real focus has been on product quality, new product
development and customer service in order to maximise 
our customers’ profits, as we believe this is the key to our
long-term success. The investment in the AminoMax plant
at Langwathby, to improve farmers’ milk yields, has clearly
been a success, given the volumes sold. 
Growth in market share of compound and blended animal
feeds, with increased sales volumes, enabled better
utilisation of our seven feed mills – four compound mills 
(at Carlisle and Langwathby in Cumbria, Lancaster in
Lancashire and Stone in Staffordshire), producing pellets,
and three blended feed mills (at Askrigg in North Yorkshire,
Kirkbride in Cumbria and Lancaster in Lancashire),
producing loose mixes. This resulted in increased profits
through increased sales volumes and production efficiencies. 
Crystalyx low moisture feed blocks, produced at Silloth in
Cumbria, increased volumes and revenue. The milk price
increase has created a further opportunity for brand
development. Optimum, a low moisture feed block, was
successfully launched at the National Dairy Event at
Stoneleigh in September 2008 and this should enable
continuing growth in sales volumes and profits.
Fertiliser had an excellent year as a result of increased sales
volumes of both standard and environmentally-protective
fertiliser. Raw material price increases throughout the year
were massive and selling prices were constantly adjusted,
generating a considerable part of the profit, much of it as
inventory gain. The year benefited, in the latter months,
from the forward buying by our customers of fertiliser for
spreading in the autumn of 2008 and the spring of 2009.
Carr’s three fertiliser blending plants (at Invergordon in
Ross-shire, Montrose in Angus, and Silloth in Cumbria) give
it a substantial market share in Scotland and the North of
England. 
Retail and machinery had a very good year, with retail
continuing to grow in revenue and profit from its 
15 branches (12 in the North of England - of which one 
was acquired in July 2008 - and three in Scotland).
Machinery enjoyed a strong presence in its market through
its Massey Ferguson dealership, and revenue in the year 
was ahead of the previous year and budget.
The enlarged fuel business, including a first full year for
Johnstone Fuels, performed well, exceeded budget, and
made a useful contribution to Group profit. We now trade 
as Johnstone Wallace Fuels in South West Scotland and
Wallace Oils in Cumbria.
Overseas
In the USA, Animal Feed Supplements, whose plants are
located in Belle Fourche, South Dakota and Poteau,
Oklahoma, had an excellent year, with record sales of
Smartlic and Feed in a Drum low moisture feed blocks. 
This resulted in record profits, when expressed in US dollars. 
In Germany, Crystalyx Products, the joint venture in
conjunction with Agravis, again produced record volumes
and increased exports to adjacent countries.
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 07 food
Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge) of £2.0m
(2007: £1.1m), up 77%, was achieved on revenue up 50% at
£85.6m (2007: £57.0m). 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Following an extremely difficult prior year 
for flour, the increase in operating profit,
which was achieved despite a poor start to 
the year before a price rise took effect, was
badly needed. The increase in wheat prices
that started in late summer 2007 continued
until virtually the end of the financial year.
Sales volumes of flour increased during the
year, but by a much smaller percentage than
revenue. The operating margin increased to
2.3% (2007: 1.9%).
The aim of Carr’s three flour mills, at
Kirkcaldy (Fife), Silloth (Cumbria) and
Maldon (Essex), to provide the highest levels
of service and product quality for the bread,
biscuit and ingredients market, continues.
Homegrown, Continental European and
North American wheat are used and there is
extensive in-house research and development.
The three mills have maintained their
regional identity and each mill has a strong
local management team. This has aided the
development of close working relationships
with a wide range of customers across the UK.
It also means that central costs are
minimised. 
08   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating profit
(before retirement benefit charge) of 
£2.0m
(2007: £1.1m) up 77%
Revenue
up 50%
at £85.6m
(2007: £57.0m)
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09 engineering
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge) increased
by 7% to £1.1m (2007: £1.0m) on revenue up 12% at £10.7m
(2007: £9.6m).
Bendalls, our specialist steel fabrication
business, successfully completed some 
large contracts for the nuclear, oil and 
gas industries. Continual delays and design
alterations frustrated the work flow on certain
contracts. Bendalls enters the financial year
with a strong order book across all its market
sectors.
Of the smaller businesses, Carr’s MSM 
had a steady and successful year, completing 
and supplying new design master slave
manipulators to British Nuclear Group. 
R Hind traded satisfactorily in a competitive
market for vehicle body building and 
accident repairs.
10   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Staff
The year has not been without its challenges,
which included massive commodity price rises
which affected both our Agriculture and Food
Divisions as well as our customers. The
Company has continued to progress and my
thanks go to all my colleagues in the UK,
Europe and the USA for the excellent result 
for the period.
Prospects
The macro outlook for our UK livestock farming
customers - the dairy, beef and sheep farmers -
is looking favourable. Following their huge
increases last year, cereal prices have reduced
significantly to a level that is looking
unsustainably low for UK arable farmers given
the higher fertiliser input costs. Overseas, Carr’s
Agriculture business continues to prosper and
grow.
The flour milling business is operating in a
competitive industry and the restoration of
acceptable margins is a priority. The poor
quality of the milling wheat from the 2008
harvest in the north of the UK is increasing 
the cost base of our two northern mills. 
The Engineering Division is trading in an
environment that should not be materially
affected by the current economic situation,
having regard to its focus on the nuclear
decommissioning and oil and gas industries.
Carr’s has a track record of success, even in
times of difficult market conditions for its three
Divisions. The current year has started well.
Carr’s remains well placed for further
underlying progress.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
17 November 2008
Operating profit
(before retirement benefit charge) of
£1.1m
(2007: £1.0m) up 7%
Revenue
up 12%
at £10.7m
(2007: £9.6m)
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Group’s operations are organised into three business divisions, agriculture, food and
engineering, and the performance of these three divisions in the period is discussed in the 
Chief Executive’s Review on pages 4 to 11. The agriculture business operates predominately 
in the North of England, Wales and Scotland, in addition there are two animal feed plants 
in the US and a plant in Germany. The flour and the engineering business operate entirely
within the UK although a proportion of sales from the engineering business are export.
The markets in which all three businesses
operate are competitive both in terms of pricing
from other suppliers and the retail environment
in general which has a direct impact on many
of our customers. Despite this, Carr’s businesses
have a long record of increasing sales and
profits through a combination of investing in
modern efficient factories, developing a range
of quality products and making sound
acquisitions. The businesses are under the
control of stable, experienced and talented
operational management teams supported by 
a skilled workforce. 
Performance against KPIs
Organic revenue growth
Gross return on revenue
Net return on revenue
Adjusted earnings per share
Return on net assets
Free cash flow
2008 2007
44.9% -1.1%
12.0% 13.5%
3.4% 2.5%
108.6p 56.0p
46.4% 21.0%
£3.0m £3.8m
Business objectives
There are five key elements to the Group’s
strategy for meeting its objectives of continuing
growth and profitability:
• Deliver quality, innovative and cost-effective
products and services to our customers
• Organic growth
• Seek acquisitions to complement our
existing businesses
• Maximise operational efficiency
• Securing employee health and safety
We monitor our performance against the
strategy by means of key performance
indicators (‘KPIs’).
• Organic revenue growth – year on year
increase in revenue excluding the impact 
of acquisitions and disposals
• Gross return on revenue – gross profit as a
percentage of revenue
• Net return on revenue – operating profit
before non-recurring items and amortisation
as a percentage of revenue
• Adjusted earnings per share – profit
attributed to equity shareholders less non-
recurring items and amortisation divided 
by the weighted average of shares in issue
during the period
• Return on net assets – profit before tax and
before non-recurring items and amortisation
as a percentage of net assets
• Free cash flow – cash generated from
operations less tax and interest paid
12   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Business strategies
The Group’s market strategy is to focus on
growing the quality end of the markets in
which we operate, to establish meaningful and
long lasting relationships with our customers,
by a combination of product development and
high service levels, and to invest in quality
facilities. Each business within the Group is
given the responsibility for developing its own
plans to deliver the objectives of the Group with
particular emphasis on growing sales through
the supply of quality products, service and
product innovation, improving operational
efficiency and securing employee health and
safety. The role of the Board in achieving 
Group objectives has been to support
operational management and to identify
suitable acquisitions that will create new
customers to the Group or will secure existing
market positions.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Overview
Group revenue from activities during the period
was £372.3 million (2007: £252.8 million). 
Profit before taxation increased to £12.9 million
(2007: £5.5 million). Profit before taxation and
before non-recurring items and amortisation of
intangible assets increased to £12.8 million
(2007: £6.1 million). Non-recurring items and
amortisation are disclosed in note 6 to the
financial statements.
The entire share capital of J M Raine Limited
was acquired on 7 July 2008 and the results
from that date to 30 August 2008 are included
in the Group’s results.
Net finance costs were £1.6 million (2007: £1.0
million) and were covered 8.0 times (2007: 6.2
times) by adjusted operating profit.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax charge on profit from
activities after net finance costs was 35.8%
(2007: 22.2%). A reconciliation of the actual
total tax charge to the average standard rate 
of corporation tax in the UK of 29.17% (2007:
30%) is set out in note 9 to the financial
statements. Corporation tax in the UK was
reduced to 28% from 1 April 2008. This
reduction in the tax rate is reflected in the
corporation tax charge for the period. However,
offsetting this during the period the proposal
that Parliament abolish Industrial Building
Allowances was substantively enacted. The
effect of this has been to increase the tax
charge for the period by £1,317,000.
Earnings per share
The profit attributable to the equity holders of
the Company amounted to £7.7 million (2007:
£4.2 million), and basic earnings per share was
92.7p (2007: 50.7p). Adjusted earnings per
share of 108.6p (2007: 56.0p) is calculated 
by dividing the profit attributed to equity
shareholders for the period, before non-
recurring items and amortisation of intangible
assets, by the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the period.
Balance sheet review
We have continued to invest in the business
with total capital expenditure in the period 
of £3.1 million, making our total capital
expenditure in the last three years 
£9.8 million. In the current period we have
continued to invest in production facilities with
£1.0 million spent on our flour mills and a
further £2.1 million spent on other businesses.
The value of inventories has risen in the current
period by £16.2 million (108.8%) reflecting the
substantial increase in the cost of raw materials
purchased, particularly within the fertiliser
business, rather than any significant increase 
in the quantity of inventory held.
Trade and other receivables have increased by
£15.3 million, principally due to the increase 
in trade receivables of £14.3 million arising
from increased selling prices with debtor days
remaining similar to last period across all
businesses.
Trade and other payables have increased by 
£24.5 million, reflecting a significant increase
in trade creditors of £16.4 million which is
primarily due to the increased cost of raw
materials. The retirement benefit obligation
adverse movement of £6.8 million in the period
is discussed in the section headed Pensions.
Overall net assets decreased by £1.3 million to 
£27.6 million (2007: increase £6.6 million).
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued
Cash flow and net debt
The Group’s operational cash generation
decreased in the period with cash flows
generated from operations in the current year
of £5.2 million (2007: £6.9 million). 
This decrease has arisen from the higher
working capital requirements as previously
discussed. Net cash generated from financing
activities in the period was £0.1m (2007: net
cash used £2.5 million) and includes a new
term loan of £1.5 million.
The dramatic rise in revenue reflected the 
sales price rises in both Agriculture and Food
Divisions arising from the increased raw
material prices. As a consequence the value 
of our working capital rose and also the
Group’s debt.
Net debt at the period end was £17.4 million
(2007: £15.4 million) with gearing at 69.8%
(2007: 57.4%). Net debt is expected to decrease
over the next couple of years excluding any
acquisition funding.
Pensions
The Group operates its current pension
arrangements on a defined benefit and defined
contribution basis. The defined benefit section 
is closed to new members and has 100 active
members, 107 deferred members and 168
current pensioners. The scheme receives
additional contributions from the Group in
accordance with the latest actuarial valuation
as agreed between the Company and the
Trustees.
The valuation under the IAS19 accounting basis
showed a deficit (before the related deferred tax
asset) in the scheme at 30 August 2008 of £16.6
million (1 September 2007: £9.8 million). 
In the period, the Company and the Trustees 
of the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme
1993 (“Scheme”) offered enhanced transfer
values to deferred members, with more than
five years to normal retirement age. The cost 
to the Company was £946,000 and the
actuarial provisions held by the Company were
reduced by £1,325,000. The net gain of
£379,000 (2007: £nil) has been credited to the
income statement.
Actuarial losses of £11.1 million (2007: gain
£4.6 million) have been reported in the
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The actuarial losses arise from the reduction in
the fair value of Scheme assets due to poor
investment returns, in particular the return on
UK equities, and changes to assumptions used
to determine the defined benefit obligation. 
The expected inflation rate has been increased
and more robust mortality assumptions have
been adopted, which together had the adverse
impact of increasing liabilities by over £9.0
million.
A Group subsidiary undertaking is a
participating employer in a defined benefit
pension scheme for which the sponsoring
company is an associated company. During the
period the Group’s associate closed its defined
benefit pension scheme to future service
accrual. The IAS19 accounting basis showed a
deficit at 30 August 2008, for that scheme, of
£2.6 million (2007: £1.7 million). The details 
for both pension schemes are given in note 28
to the financial statements.
Treasury Policy
The Group’s treasury policy is structured to
ensure adequate financial resources are
available for the development of its business
while managing its currency and interest rate
risks. The Group’s strategy, policy and controls
are developed centrally and approved by the
Board. The Group does not engage in
speculative transactions.
The main elements of treasury activity are
outlined below.
Foreign currency risk
The major foreign currency risk facing the
Group is in the purchasing of raw materials in
the fertiliser and flour milling operations. The
major currency involved is the US dollar. The
policy of the Group is to hedge using forward
foreign exchange contracts with UK banks as
soon as any commitment has been entered into.
The result of the Group’s foreign subsidiary is
translated into sterling at the average rates of
exchange for the period concerned. 
The balance sheet of the foreign subsidiary is
translated into sterling at the closing US dollar
exchange rate. Any gains or losses on the
translation of the balance sheet into sterling are
recorded in reserves. Currency translation risks
of net assets in the US subsidiary are not
hedged.
14   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Interest rate risk
Historically the policy of the Group has been 
to hedge around 40% to 60% of the core
borrowings. The Group has two interest rate
swaps totalling £5.75 million to protect against
significant increases in interest rates. The board
will continue to review the appropriateness of
our interest rate policy and our hedging policy
during the next financial year.
Credit risk
Practically all sales are made on credit terms to
an extensive range of customers which include
UK food producers, agricultural merchants,
farmers and the nuclear industry. Overdue
accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional
management meetings. Historically, the
incidence of bad debts is low. The current
financial climate requires the Group’s credit
control function to be exceptionally vigilant.
Funding
The Group has historically been cash
generative. The bank position for each
operation is monitored on a daily basis and
capital expenditure above a certain level is
approved at the monthly Group board meeting.
Each operation has access to the Group’s
overdraft facility or has facilities specific to that
operation and all term debt is arranged
centrally. The current bank facilities available
to the Group are term loans of £1.9 million, a
revolving credit facility of £4.5 million and
overdraft facilities of £12.0 million. Unutilised
facilities at 30 August 2008 were £15.7 million
(2007: £11.7 million). 
Resources, risks and uncertainties
The Group aims to safeguard the assets that
give it competitive advantage, being its product
quality, product innovation and service levels,
its operational management, skilled workforce
and its modern well-equipped factories.
Reputation
It is the responsibility of local operational
management assisted by the Group Health and
Safety Manager to maintain and where possible
enhance the Group’s reputation for product
quality, product innovation, service levels and 
a culture of safe working.
Manufacturing facilities
The Group has continued to invest in its
production facilities in all three businesses and
it intends to continue investing to ensure that 
it maintains a competitive edge. 
Employees
While the Group continues to invest in facilities
and equipment we also continue to invest in
our people. The Group offers training
programmes to staff where additional skills are
required to undertake their responsibilities. 
The businesses have strategies for retaining
staff, including the provision of competitive
terms and conditions, a contributory
occupational pension scheme and share
options. The Group also introduced a
Savings–related Share Option Scheme in 
May 2006.
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Each year the Group carries out a formal
exercise to identify and assess the impact of
risks on its business and this year the exercise
was carried out in August 2008. The more
significant risks and uncertainties faced by the
Group were identified as customer retention,
employee retention, margins, profitability and
competition. The corporate governance
statement describes more about the Group’s 
risk management process.
On behalf of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Finance Director
17 November 2008
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15 Registered Office
and Advisers
Registered Office
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix
Carlisle CA3 9BA
Registered No. 98221
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
89 Sandyford Road
Newcastle upon Tyne 
NE1 8HW
Bankers
Clydesdale Bank PLC
82 English Street
Carlisle CA3 8HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
37 Lowther Street
Carlisle CA3 8EL
Financial Adviser and Broker
Investec Bank (UK) Limited 
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Solicitors
DLA Piper UK
India Buildings
Water Street
Liverpool L2 0NH
Halliwells
The Plaza
100 Old Hall Street
Liverpool L3 9TD
Atkinson Ritson
15 Fisher Street
Carlisle CA3 8RW
Registrars
Capita Registrars 
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Right: 
Lord Inglewood - Non-Executive Chairman
Centre, left to right:
Chris Holmes - Chief Executive Officer
Ron Wood - Finance Director
Bottom, left to right:
Robert Heygate - Non-Executive Director
Alistair Wannop - Non-Executive Director
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
16   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17
The Directors submit their report and the audited accounts of the
Company for the period ended 30 August 2008.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES, BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE
DEVELOPMENTS
The Group’s activities are Agriculture, Food and Engineering. 
A review of the business and future development of the Group and
a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the
Group is presented in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 4 to 11
and in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 12 to 15.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation, was £12.9 million
(2007: £5.5 million). After the taxation charge of £4.6 million 
(2007: £1.2 million), the profit for the period is £8.3 million 
(2007: £4.3 million). An interim dividend of 6.0p per ordinary 
share was paid on 9 May 2008. The Directors recommend the
payment of a final dividend for the period, which is not reflected 
in these accounts, of 17.0p per ordinary share which, together with
the interim dividend, represents 23.0p per ordinary share, totalling 
£2.0 million (2007: 19.0p per ordinary share, totalling £1.6 million).
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final
dividend will be paid on 16 January 2009 to members on the
register at the close of business on 19 December 2008. Shares will 
be ex-dividend on 17 December 2008.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s risk management objectives and policy are discussed 
in the Treasury Policy section of the Operating and Financial
Review on page 14.
PENSIONS
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding obligations
for the Group’s pension plans are based on various assumptions
including, among other things, the actual and projected market
performance of the pension plan assets, future long-term corporate
bond yields, increased longevity of members and statutory
requirements. In the last period, the relative worsening in equity
markets, higher inflation and strengthened mortality tables has
increased the deficit. The Group continually reviews this risk and
takes action to mitigate where possible. In addition, while the
Group is consulted by the trustees on the investment strategies of 
its pension plans, the Group has no direct control over these
matters as the trustees are directly responsible for the strategy.
Details of the Group’s pension plans are in note 28 in the Notes to
the Financial Statements.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS
The Directors of the Company currently in office are as stated on
page 16. Each of the current Directors served for the whole of the
period under review. C N C Holmes and A R Heygate retire 
in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible,
each offers himself for re-election.
Biographical details of the directors are shown below:
Non-executive directors
Lord Inglewood (57) was a Conservative member of the European
Parliament for ten years until his retirement in 2004, was a
Government Minister from 1995 to 1997 and has been a member
of the House of Lords since 1989. He brings to the Board wide
experience, in particular of EU and Westminster politics, allied with
a knowledge of farming in Carr’s north-west England heartland. 
He is also Chairman of CN Group Limited, the Carlisle based
regional media company.
Mr A R Heygate (63) is an executive director of Heygate & Sons
Limited, the UK’s largest independent flour miller, and is also
engaged in animal feed compounding and other agricultural
activities.
Mr A G M Wannop (46) is a director of English Food and Farming
Partnership and of Cumbria Vision. He has actively farmed in
Cumbria for many years.
Lord Inglewood, Mr A R Heygate and Mr A G Wannop have two
year fixed term contracts which expire on 31 August 2009.
Executive directors
Mr C N C Holmes (57) was appointed to the Board in January
1992, and as CEO in September 1994. Previously he held senior
management positions in the agricultural division of J Bibby 
& Sons.
Mr R C Wood (61) was appointed to the Board as Finance Director
in January 1988 and is a member of the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants. Mr R C Wood is also Company
Secretary. He is also a non-executive director of Cumbria
Partnership NHS Trust. All fees receivable are paid to the Company.
The two executive directors have service contracts which provide for
a rolling one year notice period.
The Company has maintained directors’ and officers’ liability
insurance policy throughout the period. Neither the Company’s
indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that a director
is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. No claims have
been made either under the indemnity or the insurance policy. DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued
18   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
The Company’s policy on employee involvement is to adopt an
open management style, thereby encouraging informal
consultation at all levels about aspects of the Company’s
operations. Employees participate directly in the success of the
business by contributing to the SAYE share option schemes.
Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities
irrespective of colour, ethnic or natural origin, nationality, sex,
religion, marital or disabled status. Full consideration is given to
applications for employment by and the continuing employment,
training and career development of disabled people.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS
During the period ended 30 August 2008 the Group contributed 
£11,569 (2007: £11,219) in the UK for charitable purposes. 
There were no political donations during the year (2007: Nil).
PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS
Payment terms are agreed with each supplier and every endeavour
is made to adhere to the agreed terms. The average credit terms for
the Group as a whole, based on the year-end trade payables figure
and a 365 day year, is 45 days (2007: 44 days). The Company has
no outstanding trade payables at the end of the financial period.
SHARE CAPITAL
The movement in the share capital during the period is detailed in note 29 to the financial statements.
On 10 September 2008, £2.5 million (net) was raised in a placing of 410,000 new Ordinary Shares.
The interests of the Directors, as defined by the Companies Act 1985, in the ordinary shares of the Company, other than in respect of
options to acquire ordinary shares (which are detailed in the analysis of options included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages
23 to 26), are as follows:
on 30 August 2008 on 1 September 2007
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares
C N C Holmes 106,415 53,284
R C Wood 92,077 29,140
A R Heygate 37,225 37,225
W R Inglewood 4,410 4,410
A G M Wannop 2,261 2,261
All the above interests are beneficial. There have been no other changes to the above interests in the period from 30 August 2008 to 
10 November 2008.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
The Company has been informed of the following interests at 10 November 2008 in the 8,784,286 ordinary shares of the Company, as
required by the Companies Act 1985:
Percentage of 
Number of shares Issued share capital 
Heygate & Sons Limited 1,265,287 14.4%
T W G Charlton 575,000 6.5%
Rathbone Nominees Limited 523,800 6.0%
Goldman Sachs Securities (Nominees) Limited 413,060 4.7%
HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited 350,000 4.0%
Barclayshare Nominees Limited 263,453 3.0%
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be
submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors’ Report are listed on page 16. Having made enquiries
of fellow Directors each of these Directors, at the date of this report, confirms that:
• to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are
unaware; and
• each Director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND SPECIAL BUSINESS TO
BE TRANSACTED AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting and a letter
from the Chairman together with explanatory notes on the
Resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting
accompanies the Report and Accounts.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial period. Under that law the directors have
prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
as adopted by the European Union. The financial statements are
required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of
the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group
for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the
Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
• state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis,
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will
continue in business, in which case there should be supporting
assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements and directors’ remuneration
report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company
and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Carr’s Milling Industries PLC website and legislation in the
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.
By Order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Secretary
17 November 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
20   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTORS ON COMPLIANCE WITH
THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE 2006
PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The adoption and maintenance of good governance is the
responsibility of the Board as a whole. This report, together with the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26, describes how
the Board applies the principles of good governance and best
practice as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance
2006 (the “Combined Code 2006”). A statement of compliance can
be found at the end of this report.
THE BOARD
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, two executive
Directors and two other non-executives. Lord Inglewood is
considered independent and his independence was assessed when
he was appointed as non-executive chairman. A R Heygate is a
non-executive director and the Board considers him to be
independent although the Combined Code 2006 would not deem
him independent due to his long association with the Company
and he represents a significant shareholder. The Board believes 
that he acts in the best interests of the Company and that his
holding of shares in the Company aligns his interests with that 
of the shareholders. A G M Wannop is the senior independent 
non-executive director. The Combined Code 2006 recommends 
that the Board of Directors of a UK public company should include
a balance of executive and non-executive Directors (including
independent non-executives) such that no individual or small
group of individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-making.
The Board is confident that it meets the requirements of the
Combined Code 2006 with the exception of A R Heygate as
outlined above.
The Board meets nine times throughout the year to direct and
control the overall strategy and operating performance of the
Group. To enable them to carry out these responsibilities all
Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information. 
A formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board
covers key areas of the Group’s affairs including acquisition and
divestment policy, approval of budgets, major capital expenditure
projects, profit and cash flow performance and general treasury
and risk management policies. Responsibility for the Group’s day to
day operations is delegated to the Chief Executive who, supported
by the Finance Director and executive management, implement the
Board’s strategy and manage the Group’s business. The roles of the
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are separated and clearly
defined. The Chairman’s overall responsibility is to ensure that the
Board carries out its responsibilities. The Group Chief Executive’s
responsibilities are to direct and promote the operation and
development of the Group. Procedures are in place for Directors to
seek both independent advice at the expense of the Company and
the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order to fulfil
their duties. The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and for advising
the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters. 
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is
determined by the Board as a whole.
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one third of the
Directors retire by rotation each year at the Annual General
Meeting which is in compliance with the Combined Code 2006.
All new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first
opportunity following their appointment.
Directors’ biographies are shown on page 17. The formal terms of
reference for the main Board Committees together with the terms
and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are
reviewed annually and are available for inspection at the
Company’s Registered Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises the three non-executives,
W R Inglewood, A R Heygate and A G M Wannop. The Committee
is chaired by A R Heygate. The Board considers that the Company
meets the main requirements of the Combined Code 2006 for a
Company of Carr’s size.
The Board are responsible for assessing the Group’s internal
financial controls and meeting with the external auditors as
appropriate. The external auditors have the opportunity for direct
access to the Committee without the executive Directors being
present.
The Committee reviews the Group’s accounting policies and
internal reports on accounting and internal financial control
matters together with reports from the external auditors. The Audit
Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring the integrity 
of financial statements and related announcements and for all
aspects of internal control. The Committee meets at least two times
a year and such meetings involve a review of the Group’s interim
and full year statements. The Audit Committee is also responsible
for recommendations for the appointment, reappointment or
removal of the external auditors and for reviewing their
effectiveness. It also approves their terms of engagement and
remuneration and monitors their independence including the
nature and levels of non-audit services. Recommendations by 
the auditors on internal control procedures are considered by the
Audit Committee and implemented where appropriate.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the
Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions
that might be raised on the Committee’s activities. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises A G M Wannop
(Chairman), W R Inglewood and A R Heygate. A G M Wannop was
appointed Chairman on 6 December 2007 and the Group is now in
compliance with the Combined Code 2006 in this respect. It is a
requirement of the Combined Code 2006 that the Remuneration
Committee should, in the case of smaller companies, consist of 
at least two members who are considered by the Combined Code
2006 to be independent. The Company has complied with this. 
The Board is confident that the Company complies with the
requirements of the Combined Code 2006 in terms of the required
number of independent Directors for a Company of Carr’s size. 
C N C Holmes, Chief Executive, attends meetings of the
Remuneration Committee by invitation and in an advisory
capacity. No Director attends any part of a meeting at which his
own remuneration is discussed. The Chairman and the executive
Directors determine the remuneration of the other non-executive
Directors.
The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive
remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other
terms and conditions of service for each executive Director. It
determines appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash
bonus and deferred bonus scheme and approves awards and the
issue of options in accordance with the terms of those schemes. 
The executive directors’ contract periods are one year. The
Remuneration Committee also monitors the level and structure of
remuneration of senior management below that of main board
Director. The Remuneration Committee has access to advice from
the Company Secretary and to detailed analysis of executive
remuneration in comparable companies. Details of the Committee’s
current remuneration policies are given in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26. 
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the Annual
General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that
might be raised on the Committee’s activities.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance of good communications with
all shareholders. The Group maintains dialogue with institutional
shareholders and analysts, and general presentations are made
when financial results are announced. Shareholders have access 
to the Company’s website at www.carrs-milling.com.
The Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for all the
directors to engage in dialogue with private investors. All
shareholders are given the opportunity to raise questions at the
meeting. The Group aims to send notices of Annual General
Meetings to shareholders at least 20 working days before the
meeting, as required by the Combined Code 2006, and it is the
Company’s practice to indicate the proxy voting results on all
resolutions at the meetings.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis,
having satisfied themselves from a review of internal budgets and
forecasts and current bank facilities that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s
systems of internal control, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management, which safeguards the
shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets, and for reviewing
its effectiveness. Such a system can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives.
The Board of Directors is not aware of any significant losses caused
by breaches of internal control in the period.
Audit Remuneration
Board Committee Committee
No. of meetings 92 4
W R Inglewood 92 4
C N C Holmes 9
R C Wood 9
A R Heygate 82 4
A G M Wannop 92 4
MEETINGS ATTENDANCE
Details of the number of meetings of, and members’ attendance at, the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees during the period are
set out in the table below. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued
22   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational
structure with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting
lines to the Board. The organisational structure has been designed
in order to plan, execute, monitor and control the Group’s
objectives effectively and to ensure that internal control becomes
embedded in the operations. The Board confirms that the key on-
going processes and features of the Group’s internal risk based
control system, which accord with the Turnbull guidance, have
been fully operative and up to the date of the Annual Report being
approved. These include: a process to identify and evaluate business
risk; a strong control environment; an information and
communication process; a monitoring system and a regular Board
review for effectiveness. The Finance Director and Group Financial
Accountant are responsible for overseeing the Group’s internal
controls. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function as the Board
consider that the Group has not yet reached a size where a separate
internal audit function would be an appropriate or cost effective
method of ensuring compliance with Group policies, and therefore
does not currently propose to introduce a Group internal audit
function. This area will be kept under review as part of the Board’s
assessment of the Group’s systems of internal control.
The management of the Group’s businesses identified the key
business risks within their operations, considered the financial
implications and assessed the effectiveness of the control processes
in place to mitigate these risks. The Board reviewed a summary of
the findings and this, along with direct involvement in the
strategies of the businesses, investment appraisal and budgeting
process, enabled the Board to report on the effectiveness of internal
control.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE
The Board is satisfied that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has
adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor
objectivity and independence is maintained. The Group meets its
obligations for maintaining the appropriate relationship with the
external auditors through the Audit Committee whose terms of
reference include an obligation to consider and keep under review
the degree of work undertaken by the external auditors, other than
the statutory audit, to ensure such objectivity and independence is
safeguarded.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE REVISED COMBINED CODE
The Directors consider that the Company has, during the period
ended 30 August 2008, complied with the requirements of the
revised Combined Code 2006 other than as set out below.
• The non-executive director, A R Heygate, is not deemed to be
independent under the requirements of the Combined Code
2006 although the Board considers him to be independent
(Sch.3.1)
• during the period the executive directors’ contract periods were
reduced from two years to one year (B.1.6)
• there are no specific provisions for compensation on early
termination (B.1.5)
• the Board did not have in place during the period a formal and
rigorous process of evaluation of its own performance and that
of its committees (A.6.1). Rigorous but informal evaluation has
historically been carried out by the Chairman and Chief
Executive, an evaluation of the performance of the individual
directors has also been carried out by the Remuneration
Committee
• there is no separate Nominations Committee (A.4.1) to assess
and recommend new directors. Instead the Board as a whole
considers these areas following initial scrutiny and
recommendations by the Chief Executive and Chairman.
• the Remuneration Committee appointed a non-executive
director to chair this committee from 6 December 2007 and
now complies with the Combined Code 2006 (B.2.1).
By order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Secretary
Carlisle
CA3 9BA
17 November 2008 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 23
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
All matters relating to executive remuneration are determined by
the Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Board of
Directors. The Remuneration Committee comprises A G M Wannop
(Chairman), A R Heygate and Lord Inglewood. As appropriate, the
Committee may invite the Chief Executive Officer to participate in
some of its discussions. The Committee is responsible for
determining the terms and conditions of employment of executive
directors. It is also responsible for considering management
recommendations for remuneration and employment terms of the
Company’s senior staff, including incentive arrangements for bonus
payments and grant of share options.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and reflects the time,
commitment and responsibility of their roles.
The Remuneration Committee’s decisions are made on the basis 
of rewarding individuals for the nature of jobs they undertake and
their performance therein. Proper regard is given to the need to
attract and retain high quality, well-motivated staff at all levels 
and to the remuneration being paid by similar companies. 
DETAILS OF REMUNERATION
The remuneration of directors is set out in detail on page 24. The
Company’s Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration
policy that applies to executive directors and the Group’s other
senior management.
Each of the executive directors has a one-year rolling contract. 
The most recent executed contracts for the executive directors were
dated 10 June 2002 and as amended on 17 November 2006 and 
19 June 2008. In the event of termination C N C Holmes would be
entitled to loss of salary, benefits and pensionable service for the
notice periods. As R C Wood receives a pension from the Carr’s
Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 he would be entitled to loss
of salary and benefits in the event of termination of employment.
The contracts of non-executive directors of the Company are fixed
for two years and the most recent executed contracts for W R
Inglewood, A R Heygate and A G M Wannop were 1 September
2007.
The Company’s policy is that a proportion of the remuneration of
the executive directors should be performance related. As described
below, executive directors may earn annual incentive payments
together with the benefits of participation in Share Option Schemes.
CONSTITUENT ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION PACKAGE
In applying the above principles to the determination of executive
director remuneration, the Remuneration Committee gives
consideration to several components which together comprise the
total remuneration package; these consist of the following:
Basic Salary is determined by the Committee at the beginning of
each year. In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers
the position in the Group, personal and Company performance
and relies on information on a comparable group of companies.
Basic salaries were last reviewed in August 2008, with increases
taking effect from 1 September 2008. The next review will take
place in August 2009. Executive directors’ contracts of service,
which include details of remuneration, will be available for
inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual Bonus is paid up to a maximum of 60% of Basic Salary
on achievement of profit targets and is not pensionable. Previously
the payment of annual bonus was pensionable but the Committee
amended this policy following a review of the executive directors’
pension arrangements and now conform to best practice as set out
in the Combined Code 2006.
Benefits in Kind comprise private healthcare which is not
pensionable, critical illness and death in service cover. 
Pension Contribution. The company’s defined benefit pension
scheme aims at producing a pension of two-thirds final pensionable
salary at normal retirement age of 60. 
Although the Group’s defined benefit pension fund only pays
benefits up to the earnings cap, the Group has always agreed with
C N C Holmes that his pension entitlement would be based on his
final salary and not on the lower capped amount. The financial
statements of the Group have included accruals for the additional
amount payable over and above the cap which was not funded
directly through the fund. In order to simplify this situation, it was
agreed that a payment would be made to C N C Holmes which was
equivalent to the value of the benefit earned over and above the
earnings cap to date. In January 2008, the Remuneration
Committee reviewed an independent report on these arrangements,
following which a one off payment of £1,531,700 was made to 
C N C Holmes, representing the value of such benefits following
which his pension benefit will be subject to the earnings cap at the
date of retirement. In addition, the company is required to pay 
C N C Holmes an additional sum representing 93% of his gross
basic salary to normal retirement age at 5 September 2011, or
earlier retirement from the company. The effective date of the one
off payment and of C N C Holmes’ pension being restricted to the
earnings cap was 5 December 2007.
C N C Holmes’ pension information is given in the section subject
to audit.
In April 2008, R C Wood on attaining the age of 60 in November
2007 opted to receive a pension from the pension scheme.
Non-executive directors do not participate in the pension scheme. 
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to be increased annually by
5% or the increase in the Retail Price Index (RPI) if less.
Share Options. Salary and a bonus scheme are intended to be 
the most significant part of Directors’ remuneration; in addition,
executive share options can be proposed by the Remuneration
Committee and are granted periodically to promote the
involvement of senior management in the longer term success of
the Company. Options can only be exercised if certain performance
criteria are achieved by the Company. These criteria are based on
the growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share in excess
of the growth in the retail price index over the performance period
by an average 2% per annum for each of the three years in the
performance period. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
24   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
DEFERRED BONUS SCHEME
In February 2006, the Group established an HMRC Approved
Deferred Bonus Scheme. During the period ended 30 August 2008,
the two executive directors deferred 50% of the bonus earned in the
period ended 1 September 2007. Shares in the Company were
acquired with the deferred bonus and are held by the Company, as
custodian, for three years. The Company will release custody of the
Bonus Award Shares on 30 November 2010, being the end of the
performance period imposed in relation to the Director’s associated
matching share award. 
Subject to certain performance conditions, as set out on page 26,
being met in the three years, the Company will match the bonus
award shares by awarding one matching share for each bonus
award share.
NON-EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is agreed by the
Group Board taking into account a number of factors pertinent to
their position and role as non-executive directors. The non-
executive directors do not participate in share option awards, bonus
plans or pension arrangements.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The following graph illustrates the
Company’s total shareholder return
performance since 31 August 2003
relative to the FTSE All-share index.
The Company considers that the
FTSE All-share index to be the most
appropriate comparator group as it
is a broad index and reflects the
Company’s broad range of
activities.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Carr’s Milling Industries
FTSE All-Share Price Index
Source: Thomson Datastream
250
200
150
100
50
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
2008 2007
Gain on Gain on
Fees & Total Total 2008 2007 Exercise Exercise
Basic Annual Emoluments Emoluments Pension Pension of Share of Share
Salary Bonus Benefits 2008 2007 Contributions Contributions Options Options
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive directors
C N C Holmes 346 122  1 469 237 24 34 168 32
R C Wood 179 107 1 287 206 6 26 203 29
Non-executive 
directors
W R Inglewood 45 — — 45 45 — — — —
A R Heygate 25 — — 25 20 — — — —
A G M Wannop 25 — — 25 20 — — — —
620 229 2 851 528 30 60 371 61
In the period C N C Holmes received £1,531,700 in respect of his pension entitlement in excess of the earnings cap and this is explained on
page 23. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ PENSION INFORMATION
C N C Holmes R C Wood
Age at 30 August 2008 56 60
£’000 £’000
Directors’ contributions during the period 12 3
(Decrease)/increase in accrued pension entitlement for the period
At 30 August 2008  
excluding inflation (81) n/a
including inflation (86) n/a
At 17 November 2007
excluding inflation n/a 4
including inflation n/a (2)
Total accrued pension entitlement 
At 30 August 2008 75 n/a
At 5 December 2007 156 n/a
At 17 November 2007 n/a 150
At 1 September 2007 148 146
Transfer value of pension
At 30 August 2008 1,325 n/a
At 5 December 2007 2,628 n/a
At 17 November 2007 n/a 3,168
At 1 September 2007 2,489 2,844
(Decrease)/increase in transfer value less contributions made by directors
At 30 August 2008 (1,176) n/a
At 17 November 2007 n/a 321
Transfer value of the (decrease)/increase in accrued benefits less contributions made by directors
At 30 August 2008 (1,524) n/a
At 17 November 2007 n/a 37
The accrued pension entitlement and transfer value of pension at 30 August 2008 for C N C Holmes have been determined using the
maximum of the earnings cap applicable for 2007/08. This differs from the calculation at 1 September 2007 when the accrued pension
entitlement and transfer value of pension was determined on pensionable salary without any restriction. The effective date of C N C Holmes’
pension being restricted to the earnings cap was 5 December 2007.
From 18 November 2007, R C Wood was a postponed member of the scheme and from 17 April 2008 is in receipt of a pension from the scheme.
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the director would receive if he retired at the end of the period.
The decrease in the accrued entitlement is the difference between the accrued benefit at the period end and that at the previous period end.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The transfer
values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider 
on transferring the scheme’s liability in respect of the director’s pension benefits. They do not represent sums payable to the director and,
therefore cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
DIRECTORS’ SHARE OPTIONS
The Company operates an HMRC approved and an unapproved share option scheme to reward employees’ performance and to incentivise at
senior levels. Exercise is subject to performance conditions. For all options granted the exercise criterion has been that earnings should achieve
growth which exceeds the percentage growth in the Retail Price Index by 2% or more. The rules of the schemes conform to institutional
investor guidelines.
The performance criterion, which applies to the executive directors to whom options have been granted under the Schemes, was chosen as 
it requires significant improvement in financial performance. No options have been granted at a discount to the market price at the date of
their grant.
Options to acquire shares in the Company, granted to directors under the Scheme but not exercised, as at 30 August 2008 are:
At 1 Exercised Granted At Earliest date
September during during 30 August Exercise Date of from which Expiry
2007 period period 2008 price Grant exercisable date
C N C Holmes 32,500 (32,500) — — 161.0p 1 May 2002 May 2005 April 2009
18,500 (18,500) — — 161.0p 1 May 2002 May 2005 April 2012
6,000 — — 6,000 502.3p 20 Feb 2006 Feb 2009 Feb 2016
57,000 (51,000) — 6,000
R C Wood 43,177 (43,177) — — 161.0p 1 May 2002 May 2005 April 2009
18,500 (18,500) — — 161.0p 1 May 2002 May 2005 April 2012
6,000 — — 6,000 502.3p 20 Feb 2006 Feb 2009 Feb 2016
67,677 (61,677) — 6,000 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued
26   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
The following directors exercised executive share options during the period:
Exercise Market Notional
Date price price gain
Number exercised p p £’000
C N C Holmes 51,000 7 April 2008 161 490 168
R C Wood 61,677 7 April 2008 161 490 203
The middle market closing price of the shares at 29 August 2008 was 662.5p (1 September 2007: 522.5p) and the range throughout the period
was 702.5p to 477.5p.
DEFERRED BONUS SCHEME
The Group operates an approved HMRC deferred bonus scheme to reward employees’ performance and to incentivise at senior levels. 
The two executive directors elected to defer 50% of the bonus paid in November 2007 in the form of a Bonus Share Award. The Remuneration
Committee granted a Matching Share Award and on meeting in full the performance conditions, the two directors will receive matching
shares. The matching shares equal the gross amount of deferred bonus divided by the average price per share at date of deferral. 
To qualify for the Maximum Award Multiple of 1 the growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share over the 3 years ending 
31 August 2010 must equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) over the 3 years by an average of 4% per annum. 
The Award Multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the 3 years equal the growth in RPI by 
an average of 2% per annum. Should the Company’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to above,
the Award Multiple will be measured on a straight line basis between 0.5 and 1.
Maximum
Maximum no. of
No. of Bonus Base no. of award matching Exercise
award shares shares multiple shares date
C N C Holmes 4,647 7,877 1 7,877 30 November 2009
2,131 3,612 1 3,612 30 November 2010
R C Wood 4,050 6,866 1 6,866 30 November 2009
1,860 3,153 1 3,153 30 November 2010
SAVINGS RELATED SHARE OPTION SCHEME
At At
1 September 30 August Average
2007 2008 exercise price Exercise
Number Number p date
C N C Holmes 1,951 1,951 479 May 2009 
R C Wood 1,951 1,951 479 May 2009 
The Directors are eligible, as are other employees of the Group, to participate in the Sharesave scheme, which by its nature does not have
performance conditions.
On behalf of the Board
A G M Wannop
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
17 November 2008 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
We have audited the group and parent company financial
statements (the ‘‘financial statements’’) of Carr’s Milling Industries
PLC for the period ended 30 August 2008 which comprise the
consolidated income statement, the consolidated and company
statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated and
company balance sheet, the consolidated and company cash flow
statement, principal accounting policies and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described
as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, 
the directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the
opinion, has been prepared for and only for the company’s
members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in
giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial
statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to 
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in the directors'
report is consistent with the financial statements. The information
given in the directors’ report includes that specific information
presented in the Chief Executive’s Review and in the operating 
and financial review that is cross referred from the business review
section of the directors’ report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration 
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects 
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. 
We are not required to consider whether the board’s statements 
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion
on the effectiveness of the group’s corporate governance procedures
or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. The other information comprises only the Financial
Highlights, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review,
the Operating and Financial Review, the Board of Directors, the
Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report. We consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the group’s and company’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or
error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited.
OPINION
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of
the state of the group’s affairs as at 30 August 2008 and of its
profit and cash flows for the period then ended;
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent company’s
affairs as at 30 August 2008 and of its cash flows for the period
then ended;
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as
regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with
the financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne
17 November 2008 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the period ended 30 August 2008
28   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
52 week 52 week
period period
2008 2007
Notes £’000 £’000
2,3 Revenue 372,307 252,753
3 Cost of sales (327,757) (218,603)
3 Gross profit 44,550 34,150
3 Net operating expenses (31,675) (28,365)
3,4 Group operating profit 12,875 5,785
Analysed as:
Operating profit before non-recurring items and amortisation 12,814 6,192
6 Non-recurring items and amortisation 61 (407)
Group operating profit 12,875 5,785
8 Interest income 454 392
8 Other finance income — 95
8 Interest expense (2,026) (1,484)
8 Other finance expense (35) —
5 Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures 1,590 738
2 Profit before taxation 12,858 5,526
2,9 Taxation (4,605) (1,225)
Profit for the period 8,253 4,301
Profit attributable to minority interest 552 120
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 7,701 4,181
8,253 4,301
Earnings per share (pence)
11 Basic 92.7 50.7
11 Diluted 91.2 49.9
All of the above are derived from continuing operations. CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY STATEMENT 
OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE 
for the period ended 30 August 2008
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29
Group Company
52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
period period period period
2008 2007 2008 2007
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Foreign exchange translation differences arising on 
30 translation of overseas subsidiaries 583 (253) — —
Actuarial (losses)/gains on retirement benefit obligation:
28 - Group (11,065) 4,570 (11,065) 4,570
28 - Share of associate (1,193) 1,437 — —
Taxation credit/(charge) on actuarial movement 
on retirement benefit obligation:
19 - Group 3,116 (1,595) 3,116 (1,595)
- Share of associate 334 (459) — —
Net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity (8,225) 3,700 (7,949) 2,975
Profit for the period 8,253 4,301 3,216 4,742
30 Total recognised income and expense for the period 28 8,001 (4,733) 7,717
30 Attributable to minority interest 545 120 — —
30 Attributable to equity shareholders (517) 7,881 (4,733) 7,717
28 8,001 (4,733) 7,717 CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
As at 30 August 2008
30   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Group Company
52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
period period period period
2008 2007 2008 2007
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets
12 Goodwill 1,381 1,016 — —
12 Other intangible assets 294 444 — —
13 Property, plant and equipment 28,596 28,481 — —
14 Investment property 737 756 — —
15,18 Investment in subsidiary undertakings — — 13,001 12,925
15,16 Investment in associate 2,870 2,456 1,470 1,470
15,17 Interest in joint ventures 1,609 935 303 269
15 Other investments 51 251 — 200
Financial assets
27 - Derivative financial instruments — 132 — 111
21 - Non-current receivables 50 100 — —
19 Deferred tax assets 5,318 3,228 4,640 2,750
40,906 37,799 19,414 17,725
Current assets
20 Inventories 31,014 14,853 — —
21 Trade and other receivables 50,754 35,481 17,221 14,575
22 Current tax assets 65 82 1,602 508
Financial assets
27 - Derivative financial instruments 927 — 31 —
23 - Cash at bank and in hand 3,896 1,315 — 1,141
86,656 51,731 18,854 16,224
Total assets 127,562 89,530 38,268 33,949
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
26 - Borrowings (15,004) (10,717) (5,489) (3,379)
27 - Derivative financial instruments (22) (10) — —
24 Trade and other payables (52,977) (28,478) (2,328) (1,117)
25 Current tax liabilities (2,054) (570) — —
(70,057) (39,775) (7,817) (4,496)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
26 - Borrowings (6,325) (5,971) (5,371) (5,117)
27 - Derivative financial instruments (14) — (14) —
28 Retirement benefit obligation (16,558) (9,807) (16,558) (9,807)
19 Deferred tax liabilities (4,775) (3,418) — —
24 Other non-current liabilities (2,237) (1,705) — —
(29,909) (20,901) (21,943) (14,924)
Total liabilities (99,966) (60,676) (29,760) (19,420)
Net assets 27,596 28,854 8,508 14,529
Shareholders' equity
29 Ordinary shares 2,094 2,064 2,094 2,064
30 Share premium 5,252 5,073 5,252 5,073
30 Treasury share reserve (101) (101) — —
30,31 Equity compensation reserve 206 95 233 112
30 Foreign exchange reserve 107 (483) — —
30 Other reserve 1,539 1,570 — —
30 Retained earnings 15,880 18,574 929 7,280
30 Total shareholders' equity 24,977 26,792 8,508 14,529
30 Minority interests in equity 2,619 2,062 — —
30 Total equity 27,596 28,854 8,508 14,529
The financial statements set out on pages 28 to 79 were approved by the Board on 17 November 2008 and signed on its behalf by:
Christopher N C Holmes Ronald C Wood CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the period ended 30 August 2008
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31
Group Company
52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
period period period period
2008 2007 2008 2007
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
33 Cash generated from/(used in) operations 5,233 6,906 (2,755) (731)
Interest received 447 389 580 551
Interest paid (2,016) (1,407) (739) (596)
Tax (paid)/recovered (647) (2,053) 373 570
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 3,017 3,835 (2,541) (206)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) - group (588) (1,141) — —
Investment in joint ventures (294) — — —
Dividends received from subsidiaries — — 3,340 4,250
Net payment of loans to subsidiaries — — (2,606) —
Net payment of loans to joint ventures — (90) — (165)
Purchase of intangible assets (4) (11) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 177 121 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (2,141) (1,896) — —
Proceeds from sale of investment property — 96 — —
Proceeds from sale of investments — 1 — 1
Receipt of non-current receivables 50 100 — —
Purchase of own shares held in trust — (101) — (101)
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (2,800) (2,921) 734 3,985
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 209 75 209 75
Net proceeds from loans from subsidiaries — — 1,021 560
Net proceeds from issue of new bank loans and other borrowings 1,495 — 1,495 —
Finance lease principal repayments (912) (1,005) — —
Repayment of borrowings (1,010) (900) (750) (900)
Increase in other borrowings 1,872 817 — —
Disposal of interest rate swap 111 — 111 —
Dividends paid to shareholders (1,618) (1,486) (1,618) (1,486)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 147 (2,499) 468 (1,751)
Effects of exchange rate changes 300 (97) 78 (4)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 664 (1,682) (1,261) 2,024
23 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period (598) 1,084 1,141 (883)
23 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period 66 (598) (120) 1,141 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
32  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and IFRIC
interpretations endorsed by the European Union (EU) and with
those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies
reporting under IFRS.
The company is a public limited company incorporated and
domiciled in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded
on the London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and 
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Although these estimates are based on
management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions,
actual results ultimately may differ materially from those estimates.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the
historic cost convention, except where IFRS requires assets and
liabilities to be measured at fair value.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements comprise Carr’s Milling
Industries PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s
share of the results of its associate and joint ventures. The financial
statements of the subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures are
prepared as of the same reporting date and consolidated using
consistent accounting policies. Group inter-company balances and
transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from Group
inter-company transactions, are eliminated in full. Profits and
losses on transactions with the associate and joint ventures are
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the current
financial period were included in the financial statements from 
the effective date of control. The separable net assets, both tangible
and intangible, of the acquired subsidiary undertakings were
incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair
value as at the effective date of the Group acquiring control.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern
the financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a
share of more than 50% of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the
Group and are included until the date on which the Group ceases
to control them. Associates are entities over which the Group has
significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a
share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Joint ventures
are entities over which the Group has joint control, established by
contractual agreement. Investments in associates and joint ventures
are accounted for using the equity method. The Group’s share of its
associate and joint ventures’ post-tax profits or losses are recognised
in the income statement, and its share of movement in reserves is
recognised in reserves. The cumulative movements are adjusted
against the carrying amount of the investment. The Group’s
investment in associate and joint ventures includes any goodwill
arising on acquisition. If the Group’s share of losses in an associate
or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment in the associate or
joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it
has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the
associate or joint venture.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the
purchase method. The cost of a business combination is measured
as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the
assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments
issued by the Group, together with any costs directly attributable to
the combination. The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the
acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s
interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and
contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority
interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUST
Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) 12 requires that the
Group consolidate a special purpose entity where the substance 
of the relationship between the parties indicates that the Group
controls the entity. The employee share trust sponsored by the
Group falls within this category of special purpose entity and has
been accounted for as if it were, in substance, a subsidiary.
Shares acquired by the trust have been recognised in the treasury
share reserve and have been excluded from the calculation of
earnings per share in the current period, as the shares have not
been allocated to a share scheme. When such an allocation occurs
the shares will be included in the diluted earnings per share
calculation.
CURRENCY TRANSLATION
The financial statements for the Group’s subsidiaries, associate 
and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency. 
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which an entity operates. The presentation
currency of the Group and functional currency of the Group is
Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional
currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement 
of such transactions and from the translation, at exchange rates
ruling at the balance sheet date, of monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling
using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income
statements are translated into sterling using the average exchange
rate for the period. Where this average is not a reasonable
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on
the transaction dates, the exchange rate on the transaction date is
used. Exchange differences arising are recognised as a separate
component of shareholders’ equity. On disposal of a foreign
operation any cumulative exchange differences held in
shareholders’ equity are transferred to the consolidated income
statement.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue from the sale of goods or services is measured at the fair
value of the consideration, net of rebates and excluding value
added tax. Revenue from the sale of goods or services is recognised
when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of
ownership of the goods to the buyer, when the amount of revenue
can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic
benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. Inter
segmental revenue is on an arm’s length basis.  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33
In respect of long-term contracts, revenue is calculated on the basis
of the stage of completion and the total sales value of each
contract.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes,
Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington
Agriculture Pension Scheme. The Group also offers various defined
contribution schemes to its employees.
The assets of the above named schemes are held separately from
those of the Group and are invested with independent investment
managers.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the
consolidated income statement in the period to which they relate.
The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the
period end in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the
present value of the defined benefit obligation and future
administration costs at the balance sheet date less the fair value 
of scheme assets. Independent actuaries calculate the defined
benefit obligation annually using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates
of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the
currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms 
to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension
liability.
The current service costs, past service costs and gains and losses on
settlements and curtailments are included in operating profit in the
consolidated income statement.
A charge is made within operating costs which represents the
expected increase in the liabilities of the pension schemes during
the period. This arises from the liabilities of the schemes being one
year closer to payment.
A credit representing the expected return on the assets of the
pension schemes during the period is netted against the above
charge within operating costs. This is based on the market value 
of the assets of the schemes at the start of the financial period.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments 
and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the
consolidated statement of recognised income and expense. The
pension schemes’ deficits or surpluses, to the extent that they are
considered recoverable, are recognised in full on the consolidated
balance sheet.
The Group’s share of the deficit in the Carrs Billington Agriculture
Pension Scheme is recognised through its investment in associate.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at
fair value at the date of the grant. The fair value determined at the
grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the
Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a valuation model. The expected
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
INTEREST
Interest is recognised in the consolidated income statement on an
accruals basis using the effective interest method. 
SEGMENTAL REPORTING
The Group’s primary reporting format is business segments and its
secondary format is geographical segments. A business segment is
a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group of
related products and is subject to risks and returns that are different
from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is a
component of the Group that operates within a particular
economic environment and this is subject to risks and returns that
are materially different from those of components operating in
other economic environments.
NON-RECURRING ITEMS AND AMORTISATION
Non-recurring items and amortisation that are material by size
and/or by nature are presented within their relevant income
statement category. Items that management consider fall into this
category are disclosed on the face of the consolidated income
statement and within a note to the financial statements. The
separate disclosure of non-recurring items and amortisation helps
provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business
performance. Events which may give rise to non-recurring items and
amortisation include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses,
the restructuring of businesses, the integration of new businesses,
asset impairments, net gains on transfers of deferred pensioners
from the group pension scheme, the withdrawal of Industrial
Buildings Allowances and amortisation of intangible assets.
GOODWILL
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost
of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities
and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the
acquisition. 
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating
units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset, which is carried at cost less
impairment, and assessed for impairment annually. Any
impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Once recognised, an impairment of goodwill is not reversed under
any circumstance.
Negative goodwill resulting from business combinations is credited
to the consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 31 August
1998 has not been reinstated and would not form part of the gain
or loss on the disposal of a business.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated
amortisation. Amortisation commences when assets are available
for use. The expected useful lives, over which the assets are
amortised, are generally as follows:
Customer relationships 1 - 5 years
Brands 20 years
Know-how 5 years
Patents and trademarks contractual life
Customer relationships and brands are amortised in line with the
profit and income streams they are respectively expected to
generate over their expected useful life.
Know-how, patents, and trademarks are amortised on a straight-
line basis. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 
34   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
is the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of separately
acquired intangible assets comprises the purchase price and any
directly attributable costs of preparing the assets for use.
All research costs are recognised in the consolidated income
statement as incurred. Development costs are recognised as an 
asset only to the extent that specific recognition criteria, as set out
in IAS38 ‘Intangible assets’, relevant to the proposed application
are met and the amount recognised is recoverable through future
economic benefits.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises
purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is
calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual
values of the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant 5 to 20 years
Computer hardware 3 to 5 years
Vehicles 4 to 10 years
Fixtures and fittings 3 to 5 years
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each financial
period-end.
Assets not fully constructed at the balance sheet date are classified
as assets in the course of construction. When construction is
complete these assets are reclassified to the appropriate heading
within property, plant and equipment. Depreciation commences
when the asset is ready for use.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged
to the income statement as incurred; the cost of major renovations
and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the
income statement.
INVESTMENT PROPERTY
Investment properties are properties held for long-term rental
yields. Investment properties are carried in the balance sheet at cost
less accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. For
all other investment property, depreciation is calculated on a
straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets
over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings up to 50 years
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged
to the income statement as incurred; the cost of major renovations
and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the
income statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of
impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its
recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable
amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to
sell and value in use and is deemed for an individual asset. If the
asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of
those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount
of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is
determined. Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the
time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour
costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the
inventories to their present location and condition. Where
appropriate, cost is calculated on a specific identification basis.
Otherwise inventories are valued using the first-in first-out method.
Contract work in progress is measured at the selling price of the
work performed at the balance sheet date. The selling price is
measured by reference to the stage of completion at the balance
sheet date and total expected income from the contract work. 
The stage of completion is determined as the proportion that
contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the 
total estimated total contract costs. Amounts invoiced for work
completed are deducted from the selling price, while amounts
invoiced in excess of work completed are recognised as current
liabilities.
Where it is probable that contract costs will exceed total contract
revenue the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense
in the income statement.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all
estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing,
selling and distribution.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated
cash flow statement comprise cash at bank and in hand, money
market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments
with original maturities of three months or less and bank
overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are presented in borrowings within
current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
GRANTS
Grants received on capital expenditure are recorded as deferred
income and taken to the consolidated income statement in equal
annual instalments over the expected useful lives of the assets
concerned. 
Revenue grants and contributions are taken to the consolidated
income statement in the period to which they apply.
LEASES
Leases are classified as finance leases at inception where
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are
transferred to the Group. Assets classified as finance leases are
capitalised on the consolidated balance sheet and are depreciated
over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the term of the
lease. The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to
the consolidated income statement over the period of the lease
using the actuarial method.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the consolidated
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Leasehold land is normally classified as an operating lease.
Payments made to acquire leasehold land are included in
prepayments at cost and are amortised over the life of the lease. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35
Any incentives to enter into operating leases are recognised as a
reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line
basis.
TAX
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial
statements. Deferred tax arising from initial recognition of an asset
or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination,
that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor
taxable profit or loss, is not recognised. Deferred tax is measured
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is
realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable profit will be available against which the
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except
where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the
tax relates to items recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, in
which case the tax is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity
through the consolidated statement of recognised income and
expense.
In the 2007 budget a reduction in the corporation tax rate from
30% to 28% was announced taking effect from 1 April 2008. This
reduction is reflected in the corporation tax charge in the income
statement, unless the tax relates to items recognised directly in
shareholders’ equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly 
in shareholders’ equity through the consolidated statement of
recognised income and expense.
During the period the proposal that Parliament abolish Industrial
Buildings Allowances was substantively enacted. The effect of this
has been to increase the deferred tax charge and liability.
DIVIDENDS
Final equity dividends to the shareholders of the Company are
recognised in the period that they are approved by the
shareholders. Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period
that they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised in the period in which they are
received.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s
consolidated balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.
IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’, and the complementary
amendment to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements - Capital
disclosures’, introduces new disclosures relating to financial
instruments and does not have any impact on the classification
and valuation of the Group or Company’s financial instruments, or
the disclosures relating to taxation and trade and other payables.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment
of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence
that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according
to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial
difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter
bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency
in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is
impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future
cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. 
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced though the use of an
allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the
income statement. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is
written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. 
Investments
Investments are initially measured at cost, including transaction
costs. They are classified as either ‘available-for-sale’, ‘fair value
through profit or loss’ or ‘held to maturity’. Where securities are
designated as ‘at fair value through profit or loss’, gains and losses
arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss
for the period. For ‘available-for-sale’ investments, gains or losses
arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity,
until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at
which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in
equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period. 
Available for sale financial assets are non derivatives that are 
either designated in this category or not classified in any of the
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless
management intends to dispose of the investment within 
12 months of the balance sheet date.
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an
active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured by
other means are held at cost. ‘Held-to-maturity’ investments are
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Financial liability and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according
to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual
interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair
value net of direct issue costs and are subsequently stated at
amortised cost. Finance charges, including premiums payable on
settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for
on an effective interest method and are added to the carrying
amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in
the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group primarily uses interest rate swaps, caps and collars and
forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to
fluctuating interest and foreign exchange rates. These instruments
are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently re-
measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date. The Group
does not designate derivatives as hedging instruments and therefore
does not adopt hedge accounting. As a result changes in the fair
value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the
consolidated income statement as they arise.
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance sheet and
income statement foreign exchange translation exposures. Where
appropriate, borrowings are arranged in local currencies to provide
a natural hedge against overseas assets. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 
36   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
The following new standards and interpretations, which are in issue at the balance sheet date but not yet effective, have not been applied
in these financial statements:
Effective for periods 
commencing on or after
IAS 1 Revised - Presentation of financial statements 1 January 2009
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 July 2008
IFRIC 14 ‘IAS 19 - The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction’ 1 January 2008
IAS 23 Revised - Borrowing costs 1 January 2009
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements
Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation 1 January 2009
IAS 27 (Revised) Consolidated and separate financial statements 1 July 2009
Amendment to IAS 39 - Eligible hedged items 1 January 2009
Amendment to IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of IFRS’ and IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’ 1 January 2009
IFRS 2, Share-based payment Amendment Vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009
IFRS 3 (Revised) Business combinations 1 July 2009
It is considered that the above standards and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group. 
IAS 1 Revised and IFRS 8 will have no impact on the results or net assets of the Group but will increase the level of disclosure to be made 
in the financial statements. In the current economic climate it is considered that IFRIC 14 will have no effect on the results or net assets 
of the Group.
From 2 September 2007, the following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group:
• IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment
• IFRIC 11 Group and treasury share transactions
• IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
• IAS 1 Amendment - Presentation of financial statements
The adoption of these amendments and interpretations has not had a significant impact on the Group’s profit for the year or equity.
IFRS 7 has impacted the disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS, KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND
ESTIMATES
Application of certain Group accounting policies requires
management to make judgements, assumptions and estimates
concerning the future as detailed below.
Valuation of pension obligations
The valuation of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is
determined each period following advice from the Group’s actuary
and can fluctuate based on a number of external factors. Such
factors include the major assumptions as shown in the table in 
note 28 and actual returns on scheme assets compared to those
predicted in the previous scheme valuation.
Valuation of share-based payments
The fair value of share-based payments is determined using
valuation models and is charged to the income statement over the
vesting period.
The valuation models require certain assumptions to be made as
shown in the tables in note 31. Estimations of vesting and
satisfaction of performance criteria are required to determine fair
value.
Impairment of goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill must be assessed for impairment
annually. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the
cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated. Value in use 
is dependent on estimations of future cash flows from the cash
generating unit and the use of an appropriate discount rate to
discount those cash flows to their present value.
No impairment has been identified in the period (note 12).
Provision for impairment of trade receivables
The financial statements include a provision for impairment 
of trade receivables (note 21) that is based on management’s
estimation of recoverability. There is a risk that the provision 
will not match the trade receivables that ultimately prove to be
irrecoverable.
Valuation of derivative financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined
using market factors at the period end over which management
have no control. Such factors include the estimation of future
currency exchange rates and interest rates. In addition the fair
value of such instruments is affected by the global economic
environment and financial institution pricing structures.  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 37
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, from presenting its own income
statement. The profit after tax for the period dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £3,216,000 (2007: £4,742,000).
2 SEGMENTAL REPORTING
Primary reporting format - business segments
The segment results for the period ended 30 August 2008 are as follows:
Agriculture Food Engineering Other Group
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total gross segment revenue 276,158 85,563 10,885 198 372,804
Inter-segment revenue (331) (3) (163) — (497)
Revenue 275,827 85,560 10,722 198 372,307
Operating profit/(loss) before retirement 
benefit charge* 11,711 1,956 1,085 (817) 13,935
Analysed as:
Before non-recurring items and amortisation 11,752 2,012 1,060 (950) 13,874
Non-recurring items and amortisation (41) (56) 25 133 61
11,711 1,956 1,085 (817) 13,935
Retirement benefit charge* (1,060)
Interest income 454
Interest expense (2,026)
Other interest expense (35)
Share of post-tax profit of associate (Agriculture) 1,273
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures (Agriculture) 317
Profit before taxation 12,858
Taxation (4,605)
Profit for the period 8,253
Segment assets 75,899 28,294 8,955 671 113,819
Unallocated assets
- Investment in associate (Agriculture) 2,870
- Investment in joint ventures (Agriculture) 1,609
- Other investments 51
- Income tax assets 5,383
Total assets 123,732
Total assets in the above analysis represents total assets as disclosed in the balance sheet of £127,562,000 less bank overdrafts of
£3,830,000.
Segment liabilities 42,962 7,074 2,746 2,468 55,250
Unallocated liabilities
- Group borrowings 17,499
- Retirement benefit obligation* 16,558
- Income tax liabilities 6,829
Total liabilities 96,136
Total liabilities in the above analysis represents total liabilities as disclosed in the balance sheet of £99,966,000 less bank overdrafts of
£3,830,000.
Other segment items 
Capital expenditure (excluding acquisitions)
- Property, plant and equipment 1,722 1,029 119 190 3,060
- Other intangible assets 4——— 4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,549 1,351 291 127 3,318
Depreciation of investment property — 15 — 4 19
(Profit)/loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment (41) (4) — 2 (43)
Amortisation of intangible assets 50 77 32 — 159
Impairment of trade investment — — — 200 200
* It is not possible to allocate the costs, assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension scheme across the segments. Therefore, this is
shown as a reconciling item. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
38   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
2 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued
Primary reporting format - business segments
The segment results for the period ended 1 September 2007 are as follows:
Agriculture Food Engineering Other Group
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total gross segment revenue 186,249 57,038 9,790 214 253,291
Inter-segment revenue (319) (3) (216) — (538)
Revenue 185,930 57,035 9,574 214 252,753
Operating profit/(loss) before retirement 
benefit charge* 5,145 1,102 1,018 (313) 6,952
Analysed as:
Before non-recurring items and amortisation 5,235 1,419 1,018 (313) 7,359
Non-recurring items and amortisation (90) (317) — — (407)
5,145 1,102 1,018 (313) 6,952
Retirement benefit charge* (1,167)
Interest income 392
Other finance income 95
Interest expense (1,484)
Share of post-tax profit of associate (Agriculture) 496
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures (Agriculture) 242
Profit before taxation 5,526
Taxation (1,225)
Profit for the period 4,301
Segment assets 44,304 27,157 7,317 1,887 80,665
Unallocated assets
- Investment in associate (Agriculture) 2,456
- Investment in joint ventures (Agriculture) 935
- Other investments 251
- Income tax assets 3,310
Total assets 87,617
Total assets in the above analysis represents total assets as disclosed in the balance sheet of £89,530,000 less bank overdrafts of
£1,913,000.
Segment liabilities 22,090 5,787 1,302 1,014 30,193
Unallocated liabilities
- Group borrowings 14,775
- Retirement benefit obligation* 9,807
- Income tax liabilities 3,988
Total liabilities 58,763
Total liabilities in the above analysis represents total liabilities as disclosed in the balance sheet of £60,676,000 less bank overdrafts of
£1,913,000.
Other segment items 
Capital expenditure (excluding acquisitions)
- Property, plant and equipment 1,177 907 140 528 2,752
- Other intangible assets 11——— 11
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,455 1,626 286 140 3,507
Depreciation of investment property — 15 — 4 19
Loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment 7344 18
Profit on the disposal of investment property (77) — — — (77)
Amortisation of intangible assets 97 317 32 — 446
* It is not possible to allocate the costs, assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension scheme across the segments. Therefore, this is
shown as a reconciling item. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 39
2 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued
Secondary reporting format - geographical segments
Revenue Segment assets Capital Expenditure
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK 359,700 242,056 110,919 78,009 2,989 2,577
Other  12,607 10,697 2,900 2,656 75 186
372,307 252,753 113,819 80,665 3,064 2,763
The geographical analysis of revenue is presented by revenue origin. There is no material difference between revenue by origin and
revenue by destination. Included within capital expenditure is intangible asset additions of £4,000 (2007: £11,000).
3 REVENUE, COST OF SALES, OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND NET OPERATING EXPENSES
2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue - from sale of goods 361,585 243,179
- from contracts 10,722 9,574
372,307 252,753
Cost of sales (327,757) (218,603)
Gross profit 44,550 34,150
Net operating expenses:
Distribution costs (18,105) (17,897)
Administrative expenses - normal (13,631) (10,061)
- non-recurring items
and amortisation (see note 6) 61 (407)
(13,570) (10,468)
(31,675) (28,365)
Group operating profit 12,875 5,785
4 GROUP OPERATING PROFIT 2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Group operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):
Amortisation of grants (20) (20)
Loss on disposal of investments — 3
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (43) 18
Profit on disposal of investment property — (77)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment held under finance lease 901 823
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment 2,417 2,684
Depreciation of owned investment property 19 19
Amortisation of intangible assets 159 446
Foreign exchange losses/(gains) 378 (83)
Derivative financial instruments gains (915) (17)
Operating lease charges:
Plant and machinery 606 646
Other 3 1
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services (Company £10,000; 2007 £10,000) 63 60
The auditing of accounts of associates of the company pursuant to legislation
(including that of countries and territories outside Great Britain) 124 115
Services relating to taxation 69 45
Other services 48 —
Included within group operating profit is the following in respect of 
investment property leased to, and occupied by, external parties:
Rental income 43 38
Operating expenses (59) (58)
(16) (20) NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
40   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
5 SHARE OF POST-TAX PROFIT IN ASSOCIATE AND JOINT VENTURES
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Share of post-tax profit in associate - normal 1,273 615
- non-recurring items and amortisation (see note 6) — (119)
1,273 496
Share of post-tax profit in joint ventures - normal 321 261
- non-recurring items and amortisation (see note 6) (4) (19)
317 242
Total share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures 1,590 738
6 NON-RECURRING ITEMS AND AMORTISATION
2008 2007
Tax credit/ Tax
Amount (charge) Amount credit
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group operating profit:
Amortisation of intangible assets (118) 33 (407) 114
Net gain on transfer of deferred pensioners from Group scheme 379 (95) ——
Impairment of trade investment (200) — ——
61 (62) (407) 114
Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures:
Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment
recognised in associate, net of tax —— (119) —
Amortisation of intangible assets and impairment of goodwill 
recognised in joint ventures, net of tax (4) — (19) —
Non-recurring items and amortisation before taxation 57 (62) (545) 114
Withdrawal of Industrial Buildings Allowances — (1,317) ——
Total non-recurring items and amortisation 57 (1,379) (545) 114
Profit before taxation 12,858 5,526
Non-recurring items and amortisation 57 (545)
Adjusted profit before taxation 12,801 6,071
Group operating profit 12,875 5,785
Non-recurring items and amortisation 61 (407)
Adjusted Group operating profit 12,814 6,192 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 41
7 STAFF COSTS
2008 2007
Group £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 18,827 17,911
Social security costs 2,154 1,893
Other pension costs 1,887 1,914
Share based payment expense 123 84
22,991 21,802
Included within other pension costs is £1,060,000 (2007: £1,167,000) in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The above disclosure excludes the £379,000 net gain arising from the transfer of deferred pensioners from the Group pension scheme
(note 28).
The average monthly number of employees, including directors, during the period was made up as follows:
2008 2007
Number Number
Sales, office and management 439 433
Manufacture and distribution 299 305
738 738
Key management are considered to be the directors of the Group.
Full details of the directors' emoluments, pension benefits and share options are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on 
pages 23 to 26.
2008 2007
Company £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries 1,108 827
Social security costs 327 87
Other pension costs 883 355
Share based payment expense 46 24
2,364 1,293
In addition to the above the company results reflect the IAS19 charge of £1,060,000 (2007: £1,167,000) in respect of the defined benefit 
pension scheme, and the IAS19 credit of £2,517,000 (2007: £2,586,000) in respect of defined benefit employers contributions paid by the
Group (note 28).
The average monthly number of employees, including directors, during the period was made up as follows:
2008 2007
Number Number
Sales, office and management 16 15
Key management are considered to be the directors of the Company.
Full details of the directors' emoluments, pension benefits and share options are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on 
pages 23 to 26. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
42   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
8 INTEREST INCOME, OTHER FINANCE INCOME, INTEREST EXPENSE AND OTHER FINANCE EXPENSE
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Interest income
Bank interest 372 336
Other interest 82 56
Total interest income 454 392
Other finance income
Movement in fair value of interest related derivative instruments (note 27) — 95
Total other finance income — 95
Interest expense
Interest payable on bank overdrafts (639) (357)
Interest payable on bank loans and other borrowings (1,131) (868)
Interest payable on finance leases and hire purchase contracts (114) (127)
Other interest (142) (132)
Total interest expense (2,026) (1,484)
Other finance expense
Movement in fair value of interest related derivative instruments (note 27) (35) —
Total other finance expense (35) —
9 TAXATION
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
(a) Analysis of the charge/(credit) in the period
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 
Current period 2,653 950
Prior period (381) (347)
Foreign tax
Current period 479 472
Prior period — (14)
Consortium relief 
Prior period 261 73
Group current tax 3,012 1,134
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences 1,593 91
Group deferred tax (note 19) 1,593 91
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 4,605 1,225
(b) Factors affecting tax charge for the period
The tax assessed for the period is higher (2007: lower) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 29.17% (2007: 30%). The differences
are explained below:
2008 2007
£'000 £'000
Profit before tax 12,858 5,526
Tax at 29.17% (2007: 30%) 3,751 1,658
Effects of:
Tax effect of share of profit in associate and joint ventures (464) (221)
Tax effect of expenses that are not allowable in determining taxable profit 185 256
Effects of withdrawal of Industrial Buildings Allowances 1,317 —
Effects of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries 68 35
Effects of tax at marginal rates — 15
Effects of changes in tax rates (90) (271)
Over provision in prior years (120) (246)
Utilisation of unrecognised tax losses (50) —
Other 8 (1)
Total tax charge for the period 4,605 1,225 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 43
9 TAXATION continued
In the 2007 budget a reduction in the corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% was announced taking effect from 1 April 2008. This 
reduction is reflected in the corporation tax charge for the period.
During the period the proposal that Parliament abolish Industrial Buildings Allowances was substantively enacted. The effect of this has 
been to increase the deferred tax charge and liability by £1,317,000 (2007: £nil).
10 DIVIDENDS
2008 2007
Equity £’000 £’000
Final dividend for the period ended 1 September 2007 of 13.5p per 25.0p share (2006: 12.5p) 1,115 1,032
Interim paid of 6.0p per 25.0p share (2007: 5.5p) 503 454
1,618 1,486
The proposed dividend to be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is £1,493,329, being 17.0p per share, making a
total for the period of 23.0p. This includes dividends payable on shares issued since the period end (note 29). The financial statements do
not reflect this dividend payable.
11 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Earnings per share are calculated by reference to a weighted average of 8,304,877 shares (2007: 8,240,848) in issue during the period.
Non-recurring costs and amortisation that are charged or credited to profit do not relate to the profitability of the Group on an
ongoing basis. Therefore an adjusted earnings per share is presented as follows:
2008 2007
Earnings Earnings
Earnings per share Earnings per share
£’000 pence £’000 pence
Earnings per share - basic 7,701 92.7 4,181 50.7
Non-recurring items and intangible asset amortisation:
Amortisation of intangible assets 118 1.4 407 5.0
Net gain on transfer of deferred pensioners from Group scheme (379) (4.6) ——
Impairment of trade investment 200 2.4 ——
Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment
recognised in associate, net of tax —— 119 1.5
Amortisation of intangible asset and impairment of goodwill 
recognised in joint ventures, net of tax 4 0.1 19 0.2
Taxation arising on the above non-recurring items and amortisation 62 0.7 (114) (1.4)
Withdrawal of Industrial Buildings Allowances 1,317 15.9 ——
Earnings per share - adjusted 9,023 108.6 4,612 56.0
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all
dilutive potential ordinary shares. The potentially dilutive ordinary shares, where the exercise price is less than the average market
price of the Company's ordinary shares during the period, are disclosed in note 31.
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average Earnings average Earnings
Earnings number per share Earnings number per share
£’000 of shares pence £’000 of shares pence
Earnings per share 7,701 8,304,877 92.7 4,181 8,240,848 50.7
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options — 92,776 (1.0) — 107,639 (0.6)
Save as you earn (SAYE) — 13,855 (0.1) — 13,274 (0.1)
Deferred bonus scheme — 31,357 (0.4) — 23,214 (0.1)
Diluted earnings per share 7,701 8,442,865 91.2 4,181 8,384,975 49.9 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
44   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
12 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Customer Patents and
Goodwill relationships Brands Know-how trademarks Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 3 September 2006 295 2,266 357 160 50 3,128
Exchange differences ———— (3) (3)
Additions 78180——11872
Reclassification ———— 21 21
At 1 September 2007 1,076 2,346 357 160 79 4,018
Exchange differences ———— 9 9
Additions 365——— 4 369
At 30 August 2008 1,441 2,346 357 160 92 4,396
Amortisation
At 3 September 2006 60 1,882 63  80 6 2,091
Charge for the period — 376 32 32 6 446
Reclassification ———— 21 21
At 1 September 2007 60 2,258 95 112 33 2,558
Exchange differences ———— 4 4
Charge for the period — 88 30 32 9 159
At 30 August 2008 60 2,346 125 144 46 2,721
Net book value
At 2 September 2006 235 384 294 80 44 1,037
At 1 September 2007 1,016 88 262 48 46 1,460
At 30 August 2008 1,381 — 232 16 46 1,675
During the period goodwill of £365,000 arose on the acquisition of J M Raine Limited (note 32). Goodwill represents the expansion of the
existing agricultural and ground care machinery business.
In 2007 goodwill of £781,000 arose on the acquisition of Johnstone Fuels and Lubricants Limited. Goodwill represents the geographical
expansion of the existing fuel and oil business in southwest Scotland together with expected group synergies arising from the
acquisition. At acquisition the fair value of customer relationships was £80,000.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units that are
expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are
indications that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill is tested for impairment by estimating future cash flows from the cash generating
units to which goodwill has been allocated and discounting these cash flows to their present value. The key assumptions in this
calculation are in respect of discount rates used and change in cash flows. No impairment has been identified in the period.
Customer relationships are being amortised in line with the profit streams expected to be generated over the life of the relationship. 
The life of the relationships range between one and five years.
Brands are being amortised in line with the income streams expected to be generated over the life of the brands. The directors estimate
the useful economic life of the brands to be twenty years.
Know-how is being amortised on a straight line basis over five years, being the directors' estimate of the useful economic life. 
Patents and trademarks are being amortised over their contractual life on a straight line basis.
Amortisation is recognised within administrative expenses.
There is no goodwill or intangible assets in the company (2007: nil). Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 45
13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Assets in 
Land and Plant and course of
buildings equipment construction Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 3 September 2006 18,069  37,774  367  56,210 
Exchange differences (51) (164) (17) (232)
Subsidiaries acquired — 581 — 581
Additions 563 2,034 155 2,752
Disposals (7) (999) — (1,006)
Reclassifications —350(350)—
At 1 September 2007 18,574 39,576 155 58,305 
Exchange differences 109 373 — 482
Subsidiaries acquired 299 145 — 444
Additions 83 2,752 225 3,060
Disposals (5) (1,295) — (1,300)
Reclassifications 13619(155)—
At 30 August 2008 19,196 41,570 225 60,991
Depreciation
At 3 September 2006 3,162 23,876  —  27,038
Exchange differences (15) (105) — (120)
Subsidiaries acquired — 266 — 266
Charge for the period 524 2,983 — 3,507
Disposals (4) (863) — (867) 
At 1 September 2007 3,667 26,157 — 29,824
Exchange differences 34 244 — 278
Subsidiaries acquired — 88 — 88
Charge for the period 503 2,815 — 3,318
Disposals (2) (1,111) — (1,113)
At 30 August 2008 4,202 28,193 — 32,395
Net book value
At 2 September 2006 14,907  13,898  367  29,172
At 1 September 2007 14,907 13,419 155 28,481
At 30 August 2008 14,994 13,377 225 28,596
Freehold land amounting to £2,498,545 (2007: £2,348,545) has not been depreciated.
The net book value of plant and equipment includes £2,961,525 (2007: £2,631,019) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Depreciation is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Cost of Sales 2,447 2,643
Distribution costs 141 158
Administrative expenses 730 706
3,318 3,507
The company has no property, plant and equipment. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
46   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
14 INVESTMENT PROPERTY
Land and
buildings
Group £’000
Cost
At 3 September 2006 896
Disposals (25)
At 1 September 2007 871
At 30 August 2008 871 
Depreciation
At 3 September 2006 102 
Charge for the period 19
Disposals (6)
At 1 September 2007 115 
Charge for the period 19
At 30 August 2008 134
Net book value
At 2 September 2006 794
At 1 September 2007 756
At 30 August 2008 737
Included within investment property are properties occupied by life tenants. The net book value of these properties at 30 August 2008 is
£230,000 (2007: £236,000).
The directors do not consider that the fair value of investment properties differs materially from carrying value. 
There is no investment property in the company. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 47
15 INVESTMENTS
Joint Other
ventures Associate investments Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 3 September 2006 704  982  263 1,949 
Exchange difference (11) — — (11)
Disposals — — (3) (3)
Share of post-tax profit 242 496 — 738
Share of gains recognised directly in equity — 978 — 978
At 1 September 2007 935 2,456 260 3,651
Exchange difference 63 — — 63
Additions 294 — — 294
Share of post-tax profit 317 1,273 — 1,590
Share of losses recognised directly in equity — (859) — (859)
At 30 August 2008 1,609 2,870 260 4,739
Provision for impairment
At 3 September 2006 and 1 September 2007 — — 9 9
Provision in the period — — 200 200
At 30 August 2008 — — 209 209
Net book value
At 2 September 2006 704  982  254  1,940
At 1 September 2007 935 2,456 251 3,642
At 30 August 2008 1,609 2,870 51 4,530
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted
investments for which fair value cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost. 
During the period Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited increased its holding of preference shares in its joint venture, Bibby
Agriculture Limited, at a cost of £290,000.
On 1 July 2007 Carrs Agriculture Limited exercised an option to purchase 50% of the issued share capital of Silloth Storage Company
Limited. The cash consideration, including costs, was £4,050, which was paid and recognised during the period ended 30 August 2008.
The principal activity of the joint venture is the storage of cane derived livestock feed supplements. Of the remaining 50%, 48% is held
by Peter Cremer GmbH and 2% is held by Prime Molasses Limited.
During the period an investment with a carrying cost of £200,000 has been fully provided against. This investment is loss making and
therefore the directors consider it appropriate to recognise the provision. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
48   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
15 INVESTMENTS continued
Joint Shares in Other
ventures Associate subsidiaries investments Total
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 3 September 2006 272  1,470    17,950  201  19,893
Exchange difference (3) — — — (3)
Share based payment expense 
in respect of employees of 
subsidiary undertakings — — 61 — 61
Disposals — — — (1) (1)
At 1 September 2007 269 1,470 18,011 200 19,950
Exchange difference 34——— 34
Share based payment expense 
in respect of employees of 
subsidiary undertakings — — 76 — 76
At 30 August 2008 303 1,470 18,087 200 20,060
Provision for impairment
At 3 September 2006 and 1 September 2007 — — 5,086 — 5,086
Provision in the period — — — 200 200
At 30 August 2008 — — 5,086 200 5,286
Net book value
At 2 September 2006 272  1,470  12,864 201 14,807
At 1 September 2007 269 1,470 12,925 200 14,864
At 30 August 2008 303 1,470 13,001 — 14,774
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted
investments for which fair value cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost. 
During the period an investment with a carrying cost of £200,000 has been fully provided against. This investment is loss making and
therefore the directors consider it appropriate to recognise the provision. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 49
16 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE
The associated undertaking at 30 August 2008 is:
Group and company
Proportion 
of shares held
Ordinary Country of Country of
Name % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited 49 England UK Manufacture of 
animal feed
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
The aggregate amounts relating to the associate, of which the group recognises 49%, are:
2008 2007 
£'000 £'000 
Total assets 24,572 20,649
Total liabilities (21,215) (18,137)
Revenues 92,324 68,904
Profit after tax 2,598 1,012
Included within the investment in associate is a loan for £1,225,000 (2007: £1,225,000) which is considered to form part of the net
investment in associate.
17 INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURES
The joint ventures at 30 August 2008 are:
Group
Proportion of shares held
Ordinary Preference Country of Country of
Name % % incorporation operation Activity
Crystalyx Products GmbH 50 — Germany Germany Manufacture of animal 
feed blocks
Bibby Agriculture Limited 26 26 England UK Sale of agricultural products
Afgritech Limited 50 — England UK Producers of ingredients 
of animal feed
Silloth Storage Company Limited 50 — England UK Storage of cane derived 
livestock feed supplement
Crystalyx Products GmbH has a 31 December accounting period end.
Silloth Storage Company Limited has a 30 June accounting period end.
Interests in the joint ventures listed above are held directly by the holding company with the following exceptions: Carrs Billington 
Agriculture (Sales) Limited holds 50% of the ordinary share capital and 50% of the preference share capital in Bibby Agriculture Limited.
Carrs Agriculture Limited holds 50% of the ordinary share capital in Silloth Storage Company Limited.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The aggregate amounts included in the financial statements relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures are:
2008 2007 
£'000 £'000 
Non-current assets 1,636 1,698
Current assets 2,240 1,822
Current liabilities (2,498) (2,435)
Non-current liabilities (656) (743)
Income 12,420 9,612
Expenses (11,961) (9,279)
Net finance costs (12) (28)
Goodwill of £17,000 arose on the investment in Silloth Storage Company Limited. This is included in the carrying amount of the Group’s
interest in joint ventures and is not shown as a separate asset.
Included within interest in joint ventures is an amount of £870,000 (2007: £580,000) which relates to the Group’s interest in the
preference share capital of Bibby Agriculture Limited. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
50   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
18 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
Proportion of 
Shares Held
Ordinary Country of Country of
Name % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Agriculture Limited 100  England UK Manufacture of animal 
feed blocks and fertiliser 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited 51  England UK Agricultural retailers 
Animal Feed Supplement Inc. 100  USA USA Manufacture of animal 
feed blocks 
Carr's Flour Mills Limited 100 England UK Flour milling 
Carrs Engineering Limited 100  England UK Engineering 
Bowie and Aram Limited 100  Scotland UK Travel agents 
B.R.B. Trust Limited 100  England UK Financial services 
Carrs Properties Limited 100  England UK Property holding
Investments in the subsidiaries listed above are held directly by the holding company.
Dormant subsidiaries are not shown above because disclosure would be excessively lengthy. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be
annexed to the Company's next annual return.
During the period Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of J M Raine Limited (note 32). 
By the period end the trade and net assets of the company had been hived up into Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited leaving 
a dormant company. As this company is dormant by the period end it has not been included in the list above.
19 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation — — (3,907) (2,550) (3,907) (2,550)
Employee benefits 4,636 2,746 — — 4,636 2,746
Other 682 482 (868) (868) (186) (386)
Tax assets/(liabilities) 5,318 3,228 (4,775) (3,418) 543 (190)
Movement in deferred tax during the period
At At
2 September Exchange In respect of Recognised Recognised 30 August
2007 differences acquisitions in income in equity 2008
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation (2,550) — (3) (1,354) — (3,907)
Employee benefits 2,746 — — (371) 2,261 4,636
Other (386)68—132— (186)
(190) 68 (3) (1,593) 2,261 543
Movement in deferred tax 
during the prior period At At
3 September Exchange In respect of Recognised Recognised 1 September
2006 differences acquisitions in income in equity 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation (2,692) — (36) 178 — (2,550)
Employee benefits 4,739 — — (398) (1,595) 2,746
Other (485) (30)—129—(386)
1,562 (30) (36) (91) (1,595) (190) Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 51
19 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued
Assets
2008 2007
Company £’000 £’000
Employee benefits 4,636 2,746
Other 4 4
Tax assets 4,640 2,750
Movement in deferred tax during the period At At
2 September Recognised Recognised 30 August
2007 in income in equity 2008
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Employee benefits 2,746 (371) 2,261 4,636
Other 4—— 4
2,750 (371) 2,261 4,640
Movement in deferred tax 
during the prior period At At
3 September Recognised Recognised 1 September
2006 in income in equity 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Employee benefits 4,739 (398) (1,595) 2,746
Other 22 (18) — 4
4,761 (416) (1,595) 2,750
Tax of £310,000 (2007: £373,000) in respect of capital losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Group balance sheet.
Tax of £66,000 (2007: £85,000) in respect of trading losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Company balance
sheet.
During the period the proposal that Parliament abolish Industrial Buildings Allowances was substantively enacted. The impact of this
change on the Group balance sheet is an increase in the deferred tax liability of £1,317,000. There has been no impact on the Company.
Included in the Group and Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense is £3,116,000. This consists of the £2,261,000
deferred tax credit as shown in the tables above, £447,000 corporation tax credit arising on the £1,531,700 salary compensation for
pension payment made to a director in the period and corporation tax credit of £408,000 on pension contributions in excess of the
retirement benefit charge in the period.
Full details of the payment to a director are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
52   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
20 INVENTORIES
2008 2007
Group £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables 15,458 6,582
Work in progress 1,442 953
Finished goods and goods for resale 14,114 7,318
31,014 14,853
Inventories are stated after a provision for impairment of £619,000 (2007: £334,000).
Cost of sales consists of the following:
Material cost 311,929 203,240
Processing cost 4,420 4,949
Other 11,408 10,414
327,757 218,603
The company has no inventories.
21 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade receivables 49,817 34,674 — — 
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (2,900) (2,082) — —
Trade receivables - net 46,917 32,592 — —
Amounts recoverable on contracts 394 5 — — 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 38) — — 16,384 13,914
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 38) 625 689 374 380
Other receivables 1,585 890 284 134
Prepayments and accrued income 1,233 1,305 179 147
50,754 35,481 17,221 14,575 
Non-current:
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 38) 50 100 — — 
50 100 — — 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
The movement in the provision for impaired trade receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written
off and unused provision released back to the income statement. Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off
when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
During the period a charge of £1,019,000 (2007: £196,000) has been recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement
in respect of the provision for impairment of trade receivables.
No impairment of other receivables has been recognised in the current or preceding period.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by group undertakings carry interest at base rate +1.75%. Such amounts are unsecured and
repayable on demand. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 53
21 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued
2008 2007
Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The ageing of trade receivables is as follows:
Not past due 34,148 (208) 21,821  (42)
Past due 0 - 30 days 8,538 (159) 6,037  (103)
Past due 31 - 60 days 2,048 (130) 2,382  (126)
Past due 61 - 90 days 2,029 (481) 1,879  (395)
Past due 91 - 120 days 1,070 (284) 801  (163)
Past 121 days 1,984 (1,638) 1,754 (1,253)
49,817 (2,900) 34,674 (2,082)
The Company has no trade receivables.
No major renegotiation of terms has taken place during the current period or preceding period.
The credit quality of customers is assessed at subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences
and other relevant factors. Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.
It is group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk
and are provided for where appropriate.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the period end is the carrying value, net of provision for impairment, of each receivable. The
Group and Company do not hold any significant collateral as security (2007: £nil).
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The carrying value of trade receivables are denominated 
in the following currencies:
Sterling 46,283 32,321 — — 
US Dollar 347 139 — — 
Euro 287 132 — —
46,917 32,592 — — 
22 CURRENT TAX ASSETS
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Corporation tax recoverable 65 82 193 272 
Group taxation relief — — 1,409 236 
65 82 1,602 508 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
54   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
23 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND BANK OVERDRAFTS
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand per the balance sheet 3,896 1,315 — 1,141
Bank overdrafts (note 26) (3,830) (1,913) (120) —
Cash and cash equivalents per the cash flow statement 66 (598) (120) 1,141
24 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade payables 33,882 17,527 — —  
Payments on account 2,549 1,046 — —  
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 38) — — 48 219  
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 38) 9,336 5,399 — —  
Other taxes and social security payable 1,680 949 1,148 217  
Other payables 1,733 1,166 360 159 
Accruals and deferred income 3,797 2,391 772 522 
52,977 28,478 2,328 1,117
Non-current:
Other payables 2,111 1,559 — — 
Accruals and deferred income 126 146 — — 
2,237 1,705 — —
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Amounts owed to group undertakings are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
Included within non-current accruals and deferred income is the following in respect of government grants:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period 146 166 — —  
Amortisation in the period (20) (20) — —  
At the end of the period 126 146  — —   
25 CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current tax 1,715 493 — —
Consortium tax relief (note 38) 339 77 — —
2,054 570 — —  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 55
26 BORROWINGS
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Bank overdrafts 3,830 1,913 120 — 
Bank loans and other borrowings 9,196 6,826 991 493  
Loans from group undertakings (note 38) — — 4,378 2,886  
Other loans (note 38) 1,225 1,225 — —  
Finance leases 753 753 — — 
15,004 10,717 5,489 3,379
Non-current:
Bank loans 5,371 5,117 5,371 5,117  
Other loans 37 30 — —  
Finance leases 917 824 — —  
6,325 5,971 5,371 5,117 
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year 15,004 10,717 5,489 3,379 
In the second year 5,710 1,051 5,122 493 
In the third to fifth years inclusive 615 4,920 249 4,624  
21,329 16,688 10,860 8,496  
Group and company borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of arrangement fees of £12,208 of which £8,667 is deducted from
current liabilities (2007: £15,458 of which £7,000 is deducted from current liabilities).
The net borrowings are:
Borrowings as above 21,329 16,688 10,860 8,496 
Cash and cash equivalents (3,896) (1,315) — (1,141)
Net borrowings 17,433 15,373 10,860 7,355
Bank loans and other borrowings includes an amount of £8,205,000 (2007: £6,333,000) which is secured on trade receivables. The
Company, together with certain subsidiaries, act as guarantors on the bank loans. Finance lease obligations are secured on the assets 
to which they relate.
Interest bearing loans from group undertakings carry interest at base rate or base rate + 1.25%. Such amounts are unsecured and
repayable on demand.
Other loans are non-interest bearing and have no fixed date for repayment. The bank loans are repayable by instalments and the
overdraft is repayable on demand.
Non-current bank loans includes a revolving credit facility of £4.5 million which is repayable in October 2009.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
56   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
26 BORROWINGS continued
Future minimum
lease payments Repayment profile
Group 2008 2007 2008 2007
Finance lease obligations £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amount payable:
Within one year 855 816 753 753
In the second year 592 530 551 528
In the third to fifth years inclusive 425 407 366 296
1,872 1,753 1,670 1,577
Less: future finance charges (202) (176)
Present value of lease obligations 1,670 1,577
The Company has no finance lease obligations.
27 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The main financial risks arising from the Group's activities are credit risk, price risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and
liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below. These policies
have remained unchanged throughout the period.
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial
instruments, deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers. The credit quality of trade and
other receivables is detailed in note 21.
The majority of Group revenues are made on credit terms. It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional
management meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are provided for where appropriate. The current financial climate
requires the Group’s credit control function to be exceptionally vigilant.
Price risk
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk. Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk
such as the fluctuation in wheat prices. This risk is, however, managed primarily through the use of contracts to secure supply at
agreed prices.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates (currency risk) and interest rates (interest rate risk) will affect income or
the value of financial assets and liabilities.
Currency risk
The Group publishes its financial statements in Sterling but conducts business in some foreign currencies. As a result it is subject to
foreign currency exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on the translation of results and the underlying
net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group's subsidiary, Animal Feed Supplement Inc., operates in the US and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively
in US dollars.
Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture of the Group, operates in Germany and its revenues and expenses are denominated
exclusively in Euros.
The Group is also exposed to foreign currency risk on its purchases of raw materials for the fertiliser and flour milling operations. The
major currency involved is the US dollar. The policy of the Group is to hedge using forward foreign exchange contracts with UK banks
as soon as commitment has been given to the underlying transaction. However the Group does not apply hedge accounting. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 57
27 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Financial Instruments by currency
2008 2007
US US 
Sterling Dollar Euro Total Sterling Dollar Euro Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Other investments 51 — — 51 251 — — 251 
Non-current derivatives — — — — 132 — — 132 
Non-current receivables 50 — — 50 100 — — 100 
Current trade and other receivables 49,916 548 290 50,75435,081 267 133 35,481 
Current derivatives — 896 31 927 — — — — 
Cash and cash equivalents 3,853 39 4 3,896 1,260 46 9 1,315
53,870 1,483 325 55,67836,824 313 142 37,279
Liabilities
Current borrowings 13,138 (71) 1,937 15,004 11,854 (1,122) (15) 10,717 
Current derivatives — — 22 22 — 10 — 10 
Current trade and other payables 45,986 6,834 157 52,977 27,231 1,184 63 28,478 
Non-current borrowings 6,289 — 36 6,325 5,941 — 30 5,971 
Non-current derivatives 14 — — 14 — — — — 
Other non-current liabilities 125 2,112 — 2,237 145 1,560 — 1,705
65,552 8,875 2,152 76,579 45,171 1,632 78 46,881
2008 2007
US US 
Sterling Dollar Euro Total Sterling Dollar Euro Total
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Other investments — — — — 200 — — 200 
Non-current derivatives — — — — 111 — — 111 
Current trade and other receivables 17,221 — — 17,22114,575 — — 14,575 
Current derivatives — — 31 31 — — — —
Cash and cash equivalents — — — — 188 948 5 1,141
17,221 — 31 17,25215,074 948 5 16,027 
Liabilities
Current borrowings (1,015) 4,204 2,300 5,489 606 2,773 — 3,379 
Current trade and other payables 2,328 — — 2,328 1,117 — — 1,117 
Non-current borrowings 5,371 — — 5,371 5,117 — — 5,117 
Non-current derivatives 14 — — 14 — — — — 
6,698 4,204 2,300 13,202 6,840 2,773 — 9,613
The Group and Company has right of offset on certain bank accounts.
Sensitivity analysis
The impact of a weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies at the balance sheet date would be as follows:
2008 2007
5% weakening 5% strengthening 5% weakening 5% strengthening
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation (414) 375 (55) 50
Impact on total equity (162) 148 125 (153)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all
other variables have been held constant. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
58   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
27 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and bank borrowings. The Group borrows in the desired
currencies at fixed and floating rates of interest and then uses interest rate caps and swaps to manage the Group's exposure to interest
rate fluctuations. At the period end £7.4 million (2007: £6.6 million) of the group's borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest.
Weighted Weighted
average average
effective effective
interest rate 2008 interest rate 2007
Group % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 6.00 3,830 6.75 1,913 
Bank loans and other borrowings 6.52 14,567 7.46 11,943 
Other loans — 1,262 — 1,255 
Finance lease liabilities 7.00 1,670 8.70 1,577 
21,329 16,688 
Fixed rate 7,420 6,577 
Floating rate 12,647 8,856 
Non-interest bearing 1,262 1,255 
21,329 16,688 
The effect of the Group's interest rate swaps is to classify £5.75 million (2007: £5 million) of floating rate borrowings as fixed rate in the
above table.
The Group's floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:
Bank overdrafts Base rate + 1% margin; US prime rate + 1% margin
Bank loans and other borrowings Libor + 1.125%; Base rate + 1.25% margin
Weighted Weighted
average average
effective effective
interest rate 2008 interest rate 2007
Company % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 6.00 120 6.75 — 
Bank loans and other borrowings 6.86 6,362 7.97 5,610 
Loans from group undertakings 5.02 4,378 5.78 2,886
10,860 8,496
Fixed rate 5,750 5,000 
Floating rate 5,110 3,496
10,860 8,496
The effect of the Company's interest rate swaps is to classify £5.75 million (2007: £5 million) of floating rate borrowings as fixed rate in
the above table.
The Company's floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:
Bank overdrafts Base rate + 1% margin
Bank loans and other borrowings Libor + 1.125% Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 59
27 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Sensitivity analysis
The impact of a decrease or increase in interest rates during the period would be as follows:
2008 2007
1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 160 (160) 132 (132)
Impact on total equity 160 (160) 132 (132)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all
other variables have been held constant.
Liquidity risk
The Group's policy throughout the period has been to maintain a mix of short and medium term borrowings. Short-term flexibility
is achieved by overdraft facilities. In addition it is the Group's policy to maintain committed undrawn facilities in order to provide
flexibility in the management of the Group's liquidity.
The table below analyses the Group's financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on
the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual
undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date. 
2008 2007
Within One to Two to Within One to Two to
one two five one two five
Total year years years Total year years years
Group £'000 £'000 £'000  £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000  £'000
Bank overdrafts 3,830 3,830 — — 1,913 1,913 — — 
Bank loans and other borrowings 14,567 9,196 5,122 249 11,943 6,826 493 4,624 
Other loans 1,262 1,225 37 — 1,255 1,225 30 — 
Finance lease liabilities 1,670 753 551 366 1,577 753 528 296
21,329 15,004 5,710 615 16,688 10,717 1,051 4,920
2008 2007
Within One to Two to Within One to Two to
one two five one two five
Total year years years Total year years years
Company £'000 £'000 £'000  £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000  £'000
Bank overdrafts 120 120 — — — — — — 
Bank loans and other borrowings 6,362 991 5,122 249 5,610 493 493 4,624 
Loans from group undertakings 4,378 4,378 — — 2,886 2,886 — — 
10,860 5,489 5,122 249 8,496 3,379 493 4,624
Borrowing facilities
The Group has various undrawn committed facilities. The undrawn facilities available at 30 August 2008, in respect of which all
conditions precedent had been met, were as follows:
2008 2007
Floating rate Floating rate
£’000 £’000
Expiring in one year or less 15,699 11,673 
The Company's overdraft is within a group facility and it is therefore not possible to determine the Company's undrawn committed
facilities at the balance sheet date. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
60   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
27 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Capital risk management
The Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group's ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of
capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by shareholders' equity. Net
debt is calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings) as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less
cash and cash equivalents. Shareholders' equity is as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
The gearing ratio at 30 August 2008 was 69.8% (2007: 57.4%).
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair
value value value value value value value value
£'000 £'000 £'000  £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000  £'000
Assets
Other investments 51 51 251 251 — — 200 200 
Non-current derivatives — — 132 132 — — 111 111 
Non-current receivables 50 50 100 100 — — — — 
Current trade and other receivables 50,754 50,754 35,481 35,481 17,221 17,221 14,575 14,575 
Current derivatives 927 927 — — 31 31 — — 
Cash and cash equivalents 3,896 3,896 1,315 1,315 — — 1,141 1,141
55,678 55,678 37,279 37,279 17,252 17,252 16,027 16,027 
Liabilities
Current borrowings 15,004 15,004 10,717 10,717 5,489 5,489 3,379 3,379 
Current derivatives 22 22 10 10 — — — — 
Current trade and other payables 52,977 52,977 28,478 28,478 2,328 2,328 1,117 1,117 
Non-current borrowings 6,325 6,370 5,971 6,058 5,371 5,472 5,117 5,196 
Non-current derivatives 14 14 — — 14 14 — — 
Other non-current liabilities 2,237 2,237 1,705 1,705 — — — — 
76,579 76,624 46,881 46,968 13,202 13,303 9,613 9,692 
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates
and by applying year end exchange rates.
Other investments consist of investments in unquoted companies, which are held at cost as fair value cannot be reliably measured.
Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
The fair value of current assets and current liabilities are assumed to approximate to book value due to the short term maturity of the
instrument.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group and Company does not adopt hedge accounting. Any gains or losses on derivative financial instruments have been
recognised in the Income Statement in the period they arise. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 61
27 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Currency derivatives
The Group and Company use forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the
fair value of outstanding forward foreign currency contracts are as below:
2008 2007
Contractual Contractual
Fair or notional Fair or notional
Value amount Value amount
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period (10) 932 (27) 1,078 
Gains during the period 915 12,067 17 (146) 
At end of period 905 12,999 (10) 932 
Included within:
Current assets 927 13,813 — — 
Current liabilities (22) (814) (10) 932
905 12,999 (10) 932
2008 2007
Contractual Contractual
Fair or notional Fair or notional
Value amount Value amount
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period — — (4) 267 
Gains during the period 31 1,920 4 (267) 
At end of period 31 1,920 — — 
Included within:
Current assets 31 1,920 — —
31 1,920 — — 
Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent forward foreign currency contracts at the balance sheet date.
All forward foreign currency contracts have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on currency
related derivatives are included within adminstrative expenses.
Interest rate derivatives
The Group and Company use interest rate caps and swaps to manage their interest rate risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair
value of these instruments are as below:
Interest rate cap Interest rate swap
Group Company Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
At beginning of period 21 6 — — 111 31 111 31 
Disposal of derivative — — — — (111) — (111) — 
(Losses)/gains during the period (21) 15 — — (14) 80 (14) 80 
At end of period — 21 — — (14) 111 (14) 111
Included within:
Non-current assets — 21 — — — 111 — 111
Non-current liabilities — — — — (14) — (14) —
— 21 — — (14) 111 (14) 111
Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. All interest related
derivatives have a maturity date of more than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on interest related derivatives are
included within other finance income/expense in the income statement.
The interest rate cap has a notional value of £3,500,000 and a strike rate of 5.5%. The date of maturity was 30 September 2008.
Interest rate swaps held at 31 August 2008 have outstanding notional values of £4,500,000 and £1,250,000 (original notional value of
£1,500,000) and a fixed interest rate of 5.68% and 5.70% respectively. Interest payments under both swap agreements are being made
at quarterly intervals. The date of maturity is 26 October 2009 and 3 December 2009 respectively. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
62   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr's Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington
Agriculture Pension Scheme.
Carr's Milling Industries
The Company sponsors the Carr's Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and offers a defined contribution and a defined benefit
section. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
The pension expense for the defined contribution section of the scheme for the period was £174,000 (2007: £178,000). Contributions
totalling £8,700 (2007: £8,000) were payable to the fund at the period end and are included in creditors.
During the period contributions were payable to a Group Personal Pension plan for certain employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Limited. 
The pension expense for this scheme for the period was £255,000 (2007: £264,000).
The defined benefit section of the scheme is funded to cover future pension liabilities (including expected future earnings and pension
increases). It is subject to an independent valuation on a triennial basis by a qualified actuary who determines the rate of the employer's
contribution. The most recent valuation of the scheme was at 1 January 2006 and adopted the Projected Unit Method. It was assumed
that the investment returns would be 6.5% per annum and that the salary increases would average 4.0% per annum. It was also
assumed that present and future pensions, in excess of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMPs), would increase once in payment at
the lesser of 5.0% per annum and price inflation and that GMPs would increase at the rate of 3.0% per annum.
The actuarial valuation as at 1 January 2006 shows that the market value of assets relating to the defined benefit section of the scheme
was £29,104,000 and that the actuarial value of those assets represented 68.0% of the actuarial value of benefits that had accrued to
members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings. At 1 January 2006, the scheme showed a deficit of £13,541,000.
The pension contribution made by the Group over the period to the defined benefit section was £2,517,000 (2007: £2,586,000).
The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit section. The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a
qualified independent actuary as at 1 January 2006 and updated on an approximate basis to 30 August 2008.
Major assumptions:
2008 2007
% %
Inflation 3.9 3.2
Salary increases 4.9 4.2
Rate of discount 6.2 5.9
Pension in payment increases:   
Pre 1 September 2001 4.2 3.5
Post 1 September 2001 3.9 3.2
Revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for pensions revaluing at 5.0% per annum or RPI if less 3.9 3.2
The mortality tables used in the valuation have been updated to PA92 (Year of Birth) and the medium cohort improvement factors. The 
mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65:
At At
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Males currently age 40 23.2 years 20.2 years
Females currently age 40 26.0 years 23.1 years
Males currently age 65 22.0 years 19.4 years
Females currently age 65 24.8 years 22.4 years
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current service cost 678 788
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 2,490 2,334
Expected return on pension scheme assets (2,108) (1,955)
1,060 1,167
In addition a net gain of £379,000 arising from the transfer of deferred pensioners from the Group scheme is included within 
administrative expenses. Full details of this net gain can be found in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 12 to 15.
The expense is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Cost of Sales 213 404
Distribution costs 7 —
Administrative expenses 840 763
1,060 1,167
Actuarial losses of £11,065,000 (2007: Gains of £4,570,000) have been reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 63
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION continued
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (48,016) (43,721)
Fair value of scheme assets 31,458 33,914
Deficit in scheme (16,558) (9,807)
Past service cost not yet recognised in the balance sheet — —
Total liability recognised in the balance sheet (16,558) (9,807)
Amount included in current liabilities — —
Amount included in non-current liabilities (16,558) (9,807)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period 43,721 45,794  
Current service cost 678 788
Interest cost 2,490 2,334
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation 7,230 (4,364)
Benefits paid (3,339) (831)
Reduction in obligation following payment in lieu of pension to a director (1,439) —
Effect of settlements (1,325) —
At the end of the period 48,016 43,721
The reduction in obligation following payment in lieu of pension to a director of £1,439,000 is recognised in the Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense net of the payment made of £1,531,700. Full details are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 23 
to 26.
Full details of the settlement are given in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 12 to 15.
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period 33,914 29,998  
Expected return on scheme assets 2,108 1,955
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets (3,742) 206
Contributions by employer 2,517 2,586
Benefits paid (3,339) (831)
At the end of the period 31,458 33,914
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
Expected return Fair value of assets
2008 2007 2008 2007
% % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments 7.3 7.5 15,715 19,117 
Debt instruments 5.3 5.75 13,575 12,462
Property 6.8 7.0 1,678 2,005
Other assets 5.75 5.75 490 330
6.4 6.8 31,458 33,914
Actual return on scheme assets (1,634) 2,161
The expected long term return on cash is equal to bank base rates at the balance sheet date. The expected return on bonds is
determined by reference to UK long dated gilt and bond yields at the balance sheet date. The expected rate of return on equities and
property have been determined by setting an appropriate risk premium above gilt/bond yields having regard to market conditions at the
balance sheet date. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
64   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION continued
History of scheme:
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000  £'000
Present value of the defined benefit obligation (48,016) (43,721) (45,794) (39,556) (33,991)
Fair value of scheme assets 31,458 33,914 29,998 27,437  23,051  
Deficit (16,558) (9,807) (15,796) (12,119) (10,940)
Difference between expected and actual returns 
on scheme assets:
Amount £'000 (3,742) 206 358 2,018 (397)
Percentage of scheme assets 11.9% 0.6% 1.2% 7.4% 1.7%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount £'000 (7,323) 4,364 (4,258) (3,561) (227)
Percentage of scheme liabilities 15.3% 10.0% 9.3% 9.0% 0.7%
Included within the experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities is £92,700. This is the reduction in the obligation following
payment in lieu of pension to a director of £1,439,000, net of the payment made of £1,531,700.
The Group expects to contribute approximately £2,600,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
The Company expects to contribute approximately £791,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
Carrs Billington Agriculture
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited, one of the Group's subsidiary undertakings, is a participating employer of the Carrs
Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme, another funded defined benefit scheme. On 30 November 2007, following consultation with the
active members, the Company and Trustees agreed to close the scheme to future service accrual. This resulted in a curtailment gain of
£256,000.
The pension contribution made by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited over the period to the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension
Scheme was £15,000 (2007: £77,000).
The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006 shows that the market value of assets relating to the scheme was £19,921,000 and 
the actuarial value of those assets represented 81% of the actuarial value of benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for
expected future increase in earnings. It was assumed that the investment returns would be pre-retirement 6.2% per annum and 
post-retirement 4.7% per annum. At 31 December 2006, the scheme showed a deficit of £4,700,000.
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited offers a Group Personal Pension Plan to its employees and the pension expense for this plan
in the period was £150,000 (2007: £115,000). 
During the period contributions were also payable to a defined contribution pension scheme for certain employees of Carrs Billington
Agriculture (Sales) Limited. The pension expense for this scheme for the period was £9,000 (2007: £9,000).
The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit scheme. The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a
qualified independent actuary as at 31 December 2006 and updated on an approximate basis to 30 August 2008. 
It is not possible to identify the underlying share of the pension scheme assets and liabilities that relate to the Group. At inception in
June 2000 approximately 50% of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme related to the Group and under IFRS approximately
50% of the assets and liabilities are included in the Group's financial statements through the investment in associate, which is the
sponsoring employer of the scheme. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 65
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION continued
Major assumptions:
2008 2007
% %
Inflation 3.7 3.3
Salary increases 4.2 3.8
Rate of discount 6.2 5.8
Pension in payment increases:
LPI max 5% 3.6 3.3
LPI max 3% 2.9 2.75
LPI max 2.5% 2.4 2.25
Revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for pensions revaluing at 5.0% per annum or RPI if less 3.6 3.3
Mortality rates used in the valuation are based on the PMA92 and PFA92 tables, projected, medium cohort, allowing for members’ 
actual year of birth. The mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65:
At At
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Males currently age 45 23.1 years 23.0 years
Females currently age 45 25.9 years 25.8 years
Males currently age 65 22.0 years 21.9 years
Females currently age 65 24.8 years 24.8 years
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement of the associate in respect of defined benefit schemes:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Current service cost 27 131
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1,259 1,237
Expected return on pension scheme assets (1,400) (1,139)
Effects of curtailment (256) — 
(370) 229
The Group's share of the expense is recognised within the Income Statement through the share of post-tax profit in associate.
The Group's share of the actuarial losses of £2,435,000 (2007: gains of £2,932,000) have been reported in the Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense.
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet of the associate:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (21,896) (22,322)
Fair value of scheme assets 19,254 20,661
Deficit in scheme (2,642) (1,661)
Past service cost not yet recognised in the balance sheet — —
Total liability recognised in the balance sheet (2,642) (1,661)
The Group's share of the deficit is recognised within the Balance Sheet through the investment in associate.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period 22,322 24,698  
Current service cost 27 131
Interest cost 1,259 1,237
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation (570) (2,740)
Benefits paid (886) (1,004)
Curtailments (256) —
At the end of the period 21,896 22,322 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
66   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
28 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION continued
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period 20,661 19,008  
Expected return on scheme assets 1,400 1,139
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets (3,005) 192
Contributions by employer 1,084 1,326
Benefits paid (886) (1,004)
At the end of the period 19,254 20,661
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
Expected return Fair value of assets
2008 2007 2008 2007
% % £'000 £'000
Equity instruments 7.3 7.5 13,862 14,150  
Debt instruments 5.3 5.1 5,199 5,628 
Other assets 5.3 5.1 193 883  
6.7 6.7 19,254 20,661  
Actual return on scheme assets (1,605) 1,331
The expected rates of return on scheme assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall rate of return is calculated by 
weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan's investment portfolio.
History of scheme:
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000  £'000
Present value of the defined benefit obligation (21,896) (22,322) (24,698) (23,943) (19,677)
Fair value of scheme assets 19,254 20,661 19,008 17,466  14,820  
Deficit (2,642) (1,661) (5,690) (6,477) (4,857)
Difference between expected and actual returns 
on scheme assets:
Amount £'000 (3,005) 192 783 1,688  100
Percentage of scheme assets 15.6% 1.0% 4.1% 9.7% 0.7%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:
Amount £'000 570 2,740 (364) (3,613) (1,628)
Percentage of scheme liabilities 2.6% 12.3% 1.5% 15.1% 8.3%
It is expected that contributions of approximately £575,000 will be paid to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
29 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL
2008 2008 2007 2007
Group and Company Shares £'000 Shares £'000
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 25p each 10,500,000 2,625 10,500,000 2,625 
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each:
At start of period 8,256,599 2,064 8,233,579 2,058
Exercise of share options 112,677 29 14,323 4
Allotment of shares 5,010 1 8,697 2
At end of period 8,374,286 2,094 8,256,599 2,064
For details of share option, share save and deferred bonus schemes see note 31.
During the period there was a further allotment of 5,010 shares (2007: 8,697) with a nominal value of £1,000 (2007: £2,000) to provide
bonus award shares under the deferred bonus scheme. Since the period end a further 410,000 shares were allotted. The object of the
allotment was to fund, in part, the additional working capital requirement and to widen the institutional shareholder base. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 67
30 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND MINORITY INTEREST
Share Treasury Equity Foreign Total
Share Premium Share Compensation Exchange Other Retained Shareholders’ Minority 
Capital Account Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserves Earnings Equity Interest Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 
3 September 2006 2,058 5,004 — 22 (230) 1,601 11,895 20,350 1,931 22,281
Total recognised 
income and expense 
for the period — — — — (253) — 8,134 7,881 120 8,001
Dividends paid — — — — — — (1,486) (1,486) — (1,486)
Equity settled share-
based payment 
transactions, net of tax — — — 73 — — — 73 11 84
Share options exercised 
by employees 4 20 — — — — — 24 — 24
Allotment of shares 2 49 — — — — — 51 — 51
Purchase of own shares
held in trust — — (101) — — — — (101) — (101)
Transfer — — — — — (31) 31 — — —
Balance at 
1 September 2007 2,064 5,073 (101) 95 (483) 1,570 18,574 26,792 2,062 28,854
Balance at 
2 September 2007 2,064 5,073 (101) 95 (483) 1,570 18,574 26,792 2,062 28,854
Total recognised 
income and expense 
for the period — — — — 590 — (1,107) (517) 545 28
Dividends paid — — — — — — (1,618) (1,618) — (1,618)
Equity settled share-
based payment 
transactions, net of tax — — — 111 — — — 111 12 123
Share options exercised 
by employees 29 153 — — — — — 182 — 182
Allotment of shares 1 26 — — — — — 27 — 27
Transfer — — — — — (31) 31 — — —
Balance at 
30 August 2008 2,094 5,252 (101) 206 107 1,539 15,880 24,977 2,619 27,596
The treasury share reserve includes the purchase of own shares in the Company, which are held in trust. These shares were acquired by
the trust in the open market place and are to be held to meet the Group’s obligations under the share based award schemes. However 
at the balance sheet date they have not yet been allocated to the various schemes.
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative spreading, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share option, share
save and deferred bonus schemes over the vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the
income statement. As permitted under IFRS the fair value of share based awards granted prior to 7 November 2002 are not recognised 
in the financial statements.
The amount recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in respect of foreign exchange translation differences
arising on translation of overseas subsidiaries excludes £7,000 in respect of translation differences attributable to minority interest.
The Group has opted to use previous revaluations of property made under UK GAAP as deemed cost. On adoption of IFRS the
revaluation reserve was reclassified to other reserves. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
68   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
30 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND MINORITY INTEREST continued
Share Equity
Share Premium Compensation Retained Total
Capital Account Reserve Earnings Equity
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 
3 September 2006 2,058 5,004 27 1,049 8,138
Total recognised income 
and expense for the
period — — — 7,717 7,717
Dividends paid — — — (1,486) (1,486)
Equity settled share-based 
payment transactions, 
net of tax — — 85 — 85
Share options exercised
by employees 4 20 — — 24
Allotment of shares 2 49 — — 51
Balance at
1 September 2007 2,064 5,073 112 7,280 14,529
Balance at 
2 September 2007 2,064 5,073 112 7,280 14,529
Total recognised income 
and expense for the
period — — — (4,733) (4,733)
Dividends paid — — — (1,618) (1,618)
Equity settled share-based 
payment transactions, 
net of tax — — 121 — 121
Share options exercised
by employees 29 153 — — 182
Allotment of shares 1 26 — — 27
Balance at
30 August 2008 2,094 5,252 233 929 8,508
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Group operates seven share based payment schemes. Two schemes, the Executive Scheme 1996 and the Company Plan 1996, were
granted before 7 November 2002, the recognition and measurement principles in IFRS2 have not been applied in accordance with the
transitional provisions in IFRS1 and IFRS2. Disclosure in respect of these two schemes is as follows:
Group and Company
Option Schemes
Outstanding share options 2008 2007 Price Dates of
Number Number p Grant
Executive Scheme 1996 — 75,677 161 2002
Company Plan 1996 — 37,000 161 2002
During the period 112,677 (2007: 14,323) shares were issued under these share option schemes.
Options granted on the Company Plan 1996 are normally exercisable 3-10 years from the date of the grant. Options granted in the
Executive Scheme 1996 are normally exercisable 3-7 years from the date of the grant. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 69
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Group
During the period the Group entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007). As part of this deferred bonus scheme
the eligible individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if
certain performance criteria are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that
they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ending 31 August 2010 equalling or
exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5
should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should
the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to above, the award multiple will be measured on
a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2007 the Group entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the
eligible individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if
certain performance criteria are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that
they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ending 31 August 2009 equalling or
exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5
should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should
the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to above, the award multiple will be measured on
a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2006 the Group entered into three schemes, an HM Revenue and Customs approved discretionary employee share option scheme, 
an unapproved discretionary share option scheme and a share save scheme.
Both the approved and unapproved share options were granted to certain senior employees and directors. Options are exercisable
between three and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group's adjusted earnings per share over the three
years to 31 August 2008 exceeding that of the RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings
contracts for both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
Approved and 
Unapproved
Deferred Deferred Executive Share Share Save Share Save
Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Option Scheme 2006 Scheme 2006
2007 2006 Scheme 2006 (3-Year Plan) (5-Year Plan)
Grant date (approved) 6/12/07 7/2/07 24/2/06 1/6/06  1/6/06 
Grant date (unapproved) — — 20/2/06 — —
Share price at grant date 
(weighted average) £5.44 £6.43 £4.78 £4.64 £4.64 
Exercise price (weighted average) £0.25 £0.25 £4.78 £4.79  £4.79 
Number of employees 3 5 30 56  73 
Shares under option (approved) 8,493 24,277 132,000 27,117  66,515 
Shares under option (unapproved) — — 12,000 — —
Vesting period (years) 2.83 2.67 3 3 5 
Model used for valuation Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial Black Scholes  Black Scholes 
Expected volatility 22.00% 21.00% 22.44% 20.18% 21.37% 
Option life (years) 2.92 2.75 10 3.5 5.5 
Expected life (years) 2.83 2.67 6.5 3.25  5.25 
Risk-free rate 4.420% 5.451% 4.224% 4.683% 4.623% 
Expected dividends expressed 
as a dividend yield 3.30% 3.20% 3.36% 3.56%  3.56% 
Expectations of vesting 100% 100% 100% 75%  75% 
Expectations of meeting 
performance criteria 100% 100% 100% N/A  N/A 
Fair value per option £4.74 £5.69 £0.99 £0.60  £0.78 
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the award being valued.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK
Government bonds with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the award being valued. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
70   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period —— — —   
Granted during the period 0.25 8 ——  
Exercised during the period —— —  —  
Lapsed during the period —— — — 
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.25 8 —— 
Exercisable at the end of the period —— — —  
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 2.167 years (2007: nil) with a weighted average
remaining expected life of 2.083 years (2007: nil).
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.25 24 — —   
Granted during the period —— 0.25 24  
Exercised during the period —— —  —  
Lapsed during the period —— — — 
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.25 24 0.25 24 
Exercisable at the end of the period —— — —  
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.167 years (2007: 2.167 years) with a weighted
average remaining expected life of 1.083 years (2007: 2.083 years).
Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.78 141 4.78 144  
Granted during the period —— —— 
Exercised during the period —— — — 
Lapsed during the period —— 4.76 (3)
Outstanding at the end of the period 4.78 141 4.78 141 
Exercisable at the end of the period —— ——
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 7.5 years (2007: 8.5 years) with a weighted average
remaining expected life of 4 years (2007: 5 years). Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 71
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 24 4.79 27  
Granted during the period —— —— 
Exercised during the period —— — — 
Lapsed during the period 4.79 (1) 4.79 (3) 
Outstanding at the end of the period 4.79 23 4.79 24
Exercisable at the end of the period —— —— 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.25 years (2007: 2.25 years) with a weighted
average remaining expected life of 1 year (2007: 2 years).
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 58 4.79 67 
Granted during the period —— ——
Exercised during the period —— —— 
Lapsed during the period 4.79 (1) 4.79 (9) 
Outstanding at the end of the period 4.79 57 4.79 58
Exercisable at the end of the period —— ——
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 3.25 years (2007: 4.25 years) with a weighted
average remaining expected life of 3 years (2007: 4 years). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
72   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 45 42
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan 5 4
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan 10 8
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006 52 30
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007 11 —
123 84
Company
During the period the Company entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007). As part of this deferred bonus
scheme the eligible individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three
years if certain performance criteria are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share
that they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ending 31 August 2010 equalling or
exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5
should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should
the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to above, the award multiple will be measured on
a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2007 the Company entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the
eligible individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if
certain performance criteria are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that
they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ending 31 August 2009 equalling or
exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5
should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should
the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to above, the award multiple will be measured on
a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2006 the company entered into two schemes, an HM Revenue and Customs unapproved discretionary employee share option scheme
and a share save scheme.
The unapproved share options were granted to certain senior employees and directors. Options are exercisable between three and ten
years from the date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group's adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 2008
exceeding that of the RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings
contracts for both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
Unapproved
Deferred Deferred Executive Share Share Save Share Save
Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Option Scheme 2006 Scheme 2006
2007 2006 Scheme 2006 (3-Year Plan) (5-Year Plan)
Grant date 6/12/07 7/2/07 20/2/06 1/6/06  1/6/06 
Share price at grant date £5.44 £6.43 £5.02 £4.64  £4.64 
Exercise price £0.25 £0.25 £5.02 £4.79  £4.79 
Number of employees 2 2 2 6  1 
Shares under option 6,765 14,743 12,000 6,133 1,344 
Vesting period (years) 2.83 2.67 3 3  5 
Model used for valuation Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial Black Scholes  Black Scholes 
Expected volatility 22.00% 21.00% 22.44% 20.18%  21.37% 
Option life (years) 2.92 2.75 10 3.5  5.5 
Expected life (years) 2.83 2.67 6.5 3.25  5.25 
Risk-free rate 4.420% 5.451% 4.224% 4.683% 4.623% 
Expected dividends expressed 
as a dividend yield 3.30% 3.20% 3.36% 3.56%  3.56% 
Expectations of vesting 100% 100% 100% 75%  75% 
Expectations of meeting 
performance criteria 100% 100% 100% N/A N/A 
Fair value per option £4.74 £5.69 £0.99 £0.60 £0.78 
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the award being valued.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK
Government bonds with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the award being valued. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 73
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period —— —— 
Granted during the period 0.25 7 ——
Exercised during the period —— —— 
Lapsed during the period —— ——
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.25 7 ——
Exercisable at the end of the period —— ——
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 2.167 years (2007: nil) with a weighted average
remaining expected life of 2.083 years (2007: nil).
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.25 15 —— 
Granted during the period —— 0.25 15
Exercised during the period —— —— 
Lapsed during the period —— ——
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.25 15 0.25 15
Exercisable at the end of the period —— ——
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.167 years (2007: 2.167 years) with a weighted
average remaining expected life of 1.083 years (2007: 2.083 years).
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5.02 12 5.02 12
Granted during the period —— ——
Exercised during the period —— ——
Lapsed during the period —— ——
Outstanding at the end of the period 5.02 12 5.02 12
Exercisable at the end of the period —— ——
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 7.5 years (2007: 8.5 years) with a weighted average
remaining expected life of 4 years (2007: 5 years). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
74  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
31 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 6 4.79 6
Granted during the period —— ——
Exercised during the period —— —— 
Lapsed during the period —— ——
Outstanding at the end of the period 4.79 6 4.79 6
Exercisable at the end of the period —— ——
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.25 years (2007: 2.25 years) with a weighted
average remaining expected life of 1 year (2007: 2 years).
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average average
exercise Number of exercise Number of
price options price options
£ ('000) £ ('000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 1 4.79 1
Granted during the period —— —— 
Exercised during the period —— ——
Lapsed during the period —— —— 
Outstanding at the end of the period 4.79 1 4.79 1
Exercisable at the end of the period —— —— 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 3.25 years (2007: 4.25 years) with a weighted
average remaining expected life of 3 years (2007: 4 years).
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 4 4
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan 2 2
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan — —
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006 31 18
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007 9 —
46 24
Share based payments awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings and recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings in
the company are as follows:
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 102 61
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan 8 4
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan 18 9
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006 32 12
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007 2 —
Total carrying amount of investments 162 86 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 75
32 ACQUISITIONS
J M Raine Limited
On 7 July 2008, Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the whole of the issued share capital of J M Raine Limited for 
a total cash consideration including costs of £455,000. The principal activity of J M Raine Limited is the sale, hire and repair of
agricultural and horticultural equipment.
On the same date the trade and net assets of J M Raine Limited were hived up into Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. Since
that date J M Raine Limited has been dormant.
The directors consider the fair value of assets and liabilities of the acquired company to approximate to book value.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
The profit after taxation for the year ended 30 June 2007 was £16,000.
The loss after taxation for J M Raine Limited for the period from 1 July 2007, the beginning of their financial year, to the date of the
acquisition was £18,000.
Revenue and loss before taxation for the period from acquisition to 30 August 2008 was £147,000 and £25,000 respectively.
J M Raine Limited has no recognised gains and losses other than the profit for the financial period shown above.
The assets and liabilities of J M Raine Limited acquired are set out below:
Book 
Value Fair value
£’000 £’000
Non-current assets:
Property, plant and equipment 356 356
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 11 11
Other current assets 313 313
Current liabilities (337) (337)
Non-current liabilities (253) (253)
Net assets acquired 90 90
Goodwill 365
Total consideration 455
Satisfied by:
Cash 340
Acquisition expenses 15
Deferred consideration 100
455
Included within current liabilities is an overdraft of £184,000.
As a condition of the purchase agreement the vendor was to recompense Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited for every £1 that 
the net assets acquired fell below £150,000. This compensation of £60,000 is held within other payables at the period end. Cash 
consideration in the above table is shown net of this £60,000.
Goodwill represents the expansion of the existing agricultural and ground care machinery business.
Pro forma information
IFRS3 requires disclosure of information as to the impact on the financial statements if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning 
of the accounting period. Following the acquisition of J M Raine Limited the trade and net assets were hived up into Carrs Billington 
Agriculture (Sales) Limited on 7 July 2008 and were amalgamated with the trade and net assets of the agriculture business. As a result 
of this it is impracticable to distinguish the necessary information to make the disclosure.
For this same reason it is also impracticable to determine the cash flows generated by the acquisition in the period since acquisition to 
the balance sheet date. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
76   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
33 CASH GENERATED FROM/(USED IN) OPERATIONS
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Profit for the period 8,253 4,301 3,216 4,742 
Adjustments for:
Tax 4,605 1,225 (183) 180 
Dividends received from subsidiaries — — (3,340) (4,250) 
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 3,318 3,507 — —
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (43) 18 — —
Depreciation on investment property 19 19 — —
Profit on disposal of investment property — (77) — —
Loss on disposal of investments — 3 — —
Intangible asset amortisation 159 446 — —
Impairment of trade investment 200 — 200 —
Net fair value gains on derivative financial instruments 
in operating profit (915) (17) (31) (4) 
Net fair value loss on share based payments 123 84 46 24 
Net foreign exchange differences 363 3 358 (143)
Finance costs:
Interest income (454) (392) (580) (553)
Interest expense and borrowing costs 2,034 1,491 767 666 
Net fair value losses/(gains) on derivative financial instruments 35 (95) 14 (80)
Share of profit from associate and joint ventures (1,590) (738) — —
IAS19 income statement credit in respect of employer contributions (note 28) (2,517) (2,586) (2,517) (2,586)
IAS19 income statement charge (note 28) 1,060 1,167 1,060 1,167
Actuarial provisions in respect of deferred pension members (1,325) — (1,325) —
Payment to director in lieu of pension (1,532) — (1,532) —
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of acquisitions)
Increase in inventories (15,959) (2,738) — —
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (15,140) (321) (150) 132
Increase/(decrease) in payables 24,539 1,606 1,242 (26)
Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 5,233 6,906 (2,755) (731)
34 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT
At 2 Other At
September non-cash Exchange 30 August
2007 Cash flow  changes movements 2008
Group £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Cash and cash equivalents 1,315 2,581 — — 3,896
Bank overdrafts (1,913) (2,217) — 300 (3,830)
(598) 364 — 300 66
Loans and other borrowings:  
- current (8,051) (2,109) (261) — (10,421)
- non-current (5,147) (248) (13) — (5,408)
Finance leases:   
- current (753) 912 (912) — (753)
- non-current (824) — (93) — (917)
(15,373) (1,081) (1,279) 300 (17,433)
Other non-cash changes relate to finance leases and transfers between categories of borrowings. It also includes the release of deferred
borrowing costs to the income statement.
At 2 Other At
September non-cash Exchange 30 August
2007 Cash flow  changes movements 2008
Company £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Cash and cash equivalents 1,141 (1,141) — — —
Bank overdrafts — (198) — 78 (120)
1,141 (1,339) — 78 (120)
Loans and other borrowings:  
- current (3,379) (1,518) (2) (470) (5,369)
- non-current (5,117) (248) (6) — (5,371)
(7,355) (3,105) (8) (392) (10,860)
Other non-cash changes relate to the release of deferred borrowing costs to the income statement. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 77
35 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
2008 2007
Group £'000 £'000
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment that has been contracted 
for but has not been provided for in the accounts 474 45  
The Company has no capital commitments.
36 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS
Group
At 30 August 2008 the Group had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
2008 2007
£'000 £'000
Within one year 354 435
Within two and five years inclusive 545 800
After five years 16 26
915 1,261
Company
At 30 August 2008 the Company had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
2008 2007
£'000 £'000
Within one year 1 1
Within two and five years inclusive 4 4
After five years — 1
5 6
37 FINANCIAL GUARANTEES
The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Clydesdale Bank PLC in respect of the
Group loans and overdraft with that bank, which at 30 August 2008 amounted to £2,179,000 (2007: £2,822,000).
The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has a €875,000  (2007: €1,125,000) letter of credit by Clydesdale Bank
PLC in favour of Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture arrangement.
The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank of Scotland PLC in respect
of the overdraft with that bank, which at 30 August 2008 amounted to £978,000 (2007: £151,000).
One of the Group's bankers in the normal course of business, enters into certain specific guarantees with some of a subsidiary's
customers. All these guarantees allow the bank to have recourse to the Company if a guarantee is enforced. The total outstanding of
such guarantees entered into by the bank at 30 August 2008 was £2,185,000 (2007: £1,378,000).
A subsidiary undertaking of the Company, together with an associated undertaking of the Company, has entered into a guarantee with
Royal Bank of Scotland PLC in respect of a loan with that bank. The Group's exposure to this liability at 30 August 2008 amounts to
£1,000,000 (2007: £1,500,000).
The Company has entered into a guarantee with the Trustees of the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme in respect of the
punctual payment of obligations due to the pension scheme by the participating employers of the scheme. The Company’s total liability
shall not exceed £1,500,000 (2007: £nil).
The Company has provided guarantees to certain suppliers of the Group’s Fertiliser business. The maximum exposure under these
guarantees is the amount owed at any one time to these suppliers. At the period end amounts owed under these guarantees was
£12,708,645 (2007: £3,388,584). This is included within trade payables in the balance sheet.
The Group and Company does not expect any of the above guarantees to be called in. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 
78   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
38 RELATED PARTIES
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures and with its directors. The balances and
transactions shown below were all undertaken on an arms’ length basis.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Directors' Remuneration
Report.
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from key management personnel (in a trading capacity)
Trade receivables 141 115 — —
141 115    — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement:
Revenue 577 470   — —
Purchases (11) (4)  — —
Transactions with subsidiaries
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings:
Loans — —    16,230 13,618
Other receivables — —   154 296
— —   16,384 13,914
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings:
Loans — —    (4,378) (2,886)
Other payables — —    (48) (219)
— — (4,426) 3,105
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Management charges receivable — —   2,122 1,336 
Dividends received — —    3,340 4,250
Interest receivable — —   453 448
Interest payable — —   (256) (223)
Transactions with associate
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from associate:
Trade and other receivables 91 168 — 7
91 168 — 7
Amounts due to associate:
Trade payables (9,336) (5,399) — —
Current tax liabilities (consortium relief) (262) — — —
(9,598) (5,399) — —  Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 79
38 RELATED PARTIES continued
Transactions with associate continued
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Revenue 1,466 1,218 — —
Rental income 18 17 — —
Net management charges receivable/(payable) 14 (130) 14 14
Purchases (81,611) (60,963) — —
Transactions with joint ventures
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from joint ventures:
Non-current loans 50 100 — —
Trade and other receivables 393 406 374 373
443 506 374 373  
Included within Group and Company trade and other receivables is £370,000 (2007: £370,000) in respect of loans owed by joint
ventures.
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue 272 99 — —
Management charges receivable 55 53 — —
Transactions with other related parties
Other loans of £1,225,000 (2007: £1,225,000) included within current borrowings is in respect of a loan from Edward Billington and Son
Limited to Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. This loan is interest free, unsecured, and repayable on demand. Included within
current tax liabilities is £77,000 (2007: £77,000) due to Edward Billington and Son Limited in respect of consortium tax relief. Edward
Billington and Son Limited has a 49% shareholding in Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. 80   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
FIVE YEAR STATEMENT
UK GAAP 
(in IFRS format) IFRS
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Revenue and results £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Revenue 155,749  192,124 242,576 252,753 372,307
Group operating profit 5,036  12,264 7,116 5,785 12,875
Analysed as:
Operating profit before non-recurring items
and amortisation 5,036  7,975 7,987 6,192 12,814
Non-recurring items and amortisation —  4,289 (871) (407) 61
Group operating profit 5,036  12,264 7,116 5,785 12,875
Interest income 116 93 378 392 454
Interest expense (691) (1,185) (1,532) (1,484) (2,026)
Other finance (costs)/income — (106) 143 95 (35)
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) in associate 
and joint ventures 531 (697) 218 738 1,590
Profit before taxation 4,992  10,369 6,323 5,526 12,858
Taxation (1,498) (2,557) (1,989) (1,225) (4,605)
Profit for the period 3,494  7,812 4,334 4,301 8,253
Ratios
Operating margin (excluding 
non-recurring items and amortisation) 3.2% 4.2% 3.3% 2.4% 3.4%
Return on net assets (excluding 
non-recurring items and amortisation)   19.7% 27.8% 32.9% 21.0% 46.4%
Earnings per share - basic 39.9p 92.1p 51.0p 50.7p 92.7p
- adjusted 39.9p 50.9p 59.7p 56.0p 108.6p
Dividends per ordinary share 13.5p 16.0p 18.0p 19.0p 23.0p Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 81
FIVE YEAR STATEMENT continued
UK GAAP 
(in IFRS format) IFRS
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Net assets employed £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 40 400 235 1,016 1,381
Other intangible assets 144  1,738 802 444 294
Property, plant and equipment 20,474  28,838 29,172 28,481 28,596
Investment property — 822 794 756 737
Investments 3,470  872 1,9403,642 4,530
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments —  — 37 132 —
- Non-current receivables 5  223 208 100 50
Deferred tax assets 170  3,962  5,162 3,228 5,318
24,303  36,855 38,350 37,799 40,906
Current assets
Inventories 10,387  12,947 11,94414,853 31,014
Trade and other receivables 19,686  35,197 33,546 35,481 50,754
Current tax assets 82 87 1 82 65
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments ———— 927
- Cash at bank and in hand 1,091  3,149  2,292 1,315 3,896
31,246  51,380 47,783 51,731 86,656
Total assets 55,549  88,235 86,133 89,530 127,562
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings (4,013) (10,666) (9,682) (10,717) (15,004)
- Derivative financial instruments — — (27) (10) (22)
Trade and other payables (20,308) (29,318) (25,387) (28,478) (52,977)
Current tax liabilities (944) (1,581) (1,324) (570) (2,054)
(25,265) (41,565) (36,420) (39,775) (70,057)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings (2,836) (7,399) (6,512) (5,971) (6,325)
- Derivative financial instruments — (106) — — (14)
Retirement benefit obligation — (12,119) (15,796) (9,807) (16,558)
Deferred tax liabilities (951) (3,854) (3,600) (3,418) (4,775)
Other non-current liabilities (1,187) (1,287) (1,524) (1,705) (2,237)
(4,974) (24,765) (27,432) (20,901) (29,909)
Total liabilities (30,239) (66,330) (63,852) (60,676) (99,966)
Net assets 25,310  21,905 22,281 28,854 27,596 82   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
DIRECTORY OF OPERATIONS
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle,
Cumbria CA3 9BA
Tel: 01228 554600
Fax: 01228 554601
Website: www.carrs-milling.com
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc
East Highway 212, 
PO Box 188, Belle Fourche, 
South Dakota 57717 USA
Tel: 00 1 605 892 3421
Fax: 00 1 605 892 3473
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc
PO Box 105, 
101 Roanoke Avenue, Poteau,
Oklahoma 74953 USA
Tel: 00 1 918 647 8133
Fax: 00 1 918 647 7318
Caltech
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton,
Cumbria CA7 4AJ
Tel: 016973 32592
Fax: 016973 32339
Crystalyx Products GmbH**
Am Stau 199-203, 26122,
Oldenburg, Germany
Tel: 00 49 441 2188 92142
Fax: 00 49 441 2188 92177
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Operations)*
Parkhill Road, 
Kingstown Industrial Estate, Carlisle
CA3 0EX
Tel: 01228 529 021
Fax: 01228 554 397
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Operations)*
Lansil Way, Lancaster LA1 3QY
Tel: 01524 597 200
Fax: 01524 597 229
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Operations)*
High Mill, Langwathby, Penrith, 
Cumbria CA10 1NB
Tel: 01768 889 800
Fax: 01768 889 807
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Operations)*
Cold Meece, Stone, 
Staffordshire ST15 0QW
Tel: 01785 760 535
Fax: 01785 760 888
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Operations)*
Powhill, Kirkbride, 
Cumbria CA5 5AJ
Tel: 01697 352 229
Fax: 01697 352 248
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Operations)* 
Uredale Mill, Askrigg, Leyburn, 
North Yorkshire DL8 7HZ
Tel: 01969 650 908
Fax: 01969 650 770
Carrs Fertilisers, Invergordon
Inverbreakie Industrial Estate,
Invergordon, Ross-shire IV18 0QN
Tel: 01349 853 745
Fax: 01349 854 066
Carrs Fertilisers, Montrose
River Street, Montrose, 
Angus DD10 9RT
Tel: 01674 678 400
Fax: 01674 671 318
Carrs Fertilisers, Silloth
The Wath, Silloth, Wigton, Cumbria
CA7 4PH
Tel: 016973 32333
Fax: 016973 32279
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Annan
25 High Street, Annan, Dumfriesshire
DG12 6AE
Tel: 01461 202 772
Fax: 01461 202 712
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Appleby
Crosscroft Industrial Estate, Appleby,
Cumbria CA16 6HX
Tel:  01768 352 999
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Barnard Castle
Montalbo Road, Barnard Castle, Co
Durham DL12 8ED
Tel: 01833 637 537
Fax: 01833 638 010
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Carlisle
Montgomery Way, Rosehill Estate,
Carlisle CA1 2UY
Tel: 01228 520 212
Fax: 01228 512 572
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Cockermouth
Unit 5, Lakeland Agricultural Centre,
Cockermouth CA13 0QQ
Tel: 01900 824 105
Fax: 01900 826 860
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Hexham
Tyne Mills Industrial Estate, Hexham, 
Northumberland NE46 1XL
Tel: 01434 605 371
Fax: 01434 608 938
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Milnathort
Stirling Road, Milnathort, 
Kinross KY13 9UZ
Tel: 01577 862 381
Fax: 01577 863 057
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Morpeth
20c Coopies Lane Industrial Estate,
Morpeth, Northumberland NE61 6JN
Tel: 01670 503 930
Fax: 01670 504 404
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Penrith
Haweswater Road, 
Penrith Industrial Estate, Penrith
Cumbria CA11 9EH
Tel: 01768 862 160
Fax: 01768 899 345
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Perth
Highland House, 
St Catherine’s Road, 
Perth PH1 5YA
Tel & Fax: 01738 643 022
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Brock
Brockholes Way, 
Claughton Trading Estate, Lancaster
Old Road,
Claughton on Brock, 
Preston PR3 0PZ
Tel: 01995 643 200
Fax: 01995 643 220
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Gisburn
Pendle Mill, Mill Lane, Gisburn,
Clitheroe, Lancashire BB7 4ES
Tel: 01200 445 491
Fax: 01200 445 305
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Hawes
Burtersett Road, Hawes, 
North Yorkshire DL8 3NP
Tel: 01969 667 334
Fax: 01969 667 335 
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Spennymoor
Southend Works, Byers Green,
Spennymoor, Co. Durham,
DL16 7NL
Tel: 01388 662266
Fax: 01388 603743
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Leek
Macclesfield Road, Leek,
Staffordshire ST13 8NR
Tel: 01538 383 277
Fax: 01538 385 731
Wallace Oils, Carlisle
Stephenson Industrial Estate,
Willowholme, Carlisle,
Cumbria CA2 5RN
Tel: 01228 534 342
Fax: 01228 590 820
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Dumfries
Heathhall, Dumfries,
Dumfriesshire DG1 3NX
Tel:  01387 250 525
Fax: 01387 250 656
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Dargavel Stores,
Lockerbie Road, Dumfries,
Dumfriesshire DG1 3PG
Tel & fax: 01387 750 747
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Abercromby Industrial Park,
Castle Douglas, Dumfriesshire
DG7 1BA
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Holmpark Industrial Estate,
Newton Stewart, Dumfriesshire
DG8 6AW
Tel: 01671 404 150
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Stranraer
Droughduil, Dunragit,
Stranraer DG9 8QA
Tel & fax: 01581 400 356
Afgritech**
Old Croft
Stanwix, Carlisle 
Tel: 01228 554 600
Fax: 01228 554 601
Bibby Agriculture**
Drive House, St. David’s Park, 
Job’s Well Road, Carmarthen,
SA31 3HB
Tel: 01267 232 041
Fax: 01267 232 374
Bibby Agriculture**
1A Network House
Badgers Way
Oxon Business Park
Shrewsbury, Shropshire
SY3 5AB
Tel: 01743 237 890
Fax: 01743 351 552
Bendalls
Brunthill Road,
Kingstown Industrial Estate,
Carlisle CA3 0EH
Tel: 01228 526 246
Fax: 01228 525 634
R Hind 
Kingstown Broadway, 
Kingstown Industrial Estate, Carlisle
CA3 0HA
Tel: 01228 523 647
Fax: 01228 512 712
Carrs MSM
Unit 1 Spitfire Way,
Hunts Rise,
South Marston Park,
Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 4TX
Tel: 01793 824 891
Fax: 01793 824 894
Carrs Flour
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton,
Cumbria CA7 4AJ
Tel: 016973 31661
Fax: 016973 32543
Greens Flour
Station Road, Maldon, 
Essex CM9 4LQ
Tel: 01621 852 696
Fax: 01621 854 525
Hutchisons Flour
East Bridge, Kirkcaldy, 
Fife KY1 2SR
Tel: 01592 267 191
Fax: 01592 641 805
John Stronach
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton,
Cumbria CA7 4AJ
Tel: 016973 31456
Fax: 016973 32808
B&A Travel
18 Main Street, Beith, 
Ayrshire KA15 2AA
Tel: 01505 504 547
Fax: 01505 504 812
Silloth Storage Company**
Station Road, Silloth,
Wigton, Cumbria
CA7 4JQ
* associate company
** joint venture company Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 83
NOTES 84   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
NOTES Statutory numbers are given in the Chairman’s Statement and reconciliations are given in the Notes to the
Financial Statements 
2004 prepared under UK GAAP and 2005 - 2008 under IFRS
*excludes non-recurring items and amortisation of intangible assets
04 05 06 07 08
156
192
243
253
372
Revenue £m
5.0
6.7
7.3
6.1
12.8
Profit before 
tax* £m
39.9
50.9
59.7
56.0
108.6
Earnings per
share* (p)
13.5
16.0
18.0
19.0
23.0
Dividends (p)
04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08
Contents
IFC Financial Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Operating and Financial Review
16 Board of Directors
16 Registered Office and Advisers
17 Directors’ Report
20 Corporate Governance
23 Directors’ Remuneration Report
27 Independent Auditors’ Report
28 Consolidated Income Statement
29 Consolidated and Company Statement 
of Recognised Income and Expense
30 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheet
31 Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statement
32 Principal Accounting Policies
37 Notes to the Financial Statements
80 Five Year Statement
82 Directory of Operations
ANNIVERSARY
th
CARR’S MILLING
Jonathan Dodgson Carr created Carr & Co in 
1831 so we celebrated 175 years of trading as 
Carr’s Flour in 2006.
In June 1908 the Carr family built the mill at 
Silloth and created a new company which is 
today Carr’s Milling Industries PLC.
financial highlights
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2008
achievement
a year of
