 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix 
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com 01 Financial and 
Commercial Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
05 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Financial Review
15 Board of Directors
16 Registered Ofﬁ ce and Advisers
17 Report of the Directors 
20 Corporate Governance
23 Directors’ Remuneration Report
27 Independent Auditors’ Report
28 Consolidated Income Statement
29 Consolidated and Company 
Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
30 Consolidated and 
Company Balance Sheet
31 Consolidated and Company 
Cash Flow Statement
32 Principal Accounting Policies
37 Notes to the Financial 
Statements
81 Five Year Statement
83 Notice of Annual General 
Meeting
84 Directory of Operations
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC is focussed on the principal 
activities of agriculture, food and engineering. The Company’s 
agriculture business comprises fertiliser blending, retailing of 
farm machinery/supplies and animal feed manufacture in the 
UK, US and Germany. Carr’s principal food businesses are all 
ﬂ our millers based in three UK locations. Engineering comprises 
Bendalls, R Hind, Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller based in 
Southern Germany which was acquired in 2009.
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk Financial Highlights
Revenue
£350.0m
(2008: £372.3m)
Dividend per share
23.0p
(2008: 23.0p)
Earnings per share
50.4p
(2008: 92.7p)
Profit before tax
£7.0m
(2008: £12.9m)
Commercial Highlights
>  Successful launch of 
two new Crystalyx products, 
Optimum and Smallholder Block 
>  Acquisition of 
Wälischmiller Engineering 
based in Southern Germany 
complements Carr’s MSM 
business and opens up 
new overseas markets 
>  All three of the Group’s 
flour mills made volume gains 
through innovation
>  Exclusive UK rights 
secured in July 2009 for 
unique phosphate enhancing 
fertiliser - AVAIL 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
1 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC In the 52 weeks to 29 August 2009, the massive increase in commodity prices 
and the 40% uplift in the farm-gate milk price which had helped make the prior 
year a tremendously successful one for Carr’s were absent; indeed, both trends 
reversed. This particularly impacted the Group’s fertiliser business, the star 
performer in 2008, which swung into loss in 2009. Accordingly, Group pre-tax 
profit was substantially lower than in 2008, but it did remain comfortably ahead 
of that for 2007. 
Chairman’s Statement
Richard Inglewood 
Chairman
Financial Review 
In the year under review, revenue decreased by 6% to £350.0m (2008: 
£372.3m), pre-tax profit reduced by 45% to £7.0m (2008: £12.9m), and 
fully diluted earnings per share were 45% lower at 50.3p (2008: 91.2p). The 
great majority of the reduction in Group revenue and all the reduction in 
Group profit was attributable to fertiliser, which in 2008 had contributed 
£4.1m of pre-tax profit estimated to be of an exceptional trading nature 
due to the massive increases in raw material prices.
Assisted by a placing of ordinary shares to raise £2.6m (net) in September 
2008, total shareholders’ equity increased by 20% to £29.9m (2008: 
£25.0m), or 340p (2008: 298p) per share. 
Although net debt increased to £19.3m (2008: £17.4m), following payment of 
the £4.3m consideration for the acquisition of the Wälischmiller Engineering 
business, gearing reduced to 65% (2008: 70%). Net interest expense of £1.3m 
(2008: £1.6m) was covered 5.6 times (2008: 8.0 times) by Group operating 
profit of £7.3m (2008: £12.9m).
The result is stated after a retirement benefit 
charge of £1.6m (2008: £1.1m). Equity 
shareholders’ funds are stated after a retirement 
benefit obligation of £14.7m (2008: £16.6m), gross of tax, and £10.6m 
(2008: £11.9m), net of tax benefit. The reduction in retirement benefit 
obligation, computed in accordance with IAS 19, is due to contributions 
towards the past service deficit by the Company, better investment returns 
and lower inflation. 
Dividends
The Board is proposing an unchanged final dividend per share of 17.0p. 
If approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 5 January 
2010, the dividend will be paid on 15 January 2010 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 18 December 2009, with the shares 
going ex-dividend on 16 December 2009.
T ogether with the unchanged interim dividend per share of 6.0p, paid 
on 8 May 2009, the proposed dividends per share for the year total an 
unchanged 23.0p, covered 2.2 times (2008: 4.0 times) by basic earnings 
per share. 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
2 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
3 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Outlook
The Agriculture Division will have to contend with the long-term declining 
trend in the number of UK milk producers, but it is anticipated that farm-
gate milk prices, which have fallen in the past year, will stabilise and therefore 
stimulate demand for agricultural products and in particular the Group’s 
branded feed products, Crystalyx and Aminomax. With fertiliser raw 
material prices stabilising and now much reduced from the peak in April 
2008 and with the lower sales in 2009, it is also anticipated that demand for 
fertiliser will improve, with a more favourable outlook on margins. 
The Food Division is expected to continue to suffer from market turbulence 
in the face of overcapacity and the impact of the recession on consumers of 
bread and biscuits, in particular. 
In the Engineering Division, the shortage of funding available to customers 
has delayed the placing of orders and, while the businesses have satisfactory 
order books, there will be gaps in the production programme in the first 
half of the year. The enquiry level remains buoyant across the nuclear, oil and 
gas sectors, which bodes well for the future. 
In the current year, in the context of extremely difficult markets, the Board 
expects trading in the Group’s principal activities to be broadly flat, other 
than for fertiliser, where a partial recovery is envisaged. Further out, the 
Board believes that Carr’s is well placed, having regard in particular to the 
long-term demand for agricultural products, the diversity of the Group’s 
activities and the Group’s well-invested facilities. 
Richard Inglewood Chairman
17 November 2009 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
5
Chief Executive’s Review
Chris Holmes 
Chief Executive Officer
Agriculture
Operating profit
£6.0m
Food
Operating profit
£2.3m
Engineering
Operating profit
£1.4m
There is little doubt that the 52 week period to August 2009 
was extremely challenging given the well publicised volatile and 
economic conditions that prevailed.
In these circumstances, the strength of Carr’s diversity of its activities, 
not only between its three Divisions but also within those Divisions, was 
demonstrated. From its well invested facilities and continuing product 
innovations most of the individual activities 
increased their profit, enabling the Group to 
achieve a pre-tax profit well above 2007, despite 
the market conditions for Fertiliser as adverse as 
2008 had been favourable.
During the year the Group’s smallest Division, Engineering, was substantially 
expanded with the acquisition of the Wälischmiller Engineering business 
in Germany. The expertise of Wälischmiller with our existing high 
tech engineering business in the UK, Carrs MSM, should enable further 
opportunities of growth, both in the UK and internationally. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
6
The fuel oil business, trading as Johnstone Wallace Fuels in south west 
Scotland and Wallace Oils in Cumbria, benefited from the cold winter and 
increased both its market share and its profit. This business, formed primarily 
by acquisitions in 2005 and 2007, is now making a useful contribution to 
the Group result.
Overseas 
In the USA, Animal Feed Supplement suffered a near 30% volume decline in 
sales of its Smartlic and Feed in a Drum feed blocks, as a result of the impact 
of low beef prices caused by the recession, record high ingredient prices 
and, as a consequence, lower livestock numbers. Y ear on year, the profit was 
higher due to cost reductions and the translation of US$ profit at £1:$1.50 
(2008: £1:$1.99). 
In Germany, Crystalyx Products, the joint venture with Agravis to manufacture 
feed blocks, also suffered volume declines as a result of the very low German 
farm-gate milk price and the strong Euro, which acted as a hindrance to 
exports. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Agriculture
In the year, the market place experienced significant volatility in raw material prices and declines 
in both the farm-gate milk price (from 26.3p to 23.3p per litre) and milk output. The massive price 
increases for fertiliser raw materials in the prior year reversed and selling prices were frequently 
adjusted downwards. Divisional revenue was 8% lower at £255.0m (2008: £275.8m) and 
operating profit (before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items and amortisation) 
decreased by 48% to £6.0m (2008: £11.7m). Additionally, the Group’s share of post-tax profit in 
associate and joint ventures was down 34% at £1.1m (2008: £1.6m).
Operating profit*
£6.0m
(2008: £11.7m)
Revenue
£255.0m
(2008: £275.8m)
United Kingdom
Compound and blended animal feed volumes and profit were appreciably 
lower. This resulted from increased alternative usage of cheaper home-
grown cereals sourced from the prolific 2008 harvest, especially in the 
important January-April period, from the continuing reduction in cattle 
numbers and from the continuing compound animal feed production 
overcapacity in the north west of England and indeed the UK. 
Caltech, the low moisture feed block business increased its profits, despite 
the higher price of the principal raw material, molasses. Two new products 
were introduced during the year - Optimum, for dairy cattle, in September 
2008 and, through market demand - Smallholder Block in August 2009, both 
with pleasing results. 
The fertiliser result was significantly affected by the very substantial 
decline in both selling price (which had peaked in April 2008 and declined 
significantly from January 2009) and volumes (down 30% on the prior year). 
Fertiliser sales suffered from farmers deferring orders in anticipation of 
lower selling prices. A considerable part of the deterioration from profit 
to loss was due to sales of inventories at below historic cost following a 
significant decrease in raw material prices from January this year. Despite 
the adverse market conditions, sales volumes 
of environmentally friendly speciality fertilisers 
substantially increased and the unique phosphate 
fertiliser enhancer, AVAIL, to which Carr’s has 
secured exclusive UK rights, was successfully 
launched in July 2009. It is thought to have 
considerable potential. 
The retailing of rural supplies from a network of 
15 stores in the north of England and in Scotland 
and of agricultural machinery and ground care 
equipment from six of these stores increased 
both revenue and profit. Whilst rural supplies is 
the higher margin activity, agricultural machinery 
and ground care equipment had a particularly 
good year. 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
*before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items and amortisation  7
Despite the adverse market 
conditions, sales volumes of 
environmentally friendly speciality 
fertilisers substantially increased.
> Crystalyx launched in New Zealand
> Successful launch of two new 
Crystalyx products, Optimum 
 and Smallholder Block 
> Exclusive UK rights secured in 
July 2009 for unique phosphate 
enhancing fertiliser - AVAIL 
> Aminomax bypass protein being 
launched from new plant in the USA  Chief Executive’s Review continued
The decline in revenue reflected the lower price of the principal raw material, 
milling wheat, which was passed on to the customer. The operating margin, 
though improved, remained modest, at 3.0% (2008: 2.3%).
 
In the year, all three of the Group’s flour mills - at Kirkcaldy (Fife), Silloth 
(Cumbria) and Maldon (Essex) – made volume gains through product 
innovation and increased their profit through cost reduction. 
 
Each of the three mills has maintained its 
own regional identity and has a strong local 
management team. This has enabled the 
Food
Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge but after non-
recurring items and amortisation) of £2.3m (2008: £2.0m), up 19%, 
was achieved on revenue 8% lower at £79.0m (2008: £85.6m). 
8
Operating profit*
£2.3m
(2008: £2.0m)
Revenue
£79.0m
(2008: £85.6m)
development of close working relationships with customers. As a result, our 
people develop a deep understanding of specific customer needs which 
allows us to provide the highest levels of product and service quality. 
 
With its own extensive research and development facilities, the business has 
an excellent record of providing innovative solutions to customers’ technical 
challenges and has recently gained new sales in the breakfast cereals sector 
through this approach.
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
*before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items and amortisation  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
9
Growing
our markets
The three flour mills aim to 
provide the highest levels of 
product and service quality.
> All three of the Group’s flour 
mills made volume gains through 
innovation
> New sales in the breakfast 
cereals sector through innovative 
solutions to customers’ technical 
challenges  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
10 
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Engineering
Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items 
and amortisation) increased by 31% to £1.4m (2008: £1.1m) on revenue up 
48% at £15.9m (2008: £10.7m). On a like-for-like basis, excluding Wälischmiller 
Engineering, the revenue increase would have been 1%, to £10.8m. 
Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller 
Engineering have complementary 
businesses in various European countries, 
as well as Russia, Japan and China. 
Operating profit*
£1.4m
(2008: £1.1m)
Revenue
£15.9m
(2008: £10.7m)
Bendalls, the Group’s specialist steel fabrication business, benefited from 
completion of substantial contracts for pressure vessels for delivery both in 
the UK and overseas, but continued to suffer delays by contractors, due to 
funding issues and design changes, on certain other contracts. 
Carrs MSM, the manufacturer of master slave 
manipulators for research centres and nuclear 
plants, traded well, albeit recording a slightly 
reduced profit after a slow start to the year. 
Wälischmiller Engineering, the remote handling 
technology, robotics and radiation equipment 
business based in southern Germany, which was 
acquired in March 2009, contributed substantially 
to divisional revenue and profit, despite being 
in the Group for only the second half of the 
year. Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller Engineering 
have complementary businesses, supplying 
well designed and engineered manipulators to 
research and nuclear facilities in various European 
countries, as well as Russia, Japan and China. 
Staff
This year posed a different challenge to 2008 with commodity price falls, 
particularly fertiliser, lower agriculture feed volume in the UK and USA plus 
the global recession. The Company performed well in these circumstances 
and my thanks go to all my colleagues in the UK, Europe and the USA for 
their contribution during the year.
Chris Holmes Chief Executive Officer
17 November 2009
*before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items and amortisation  “Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, 
consectetuer adipiscing elit, 
sed diam nonummy nibh 
euismod tincidunt ut laoreet 
dolore magna aliquam erat 
volutpat.”
potential
> Bendalls skills and quality of work 
meet the most demanding of 
engineering environments 
> Acquisition of Wälischmiller 
Engineering based in Southern 
Germany complements Carr’s 
MSM business and opens up  
new overseas markets 
11 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
12 
Financial Review
The Group’s operations are organised into three business divisions, agriculture, 
food and engineering, and the performance of these three divisions in the year 
is discussed in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 5 to 11. The agriculture 
business operates predominately in the North of England, Wales and Scotland, 
in addition there are two animal feed plants in the US and a plant in Germany. 
The flour business operates entirely within the UK and the engineering business 
operates in the UK and Germany.
Ronald Wood 
Finance Director
The markets in which all three businesses operate are competitive both in 
terms of pricing from other suppliers and the retail environment in general 
which has a direct impact on many of our customers. Despite this, Carr’s 
businesses have a long record of increasing sales and profits through a 
combination of investing in modern efficient factories, developing a range 
of quality products and making sound acquisitions. The businesses are under 
the control of stable, experienced and talented operational management 
teams supported by a skilled workforce. 
Business objectives
There are five key elements to the Group’s strategy for meeting its 
objectives of continuing growth and profitability:
•	 Deliv er	 quality , 	 inno vativ e	 and	 cost-eff ectiv e	 products	 and	 ser vices	 to	
our customers
•	 Or ganic	gro wth
•	 Seek	acquisitions	to	complement	our	existing	b usinesses
•	 Maximise	oper ational	efficiency
•	 Secur ing	emplo y ee	health	and	saf ety
We monitor our performance against the strategy by means of key 
performance indicators (‘KPIs’).
•	 Or ganic	 sales	 gro wth	 –	 y ear	 on	 y ear	 increase	 in	 sales	 rev en ue	 excluding	
the impact of acquisitions and disposals
•	 Gross	retur n	on	rev en ue	–	gross	profit	as	a	percentage	of	rev en ue
•	 Net	 retur n	 on	 rev en ue	 –	 oper ating	 profit	 bef ore	 non-recur r ing	 items	
as a percentage of revenue
•	 Adjusted	 ear nings	 per	 share	 –	 profit	 attr ib uted	 to	 equity	 shareholder s	
less non-recurring items and amortisation divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the period
•	 Retur n	 on	 net	 assets	 –	 profit	 bef ore	 tax	 and	 bef ore	 non-recur r ing	
items and amortisation as a percentage of net assets
•	 Free	 cash	 flo w	 –	 cash	 gener ated	 from	 oper ations	 less	 tax	 and	 interest	
paid
Performance against KPIs
 2009  2008 
Organic sales growth -7.3% 44.9%  
Gross return on revenue 11.7% 12.0% 
Net return on revenue 2.1% 3.4%  
Adjusted earnings per share 50.4p 108.6p 
Return on net assets 21.1% 46.4% 
Free cash flow £5.6m £3.0m
  13 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Business strategies
The Group’s market strategy is to focus on growing the quality end of 
the markets in which we operate, to establish meaningful and long 
lasting relationships with our customers, by a combination of product 
development and high service levels, and to invest in quality facilities. Each 
business within the Group is given the responsibility for developing its own 
plans to deliver the objectives of the Group with particular emphasis on 
growing sales through the supply of quality products, service and product 
innovation, improving operational efficiency and securing employee health 
and safety. The role of the Board in achieving Group objectives has been 
to support operational management and to identify suitable acquisitions 
that will create new customers to the Group or will secure existing market 
positions.
FInAnCIAL REvIEW
Overview
Group revenue from activities during the period was £350.0 million  
(2008: £372.3 million). 
Profit before taxation and before non-recurring items and amortisation 
of intangible assets decreased, after an exceptional result in 2008, to  
£7.0 million (2008: £12.8 million). Non-recurring items and amortisation 
are disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements.
Net finance costs were £1.3 million (2008: £1.6 million) and were covered 
5.6 times (2008: 8.0 times) by Group operating profit.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax charge on profit from activities after net finance 
costs was 30.6% (2008: 40.9%). A reconciliation of the actual total tax 
charge to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% is set out 
in note 9 to the financial statements. 
Earnings per share
The profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company amounted 
to £4.4 million (2008: £7.7 million), and basic earnings per share was 50.4p 
(2008: 92.7p). Adjusted earnings per share of 50.4p (2008: 108.6p) is 
calculated by dividing the profit attributed to equity shareholders for the 
period, before non-recurring items and amortisation of intangible assets, by 
the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Balance sheet review
We have continued to invest in the business with total capital expenditure 
in the year of £4.7 million (2008: £3.1 million), making our total capital 
expenditure in the last three years £10.5 million. In the current year we 
have continued to invest in production facilities with over £2.0 million spent 
on our fertiliser plants, oil distribution depots and flour mills.
The value of inventories has fallen in the current year by £7.2 million 
(23.1%) reflecting the substantial decrease in the price and quantity of raw 
materials, particularly within the fertiliser business.
Trade and other receivables have decreased £7.7 million, principally due to 
the decrease in trade receivables of £8.1 million arising from the decreased 
selling prices with debtor days remaining similar to last year across all 
businesses.
Trade and other payables have decreased by £17.0 million, reflecting a 
significant decrease in trade payables of £13.6 million which is primarily due 
to the decreased cost of raw materials. The retirement benefit obligation 
favourable movement of £1.9 million in the year is discussed in the section 
headed Pensions.
Overall net assets increased by £5.7 million to £33.3million (2008: decrease 
£1.3 million).
Cash flow and net debt
The Group’s operational cash generation increased in the year with 
cash flows generated from operations in the current year of £9.8 million  
(2008: £5.2 million). 
Net debt at the period end was £19.3 million (2008: £17.4 million) with 
gearing at 64.7% (2008: 69.8%). Net debt is expected to decrease over the 
next couple of years excluding any acquisition funding.
Pensions
The Group operates its current pension arrangements on a defined benefit 
and defined contribution basis. The defined benefit section is closed to 
new members and has 90 active members, 95 deferred members and 
184 current pensioners, and the scheme receives additional contributions 
from the Group in accordance with the latest actuarial valuation as agreed 
between the Company and the Trustees.
The valuation under the IAS19 accounting basis showed a deficit before 
the related deferred tax asset in the scheme at 29 August 2009 of £14.7 
million (30 August 2008: £16.6 million). Actuarial gains of £1.0 million  
(2008: loss £11.1 million) have been reported in the Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense. 
A Group subsidiary undertaking is a participating employer in a defined 
benefit pension scheme. This scheme is closed to future service accrual. 
The IAS19 accounting basis showed a deficit, for that scheme, before the 
related deferred tax asset in the scheme at 29 August 2009 of £5.0 million  
(2008: £2.6 million). The details of both pension schemes are given in note 
28 to the financial statements.
Treasury Policies
The Group’s policy is structured to ensure adequate financial resources 
are available for the development of its business while managing its 
currency and interest rate risks. The Group’s strategy, policy and controls 
are developed centrally and approved by the Board. The Group does not 
engage in speculative transactions. Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
14 
Financial Review continued
The main elements of treasury activity are outlined below.
Foreign currency risk
The major foreign currency risk facing the Group is in the purchasing of raw 
materials in the fertiliser and flour milling operations. The major currency 
involved is the US dollar. The policy of the Group is to hedge using forward 
foreign exchange contracts with UK banks as soon as commitment has 
been given to the underlying transaction. 
 
The result of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries is translated into sterling at 
the average rates of exchange for the period concerned. The Group’s policy 
is to hedge its international assets and has designated foreign currency 
borrowings as a hedge against net investment in foreign operations.
The balance sheets of the foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling 
at the closing US dollar and Euro exchange rates. Any gains or losses on 
the translation of the balance sheet into sterling are recorded in reserves. 
Interest rate risk
Historically the policy of the Group has been to hedge around 40% to 60% 
of the core borrowings. Due to the cessation of the interest rate swap in 
October 2009 we do not have interest rate hedging instruments in place 
to protect the Group against significant increases in interest rates. We will 
continue to review the appropriateness of our interest rate policy and our 
hedging policy during the financial year.
Credit risk
Practically all sales are made on credit terms to an extensive range of 
customers, which include UK food producers, agricultural merchants, 
farmers and the nuclear industry. Overdue accounts are reviewed monthly 
at divisional management meetings. Historically, the incidence of bad debts 
is low. The current financial climate requires the Group’s credit control 
function to be exceptionally vigilant.
Funding
The Group has historically been cash generative. The bank position for 
each operation is monitored on a daily basis and capital expenditure above 
a certain level is approved at the monthly Group board meeting. Each 
operation has access to the Group’s overdraft facility or has facilities specific 
to that operation and all term debt is arranged centrally. New bank facilities 
for approximately half the Group’s funding requirements, for the three 
years to August 2012, was agreed in the period. The balance of the Group’s 
funding is negotiated annually.
Resources, risks and uncertainties
The Group aims to safeguard the assets that give it competitive advantage, 
being its product quality, product innovation and service levels, its operational 
management, skilled workforce and its modern well-equipped factories.
Reputation
It is the responsibility of local operational management assisted by the 
Group Health and Safety Manager to maintain and where possible enhance 
the Group’s reputation for product quality, product innovation, service 
levels and a culture of safe working.
Manufacturing facilities
The Group has continued to invest in its production facilities in all three 
businesses and it intends to continue investing to ensure that it maintains 
a competitive edge. 
Employees
While the Group continues to invest in facilities and equipment we also 
continue to invest in our people. The Group offers training programmes 
where additional skills are required to undertake their responsibilities. 
The businesses have strategies for retaining staff, including the provision of 
competitive terms and conditions, and a contributory occupational pension 
scheme. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Each year the Group carries out a formal exercise to identify and assess 
the impact of risks on its business and this year the exercise was carried 
out in August 2009.
The Board has identified six vulnerabilities specific to the Group’s activities, 
whose converse gives rise to potential upside:
•	 A	 decline	 in	 the	 siz e	 and	 prosper ity	 of	 the	 dair y	 far ming	 industr y	 in	
north west England and south west Scotland, in particular through a 
reduction in the farm-gate milk price. 
•	 A	 decline	 in	 the	 siz e	 and	 prosper ity	 of	 other	 par ts	 of	 the	 far ming	
industry, in particular the beef and sheep farming industry, in northern 
England and Scotland.
•	 A	 decline	 in	 the	 siz e	 and	 prosper ity	 of	 the	 beef	 far ming	 industr y	 in	 the	
USA. 
•	 For	 f er tiliser , 	 a	 shar p	 decline	 in	 the	 Ster ling	 pr ice	 of	 r a w	 mater ials, 	
leading to inventory devaluation and sale deferment, and unsettled 
markets.
•	 For	 flour , 	 mar k et	 turb ulence , 	 in	 the	 face	 of	 o v ercapacity	 and	 the	 impact	
of the recession on consumers of bread, biscuits and confectionery, and 
a sharp increase in the milling wheat price.
•	 For	 Engineer ing, 	 funding	 prob lems	 f or	 lar ge	 capital	 projects	 and	 a	
recession driven-increase in contract deferral and variation. 
On behalf of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Finance Director
17 November 2009
  Board of Directors
Lord Inglewood
Non-Executive Chairman
Robert Heygate
Non-Executive Director
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Offi cer
Alistair Wannop
Non-Executive Director
Ron Wood
Finance Director
15 Registered Office and Advisers
Registered Office
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix
Carlisle CA3 9BA
Registered No. 98221
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
89 Sandyford Road
Newcastle upon Tyne 
NE1 8HW
Bankers
Clydesdale Bank PLC
82 English Street
Carlisle CA3 8HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
37 Lowther Street
Carlisle CA3 8EL
Financial Adviser and Broker
Investec Bank (UK) Limited 
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Solicitors
Halliwells
The Plaza
100 Old Hall Street
Liverpool L3 9TD
DLA Piper UK
India Buildings
Water Street
Liverpool L2 0NH
Atkinson Ritson
15 Fisher Street
Carlisle CA3 8RW
Registrars
Capita Registrars 
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
16  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
17
Report of the Directors
The Directors submit their report and the audited consolidated accounts 
of the Group and Company for the period ended 29 August 2009.
The company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in 
England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Old Croft, Stanwix, 
Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
PRinciPAl Activities, business Review And futuRe 
develoPments
The Group’s activities are Agriculture, Food and Engineering. A review of 
the business and future development of the Group and a discussion of 
the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group is presented in 
the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 5 to 11 and in the Group Financial 
Review on pages 12 to 14.
Results And dividends
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation, was £7.0 million (2008 : 
£12.9 million). After taxation charge of £1.8 million (2008 : £4.6 million), 
the profit for the year is £5.2 million (2008 : £8.3 million). An interim 
dividend of 6.0p (2008 : 6.0p) per ordinary share was paid on 8 May 2009. 
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the period, 
which is not reflected in these accounts, of 17.0p (2008 : 17.0p) per 
ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend, represents 23.0p 
per ordinary share, totalling £2.0 million (2008 : 23.0p per ordinary share, 
totalling £2.0 million).
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend  
will be paid on 15 January 2010 to members on the register at the  
close of business on 18 December 2009. Shares will be ex-dividend on  
16 December 2009.
Key performance indicators are presented in the Group Financial Review 
on page 12.
finAnciAl instR uments
The Group’s risk management objectives and policy are discussed in the 
Treasury Policy section of the Financial Review on page 14.
Pensions
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding obligations for the 
Group’s pension plans are based on various assumptions including, among 
other things, the actual and projected market performance of the pension 
plan assets, future long-term corporate bond yields, increased longevity 
of members and statutory requirements. In the last period, the relative 
improvement in equity markets, cash funding from the Company, together 
with lower inflation has decreased the deficit. The Group continually 
reviews this risk and takes action to mitigate where possible. In addition, 
while the Group is consulted by the trustees on the investment strategies 
of its pension plans, the Group has no direct control over these matters 
as the trustees are directly responsible for the strategy.
Details of the Group’s pension plans are in note 28 in the Notes to the 
Financial Statements.
diRectoRs And theiR inteRests
The Directors of the Company who served during the period and up  
to the date of signing the financial statements are stated on page 15.  
Each of the current Directors served for the whole of the period under 
review. Lord Inglewood and A G M Wannop retire in accordance with  
the Articles of Association and, being eligible, each offers himself for  
re-election.
Biographical details of the directors are shown below:
non-executive directors
Lord Inglewood (58) was a Conservative member of the European 
Parliament for ten years until his retirement in 2004, was a Government 
Minister from 1995 to 1997 and has been a member of the House of 
Lords since 1989. He brings to the Board wide experience, in particular  
of EU and Westminster politics, allied with a knowledge of farming in 
Carr’s north-west England heartland. He is also Chairman of CN Group 
Limited, the Carlisle based regional media company.
Mr A R Heygate (64) is an executive director of Heygate & Sons Limited, 
the UK’s largest independent flour miller, and is also engaged in animal 
feed compounding and other agricultural activities.
Mr A G M Wannop (47) is a director of English Food and Farming 
Partnership and of Cumbria Vision. He has actively farmed in Cumbria  
for many years.
Lord Inglewood, Mr A R Heygate and Mr A G Wannop have two year 
fixed term contracts which expire on 31 August 2011.
executive directors
Mr C N C Holmes (58) was appointed to the Board in January 1992, 
and as CEO in September 1994. Previously he held senior management 
positions in the agricultural division of J Bibby & Sons.
Mr R C Wood (62) was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 
January 1988 and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants. Mr R C Wood is also Company Secretary. He is also non-
executive director of Cumbria Partnership NHS Trust. All fees receivable 
are paid to the Company.
The two executive directors have service contracts which provide for a 
rolling one year notice period.
The Company has maintained a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
policy throughout the period and up to signing the financial statements, 
which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purpose of  
the Companies Act 2006. Neither the Company’s indemnity nor insurance 
provides cover in the event that a director is proved to have acted 
fraudulently or dishonestly. No claims have been made either under the 
indemnity or the insurance policy. 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Report of the Directors continued
emPloyment Policies
The Company’s policy on employee involvement is to adopt an open 
management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels 
about aspects of the Company’s operations. 
Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities 
irrespective of colour, ethnic or natural origin, nationality, sex, religion, 
marital or disabled status. Full consideration is given to applications for 
employment by and the continuing employment, training and career 
development of disabled people.
Politic Al And chARit Able donA tions
During the period ended 29 August 2009 the Group contributed £10,111 
(2008 : £11,569) in the UK for charitable purposes. There were no 
political donations during the year (2008 : Nil).
PAyment of suPPlieRs
Payment terms are agreed with each supplier and every endeavour is 
made to adhere to the agreed terms. The average credit terms for the 
Group as a whole, based on the year-end trade payables figure and a 365 
day year, is 45 days (2008 : 45 days). The Company has no outstanding 
trade payables at the end of the financial period.
sh ARe cAP it Al
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into Ordinary Shares of £0.25 each.
The movement in the share capital during the year is detailed in note 29 to the financial statements.
The interests of the Directors, as defined by the Companies Act 2006, in the ordinary shares of the Company, other than in respect of options to acquire 
ordinary shares (which are detailed in the analysis of options included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26), are as follows:
 on 29 August 2009 on 30 August 2008
 o rdinary shares Ordinary Shares
C N C Holmes 106,415 106,415
R C Wood 92,077 92,077
A R Heygate 37,225 37,225
W R Inglewood 4,410 4,410
A G M Wannop 2,261 2,261
All the above interests are beneficial. There have been no other changes to the above interests in the period from 29 August 2009 to 6 November 2009.
Rights And o blig Ations Att Aching to sh ARes
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to 
any class of shares in the Company (of which they are none), the holders of the Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote in a poll for every Ordinary Share 
held. No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held if any call or other sum then payable in 
respect of that share remains unpaid. Currently all issued shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 January 
2010 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but no 
dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends. and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial 
position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts 
paid up on the shares.
mAjo R sh AReholde Rs
The Company has been informed of the following interests at 6 November 2009 in the 8,784,286 ordinary shares of the Company, as required by the 
Companies Act 2006:
  Percentage of 
 Number of shares Issued share capital 
Heygate & Sons Limited* 1,265,287 14.4%
T W G Charlton 575,000 6.5%
Rathbone Nominees Limited 516,800 5.9%
Goldman Sachs Securities (Nominees) Limited 363,060 4.1%
HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited 350,000 4.0%
BNY GIL Client Account (Nominees) 295,000 3.4%
Barclayshare Nominees Limited 285,220 3.2%
* A R Heygate is a director of Heygate & Sons Limited.
 
d iRecto Rs’ st Atement As to disclosu Re of info RmAtion to Audito Rs
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors’ Report are listed on page 15. Having made enquiries of fellow 
Directors each of these Directors, at the date of this report, confirms that:
• 	 t o 	 t h e 	 b e s t 	 o f 	 e a c h 	 D i r e c t o r ’ s 	 k n o w l e d g e 	 a n d 	 b e l i e f , 	 t h e r e 	 i s 	 n o 	 r e l e v a n t 	 a u d i t 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 o f 	 w h i c h 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n y ’ s 	 a u d i t o r s 	 a r e 	 u n a w a r e ; 	 a n d
• 	 e a c h 	 D i r e c t o r 	 h a s 	 t a k e n 	 a l l 	 t h e 	 s t e p s 	 a 	 d i r e c t o r 	 m i g h t 	 r e a s o n a b l y 	 b e 	 e x p e c t e d 	 t o 	 h a v e 	 t a k e n 	 t o 	 b e 	 a w a r e 	 o f 	 r e l e v a n t 	 a u d i t 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 a n d 	 t o 	 e s t a b l i s h	
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
19
Annu Al geneRAl meeting And sPeciAl business to be 
tRAnsA cted At the Annu Al geneRAl meeting
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting appears on page 83 
and includes the following items of Special Business:
(i) Resolution 7 : directors power to allot securities
 Under section 551 of the Act, relevant shares may only be issued 
with the consent of the shareholders, unless the shareholders pass a 
resolution generally authorising the directors to issue shares without 
further reference to the shareholders. This resolution authorises 
the issue of shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £724,704, 
which is equal to 33% of the nominal value of the current issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company, for the period commencing 
with the passing of the resolution until the conclusion of the next 
annual general meeting of the Company or 6 months from the next 
accounting reference date of the Company (whichever is the earlier).
(ii) Resolution 8 : disapplication of pre-emption rights on equity issues 
for cash
 Sections 570 - 573 of the Act requires that a company issuing shares 
for cash must first offer them to existing shareholders following a 
statutory procedure which, in the case of a rights issue, may prove 
to be both costly and cumbersome. This resolution excludes that 
statutory procedure as far as rights issues are concerned. It also 
enables the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal 
value of £219,607, which is equal to 10% of the nominal value of 
the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company, subject 
to resolution 7 being passed. The directors believe that the limited 
powers provided by this resolution will maintain a desirable degree  
of flexibility. Unless previously revoked or varied, the disapplication  
will expire on the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of 
the Company or 6 months from the next accounting reference date 
of the Company (whichever is the earlier).
(iii) Resolution 9 : Authority for the market purchase by the company 
of its own shares
 Section 693 of the Act requires the Company to obtain the 
shareholders’ consent prior to making any market purchase of the 
Company’s own shares. Resolution 9 sets out the conditions of the 
authority as required by section 166 of the Act and the resolution 
is proposed as a special resolution as required by the Listing Rules 
of the UK Listing Authority. The directors have no current intentions 
relating to this authority but believe that the limited nature of the 
resolution will provide a desirable degree of flexibility. The directors 
intend that any shares so purchased will be cancelled. The total 
number of share options in issue at the date of this document is 
246,125 which, if exercised, would represent 2.8% of the issued 
share capital of the Company as at the date hereof and would, if the 
authority under this resolution were to be exercised in full, represent 
3.1% of the issued share capital of the Company following completion 
of the purchase of the Company’s own shares.
diRectoRs’ ResPonsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial period. Under that law the directors have elected 
to prepare the Group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union. Under company law the directors 
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In 
preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select	suitab le	accounting	policies	and	then	appl y	them	consistentl y;
•	 mak e	judgements	and	accounting	estimates	that	are	reasonab le	and	
pr udent;
•	 state	whether	applicab le	IFRSs	as	adopted	b y	the	European	Union	
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained	in	the	financial	statements;
•	 prepare	the	financial	statements	on	the	going	concer n	basis, 	unless	
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 15 
confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 the	Group	financial	statements, 	which	ha v e	been	prepared	in	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of	the	assets, 	liabilities, 	financial	position	and	profit	of	the	Group; 	and
•	 the	Chief	Ex ecutiv e’ s	Review	includes	a	fair	review	of	the	
development and performance of the business and the position of 
the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces.
By Order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Company Secretary
17 November 2009 Corporate Governance
st Atement by the diRectoRs on comPliAnce with the 
PRovisions of the combined code
PRinciPles of good goveRnAnce
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.  
The adoption and maintenance of good governance is the responsibility 
of the Board as a whole. This report, together with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26, describes how the Board 
applies the principles of good governance and best practice as set out in 
Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 (the 
“Combined Code 2008”). A statement of compliance can be found at  
the end of this report.
the bo ARd
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, two executive Directors 
and two other non-executives. Lord Inglewood is considered independent 
and his independence was assessed when he was appointed as non-
executive Chairman. A R Heygate is a non-executive Director and the 
Board considers him to be independent although the Combined Code 
2008 would not deem him independent due to his long association with 
the Company and he represents a significant shareholder. The Board 
believes that he acts in the best interests of the Company and that his 
holding of shares in the Company aligns his interests with that of the 
shareholders. A G M Wannop is the senior independent non-executive 
Director. The Combined Code 2008 recommends that the Board of 
Directors of a UK public company should include a balance of executive 
and non-executive Directors (including independent non-executives) such 
that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s 
decision-making. The Board is confident that it meets the requirements of 
the Combined Code 2008 with the exception of A R Heygate as outlined 
above.
The Board meets eleven times throughout the year to determine the 
strategic direction of the Group and to review operating, financial and 
risk performance. T o enable them to carry out these responsibilities all 
Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information. There is  
a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board, which includes:
•	 appro val	of	the	Group’ s	ann ual	Business	Plan;
•	 the	Group’ s	str ategy;
•	 acquisitions, 	disposals	and	capital	expenditure	projects	abo v e	cer tain	
thresholds;
•	 all	guar antees;
•	 treasur y	policies;
•	 the	f inancial	statements;
•	 the	Compan y’ s	dividend	policy;
•	 tr ansactions	in v olving	the	issue	or	purchase	of	Compan y	shares;
•	 bor ro wing	po w er s;
•	 appointments	to	the	Board;
•	 alter ations	to	the	Memor andum	and	 Ar ticles	of	 Association;
•	 legal	actions	brought	b y	or	against	the	Group	abo v e	cer tain	
thresholds; 	and
•	 the	scope	of	delegations	to	Board	committees, 	subsidiar y	boards	and	
executive management of the Group.
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one third of the 
Directors retire by rotation each year at the Annual General Meeting 
which is in compliance with the Combined Code 2008. All new Directors 
are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity following 
their appointment.
Directors’ biographies are shown on page 17. The formal terms of 
reference for the main Board Committees together with the terms and 
conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are reviewed 
annually and are available for inspection at the Company’s Registered 
Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
bo ARd meeting Agend A
In advance of all Board meetings the Directors are supplied with 
detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Group’s operating 
functions. Members of the executive management team attend and make 
presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board. The Company 
Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of 
information.
Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in performance of their duties as Directors. None of the 
Directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under 
review. All Directors have access to the advice and the services of the 
Company Secretary. In addition to these formal roles, the Non-executive 
Directors have access to senior management of the business either by 
telephone or via involvement at informal meetings.
bo ARd committees
Audit committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises the three non-executives,  
W R Inglewood, A R Heygate and A G M Wannop. The Committee is 
chaired by A R Heygate. The Board considers that the Company meets 
the main requirements of the Combined Code 2008 for a Company  
of Carr’s size.
The Board are responsible for assessing the Group’s internal financial 
controls and meeting with the external auditors as appropriate. 
The external auditors have the opportunity for direct access to the 
Committee without the executive Directors being present.
The Committee reviews the Group’s accounting policies and internal 
reports on accounting and internal financial control matters together 
with reports from the external auditors. The Audit Committee has 
overall responsibility for monitoring the integrity of financial statements 
and related announcements and for all aspects of internal control. 
The Committee meets at least twice a year and such meetings involve 
a review of the Group’s interim and full year statements. The Audit 
Committee is also responsible for recommendations for the appointment, 
reappointment or removal of the external auditors and for reviewing 
their effectiveness. The audit committee carries out each year a full 
evaluation of the external auditor as to its complete independence from 
the Group and that is adequately resourced and technically capable to 
deliver an objective audit to shareholders. Based on this review the audit 
committee recommends to the board each year the continuation, or 
removal and replacement, of the external auditor. It also approves the 
terms of engagement and remuneration and monitors their independence 
including the nature and levels of non-audit services. Recommendations by 
the auditors on internal control procedures are considered by the Audit 
Committee and implemented where appropriate.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual 
General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be 
raised on the Committee’s activities.
20 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC   Audit Remuneration
 board c ommittee c ommittee
n o. of meetings 11 2 2
   
W R Inglewood 11 2 2
C N C Holmes 11  
R C Wood 11  
A R Heygate 10 1 2
A G M Wannop 11 2 2
meetings Attend Ance
Details of the number of meetings of, and members’ attendance at, the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees during the period are set out in the 
table below.
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises A G M Wannop 
(Chairman), W R Inglewood and A R Heygate. It is a requirement of 
the Combined Code 2008 that the Remuneration Committee should, 
in the case of smaller companies, consist of at least two members 
who are considered by the Combined Code 2008 to be independent. 
The Company has complied with this. The Board is confident that the 
Company complies with the requirements of the Combined Code 
2008 in terms of the required number of independent Directors for a 
Company of Carr’s size. C N C Holmes, Chief Executive, attends meetings 
of the Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity. No Director 
attends any part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed. 
The Chairman and the executive Directors determine the remuneration 
of the other non-executive Directors. The remuneration of the Chairman 
is determined by the Board.
The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive 
remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other terms 
and conditions of service for each executive Director. It determines 
appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and 
deferred bonus scheme and approves awards and the issue of options 
in accordance with the terms of those schemes. The executive directors’ 
contract periods are one year. The Remuneration Committee also 
monitors the level and structure of remuneration of senior management 
below that of main board Director. The Committee has access to advice 
from the Company Secretary and to detailed analysis of executive 
remuneration in comparable companies. Details of the Committee’s 
current remuneration policies are given in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 23 to 26. 
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the Annual 
General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be 
raised on the Committee’s activities.
RelA tions with shAReholdeRs
The Board recognises the importance of good communications with all 
shareholders. The Group maintains dialogue with institutional shareholders 
and analysts, and general presentations are made when financial results  
are announced. Shareholders have access to the Company’s website at 
www.carrs-milling.com.
The Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for all the directors  
to engage in dialogue with private investors. All shareholders are given  
the opportunity to raise questions at the meeting. The Group aims to 
send notices of Annual General Meetings to shareholders at least 20 
working days before the meeting, as required by the Combined Code 
2008, and it is the Company’s practice to indicate the proxy voting results 
on all resolutions at the meetings.
going conceRn
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis, 
having satisfied themselves from a review of internal budgets and forecasts 
and current bank facilities that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
inteRnAl contR ol
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management, which safeguards the shareholders’ investment 
and the Group’s assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board of Directors is not aware of any significant losses caused by 
breaches of internal control in the period.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
21 Corporate Governance continued
The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure 
with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the 
Board. The organisational structure has been designed in order to plan, 
execute, monitor and control the Group’s objectives effectively and 
to ensure that internal control becomes embedded in the operations. 
The Board confirms that the key on-going processes and features of 
the Group’s internal risk based control system, which accord with the 
Turnbull guidance, have been fully operative and up to the date of the 
Annual Report being approved. These include: a process to identify and 
evaluate	b usiness	r isk; 	a	strong	control	en vironment; 	an	inf or mation	and	
comm unication	process; 	a	monitor ing	system	and	a	regular	Board	review	
for effectiveness. The Finance Director and Group Financial Accountant 
are responsible for overseeing the Group’s internal controls. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function as the Board consider 
that the Group has not yet reached a size where a separate internal audit 
function would be an appropriate or cost effective method of ensuring 
compliance with Group policies, and therefore does not currently 
propose to introduce a Group internal audit function. This area will be 
kept under review as part of the Board’s assessment of the Group’s 
systems of internal control.
The management of the Group’s businesses identified the key business 
risks within their operations, considered the financial implications and 
assessed the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate 
these risks. The Board reviewed a summary of the findings and this, along 
with direct involvement in the strategies of the businesses, investment 
appraisal and budgeting process, enabled the Board to report on the 
effectiveness of internal control.
AuditoRs indePendence
The Board is satisfied that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has adequate 
policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity 
and independence is maintained. The Group meets its obligations for 
maintaining the appropriate relationship with the external auditors 
through the Audit Committee whose terms of reference include an 
obligation to consider and keep under review the degree of work 
undertaken by the external auditors, other than the statutory audit, to 
ensure such objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
comPliAnce with the Revised combined code
The Directors consider that the Company has, during the period ended 
29 August 2009, complied with the requirements of the Combined Code 
2008 other than as set out below.
•	 the	non-ex ecutiv e	director , 	 A	R	Heygate , 	is	not	deemed	to	be	
independent under the requirements of the Combined Code 2008 
although the Board considers him to be independent (Sch.3.1)
•	 the	member s	of	the	 Audit	Committee	are	deemed	not	to	ha v e	
recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with the 
Combined Code 2008 (Sch.3.1). However, the Board believes 
their business knowledge and experience is sufficient to satisfy the 
Committee’s obligations
•	 there	are	no	specif ic	pro visions	f or	compensation	on	ear l y	
termination of the executive directors (B.1.5)
•	 the	Board	did	not	ha v e	in	place	dur ing	the	per iod	a	f or mal	and	
rigorous process of evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
committees (A.6.1). Rigorous but informal evaluation has historically 
been carried out by the Chairman and Chief Executive, an evaluation 
of the performance of the individual directors has also been carried 
out by the Remuneration Committee
•	 there	is	no	separ ate	Nominations	Committee	(A.4.1)	to	assess	and	
recommend new directors. Instead the Board as a whole considers 
these areas following initial scrutiny and recommendations by the 
Chief Executive and Chairman
•	 one	 Audit	Committee	meeting	was	chaired	b y	 W	R	Inglew ood	in	 
the absence of A R Heygate.
By order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Company Secretary
Carlisle
CA3 9BA
17 November 2009
22 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Directors’ Remuneration Report
info RmAtion not subject to Audit .
Remune RAtion c ommittee
All matters relating to executive remuneration are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Board of Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises A G M Wannop (Chairman), 
A R Heygate and Lord Inglewood. As appropriate, the Committee may 
invite the Chief Executive Officer to participate in some of its discussions. 
The Committee is responsible for determining the terms and conditions 
of employment of executive directors. It is also responsible for considering 
management recommendations for remuneration and employment terms 
of the Company’s senior staff, including incentive arrangements for bonus 
payments and grant of share options.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by 
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and reflects the time, 
commitment and responsibility of their roles.
The Remuneration Committee’s decisions are made on the basis of 
rewarding individuals for the nature of jobs they undertake and their 
performance therein. Proper regard is given to the need to attract and 
retain high quality, well-motivated staff at all levels and to the remuneration 
being paid by similar companies. 
d et Ails of Remune RAtion
The remuneration of directors is set out in detail on page 24.  The 
Company’s Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration policy that 
applies to executive directors and the Group’s other senior management.
Each of the executive directors has a one-year rolling contract. The most 
recent executed contracts for the executive directors were dated 10 June 
2002 and as amended on 17 November 2006 and 19 June 2008. In the 
event of termination C N C Holmes would be entitled to loss of salary, 
benefits and pensionable service for the notice period. R C Wood receives 
a pension from the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and he 
would be entitled to loss of salary and benefits in the event of termination 
of employment. Contracts do not provide additional compensation for 
severance as a result of a change of control. The contracts of non-executive 
directors of the Company are fixed for two years and the most recent 
executed contracts for W R Inglewood, A R Heygate and A G M Wannop 
were 1 September 2009.
The Company’s policy is that a proportion of the remuneration of the 
executive directors should be performance related. As described below, 
executive directors may earn annual incentive payments together with the 
benefits of participation in Share Option Schemes.
c onstituent elements of Remune RAtion P Ack Age
In applying the above principles to the determination of executive director 
remuneration, the Remuneration Committee gives consideration to several 
c o m p o n e n t s 	 w h i c h 	 t o g e t h e r 	 c o m p r i s e 	 t h e 	 t o t a l 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 p a c k a g e ; 	
these consist of the following:
basic salary is determined by the Committee at the beginning of each year. 
In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers the position in the 
Group, personal and Company performance and relies on information on a 
comparable group of companies. Basic salaries were last reviewed in August 
2009, with increases taking effect from 1 September 2009. The next review 
will take place in August 2010. Executive directors’ contracts of service, 
which include details of remuneration, will be available for inspection at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Annual bonus is paid up to a maximum of 60% of Basic Salary on 
achievement of profit targets. Annual bonus payments are not pensionable 
and conform to best practice as set out in the Combined Code 2008.
benefits in k ind comprise private healthcare which is not pensionable, 
critical illness and death in service cover. 
Pension c ontribution. The Company’s defined benefit pension scheme 
aims at producing a pension of two-thirds final pensionable salary at normal 
retirement age of 60. C N C Holmes is a member of the pension scheme 
and his final pension is based on the notional earnings cap and can retire 
early without actuarial reduction to his pension.
C N C Holmes’ pension information is given in the section subject to audit.
R C Wood receives a pension from the pension scheme.
The normal retirement age is 60 with a two-thirds surviving spouse’s 
pension. On death in service a lump sum equal to four times basic salary 
is payable together with a surviving spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the 
director’s prospective pension. For death after retirement a spouse’s pension 
of two-thirds of the member’s pension is payable plus the balance of a five 
year guarantee if applicable.
Non-executive directors do not participate in the pension scheme. 
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to be increased annually by 5% or the 
increase in the Retail Price Index (RPI) if less.
share o ptions. Salary and a bonus scheme are intended as the most 
s i g n i f i c a n t 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n ; 	 i n 	 a d d i t i o n , 	 e x e c u t i v e 	 s h a r e	
options can be proposed by the Remuneration Committee and are granted 
periodically to promote the involvement of senior management in the 
longer term success of the Company. Options can only be exercised if 
certain performance criteria are achieved by the Company. These criteria 
are based on the growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share 
in excess of the growth in the retail price index over the performance 
period by an average 2% per annum for each of the three years in the 
performance period.
d efe RRed bonus scheme
In February 2006, the Group established an HMRC Approved Deferred 
Bonus Scheme. In the year ended 29 August 2009, the Remuneration 
Committee declined to offer the two executive directors deferred bonus 
shares (2008: Nil).
n on- executive Remune RAtion
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is agreed by the Group 
Board taking into account a number of factors pertinent to their position 
and role as non-executive directors. The non-executive directors do not 
participate in share option awards, bonus plans or pension arrangements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
23 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
PeRfo RmAnce gRAP h
The following graph illustrates the 
Company’s total shareholder return 
performance since 31 August 2004 
relative to the FTSE All-share index.  
The Company considers that the 
FTSE All-share index to be the most 
appropriate comparator group as it is a 
broad index and reflects the Company’s 
broad range of activities.
Carr’s Milling Industries
FTSE All-Share Price Index
Source: Thomson Datastream
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
250
200
150
100
50
info RmAtion subject to Audit
d iRecto Rs’ Remune RAtion
         
          2009 2008
          g ain on Gain on
   Fees &   t otal Total 2009 2008 exercise Exercise 
   Basic Annual  emoluments Emoluments Pension Pension of share of Share
   Salary Bonus Benefits 2009 2008 c ontributions Contributions o ptions Options
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
executive directors
C N C Holmes  406     —     1   407 469  20             24  — 168
R C Wood  186     —     1   187 287    —            6    — 203
 
n on-executive directors
W R Inglewood    50     —     —     50   45    —           — —     —
A R Heygate    25     —     —     25   25    —           —  —    —
A G M Wannop    25     —     —     25   25    —           —  —    —
    692     —     2   694 851  20         30     — 371 
 
The basic salary of C N C Holmes includes an additional sum representing 93% of his gross basic salary to normal retirement age at 5 September 2011, or  
earlier retirement from the Company. This additional sum represents compensation for the reduction in pension entitlement.
24 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC executive di Recto Rs’ Pension info RmAtion
  c n c h olmes
Age at 29 August 2009  57
   
  £’000
Directors’ contributions during the period        9  
Increase in accrued pension entitlement for the period 
At 29 August 2009   
  excluding inflation  1
  including inflation       4
Total accrued pension entitlement
  At 29 August 2009  75 
  At 30 August 2008  79    
Transfer value of pension
  At 29 August 2009  1,627 
  At 30 August 2008  1,325 
    
Increase/(decrease) in transfer value less contributions made by directors   
  At 29 August 2009  293
  At 30 August 2008  (1,176) 
Transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits less contributions made by directors  
  At 29 August 2009  16
  
 The accrued pension entitlement and transfer value of pension at 29 August 2009 for C N C Holmes have been determined using the maximum of the 
earnings cap applicable for 2008/09.  
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the director would receive if he retired at the end of the period.
The decrease in the accrued entitlement is the difference between the accrued benefit at the period end and that at the previous period end.
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The transfer values of the  
accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the scheme’s 
liability in respect of the director’s pension benefits. They do not represent sums payable to the director and, therefore cannot be added meaningfully to  
annual remuneration.
 
d iRecto Rs’ sh ARe oP tions
The Company operates an HMRC approved and an unapproved share option scheme to reward employees’ performance and to incentivise at senior levels. 
Exercise is subject to performance conditions. For all options granted the exercise criterion has been that earnings should achieve growth which exceeds the 
percentage growth in the Retail Price Index by 2% or more. The rules of the schemes conform to institutional investor guidelines.
The performance criterion, which applies to the executive directors to whom options have been granted under the Schemes, was chosen as it requires 
significant improvement in financial performance. No options have been granted at a discount to the market price at the date of their grant.
Options to acquire shares in the Company, granted to directors under the Scheme but not exercised, as at 29 August 2009 are:
 At 31 Exercised Granted At    Earliest date 
 August during during 29 August Exercise Date of from which  Expiry
 2008 period period 2009 price grant exercisable  date
C N C Holmes 6,000 — — 6,000 502.3p 20 Feb 2006 Feb 2009  Feb 2016
R C Wood 6,000 — — 6,000 502.3p 20 Feb 2006 Feb 2009  Feb 2016
  
The two executive directors did not exercise executive share options during the year:
The middle market closing price of the shares at 28 August 2009 was 445.0p (29 August 2008: 662.5p) and the range throughout the year was 680.0p to 
405.0p.
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
25 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
d efe RRed bonus scheme
The Group operates an approved HMRC deferred bonus scheme to reward employees’ performance and to incentivise at senior levels. In the year ended 
1 September 2007 the two executive directors elected to defer 50% of the bonus paid in November 2007 in the form of a Bonus Share Award. The 
Remuneration Committee granted a Matching Share Award and on meeting in full the performance conditions, the two directors will receive matching shares. 
The matching shares equal the gross amount of deferred bonus divided by the average price per share at date of deferral. 
To qualify for the Maximum Award Multiple of 1 the growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share over the 3 years ending 31 August 2010 must 
equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) over the 3 years by an average of 4% per annum. The Award Multiple will be reduced to 0.5 
should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the 3 years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Company’s adjusted 
earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to above, the Award Multiple will be measured on a straight line basis between 0.5 and 1.
    Maximum
   Maximum  no. of
 No. of Bonus Base no. of  award matching Exercise 
 award shares shares multiple  shares date
C N C Holmes 2,131 3,612 1 3,612 30 November 2010
     
R C Wood 1,860 3,153 1 3,153 30 November 2010
On behalf of the Board
A G M Wannop
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
17 November 2009
26 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
We have audited the financial statements of Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 
for the period ended 29 August 2009 which comprise the consolidated 
income statement, the consolidated and company statements of recognised 
income and expense, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the 
consolidated and company cash flow statements, principal accounting 
policies and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as 
regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
ResPective ResPonsibilities of di Recto Rs And Audito Rs 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 19, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
company’s members as a body in accordance with Sections 495 to 497 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
sco Pe of the Audit of the fin Anci Al st Atements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s 
c i r c u m s t a n c e s 	 a n d 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 c o n s i s t e n t l y 	 a p p l i e d 	 a n d 	 a d e q u a t e l y 	 d i s c l o s e d ;	
t h e 	 r e a s o n a b l e n e s s 	 o f 	 s i g n i f i c a n t 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 e s t i m a t e s 	 m a d e 	 b y 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ;	
and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
 
oP inion on fin Anci Al st Atements 
In our opinion: 
• 	 t h e 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 g i v e 	 a 	 t r u e 	 a n d 	 f a i r 	 v i e w 	 o f 	 t h e 	 s t a t e 	 o f 	 t h e	
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 29 August 2009 and 
of the group’s profit and group’s and parent company’s cash flows for 
t h e 	 p e r i o d 	 t h e n 	 e n d e d ;
• 	 t h e 	 g r o u p 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n	
a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 I F R S s 	 a s 	 a d o p t e d 	 b y 	 t h e 	 E u r o p e a n 	 U n i o n ;	
• 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d	
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as 
a p p l i e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 t h e 	 p r o v i s i o n s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n i e s 	 A c t 	 2 0 0 6 ;	
and
• 	 t h e 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 t h e	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
oP inion on othe R mAtte Rs PResc Ribed by the c om PAnies 
Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 r e p o r t 	 t o 	 b e 	 a u d i t e d 	 h a s 	 b e e n	
p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n i e s 	 A c t 	 2 0 0 6 ;	
• 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 g i v e n 	 i n 	 t h e 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 o n 	 c o r p o r a t e 	 g o v e r n a n c e 	 w i t h	
respect to rules 7.2.5 and 7.2.6 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority is consistent with the 
f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s ; 	 a n d
• 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 g i v e n 	 i n 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e p o r t 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 p e r i o d	
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
mAtte Rs on which we ARe Requi Red to RePo Rt by 
exce Ption 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion: 
• 	 a d e q u a t e 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 r e c o r d s 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 b e e n 	 k e p t 	 b y 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t	
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
f r o m 	 b r a n c h e s 	 n o t 	 v i s i t e d 	 b y 	 u s ; 	 o r	
• 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’	
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
a c c o u n t i n g 	 r e c o r d s 	 a n d 	 r e t u r n s ; 	 o r	
• 	 c e r t a i n 	 d i s c l o s u r e s 	 o f 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 s p e c i f i e d 	 b y 	 l a w 	 a r e 	 n o t	
m a d e ; 	 o r	
• 	 w e 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 r e c e i v e d 	 a l l 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 a n d 	 e x p l a n a t i o n s 	 w e 	 r e q u i r e	
f o r 	 o u r 	 a u d i t ; 	 o r
• 	 a 	 c o r p o r a t e 	 g o v e r n a n c e 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 h a s 	 n o t 	 b e e n 	 p r e p a r e d 	 b y 	 t h e	
parent company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 s t a t e m e n t , 	 s e t 	 o u t 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 2 1 , 	 i n 	 r e l a t i o n 	 t o 	 g o i n g	
c o n c e r n ; 	 a n d
• 	 t h e 	 p a r t s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o r p o r a t e 	 G o v e r n a n c e 	 S t a t e m e n t 	 r e l a t i n g 	 t o 	 t h e	
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review.
Richard Bunter (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne
17 November 2009
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
27 Consolidated Income Statement
for the period ended 29 August 2009
  52 week 52 week
  period period
  2009 2008
 Notes £’000 £’000
Revenue 2,3 350,023 372,307
Cost of sales 3 (309,016) (327,757)
gross profit 3 41,007 44,550
Net operating expenses 3 (33,712) (31,675)
Group operating profit 3,4 7,295 12,875
Analysed as:  
operating profit before non-recurring items and amortisation  7,295 12,814
Non-recurring items and amortisation 6 — 61
group operating profit  7,295 12,875
Interest income 8 211 454
Interest expense 8 (1,522) (2,061)
Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures 5 1,051 1,590
Profit before taxation 2 7,035 12,858
Taxation 2,9 (1,829) (4,605)
Profit for the period  5,206 8,253
Profit attributable to minority interest   785 552
Profit attributable to equity shareholders  4,421 7,701
  5,206 8,253 
earnings per share (pence) 
Basic 11 50.4 92.7
Diluted 11 50.3 91.2
All of the above are derived from continuing operations.
28 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Consolidated and Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
for the period ended 29 August 2009
 group company
   52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2009 2008 2009 2008
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Foreign exchange translation differences arising on  
 translation of overseas subsidiaries 30 276 583 — —
Actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefit obligation:
- Group 28 951 (11,065) 951 (11,065)
- Share of associate 28 (1,386) (1,193) — —
Taxation (charge)/credit on actuarial movement 
  on retirement benefit obligation:
- Group 19 (266) 3,116 (266) 3,116
- Share of associate  388 334 — —
net (expense)/income recognised directly in equity  (37) (8,225) 685 (7,949)
Profit for the period  5,206 8,253 7,954 3,216
total recognised income and expense for the period 30 5,169 28 8,639 (4,733)
Attributable to minority interest 30 782 545 — —
Attributable to equity shareholders 30 4,387 (517) 8,639 (4,733)
   5,169 28 8,639 (4,733)
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
29 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheet
As at 29 August 2009
 group company
   52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2009 2008 2009 2008
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
non-current assets   
Goodwill 12 1,654 1,381 — —
Other intangible assets 12 764 294 — —
Property, plant and equipment 13 31,764 28,596 — —
Investment property 14 718 737 — —
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 15,18 — — 13,002 13,001
Investment in associate 15,16 2,735 2,870 1,470 1,470
Interest in joint ventures 15,17 1,840 1,609 320 303
Other investments 15 51 51 — —
Financial assets
- Non-current receivables 21 53 50 2,275 —
Deferred tax assets 19 5,015 5,318 4,111 4,640
   44,594 40,906 21,178 19,414
current assets
Inventories  20 23,860 31,014 — —
Trade and other receivables  21 43,059 50,754 13,213 17,221
Current tax assets 22 119 65 959 1,602
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments 27 16 927 — 31
- Cash at bank and in hand  23 10,304 3,896 16,038 —
   77,358 86,656 30,210 18,854
total assets   121,952 127,562 51,388 38,268
liabilities
current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings 26 (10,226) (15,004) (3,748) (5,489)
- Derivative financial instruments 27 (43) (22) (43) —
Trade and other payables 24 (35,928) (52,977) (833) (2,328)
Current tax liabilities 25 (708) (2,054) — —
    (46,905) (70,057) (4,624) (7,817)
non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings 26 (19,403) (6,325) (14,410) (5,371)
- Derivative financial instruments 27 — (14) — (14)
Retirement benefit obligation  28 (14,673) (16,558) (14,673) (16,558)
Deferred tax liabilities 19 (4,840) (4,775) — —
Other non-current liabilities 24 (2,834) (2,237) — —
   (41,750) (29,909) (29,083) (21,943)
total liabilities  (88,655) (99,966) (33,707) (29,760)
net assets   33,297 27,596 17,681 8,508
shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares  29 2,196 2,094 2,196 2,094
Share premium  30 7,738 5,252 7,738 5,252
Treasury share reserve 30 (101) (101) — —
Equity compensation reserve 30,31 164 206 199 233
Foreign exchange reserve 30 386 107 — —
Other reserve  30 1,508 1,539 — —
Retained earnings  30 17,999 15,880 7,548 929
total shareholders’ equity 30 29,890 24,977 17,681 8,508
Minority interests in equity 30 3,407 2,619 — —
total equity 30  33,297 27,596 17,681 8,508
The financial statements set out on pages 28 to 80 were approved by the Board on 17 November 2009 and signed on its behalf by:
christopher n c holmes Ronald c w ood
30 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statement
For the period ended 29 August 2009
 group company
   52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2009 2008 2009 2008
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 33 9,817 5,233 (2,840) (2,755)
Interest received  204 447 342 580
Interest paid  (1,456) (2,016) (588) (739)
Tax (paid)/recovered  (2,985) (647) 924 373
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities   5,580 3,017 (2,162) (2,541)
cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) 32 (4,258) (588) — —
Investment in joint ventures  — (294) — —
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — 6,100 3,340
Net receipt/(payment) of loans to subsidiaries  — — 1,806 (2,606)
Purchase of intangible assets  (25) (4) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   282 177 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (2,612) (2,141) — —
Receipt of non-current receivables  — 50 — —
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities  (6,613) (2,800) 7,906 734
 
cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital  30 2,588 209 2,588 209
Net proceeds from loans from subsidiaries  — — 1,517 1,021
Net proceeds from issue of new bank loans  18,029 1,495 14,878 1,495
Finance lease principal repayments  (1,025) (912) — —
Repayment of borrowings  (6,450) (1,010) (6,375) (750)
(Decrease)/increase in other borrowings  (1,195) 1,872 — —
Disposal of interest rate swap  — 111 — 111
Dividends paid to shareholders 10 (2,020) (1,618) (2,020) (1,618)
Net cash generated from financing activities  9,927 147 10,588 468
Effects of exchange rate changes  161 300 (174) 78
net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   9,055 664 16,158 (1,261)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 23 66 (598) (120) 1,141
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period  23 9,121 66 16,038 (120)
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
31 Principal Accounting Policies
bAsis of Accounting
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and IFRIC interpretations 
endorsed by the European Union (EU) and with those parts of the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in 
England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Old Croft, Stanwix, 
Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the 
date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based 
on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual 
results ultimately may differ materially from those estimates.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historic cost 
convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities at 
fair value through profit or loss.
bAsis of consolid Ation
The consolidated financial statements comprise Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 
and all its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the results of its 
associate and joint ventures. The financial statements of the subsidiaries, 
associate and joint ventures are prepared as of the same reporting date 
and consolidated using consistent accounting policies. Group inter-company 
balances and transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from 
Group inter-company transactions, are eliminated in full. Profits and losses 
on transactions with the associate and joint ventures are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the current financial 
period were included in the financial statements from the effective date 
of control. The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of the 
acquired subsidiary undertakings were incorporated into the financial 
statements on the basis of the fair value as at the effective date of the 
Group acquiring control.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of more 
than 50% of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the 
date on which the Group ceases to control them. Associates are entities 
over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally 
accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.  
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control, 
established by contractual agreement. Investments in associates and joint 
ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The Group’s share of 
its associate and joint ventures’ post-tax profits or losses are recognised in 
the income statement, and its share of movement in reserves is recognised 
in reserves. The cumulative movements are adjusted against the carrying 
amount of the investment. The Group’s investment in associate and joint 
ventures includes any goodwill arising on acquisition. If the Group’s share  
of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment  
in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further 
losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of  
the associate or joint venture.
All subsidiaries are accounted for by applying the purchase method. The 
cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair 
values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or 
assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group, together with 
any costs directly attributable to the combination. The identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at 
fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority 
interest. The excess of the cost of the business combination over the 
Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests  
as transactions with parties external to the Group.
emPloyee sh ARe t Rust
Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) 12 requires that the Group 
consolidate a special purpose entity where the substance of the relationship 
between the parties indicates that the Group controls the entity. The 
employee share trust sponsored by the Group falls within this category of 
special purpose entity and has been accounted for as if it were, in substance, 
a subsidiary.
Shares acquired by the trust have been recognised in the treasury share 
reserve and have been excluded from the calculation of earnings per share 
in the current period, as the shares have not been allocated to a share 
scheme. When such an allocation occurs the shares will be included in the 
diluted earnings per share calculation.
c u RRency t RAnsl Ation
The financial statements for the Group’s subsidiaries, associate and joint 
ventures are prepared using their functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
an entity operates. The presentation currency of the Group and functional 
currency of the Group is Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Exchange 
differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation, at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using 
the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements 
are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the period. 
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative 
effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, the exchange rate 
on the transaction date is used. Exchange differences arising are recognised 
as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On disposal of a foreign 
operation any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity 
are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods or services is measured at the fair value of 
the consideration, net of rebates and excluding value added tax. Revenue 
from the sale of goods or services is recognised when the Group has 
transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the 
buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and when it is 
probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow 
to the Group. Inter segmental revenue is on an arm’s length basis. 
In respect of construction contracts, revenue is calculated on the basis of 
the stage of completion and the total sales value of each contract.
32 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Reti Rement benefit oblig Ations
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s 
Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme. The Group also offers various defined contribution 
schemes to its employees.
The assets of the above named schemes are held separately from those of 
the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
consolidated income statement in the period to which they relate.
The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the period end 
in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of 
scheme assets. Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obligation 
annually using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the 
defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future 
cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are 
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that 
have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension 
liability.
The current service costs, past service costs and gains and losses on 
settlements and curtailments are included in operating profit in the 
consolidated income statement.
A charge is made within operating costs which represents the expected 
increase in the liabilities of the pension schemes during the period. This 
arises from the liabilities of the schemes being one year closer to payment.
A credit representing the expected return on the assets of the pension 
schemes during the period is netted against the above charge within 
operating costs. This is based on the market value of the assets of the 
schemes at the start of the financial period. Actuarial gains and losses 
arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions 
are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and 
expense. The pension schemes’ deficits or surpluses, to the extent that 
they are considered recoverable, are recognised in full on the consolidated 
balance sheet.
The Group’s share of the deficit in the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension 
Scheme is recognised through its investment in associate.
sh ARe bAsed PAyments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value 
at the date of the grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the 
equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will 
eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a valuation model. The expected life used 
in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, 
for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate of the number of 
options that are expected to vest. Changes to the fair value recognised as a 
result of this are charged or credited to the consolidated income statement 
with a corresponding adjustment to the equity compensation reserve.
inte Rest
Interest is recognised in the consolidated income statement on an accruals 
basis using the effective interest method. 
segment Al RePo Rting
The Group’s primary reporting format is business segments and its 
secondary format is geographical segments. A business segment is a 
component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group of related 
products and is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of 
other business segments. A geographical segment is a component of the 
Group that operates within a particular economic environment and this 
is subject to risks and returns that are materially different from those of 
components operating in other economic environments.
Revenue, costs, assets and liabilities have been allocated between segments 
f i r s t l y 	 o n 	 t h o s e 	 i t e m s 	 s p e c i f i c 	 t o 	 t h e 	 s e g m e n t s ; 	 a n y 	 r e m a i n i n g 	 i t e m s 	 h a v e	
been allocated using a reasonable basis such as management time incurred.
non- Recu RRing items A nd Amo Rtis Ation
Non-recurring items and amortisation that are material by size and/or by 
nature are presented within their relevant income statement category. Items 
that management consider fall into this category are disclosed within a note 
to the financial statements. The separate disclosure of non-recurring items 
and amortisation helps provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying 
business performance. Events which may give rise to non-recurring items 
include, but are not limited to, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, 
the restructuring of businesses, the integration of new businesses, asset 
impairments and net gains on transfers of deferred pensioners from the 
group pension scheme.
g oodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition. 
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for 
the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset, which is carried at cost less impairment, 
and assessed for impairment annually. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Once recognised, an impairment of 
goodwill is not reversed under any circumstance.
Where a business combination results in an excess of the acquirer’s interest 
in the net fair value of the acquiree’s indentifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities over cost, the excess is credited to the consolidated 
income statement in the period of acquisition.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 31 August 1998 
has not been reinstated and would not form part of the gain or loss on the 
disposal of a business.
o the R int Angible Assets
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation. 
Amortisation commences when assets are available for use. The expected 
useful lives, over which the assets are amortised, are generally as follows:
Customer relationships 1 - 5 years
Brands 15 - 20 years
Know-how 5 years
Patents and trademarks contractual life
Software 3 - 10 years
Customer relationships and brands are amortised in line with the profit 
and income streams they are respectively expected to generate over their 
expected useful life.
Know-how, patents, trademarks and software are amortised on a straight-
line basis.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
33 Principal Accounting Policies continued
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired 
intangible assets comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable 
costs of preparing the assets for use.
All research costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as 
incurred. Development costs are recognised as an asset only to the extent 
that specific recognition criteria, as set out in IAS38 ‘Intangible assets’, 
relevant to the proposed application are met and the amount recognised  
is recoverable through future economic benefits.
PRo PeRty, Pl Ant And equi Pment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises purchase 
price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For 
all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated on a 
straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over  
their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each financial period-end.
Assets not fully constructed at the balance sheet date are classified as 
assets in the course of construction. When construction is complete these 
assets are reclassified to the appropriate heading within property, plant and 
equipment. Depreciation commences when the asset is ready for use.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged to 
t h e 	 i n c o m e 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 a s 	 i n c u r r e d ; 	 t h e 	 c o s t 	 o f 	 m a j o r 	 r e n o v a t i o n s 	 a n d	
improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds 
with the carrying amount and are recognised within the income statement.
investment P Ro PeRty
Investment properties are properties held for long-term rental yields. 
Investment properties are carried in the balance sheet at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all other 
investment property, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to 
allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their estimated useful 
lives as follows:
Freehold buildings  up to 50 years
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged to 
t h e 	 i n c o m e 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 a s 	 i n c u r r e d ; 	 t h e 	 c o s t 	 o f 	 m a j o r 	 r e n o v a t i o n s 	 a n d	
improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds 
with the carrying amount and are recognised within the income statement.
imPAiRment of Assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication 
that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of impairment exists, 
the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount. Where the carrying 
amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written 
down to its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use and is deemed for an individual 
asset. If the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent 
of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of 
the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. Discount 
rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used 
for the value in use calculation.
invento Ries
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and 
those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Where appropriate, cost is calculated on a 
specific identification basis. Otherwise inventories are valued using the first-in 
first-out method.
Contract work in progress is measured at the selling price of the work 
performed at the balance sheet date. The selling price is measured by 
reference to the stage of completion at the balance sheet date and total 
expected income from the contract work. 
The stage of completion is determined as the proportion that contract 
costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the total estimated total 
contract costs. Amounts invoiced for work completed are deducted from 
the selling price, while amounts invoiced in excess of work completed are 
recognised as current liabilities.
Where it is probable that contract costs will exceed total contract revenue 
the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense in the income 
statement.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated 
costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and 
distribution.
cA sh And c Ash equiv Alents
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow 
statement comprise cash at bank and in hand, money market deposits and 
other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three 
months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are presented  
in borrowings within current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
gRA nts
Grants received on capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income 
and taken to the consolidated income statement in equal annual instalments 
over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. 
Revenue grants and contributions are taken to the consolidated income 
statement in the period to which they apply.
l eAses
Leases are classified as finance leases at inception where substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group. Assets 
classified as finance leases are capitalised on the consolidated balance sheet 
and are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the 
term of the lease. The interest element of the rental obligations is charged 
to the consolidated income statement over the period of the lease using 
the actuarial method.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the consolidated income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Leasehold 
land is normally classified as an operating lease. Payments made to acquire 
leasehold land are included in prepayments at cost and are amortised  
over the life of the lease. Any incentives to enter into operating leases  
are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on  
a straight-line basis.
34 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC tA x
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents an estimate of the amounts payable to 
tax authorities in respect of the Group’s taxable profits.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax 
arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other 
than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised. Deferred tax 
is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments  
in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group is able 
to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax 
relates to items recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, in which case  
the tax is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity through the 
consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
d ividends
Final equity dividends to the shareholders of the Company are recognised 
in the period that they are approved by the shareholders. Interim equity 
dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised in the period in which they are 
received.
f in Anci Al inst Ruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s consolidated 
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is 
established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able 
to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will 
enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in 
payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. 
The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted 
at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is 
reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of 
the loss is recognised in the income statement. When a trade receivable 
is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade 
receivables. 
Investments
Investments are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs. They 
are classified as either ‘available-for-sale’, ‘fair value through profit or loss’ or 
‘held to maturity’. Where securities are designated as ‘at fair value through 
profit or loss’, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included 
in net profit or loss for the period. For ‘available-for-sale’ investments, gains 
or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, 
until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which 
time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included 
in the net profit or loss for the period.  
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either 
designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. 
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to 
dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active 
market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured by other means 
are held at cost. ‘Held-to-maturity’ investments are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method. 
Financial liability and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the 
substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the 
assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value net 
of direct issue costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost. Finance 
charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are 
not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group primarily uses interest rate swaps, caps and collars and forward 
foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuating interest 
and foreign exchange rates. These instruments are initially recognised at fair 
value and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance 
sheet date. 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its international assets and it has designated 
foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against net investment in foreign 
operations. The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge 
a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined as an effective 
hedge is recognised directly in equity. The gain or loss on any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair valuation
Fair values are based on market values, where available. Where market 
values are not readily available, the Group establishes fair valuation 
t e c h n i q u e s ; 	 t h e s e 	 i n c l u d e 	 t h e 	 u s e 	 o f 	 r e c e n t 	 a r m ’ s 	 l e n g t h 	 t r a n s a c t i o n s , 	
reference to other similar instruments and discounted cash flow analysis.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
35 Principal Accounting Policies continued
new st And ARds And inte RPRet Ations
The following new standards and interpretations, which are in issue at the balance sheet date but not yet effective, have not been applied in these financial 
statements:
  
  Effective for periods 
  commencing on or after
IAS 1 Revised - Presentation of financial statements 1 January 2009
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 30 March 2009
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 January 2009
IFRIC 14 ‘IAS 19 - The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction’ 1 January 2009
IFRIC 15 Agreements for construction of real estates 1 January 2009
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation 1 October 2008
IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners 1 July 2009
IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers 1 July 2009
IAS 23 Revised - Borrowing costs 1 January 2009
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements,
  puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation 1 January 2009
IAS 27 (Revised) Consolidated and separate financial statements 1 July 2009
Amendment to IAS 39 - Eligible hedged items 1 July 2009
Amendment to IFRS 1 ‘First time adoption of IFRS’ and IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’ 1 July 2009
IFRS 2, Share-based payment Amendment Vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009
IFRS 3 (Revised) Business combinations 1 July 2009 
It is considered that the above standards and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group. IAS 1 Revised and 
IFRS 8 will have no impact on the results or net assets of the Group but will increase the level of disclosure to be made in the financial statements. In the 
current economic climate it is considered that IFRIC 14 will have no effect on the results or net assets of the Group. 
From 31 August 2008, the following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group:
• 	 A m e n d m e n t 	 t o 	 I A S 	 3 9 	 a n d 	 I F R S 	 7 	 - 	 R e c l a s s i f i c a t i o n 	 o f 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 a s s e t s
The adoption of this amendment has not had a significant impact on the Group’s profit for the year or equity.
signific Ant judgements , key Assum Ptions And estim Ates
Application of certain Group accounting policies requires management 
to make judgements, assumptions and estimates concerning the future as 
detailed below.
Valuation of pension obligations
The valuation of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is determined 
each period following advice from the Group’s actuary and can fluctuate 
based on a number of external factors. Such factors include the major 
assumptions as shown in the table in note 28 and actual returns on scheme 
assets compared to those predicted in the previous scheme valuation.
Valuation of share-based payments
The fair value of share-based payments is determined using valuation 
models and is charged to the income statement over the vesting period.
The valuation models require certain assumptions to be made as shown in 
the tables in note 31. Estimations of vesting and satisfaction of performance 
criteria are required to determine fair value.
Impairment of goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill must be assessed for impairment annually. 
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units 
to which goodwill is allocated. Value in use is dependent on estimations 
of future cash flows from the cash generating unit and the use of an 
appropriate discount rate to discount those cash flows to their present 
value.
No impairment has been identified in the period (note 12).
Provision for impairment of trade receivables
The financial statements include a provision for impairment of trade 
receivables (note 21) that is based on management’s estimation of 
recoverability. There is a risk that the provision will not match the trade 
receivables that ultimately prove to be irrecoverable.
Valuation of derivative financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments (note 27) is determined 
using market factors at the period end over which management have no 
control. Such factors include the estimation of future currency exchange 
rates and interest rates. In addition the fair value of such instruments is 
affected by the global economic environment and financial institution  
pricing structures. 
36 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Notes to the Financial Statements
1  The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, from presenting its own income statement. 
The profit after tax for the period dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £7,954,000 (2008: £3,216,000).
2  segment Al RePo Rting
Primary reporting format - business segments
The segment results for the period ended 29 August 2009 are as follows:
  Agriculture  f ood  engineering  o ther  g roup 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total gross segment revenue  255,117 78,956 15,992 156 350,221
Inter-segment revenue  (124) (3) (71) — (198)
Revenue  254,993 78,953 15,921 156 350,023
o perating profit/(loss) before retirement 
benefit charge*  6,039 2,335 1,421 (895) 8,900
Analysed as:
Before non-recurring items and amortisation  6,039 2,335 1,421 (895) 8,900
Non-recurring items and amortisation  — — — — —
   6,039 2,335 1,421 (895) 8,900
Retirement benefit charge*      (1,605) 
Interest income      211 
Interest expense      (1,522)
Share of post-tax profit of associate (Agriculture)      863
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures (Agriculture)      188
Profit before taxation      7,035
Taxation      (1,829)
Profit for the period      5,206
Segment assets  50,893 27,572 14,796 17,748 111,009
Unallocated assets      
- Investment in associate (Agriculture)      2,735
- Investment in joint ventures (Agriculture)      1,840
- Other investments      51
- Income tax assets      5,134
t otal assets      120,769
 Total assets in the above analysis represents total assets as disclosed in the balance sheet of £121,952,000 less bank overdrafts of £1,183,000.
Segment liabilities  26,819 6,604 4,528 854 38,805
 
Unallocated liabilities    
- Group borrowings      28,446
- Retirement benefit obligation*      14,673
- Income tax liabilities      5,548
t otal liabilities      87,472
 Total liabilities in the above analysis represents total liabilities as disclosed in the balance sheet of £88,655,000 less bank overdrafts of £1,183,000.
o ther segment items 
Capital expenditure (excluding acquisitions)  
- Property, plant and equipment  3,212 1,152 224 88 4,676
- Other intangible assets  6 — 19 — 25
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  1,538 1,375 329 169 3,411
Depreciation of investment property  — 15 — 4 19
Loss/(profit) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  6 — (6) — —
Amortisation of intangible assets  11 26 40 — 77
 * It is not possible to allocate the costs, assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension scheme across the segments. Therefore, this is shown as a 
reconciling item.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
37 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
2  segment Al RePo Rting continued
Primary reporting format - business segments
The segment results for the period ended 30 August 2008 are as follows:
  Agriculture  f ood  engineering  o ther  g roup 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Total gross segment revenue  276,158 85,563 10,885 198 372,804
Inter-segment revenue  (331) (3) (163) — (497)
Revenue  275,827 85,560 10,722 198 372,307
o perating profit/(loss) before retirement 
benefit charge*  11,711 1,956 1,085 (817) 13,935
Analysed as:
Before non-recurring items and amortisation  11,752 2,012 1,060 (950) 13,874
Non-recurring items and amortisation  (41) (56) 25 133 61
   11,711 1,956 1,085 (817) 13,935
Retirement benefit charge*      (1,060) 
Interest income      454 
Interest expense      (2,061)
Share of post-tax profit of associate (Agriculture)      1,273
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures (Agriculture)      317
Profit before taxation      12,858
Taxation      (4,605)
Profit for the period      8,253
Segment assets  75,899 28,294 8,955 671 113,819
Unallocated assets      
- Investment in associate (Agriculture)      2,870
- Investment in joint ventures (Agriculture)      1,609
- Other investments      51
- Income tax assets      5,383
t otal assets      123,732
 Total assets in the above analysis represents total assets as disclosed in the balance sheet of £127,562,000 less bank overdrafts of £3,830,000.
Segment liabilities  42,962 7,074 2,746 2,468 55,250 
 
 Unallocated liabilities  
- Group borrowings      17,499
- Retirement benefit obligation*      16,558
- Income tax liabilities      6,829
t otal liabilities      96,136
 Total liabilities in the above analysis represents total liabilities as disclosed in the balance sheet of £99,966,000 less bank overdrafts of £3,830,000.
o ther segment items 
Capital expenditure (excluding acquisitions)
- Property, plant and equipment   1,722 1,029 119 190 3,060 
- Other intangible assets   4 — — — 4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   1,549 1,351 291 127 3,318 
Depreciation of investment property   — 15 — 4 19
(Profit)/loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  (41) (4) — 2 (43)
Amortisation of intangible assets   50 77 32 — 159
Impairment of trade investment  — — — 200 200
 * It is not possible to allocate the costs, assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension scheme across the segments. Therefore, this is shown as a 
reconciling item.
38 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 2  segment Al RePo Rting continued
secondary reporting format - geographical segments
 Revenue segment assets capital expenditure
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK  330,512 359,700 102,597 110,919 4,556 2,989
Other   19,511 12,607 8,412 2,900 145 75
 350,023 372,307 111,009 113,819 4,701 3,064
The geographical analysis of revenue is presented by revenue destination. Included within capital expenditure is intangible asset additions of £25,000  
(2008: £4,000) which were incurred in other countries.
3   Revenue , cost of sAles And net o PeRAting ex Penses
  2009 2008
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  
- from sale of goods   334,102  361,585
- from contracts   15,921  10,722
    350,023  372,307
Cost of sales     (309,016)  (327,757)
Gross profit    41,007  44,550
Net operating expenses:
 
Distribution costs   (18,985)  (18,105)
 
Administrative expenses  
- normal   (14,727)  (13,631)
- non-recurring items and amortisation (see note 6)  —  61
  
   (14,727)  (13,570)
    (33,712)  (31,675)
g roup operating profit     7,295  12,875
4  gR ou P o PeRAting PRofit
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
Group operating profit is stated after (crediting)/charging:
Amortisation of grants   (10) (20)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment   — (43)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment held under finance lease   857 901
Depreciation of owned property, plant and equipment   2,554 2,417
Depreciation of owned investment property   19 19
Amortisation of intangible assets    77 159
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses   (703) 378
Derivative financial instruments losses/(gains)   889 (915)
Operating lease charges:
Plant and machinery    608 606
Other    11 3
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit	ser vices	(Compan y	£11,000; 	2008	£10,000)	 	 	 65 63
The auditing of accounts of associates of the company pursuant to legislation
(including that of countries and territories outside Great Britain)   134 124
Services relating to taxation   81 69
Other services   24 48
Included within group operating profit is the following in respect of 
investment property leased to, and occupied by, external parties:
Rental income   (43) (43)
Operating expenses   53 59
   10 16
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
39 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
5  sh ARe of Post -t Ax PRofit in Associ Ate And joint ventu Res  
   2009 2008
  £’000 £’000
Share of post-tax profit in associate  - normal  863 1,273
    863 1,273
Share of post-tax profit in joint ventures  - normal    188 321
 - non-recurring items and amortisation (see note 6)  — (4)
    188 317
T otal share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures   1,051 1,590
6  non -Recu RRing items And Amo Rtis Ation
  2009 2008
    t ax credit/  Tax credit/
   Amount (charge) Amount (charge)
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group operating profit:
Amortisation of intangible assets   — — (118) 33
 Net gain on transfer of deferred pensioners from Group scheme  — — 379 (95)
Impairment of trade investment   — — (200) —
    — — 61 (62)
 Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures:  
 Amortisation of intangible assets and impairment of goodwill
  recognised in joint ventures, net of tax    — — (4) —
 Non-recurring items and amortisation before taxation  — — 57 (62)
 Withdrawal of Industrial Buildings Allowances  — — — (1,317)
T otal non-recurring items and amortisation   — — 57 (1,379)
Profit before taxation   7,035  12,858
Non-recurring items and amortisation   —  57 
Adjusted profit before taxation   7,035  12,801 
Group operating profit   7,295  12,875
Non-recurring items and amortisation   —  61
Adjusted Group operating profit   7,295  12,814 
40 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 7  st Aff costs
   2009 2008
group   £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries   21,086 18,827
Social security costs   2,239 2,154
Other pension costs   2,549 1,887
Share based payment (income)/expense    (36) 123
     25,838 22,991
 
Included within other pension costs is £1,605,000 (2008: £1,060,000) in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The above disclosure excludes the £nil (2008: £379,000) net gain arising from the transfer of deferred pensioners from the Group pension scheme (note 28).
The average monthly number of employees, including directors, during the period was made up as follows:
   2009 2008
   number Number
Sales, office and management   469 439
Manufacture and distribution   317 299
   786 738
 
Key management are considered to be the directors of the Group.
Full details of the directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and share options are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26.
8  inte Rest income And inte Rest ex Pense 
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
interest income
Bank interest   195 372
Other interest    16 82
T otal interest income    211 454
interest expense
Interest payable on bank overdrafts   (419) (639)
Interest payable on bank loans and other borrowings   (757) (1,131)
Interest payable on finance leases   (141) (114)
Other interest   (176) (142)
Movement in fair value of interest related derivative instruments (note 27)   (29) (35)
T otal interest expense   (1,522) (2,061)
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
41 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
9  t Ax Ation
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
(a) Analysis of the charge in the period
c urrent tax:
UK corporation tax 
  Current period    980 2,653 
  Prior period    (38) (381) 
Foreign tax   
  Current period    729 479 
Consortium relief 
  Prior period     — 261
Group current tax    1,671 3,012
d eferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of timing differences    158 1,593
Group deferred tax (note 19)   158 1,593
T ax on profit on ordinary activities    1,829 4,605
(b) f actors affecting tax charge for the period
The tax assessed for the period is lower (2008: higher) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2008: 29.17%). The differences are explained below:
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation    7,035 12,858
T ax at 28% (2008: 29.17%)   1,970 3,751 
Effects of:
T ax effect of share of profit in associate and joint ventures   (294) (464) 
T ax effect of expenses that are not allowable in determining taxable profit   170 185 
Effects of withdrawal of Industrial Buildings Allowances     — 1,317
Effects of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries    76 68 
Effects of changes in tax rates     — (90)
Over provision in prior years    (57) (120)
Utilisation of unrecognised tax losses   (45) (50)
Other    9 8
T otal tax charge for the period    1,829 4,605
10  dividends
   2009 2008
equity   £’000 £’000
Final dividend for the period ended 30 August 2008 of 17.0p per 25.0p share (2007: 13.5p)   1,493 1,115
Interim paid of 6.0p per 25.0p share (2008: 6.0p)    527 503
   2,020 1,618
The proposed dividend to be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is £1,493,329, being 17.0p per share, making a total for the period of  
23.0p. The financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
42 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 11  eARnings PeR o Rdin ARy sh ARe
Earnings per share are calculated by reference to a weighted average of 8,773,022 shares (2008: 8,304,877) in issue during the period.
 Non-recurring costs and amortisation that are charged or credited to profit do not relate to the profitability of the Group on an ongoing basis. Therefore an 
adjusted earnings per share is presented as follows:
  2009 2008
    earnings  Earnings
   earnings per share Earnings per share
   £’000 pence £’000 pence
Earnings per share - basic    4,421 50.4 7,701 92.7 
Non-recurring items and intangible asset amortisation:
Amortisation of intangible assets      —   — 118 1.4 
Net gain on transfer of deferred pensioners from Group scheme    —   — (379) (4.6)
Impairment of trade investment     —   — 200 2.4
Amortisation of intangible asset and impairment of goodwill  
  recognised in joint ventures, net of tax     —   — 4 0.1 
T axation arising on the above non-recurring items and amortisation   —   — 62 0.7
Withdrawal of Industrial Buildings Allowances    —   — 1,317 15.9
Earnings per share - adjusted   4,421 50.4 9,023 108.6
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary  
shares. The potentially dilutive ordinary shares, where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the  
period, are disclosed in note 31.
  2009   2008
  w eighted   Weighted
  average earnings  average Earnings
 earnings number per share Earnings number per share
 £’000 of shares pence £’000 of shares pence
Earnings per share 4,421 8,773,022 50.4 7,701 8,304,877 92.7 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options   —   —   — — 92,776 (1.0) 
Save as you earn (SAYE)    —   —   — — 13,855 (0.1) 
Deferred bonus scheme   — 8,038 (0.1) — 31,357 (0.4)
Diluted earnings per share 4,421 8,781,060 50.3 7,701 8,442,865 91.2
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
43 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
12  goodwill And othe R int Angible Assets
  Customer   Patents and 
 Goodwill relationships Brands Know-how trademarks Software T otal
group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
c ost 
At 2 September 2007 1,076 2,346 357 160 79 — 4,018
Exchange differences — — — — 9 — 9 
Additions  365 — — — 4 — 369
At 30 August 2008 1,441 2,346 357 160 92 — 4,396
Exchange differences  — — — — 11 — 11
Subsidiaries acquired 313 — 263 — — 254 830
Additions  — — — — 6 19 25
Contingent consideration (40) — — — — — (40)
At 29 August 2009  1,714 2,346 620 160 109 273 5,222
Amortisation
At 2 September 2007 60 2,258 95 112 33 — 2,558
Exchange differences — — — — 4 — 4
Charge for the period — 88 30 32 9 — 159
At 30 August 2008 60 2,346 125 144 46 — 2,721
Exchange differences — — — — 6 — 6
Charge for the period — — 35 16 11 15 77
At 29 August 2009 60 2,346 160 160 63 15 2,804
n et book value
At 1 September 2007   1,016 88 262 48 46 — 1,460
At 30 August 2008 1,381 — 232 16 46 — 1,675
At 29 August 2009 1,654 — 460 — 46 258 2,418
During the period goodwill of £313,000 arose on the acquisition of part of the trade and certain assets and liabilities of Hans Wälischmiller GmbH (note 32).  
Goodwill represents the value of the employees which under IFRS should not be recognised as an asset on the balance sheet. It also represents opportunities  
to be gained from Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH’s presence in the European and Far Eastern marketplace.
The adjustment of £40,000 in respect of contingent consideration represents the net amount originally recognised as purchase consideration for J M Raine  
Limited that is no longer payable to the vendor under the terms of the earn out provision of the contract.
In 2008 goodwill of £365,000 arose on the acquisition of J M Raine Limited. Goodwill represents the expansion of the existing agricultural and ground care  
machinery business. 
 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the acquisition. 
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to the following cash generating units: 
   29 August 30 August
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
Carrs Agriculture Limited - Fertiliser Montrose profit centre    40   40 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited    195   195 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Johnstone Wallace Oils profit centre    781   781 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Spennymoor profit centre    325   365 
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH    313   — 
    1,654   1,381 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill is tested for impairment by  
estimating future cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated and discounting these cash flows to their present value.  
The key assumptions in this calculation are in respect of discount rates used and change in cash flows. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax  
rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating units.
Cash flows are estimated using the most recent budget information for the year to August 2010, which has been approved by the Board. The pre-tax discount  
rate used in the calculations is 8.5%.   
44 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC      Assets in
   Land and Plant and course of
   buildings equipment construction T otal
group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
c ost
At 2 September 2007    18,574 39,576 155 58,305 
Exchange differences   109 373 — 482
Subsidiaries acquired   299 145 — 444
Additions   83 2,752 225 3,060
Disposals    (5) (1,295) — (1,300)
Reclassifications    136 19 (155) —
At 30 August 2008    19,196 41,570 225 60,991 
Exchange differences   108 375 — 483
Subsidiaries acquired   1,712 297 — 2,009
Additions   99 4,048 529 4,676
Disposals    — (1,465)  (1,465)
Reclassifications    — 225 (225) —
At 29 August 2009    21,115 45,050 529 66,694
Accumulated depreciation
At 2 September 2007   3,667 26,157 — 29,824
Exchange differences    34 244 — 278
Subsidiaries acquired   — 88 — 88
Charge for the period    503 2,815 — 3,318 
Disposals    (2)  (1,111) — (1,113) 
At 30 August 2008   4,202 28,193 — 32,395
Exchange differences    37 270 — 307
Charge for the period    544 2,867 — 3,411
Disposals    — (1,183) — (1,183)
At 29 August 2009   4,783 30,147 — 34,930
n et book value
At 1 September 2007    14,907 13,419 155 28,481
At 30 August 2008    14,994 13,377 225 28,596
At 29 August 2009    16,332 14,903 529 31,764
Freehold land amounting to £3,113,065 (2008: £2,498,545) has not been depreciated.
The net book value of plant and equipment includes £3,598,960 (2008: £2,961,525) in respect of assets held under finance leases. This consists of cost of  
£5,791,439 (2008: £5,375,130) less accumulated depreciation of £2,192,479 (2008: £2,413,605).
Depreciation is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales   2,404 2,447 
Distribution costs   164 141
Administrative expenses   843 730
   3,411 3,318
The company has no property, plant and equipment (2008: nil).
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
45
12  goodwill And othe R int Angible Assets continued
The Directors consider the assumptions adopted in calculating the cash flows to be consistent with historical performance and to be reasonable given current 
market conditions.
No sensitivity is presented as the Directors do not believe that an impairment would occur should the assumptions alter for any reasonably foreseeable events.
No impairment has been identified in the period (2008: nil).
Amortisation is recognised within administrative expenses.
 There is no goodwill or intangible assets in the company (2008: nil).
13  PRo PeRty , Pl Ant And equi Pment Notes to the Financial Statements continued
14  investment PRo PeRty
15  investments
    Land and
    buildings
group    £’000
c ost
At 2 september 2007, 30 August 2008 and 29 August 2009    871
Accumulated depreciation
At 2 September 2007     115 
Charge for the period    19
At 30 August 2008     134 
Charge for the period    19
At 29 August 2009     153
n et book value
At 1 September 2007     756
At 30 August 2008     737
At 29 August 2009    718
Included within investment property are properties occupied by life tenants. The net book value of these properties at 29 August 2009 is £224,000  
(2008: £230,000).
The directors do not consider that the fair value of investment properties differs materially from carrying value. Investment properties have not been valued  
as at 29 August 2009 by an independent professionally qualified valuer.
There is no investment property in the company (2008: nil).
   Joint  Other
   ventures Associate investments T otal
group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
c ost
At 2 September 2007    935  2,456 260 3,651
Exchange difference   63 — — 63 
Additions   294 — — 294 
Share of post-tax profit   317 1,273 — 1,590
Share of losses recognised directly in equity   — (859) — (859)
At 30 August 2008    1,609 2,870 260 4,739
Exchange difference   43 — — 43
Share of post-tax profit   188 863 — 1,051
Share of losses recognised directly in equity   — (998) — (998)
At 29 August 2009   1,840 2,735 260 4,835
Provision for impairment
At 2 September 2007   — — 9 9
Provision in the period   — — 200 200
At 30 August 2008 and 29 August 2009   — — 209 209
n et book value
At 1 September 2007    935 2,456 251 3,642
At 30 August 2008    1,609 2,870 51 4,530
At 29 August 2009    1,840 2,735 51 4,626
46 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 15  investments continued
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for which fair value  
cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost. 
In 2008 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited increased its holding of preference shares in its joint venture, Bibby Agriculture Limited, at a cost  
of £290,000.
On 1 July 2007 Carrs Agriculture Limited exercised an option to purchase 50% of the issued share capital of Silloth Storage Company Limited. The cash  
consideration, including costs, was £4,050, which was paid and recognised during the period ended 30 August 2008. The principal activity of the joint venture  
is the storage of cane derived livestock feed supplements. Of the remaining 50%, 48% is held by Peter Cremer GmbH and 2% is held by Prime Molasses  
Limited.
In 2008 an investment with a carrying cost of £200,000 was fully provided against. This investment is loss making and therefore the directors considered it 
appropriate to recognise the provision.
  Joint  Shares in Other
  ventures Associate subsidiaries investments T otal
company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
c ost
At 2 September 2007   269 1,470 18,011 200 19,950 
Exchange difference  34 — — — 34
Share based payment expense 
  in respect of employees of 
  subsidiary undertakings  — — 76 — 76
At 30 August 2008   303 1,470 18,087 200 20,060 
Exchange difference  17 — — — 17
Share based payment expense 
  in respect of employees of 
  subsidiary undertakings  — — 1 — 1
At 29 August 2009   320 1,470 18,088 200 20,078
Provision for impairment
At 2 September 2007  — — 5,086 — 5,086
Provision in the period  — — — 200 200
At 30 August 2008 and 29 August 2009  — — 5,086 200 5,286
n et book value
At 1 September 2007   269 1,470 12,925 200 14,864
At 30 August 2008  303 1,470 13,001 — 14,774
At 29 August 2009  320 1,470 13,002 — 14,792
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for which fair value  
cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost. 
In 2008 an investment with a carrying cost of £200,000 was fully provided against. This investment is loss making and therefore the directors considered it  
appropriate to recognise the provision.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
47 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
16  investment in Associ Ate
The associated undertaking at 29 August 2009 is:
g roup and company
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited 49 England  UK Manufacture of animal feed
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
The aggregate amounts relating to the associate, of which the group recognises 49%, are:
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
T otal assets    21,140 24,572 
T otal liabilities   (18,059) (21,215) 
Revenues    91,153 92,324
Profit after tax   1,761 2,598
 
Included within the investment in associate is a loan for £1,225,000 (2008: £1,225,000) which is considered to form part of the net investment in associate.
17  inteRest in joint ventuRes
The joint ventures at 29 August 2009 are:
group
 Proportion of shares held   
 Ordinary Preference Country of Country of 
name % % incorporation operation Activity
Crystalyx Products GmbH 50 — Germany  Germany Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
Bibby Agriculture Limited 26 26 England UK Sale of agricultural products
Afgritech Limited 50 — England  UK Producers of ingredients 
      of animal feed
Silloth Storage Company Limited 50 — England UK Storage of cane derived 
     livestock feed supplement
Crystalyx Products GmbH has a 31 December accounting period end.
Silloth Storage Company Limited has a 30 June accounting period end.
Interests in the joint ventures listed above are held directly by the holding company with the following exceptions: Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited  
holds 50% of the ordinary share capital and 50% of the preference share capital in Bibby Agriculture Limited. Carrs Agriculture Limited holds 50% of the  
o r d i n a r y 	 s h a r e 	 c a p i t a l 	 i n 	 S i l l o t h 	 S t o r a g e 	 C o m p a n y 	 L i m i t e d . 	 T h e 	 p r e f e r e n c e 	 s h a r e s 	 i n 	 B i b b y 	 A g r i c u l t u r e 	 L i m i t e d 	 a r e 	 r e d e e m a b l e 	 w i t h 	 t h r e e 	 m o n t h s 	 n o t i c e ; 	 c a r r y	 
no dividend entitlement except at the director’s discretion, and no voting rights.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The aggregate amounts included in the financial statements relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures are:
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
Non-current assets   1,639 1,636 
Current assets   2,079 2,240 
Current liabilities   (2,285) (2,498) 
Non-current liabilities   (480) (656) 
Income   12,102 12,420
Expenses   (11,824) (11,961)
Net finance costs   (18) (12)
 Goodwill of £17,000 arose on the investment in Silloth Storage Company Limited. This is included in the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in joint 
ventures and is not shown as a separate asset.
 
Included within interest in joint ventures is an amount of £870,000 (2008: £870,000) which relates to the Group’s interest in the preference share capital of 
Bibby Agriculture Limited.
48 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 18 investment in subsidiARy undeRtAkings
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Agriculture Limited   100   England  UK Manufacture of animal  
     feed blocks and fertiliser 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited   51   England UK Agricultural retailers  
Animal Feed Supplement Inc.   100   USA USA Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks  
Carr’s Flour Mills Limited   100   England UK Flour milling  
Carrs Engineering Limited   100   England UK Engineering  
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH  100 Germany Germany Engineering
Bowie and Aram Limited   100   Scotland UK Travel agents  
B.R.B. Trust Limited   100   England UK Financial services  
Carrs Properties Limited   100   England UK Property holding
Investments in the subsidiaries listed above are held directly by the holding company with the following exception: Carrs Engineering Limited holds 100% of 
the ordinary share capital in Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH.
Dormant subsidiaries are not shown above because disclosure would be excessively lengthy. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the 
Company’s next annual return.
During the period Carrs Engineering Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH (note 32). 
On 29 August 2009 Bowie and Aram Limited ceased to trade. This business is immaterial to the Group as a whole and therefore it has not been disclosed as  
a discontinued operation.
19  d efe RRed t Ax Assets And li Abilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets  liabilities net
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax 
  depreciation  — — (3,972) (3,907) (3,972) (3,907)
Employee benefits  4,108 4,636  — —  4,108 4,636
Other 907 682 (868)  (868) 39 (186)
T ax assets/(liabilities)  5,015 5,318 (4,840) (4,775) 175 543
movement in deferred tax during the period
 At     At
 31 August Exchange In respect of Recognised Recognised 29 August
 2008 differences acquisitions in income in equity 2009
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation (3,907) — — (65) — (3,972)
Employee benefits  4,636 — — (262) (266) 4,108
Other  (186) 56 — 169 — 39
 543 56 — (158) (266) 175
 
movement in deferred tax during the prior period
 At     At
 2 September Exchange In respect of Recognised Recognised 30 August
 2007 differences acquisitions in income in equity 2008
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation (2,550) — (3) (1,354) — (3,907)
Employee benefits  2,746 — — (371) 2,261 4,636
Other  (386) 68 — 132 — (186)
 (190) 68 (3) (1,593) 2,261 543
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
49 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
 Assets
   2009 2008
company   £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   3 —
Employee benefits      4,108 4,636 
Other     — 4
T ax assets     4,111 4,640
 
movement in deferred tax during the period
19  d efe RRed t Ax Assets And li Abilities continued
   At   At
   31 August Recognised Recognised 29 August
   2008 in income in equity 2009
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation — 3 — 3
Employee benefits  4,636 (262) (266)   4,108 
Other 4 (4) — —
 4,640 (263) (266) 4,111
movement in deferred tax during the prior period
   At   At
   2 September Recognised Recognised 30 August
   2007 in income in equity 2008
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Employee benefits    2,746 (371) 2,261 4,636
Other    4 — — 4
   2,750 (371) 2,261 4,640
T ax of £285,000 (2008: £310,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Group balance sheet.
T ax of £66,000 (2008: £66,000) in respect of tax losses have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Company balance sheet.
 Included in the prior year Group and Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense is £3,116,000. This consists of the £2,261,000 deferred tax  
credit as shown in the tables above, £447,000 corporation tax credit arising on the £1,531,700 salary compensation for pension payment made to a director  
in the prior period and corporation tax credit of £408,000 on pension contributions in excess of the retirement benefit charge in the prior period.
 
50 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 20 inventoRies 
   2009 2008
group   £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables   9,337 15,458 
Work in progress   1,526 1,442 
Finished goods and goods for resale    12,997 14,114
   23,860 31,014
Inventories are stated after a provision for impairment of £799,000 (2008: £619,000).
Cost of sales consists of the following:
Material cost   291,428 311,929 
Processing cost   6,276 4,420 
Other   11,312 11,408
   309,016 327,757
The company has no inventories (2008: nil).
21  tRAde And otheR Receiv Ables
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
current:
Trade receivables 41,671 49,817  — — 
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (2,903) (2,900) — —
Trade receivables - net 38,768 46,917 — —
Amounts recoverable on contracts  1,642 394 — —  
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 38)  — — 12,560 16,384
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 38) 607 625 411 374
Other receivables  821 1,585 118 284
Prepayments and accrued income  1,221 1,233 124 179
  43,059 50,754 13,213 17,221
non-current:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 38) — — 2,275 —
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 38) 50 50 — — 
Other receivables 3 — — —
  53 50 2,275 —
The movement in the provision for impaired trade receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and unused 
provision released back to the income statement. Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of 
recovering additional cash.
During the period a charge of £317,000 (2008: £1,019,000) has been recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement in respect of  
the provision for impairment of trade receivables.
No impairment of other receivables has been recognised in the current or preceding period.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by group undertakings carry interest at base rate +1.75%. Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on  
demand.
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
51 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
21  tRAde And otheR Receiv Ables continued
 2009 2008
  gross impairment Gross Impairment
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
the ageing of trade receivables is as follows:     
   
Not past due 29,117 (215) 34,148  (208)
Past due 0 - 30 days 6,100 (225) 8,538  (159)
Past due 31 - 60 days 2,199 (262) 2,048  (130)
Past due 61 - 90 days 1,267 (276) 2,029  (481)
Past due 91 - 120 days 848 (284) 1,070  (284)
Past 121 days 2,140 (1,641) 1,984  (1,638)
   41,671 (2,903) 49,817  (2,900)
The Company has no trade receivables (2008: nil).
No major renegotiation of terms has taken place during the current period or preceding period.    
   
The credit quality of customers is assessed at subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other  relevant  
factors. Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.     
  
It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are provided  
for where appropriate.     
  
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the period end is the carrying value, net of provision for impairment, of each receivable. The Group and  
Company do not hold any significant collateral as security (2008: £nil).
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The carrying value of trade receivables are denominated 
in the following currencies:
Sterling 37,869 46,283  — —
US Dollar 66 347 — —
Euro  833 287 — —
   38,768 46,917 — —
22  cuRRent t Ax Assets
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Corporation tax recoverable  119 65 342 193
Group taxation relief  — — 617 1,409
  119 65 959 1,602
52 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 23  c Ash And c Ash equiv Alents And bAnk oveRdRAfts 
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand per the balance sheet  10,304 3,896 16,038 —
Bank overdrafts (note 26) (1,183) (3,830) — (120)
Cash and cash equivalents per the cash flow statement  9,121 66 16,038 (120)
24 tRAde And otheR PA yAbles
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
current:
Trade payables  20,245 33,882 — —
Payments on account  1,956 2,549 — — 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 38) — — 129 48
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 38) 7,597 9,336 — —
Other taxes and social security payable  1,292 1,680 207 1,148
Other payables  1,714 1,733 166 360
Accruals and deferred income  3,124 3,797 331 772
   35,928 52,977 833 2,328
non-current:
Other payables  2,718 2,111 — —
Accruals and deferred income  116 126 — —
   2,834 2,237 — —
Amounts owed to group undertakings are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
Included within non-current accruals and deferred income is the following in respect of government grants:
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  126 146 — —
Amortisation in the period (10) (20) — —
At the end of the period  116 126 — —
25  cuRRent t Ax liAbilities
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current tax  708 1,715 — —
Consortium tax relief (note 38) — 339 — —
  708 2,054 — —
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
53 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
26  boRR owings 
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
the net borrowings are:
Borrowings as above  29,629 21,329 18,158 10,860
Cash and cash equivalents (10,304) (3,896) (16,038) —
Net borrowings  19,325 17,433 2,120 10,860
Bank loans and other borrowings includes an amount of £7,010,000 (2008: £8,205,000) which is secured on trade receivables. The Company, together  
with certain subsidiaries, act as guarantors on the bank loans. In addition, Royal Bank of Scotland PLC have a legal charge over certain properties.  
Finance lease obligations are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Interest bearing loans from group undertakings carry interest at base rate or base rate + 1.25%. Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on demand.
Other loans are non-interest bearing and have no fixed date for repayment. The bank loans are repayable by instalments and the overdraft is repayable  
on demand.
Non-current bank loans includes a revolving credit facility of £10 million which is repayable in August 2012. 
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
current:
Bank overdrafts  1,183 3,830 — 120
Bank loans and other borrowings 8,096 9,196 454 991
Loans from group undertakings (note 38) — — 3,294 4,378
Other loans (note 38)  — 1,225 — —
Finance leases 947 753 — —
   10,226 15,004 3,748 5,489
non-current:
Bank loans  16,776 5,371 14,410 5,371
Other loans (note 38)  1,265 37 — —
Finance leases  1,362 917 — —
    19,403 6,325 14,410 5,371
borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year  10,226 15,004 3,748 5,489
In the second year  1,828 5,710 454 5,122
In the third to fifth years inclusive  17,575 615 13,956 249
  29,629 21,329 18,158 10,860
Group and company borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of arrangement fees of £135,450 of which £45,786 is deducted from current  
liabilities (2008: £12,208 of which £8,667 is deducted from current liabilities).
54 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 27  deRiv Atives And otheR finAnciAl instR uments  
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing its risk and they are summarised below. 
These policies have remained unchanged throughout the period.
credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits with 
banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers. The credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed in note 21.
The majority of Group revenues are made on credit terms. It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management 
meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are provided for where appropriate. The current financial climate requires the Group’s credit control 
function to be exceptionally vigilant.
Price risk
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk. Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk such as the 
fluctuation in wheat prices and fertiliser commodity prices. This risk is, however, managed primarily through the use of contracts to secure supply at 
agreed prices.
market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates (currency risk) and interest rates (interest rate risk) will affect income or the value of 
financial assets and liabilities.
currency risk
The Group publishes its financial statements in Sterling but conducts business in some foreign currencies. As a result it is subject to foreign currency 
exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on the translation of results and the underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group’s subsidiary, Animal Feed Supplement Inc., operates in the US and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in US dollars.
The Group’s subsidiary, Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH, operates in Germany and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in Euros.
Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture of the Group, operates in Germany and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in Euros.  
      
The Group is also exposed to foreign currency risk on its purchases of raw materials for the fertiliser and flour milling operations. The major currency 
involved is the US dollar. The policy of the Group is to hedge using forward foreign exchange contracts with UK banks as soon as  commitment has been 
given to the underlying transaction. 
The Group is hedging its international assets and has designated foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against its net investment in foreign operations.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
55 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27  deRiv Atives And otheR finAnciAl instR uments continued
financial instruments by currency
 2009 2008
  us    US    
 sterling dollar euro  total Sterling  Dollar Euro T otal
group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets         
Other investments 51 — — 51 51   —   —   51
Non-current receivables 53 — — 53 50   —   —   50
Current trade and other receivables 41,696 333 1,030 43,059 49,916   548   290   50,754
Current derivatives — — 16 16  —   896   31   927
Cash and cash equivalents 8,102 1,989 213 10,304 3,853   39   4   3,896
  49,902 2,322 1,259 53,483 53,870   1,483   325   55,678
liabilities         
Current borrowings 9,499 288 439 10,226 13,138  (71)   1,937   15,004
Current derivatives 43 — — 43 —   —   22   22
Current trade and other payables 32,940 697 2,291 35,928 45,986   6,834   157   52,977
Non-current borrowings 16,997 — 2,406 19,403 6,289   —   36   6,325
Non-current derivatives — — — — 14   —   —   14
Other non-current liabilities 116 2,718 — 2,834 125   2,112  — 2,237
  59,595 3,703 5,136 68,434 65,552   8,875   2,152   76,579
 2009 2008
  us    US    
 sterling dollar euro  total Sterling  Dollar Euro T otal
company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Non-current receivables 2,275 — — 2,275 — — — —
Current trade and other receivables 13,213 — — 13,213 17,221   —   —   17,221
Current derivatives — — — — — — 31   31
Cash and cash equivalents 14,128 1,887 23 16,038 —   —   —   —
  29,616 1,887 23 31,526 17,221   —   31   17,252
liabilities         
Current borrowings 568 3,180 — 3,748 (1,015)   4,204   2,300   5,489
Current derivatives 43 — — 43 — — — —
Current trade and other payables 833 — — 833 2,328   —   —   2,328
Non-current borrowings 14,410 — — 14,410 5,371   —   —   5,371
Non-current derivatives — — — — 14   —   —   14
  15,854 3,180 — 19,034 6,698   4,204   2,300   13,202
The Group and Company has right of offset on certain bank accounts.
sensitivity analysis         
 The impact of a weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies at the balance sheet date would be as follows:
 2009 2008
  5% weakening 5% strengthening 5% weakening 5% strengthening
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 211 (191) (414) 375
Impact on total equity 199 309 (162) 148
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other variables have 
been held constant.     
 
56 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 27  deRiv Atives And otheR finAnciAl instR uments continued
interest rate risk   
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and bank borrowings. The Group borrows in the desired currencies at fixed 
and floating rates of interest and then uses interest rate caps and swaps to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. At the period 
end £7.6 million (2008: £7.4 million) of the group’s borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest.
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2009 interest rate 2008
group % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 3.00 1,183 6.00  3,830
Bank loans and other borrowings 2.94 24,872 6.52  14,567
Other loans — 1,265  —   1,262
Finance lease liabilities 2.50 2,309 7.00  1,670
   29,629  21,329
Fixed rate  7,559  7,420
Floating rate  20,805  12,647
Non-interest bearing  1,265  1,262
   29,629  21,329
The effect of the Group’s interest rate swaps is to classify £5.25 million (2008: £5.75 million) of floating rate borrowings as fixed rate in the above table.
The Group’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:    
 
Bank	o v erdr afts	 B a s e 	 r a t e 	 + 	 2 . 5 % 	 m a r g i n ; 	 B a s e 	 r a t e 	 + 	 2 % ; 	 C u r r e n c y 	 l e n d i n g 	 r a t e 	 + 2 . 2 5 % ; 	 U S 	 p r i m e 	 r a t e 	 + 	 2 . 5 % 	 mar gin	
Bank	loans	and	other	bor ro wings	 Libor	+	2.5%; 	Base	r ate	+	1.75%	mar gin; 	Eur ibor	+2.5%
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2009 interest rate 2008
company % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 3.00 — 6.00  120
Bank loans and other borrowings 3.19 14,864 6.86 6,362
Loans from group undertakings 1.51 3,294 5.02 4,378
    18,158  10,860
 
Fixed rate  5,250  5,750
Floating rate  12,908  5,110
   18,158  10,860
The effect of the Company’s interest rate swaps is to classify £5.25 million (2008: £5.75 million) of floating rate borrowings as fixed rate in the above 
table.     
The Company’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
     
Bank overdrafts Base rate + 2.5% margin     
Bank loans and other borrowings  Libor + 2.5%
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
57 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27  deRiv Atives And otheR finAnciAl instR uments continued
sensitivity analysis      
The impact of a decrease or increase in interest rates during the period would be as follows:
 2009 2008
  1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 347 (347) 160 (160)
Impact on total equity 347 (347) 160 (160)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other variables have 
been held constant.    
 
liquidity risk    
The Group’s policy throughout the period has been to maintain a mix of short and medium term borrowings. Short-term flexibility is achieved by 
overdraft facilities. In addition it is the Group’s policy to maintain committed undrawn facilities in order to provide flexibility in the management of the 
Group’s liquidity.    
 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining 
period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which 
have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date. 
 2009  2008
  within one to two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 total year years years Total year years years
group £’000 £’000 £’000   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000   £’000
Bank overdrafts 1,183 1,183 — — 3,830   3,830   —   —
Bank loans and other borrowings 26,589 8,704 1,665 16,220 15,097   9,610   5,235   252
Other loans 1,265 — 40 1,225 1,262   1,225   37   —
Finance lease liabilities 2,577 1,071 783 723 1,872   855   592   425
Derivatives 43 43   —   — 36 22 14   —
Trade and other payables 35,928 35,928   —   — 52,977 52,977   —   —
Other non-current liabilities 2,834 —   — 2,834 2,237   —   —   2,237
  70,419 46,929 2,488 21,002 77,311  68,519   5,878   2,914
 2009  2008
  within one to two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 total year years years Total year years years
company £’000 £’000 £’000   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000   £’000
Bank overdrafts — — — — 120   120   —   —
Bank loans and other borrowings 16,388 978 963 14,447 6,892   1,405   5,235   252
Loans from group undertakings 3,294 3,294 — — 4,378   4,378   —   —
Derivatives 43 43   —   — 14   — 14   —
Trade and other payables 833 833   —   — 2,328 2,328   —   —
 20,558 5,148 963 14,447 13,732   8,231   5,249   252
   
future minimum lease payments of finance leases
58 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
  Repayment profile
  2009 2008 2009 2008
group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amount payable: 
Within one year 1,071 855 947 753
In the second year 783 592 702 551
In the third to fifth years inclusive 723 425 660 366
  2,577 1,872 2,309 1,670
Less: future finance charges (268) (202)
Present value of lease obligations 2,309 1,670
The Company has no finance lease obligations (2008: nil).     2009 2008
   floating rate Floating rate
   £’000 £’000
Expiring in one year or less   18,427 15,699 
The Company’s overdraft is within a group facility and it is therefore not possible to determine the Company’s undrawn committed facilities at the balance  
sheet date.
capital risk management        
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.    
    
 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders,  
issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.      
 The group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by shareholders’ equity. Net debt is calculated  
as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings) as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash equivalents.  
Shareholders’ equity is as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.     
The gearing ratio at 29 August 2009 was 64.7% (2008: 69.8%).      
fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
27  deRiv Atives And otheR finAnciAl instR uments continued
borrowing facilities        
The Group has various undrawn committed facilities. The undrawn facilities available at 29 August 2009, in respect of which all conditions 
precedent had been met, were as follows:
 group  company
 2009 2008 2009 2008
 book fair Book Fair book fair Book Fair
 value value value value value value value value
group £’000 £’000 £’000   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000   £’000
Assets
Other investments 51 51   51   51  — —  —   —  
Non-current receivables 53 53  50   50  2,275 2,275   —   — 
Current trade and other receivables 43,059 43,059   50,754   50,754  13,213 13,213   17,221   17,221 
Current derivatives 16 16 927   927  — —   31   31 
Cash and cash equivalents 10,304 10,304   3,896   3,896  16,038 16,038   —   —
  53,483 53,483  55,678   55,678  31,526 31,526   17,252   17,252 
         
liabilities         
Current borrowings 10,226 10,226   15,004   15,004  3,748 3,748   5,489   5,489 
Current derivatives 43  43  22   22  43  43   —   — 
Current trade and other payables 35,928 35,928   52,977   52,977  833 833   2,328   2,328 
Non-current borrowings 19,403 19,371   6,325   6,370  14,410 14,532   5,371   5,472 
Non-current derivatives — —   14   14  — —   14   14 
Other non-current liabilities 2,834 2,834   2,237   2,237  — —   —   — 
 68,434 68,402 76,579   76,624  19,034 19,156   13,202   13,303
 
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying 
year end exchange rates.        
 
 Other investments consist of investments in unquoted companies, which are held at cost as fair value cannot be reliably measured.  
 Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.       
     
 The fair value of current assets and current liabilities are assumed to approximate to book value due to the short term maturity of the instrument.  
        
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
59 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27  deRiv Atives And otheR finAnciAl instR uments continued
derivative financial instruments        
hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Company has US dollar denominated borrowings totalling $5,200,000 which the Group has partially hedged against its investment in its US 
subsidiary. The fair value of the US dollar borrowings at 29 August 2009 was £3,180,000 and a foreign exchange pre-tax loss of £316,000 was 
recognised in equity during the year on translation of this loan to sterling.
A subsidiary of the Group has Euro denominated net loans receivable totalling X104,000 which the Group has partially hedged against its investment in 
its European subsidiary. The fair value of the Euro net loans receivable at 29 August 2009 was £91,000 and a foreign exchange pre-tax gain of £6,000 
was recognised in equity during the year on translation of this net loan to sterling.
currency derivatives          
The Group and Company use forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of 
outstanding forward foreign currency contracts are as below:
 2009 2008
   contractual  Contractual
  fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period 905 12,999 (10)  932
(Losses)/gains during the period (889) (12,180) 915  12,067
At end of period 16 819 905   12,999
Included within: 
Current assets  16 819 927  13,813
Current liabilities — — (22)  (814)
  16 819 905   12,999
 2009 2008
   contractual  Contractual
  fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period 31 1,920  —   —
(Losses)/gains during the period (31) (1,920) 31  1,920
At end of period —  — 31   1,920
Included within:     
Current assets — — 31   1,920
   — — 31   1,920
     
Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent forward foreign currency contracts at the balance sheet date. 
All forward foreign currency contracts have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on currency related  
derivatives are included within adminstrative expenses.    
 
    
60 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 27  deRiv Atives And otheR finAnciAl instR uments continued
interest rate derivatives     
The Group and Company use interest rate caps and swaps to manage their interest rate risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of these 
instruments are as below:
 interest rate cap  interest rate swap 
 group company group company
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000 £’000   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000   £’000
At beginning of period — 21 —   —  (14) 111 (14)   111 
Disposal of derivative —    —  —    —  —   (111)  —   (111)
Losses during the period —  (21) —   —  (29)  (14) (29)  (14)
At end of period —  — —    —  (43)  (14) (43)  (14)
Included within:         
Current liabilities —   — —    —  (43)  — (43)   —
Non-current liabilities —    —  —    —  —   (14)  — (14)
  —   —  —    —  (43)   (14)  (43)  (14)
 
 Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. All interest related derivatives have a 
maturity date of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on interest related derivatives are included within interest income/
expense in the income statement.      
 
The interest rate cap had a notional value of £3,500,000 and a strike rate of 5.5%. The date of maturity was 30 September 2008.  Interest rate swaps 
held at 29 August 2009 have outstanding notional values of £4,500,000 and £750,000 (original notional value of £1,500,000) and a fixed interest  
rate of 5.68% and 5.70% respectively. Interest payments under both swap agreements are being made at quarterly intervals. The date of maturity was  
26 October 2009 and is 3 December 2009 respectively.
28  RetiRement benefit obligA tion
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension 
Scheme.
carr’s milling industries
The Company sponsors the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and offers a defined contribution and a defined benefit section. The assets 
of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
The pension expense for the defined contribution section of the scheme for the period was £233,000 (2008: £174,000). Contributions totalling 
£19,000 (2008: £8,700) were payable to the fund at the period end and are included in other creditors.
The defined benefit section of the scheme is funded to cover future pension liabilities (including expected future earnings and pension increases). It is 
subject to an independent valuation on a triennial basis by a qualified actuary who determines the rate of the employer’s contribution. The most recent 
valuation of the scheme was at 1 January 2009 and adopted the Projected Unit Method. It was assumed that the investment returns would be 6.5% 
per annum and that the salary increases would average 4.15% per annum. It was also assumed that present and future pensions would increase once in 
payment at the lesser of 5.0% per annum and price inflation subject to a minimum of 0% per annum.
The actuarial valuation as at 1 January 2009 shows a funding shortfall (technical provisions minus value of assets) of £16,084,000.
The pension contribution made by the Group over the period to the defined benefit section was £2,539,000 (2008: £2,517,000).
In addition, the Group offers a Group Personal Pension plan to certain employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Limited. The pension expense for this scheme 
for the period was £270,000 (2008: £255,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit section of the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993. The last full actuarial valuation of 
this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 1 January 2009 and updated on an approximate basis to 29 August 2009.  
   
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
61 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
28  RetiRement benefit obligA tion continued
major assumptions:         
   2009 2008
   % %
Inflation   3.1 3.9 
Salary increases   4.1 4.9 
Rate of discount   5.6 6.2 
Pension in payment increases:   
  Pre 1 September 2001   3.4 4.2 
  Post 1 September 2001   3.1 3.9 
 Revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for pensions revaluing at 5.0% per annum or RPI if less  3.1 3.9
 
The mortality tables used in the valuation have been updated to (130% of qx) PN*A00 (Y ear of Birth) and the Long Cohort improvement factors with a 1% 
underpin. The  mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65:
   At At
   29 August  30 August 
   2009 2008
Males currently age 45 (2008: 40)   23.5 years 23.2 years
Females currently age 45 (2008: 40)   26.0 years 26.0 years
Males currently age 65 (2008: 65)   21.5 years 22.0 years
Females currently age 65 (2008: 65)   24.1 years 24.8 years
 
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
Current service cost    568 678 
Interest on pension scheme liabilities    2,937 2,490 
Expected return on pension scheme assets   (1,900) (2,108)
   1,605 1,060
 
In addition a net gain of £nil (2008: £379,000) arising from the transfer of deferred pensioners from the Group scheme is included within administrative 
expenses.
The expense is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales    299 213 
Distribution costs   19 7
Administrative expenses    1,287 840
   1,605 1,060
Actuarial gains of £951,000 (2008: Losses of £11,065,000) have been reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The cumulative amounts of acturial losses recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense since adoption of IAS19 is £8,594,000.
62 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 28  RetiRement benefit obligA tion continued
Amounts included in the balance sheet:  
   2009 2008
   £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations   (46,763) (48,016) 
Fair value of scheme assets    32,090 31,458
Deficit in scheme   (14,673) (16,558) 
Past service cost not yet recognised in the balance sheet    — —
T otal liability recognised in the balance sheet   (14,673) (16,558)
Amount included in current liabilities    — —
Amount included in non-current liabilities   (14,673) (16,558)
movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  48,016 43,721   
Current service cost  568 678 
Interest cost  2,937 2,490 
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation  (3,041) 7,230 
Benefits paid (1,717) (3,339)
Reduction in obligation following payment in lieu of pension to a director — (1,439)
Effect of settlements — (1,325)
At the end of the period  46,763 48,016
The prior year reduction in obligation following payment in lieu of pension to a director of £1,439,000 is recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income 
and Expense net of the payment made of £1,531,700. 
movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  31,458 33,914   
Expected return on scheme assets  1,900 2,108 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  (2,090) (3,742) 
Contributions by employer  2,539 2,517 
Benefits paid (1,717) (3,339)
At the end of the period  32,090 31,458
 
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
 expected return fair value of assets
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  % % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments  7.2 7.3 16,311 15,715  
Debt instruments  4.6 5.3 12,629 13,575 
Property  7.0 6.8 2,676 1,678 
Other assets  4.6 5.75 474 490   
  6.1 6.4 32,090 31,458 
Actual return on scheme assets    (190) (1,634) 
The expected long term return on other assets is determined by reference to bank base rates at the balance sheet date. The expected return on bonds 
is determined by reference to UK long dated gilt and bond yields at the balance sheet date. The expected rate of return on equities and property is 
based on the rate of return on bonds with an allowance for out-performance.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
63 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
28  RetiRement benefit obligA tion continued
history of scheme:         
  2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of the defined benefit  
  obligation  (46,763) (48,016) (43,721) (45,794) (39,556)
Fair value of scheme assets   32,090 31,458 33,914 29,998 27,437  
Deficit  (14,673) (16,558) (9,807) (15,796) (12,119)
Difference between expected and 
  actual returns on scheme assets:
Amount £’000   (2,090) (3,742) 206 358 2,018 
Percentage of scheme assets  6.5% 11.9% 0.6% 1.2% 7.4%
Experience gains and losses on scheme 
  liabilities:
Amount £’000  3,041 (7,323) 4,364 (4,258) (3,561) 
Percentage of scheme liabilities  6.5% 15.3% 10.0% 9.3% 9.0%
 Included within the prior year experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities is £92,700. This is the reduction in the obligation following payment in lieu 
of pension to a director of £1,439,000, net of the payment made of £1,531,700.
 The Group expects to contribute approximately £2,860,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.  The Company expects to 
contribute approximately £1,346,648 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
 
carrs billington Agriculture
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited, one of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings, is a participating employer of the Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme, another funded defined benefit scheme. On 30 November 2007, following consultation with the active members, the Company and 
Trustees agreed to close the scheme to future service accrual. This resulted in a curtailment gain in the prior year of £256,000.
 The pension contribution made by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited over the period to the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme was 
£nil (2008: £15,000).
 The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006 shows that the market value of assets relating to the scheme was £19,921,000 and the actuarial value 
of those assets represented 81% of the actuarial value of benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increase in earnings. 
It was assumed that the investment returns would be pre-retirement 6.2% per annum and post-retirement 4.7% per annum. At 31 December 2006, the 
scheme showed a deficit of £4,700,000.
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited offers a Group Personal Pension Plan to its employees and the pension expense for this plan in the period 
was £201,000 (2008: £150,000). 
 During the period contributions were also payable to a defined contribution pension scheme for certain employees of Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales) Limited. The pension expense for this scheme for the period was £5,000 (2008: £9,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit scheme. The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent 
actuary as at 31 December 2006 and updated on an approximate basis to 29 August 2009. 
 It is not possible to identify the underlying share of the pension scheme assets and liabilities that relate to the Group. At inception in June 2000 
approximately 50% of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme related to the Group and under IFRS approximately 50% of the assets and liabilities 
are included in the Group’s financial statements through the investment in associate, which is the sponsoring employer of the scheme.
64 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 28  RetiRement benefit obligA tion continued
major assumptions:         
   2009 2008
   % %
Inflation 3.1 3.7 
Salary increases n /A 4.2 
Rate of discount 5.6 6.2 
Pension in payment increases:
  LPI max 5% 3.1 3.6
  LPI max 3% 2.6 2.9
  LPI max 2.5% 2.3 2.4 
Revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for pensions revaluing at 5.0% per annum or RPI if less 3.1 3.6
 
 Mortality rates used in the valuation are based on the PMA92 and PFA92 tables, projected, medium cohort, allowing for members’  actual year of birth.  
The mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65:
 At At
 29 August  30 August 
 2009 2008
Males currently age 45 23.1 years 23.1 years
Females currently age 45 25.9 years 25.9 years
Males currently age 65 22.0 years 22.0 years
Females currently age 65 24.8 years 24.8 years
Amounts recognised in the income statement of the associate in respect of defined benefit schemes:
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
Current service cost  16 27 
Interest on pension scheme liabilities  1,323 1,259 
Expected return on pension scheme assets (1,279) (1,400)
Effects of curtailment — (256)
 60 (370)
 
The Group’s share of the charge/(credit) is recognised within the Income Statement through the share of post-tax profit in associate.
The Group’s share of the actuarial losses of £2,828,000 (2008: £2,435,000) have been reported in the Statement of Recognised  Income and Expense.
The Group’s share of the cumulative amount of actuarial losses of £6,554,000 have been recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Amounts included in the balance sheet of the associate:
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (22,858) (21,896) 
Fair value of scheme assets  17,903 19,254
Deficit in scheme (4,955) (2,642) 
Past service cost not yet recognised in the balance sheet  — —
T otal liability recognised in the balance sheet (4,955) (2,642)
 
The Group’s share of the deficit is recognised within the Balance Sheet through the investment in associate.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
65 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
28  RetiRement benefit obligA tion continued
movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  21,896 22,322  
Current service cost  16 27 
Interest cost  1,323 1,259
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation  768 (570) 
Benefits paid (1,145) (886)
Curtailments — (256)
At the end of the period  22,858 21,896
 
movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
 expected return fair value of assets
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  % % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments 7.2  7.3  11,100 13,862   
Debt instruments  4.5 5.3  6,624 5,199
Other assets  4.5 5.3 179 193
  6.2 6.7 17,903 19,254
Actual return on scheme assets    (781) (1,605)
T o develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the company considered the current level of expected returns on risk free 
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is 
invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target 
asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio. This resulted in the selection of the 6.2% 
assumption at 29 August 2009.
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  19,254 20,661  
Expected return on scheme assets  1,279 1,400 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  (2,060) (3,005) 
Contributions by employer  575 1,084 
Benefits paid (1,145) (886)
At the end of the period  17,903 19,254
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
66 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 28  RetiRement benefit obligA tion continued
history of scheme:
  2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of the defined benefit  
  obligation  (22,858) (21,896) (22,322) (24,698) (23,943) 
Fair value of scheme assets   17,903 19,254 20,661 19,008 17,466
Deficit  (4,955) (2,642) (1,661) (5,690) (6,477)
Difference between expected and 
  actual returns on scheme assets:
Amount £’000   (2,060) (3,005) 192 783 1,688 
Percentage of scheme assets  11.5% 15.6% 1.0% 4.1% 9.7%
 
Experience gains and losses on  
  scheme liabilities:
Amount £’000  (768) 570 2,740 (364) (3,613) 
Percentage of scheme liabilities  3.4% 2.6% 12.3% 1.5% 15.1%
 
It is expected that contributions of approximately £575,000 will be paid to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
29  c Alled-uP shARe c APit Al
  2009 2009 2008 2008
group and company shares £’000 Shares £’000
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 25p each 14,000,000 3,500 10,500,000 2,625
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each:   
At start of period 8,374,286 2,094 8,256,599 2,064
Exercise of share options — — 112,677 29
Allotment of shares 410,000 102 5,010 1
At end of period 8,784,286 2,196 8,374,286 2,094
For details of share option, share save and deferred bonus schemes see note 31.
During the period there was a further allotment of 410,000 shares (2008: 5,010) with a nominal value of £102,000 (2008: £1,000).The object of the 
allotment of 410,000 shares was to fund, in part, the additional working capital requirement and to widen the institutional shareholder base.
During the period the authorised share capital was increased by 3,500,000 shares of 25p each.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
67 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
30 st Atement of chAnges in shAReholdeRs’ equity And minoRity inteRest
   Share Treasury Equity Foreign   T otal 
  Share Premium Share Compensation Exchange Other  Retained Shareholders’ Minority  
  Capital Account Reserve Reserve  Reserve Reserves Earnings Equity Interest T otal
group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 
2 September 2007  2,064 5,073 (101) 95 (483) 1,570 18,574 26,792 2,062 28,854
T otal recognised 
  income and expense   
  for the period — — — — 590 — (1,107) (517) 545 28
Dividends paid — — — — — — (1,618) (1,618) — (1,618) 
Equity settled share-  
  based payment  
  transactions, net of tax — — — 111 — — — 111 12 123 
Share options exercised  
  by employees 29 153 — — — — — 182 — 182
Allotment of shares 1 26 — — — — — 27 — 27 
Transfer — — — — — (31) 31 — — —
Balance at 
30 August 2008 2,094 5,252 (101) 206 107 1,539 15,880 24,977 2,619 27,596
Balance at 
31 August 2008  2,094 5,252 (101) 206 107 1,539 15,880 24,977 2,619 27,596
T otal recognised 
  income and expense   
  for the period — — — — 279 — 4,108 4,387 782 5,169
Dividends paid — — — — — — (2,020) (2,020) — (2,020)
Equity settled share-  
  based payment  
  transactions, net of tax — — — (42) — — — (42) 6 (36)
Allotment of shares 102 2,486 — — — — — 2,588 — 2,588
Transfer — — — — — (31) 31 — — —
balance at 
29 August 2009 2,196 7,738 (101) 164 386 1,508 17,999 29,890 3,407 33,297
The treasury share reserve includes the purchase of own shares in the Company, which are held in trust. These shares were acquired by the trust in the open 
market place and are to be held to meet the Group’s obligations under the share based award schemes. However at the balance sheet date they have not yet 
been allocated to the various schemes.
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative spreading, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share option, share save and deferred 
bonus schemes over the vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement. 
The amount recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in respect of foreign exchange translation differences arising on translation of 
overseas subsidiaries excludes £3,000 (2008: £7,000) in respect of translation differences attributable to minority interest.
 
The Group has opted to use previous revaluations of property made under UK GAAP as deemed cost. On adoption of IFRS the revaluation reserve was 
reclassified to other reserves.
68 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 30 st Atement of chAnges in shAReholdeRs’ equity And minoRity inteRest continued
   Share Equity   
  Share Premium Compensation Retained T otal
  Capital Account Reserve  Earnings Equity
company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 
2 September 2007  2,064 5,073 112 7,280 14,529 
T otal recognised income 
  and expense for the
  period — — — (4,733) (4,733) 
Dividends paid — — — (1,618) (1,618)
Equity settled share-based 
  payment transactions, 
  net of tax — — 121 — 121 
Share options exercised
  by employees 29 153 — — 182
Allotment of shares 1 26 — — 27
Balance at
30 August 2008 2,094 5,252 233 929 8,508
Balance at 
31 August 2008  2,094 5,252 233 929 8,508 
T otal recognised income 
  and expense for the
  period — — — 8,639 8,639
Dividends paid — — — (2,020) (2,020)
Equity settled share-based 
  payment transactions, 
  net of tax — — (34) — (34)
Allotment of shares 102 2,486 — — 2,588
balance at
29 August 2009 2,196 7,738 199 7,548 17,681
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
69 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
31  shARe-bAsed PAyments 
group
The Group operates five share based payment schemes.
In 2008 the Group entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance criteria 
are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted 
earnings per share over the period of three years ending 31 August 2010 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an 
average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal 
the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to 
above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2007 the Group entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance criteria 
are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted 
earnings per share over the period of three years ending 31 August 2009 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an 
average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal 
the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to 
above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2006 the Group entered into three schemes, an HM Revenue and Customs approved discretionary employee share option scheme,  
an unapproved discretionary share option scheme and a share save scheme (comprising a 3-year and a 5-year plan).
Both the approved and unapproved share options were granted to certain senior employees and directors. Options are exercisable between three 
and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 2008 
exceeding that of the RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts for 
both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
   Approved and 
   Unapproved  
 Deferred Deferred Executive Share  Share Save Share Save
 Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Option Scheme 2006 Scheme 2006
 2007 2006 Scheme 2006 (3-Y ear Plan) (5-Y ear Plan)
Grant date (approved) 6/12/07 7/2/07 24/2/06   1/6/06   1/6/06   
Grant date (unapproved) — — 20/2/06  —  —  
Share price at grant date 
  (weighted average) £5.44 £6.43 £4.78  £4.64  £4.64   
Exercise price (weighted average) £0.25 £0.25 £4.78  £4.79   £4.79  
Number of employees 3 5 29  5   65  
Shares under option (approved) 8,493 24,277 129,000  1,872   55,227  
Shares under option (unapproved) — — 12,000  —  — 
Vesting period (years) 2.83 2.67 3   3  5  
Model used for valuation Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial   Black Scholes   Black Scholes  
Expected volatility 22.00% 21.00% 22.44%   20.18%  21.37%  
Option life (years) 2.92 2.75 10   3.5  5.5  
Expected life (years) 2.83 2.67 6.5   3.25   5.25  
Risk-free rate 4.420% 5.451% 4.224%   4.683%   4.623%  
Expected dividends expressed 
  as a dividend yield 3.30% 3.20% 3.36%   3.56%   3.56%  
Expectations of vesting 100% 100% 100%  97%   97%  
Expectations of meeting  
  performance criteria 100% 0% 100%   N/A   N/A  
Fair value per option £4.74 £5.69 £0.99   £0.60   £0.78 
 
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the award being valued. The expected life is 
the average expected period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds with a remaining term 
equal to the expected term of the award being valued.
70 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 31  shARe-bAsed PAyments continued
deferred bonus scheme 2007
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  0.25 8 —  —   
Granted during the period — — 0.25 8  
Outstanding at the end of the period  0.25 8 0.25 8
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — —  — 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.167 years (2008:  2.167) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 1.083 years (2008:  2.083).
deferred bonus scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (‘000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  0.25 24 0.25 24
Outstanding at the end of the period  0.25 24 0.25 24
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — — 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 0.167 years (2008: 1.167 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 0.083 years (2008: 1.083 years).
Approved and unapproved executive share option scheme 2006 
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (‘000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  4.78 141 4.78 141
Outstanding at the end of the period  4.78 141 4.78 141
Exercisable at the end of the period  4.78 141 — —
 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 6.5 years (2008: 7.5 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 3 years (2008: 4 years).
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
71 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
31  shARe-bAsed PAyments continued
share save scheme 2006 - 3 year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (‘000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  4.79 23 4.79 24
Forfeited during the period 4.79 (21) 4.79 (1)
Outstanding at the end of the period  4.79 2 4.79 23
Exercisable at the end of the period  4.79 2 — — 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 0.25 years (2008: 1.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of nil years (2008: 1 year).
share save scheme 2006 - 5 year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 57 4.79 58
Forfeited during the period 4.79 (2) 4.79 (1)
Outstanding at the end of the period 4.79 55 4.79 57
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 2.25 years (2008: 3.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 2 years (2008: 3 years).
The total (income)/expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006  23 45 
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Y ear Plan  3 5
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Y ear Plan 6 10
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006 (82) 52
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007 14 11
 (36) 123
The Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006 cumulative charge has reversed in the current period as the performance criteria has not been met.
72 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 31  shARe-bAsed PAyments continued
company
In 2008 the Company entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance criteria 
are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted 
earnings per share over the period of three years ending 31 August 2010 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an 
average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal 
the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to 
above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2007 the Company entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance criteria 
are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted 
earnings per share over the period of three years ending 31 August 2009 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an 
average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal 
the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to 
above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
 
In 2006 the company entered into two schemes, an HM Revenue and Customs unapproved discretionary employee share option scheme and a share 
save scheme (comprising a 3-year and a 5-year plan).
The unapproved share options were granted to certain senior employees and directors. Options are exercisable between three and ten years from  
the date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 2008 exceeding that of the 
RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts for 
both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
   Unapproved  
 Deferred Deferred Executive Share  Share Save Share Save
 Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Option Scheme 2006 Scheme 2006
 2007 2006 Scheme 2006 (3-Y ear Plan) (5-Y ear Plan)
Grant date 6/12/07 7/2/07 20/2/06   1/6/06   1/6/06  
Share price at grant date  £5.44 £6.43 £5.02   £4.64   £4.64  
Exercise price £0.25 £0.25 £5.02  £4.79   £4.79  
Number of employees 2 2 2   1   1  
Shares under option 6,765 14,743 12,000   780  1,344  
Vesting period (years) 2.83 2.67 3   3   5  
Model used for valuation Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial   Black Scholes   Black Scholes  
Expected volatility 22.00% 21.00% 22.44%   20.18%   21.37%  
Option life (years) 2.92 2.75 10   3.5   5.5  
Expected life (years) 2.83 2.67 6.5   3.25   5.25  
Risk-free rate 4.420% 5.451% 4.224%   4.683%  4.623%  
Expected dividends expressed 
  as a dividend yield 3.30% 3.20% 3.36%   3.56%   3.56%  
Expectations of vesting 100% 100% 100%   97%   97%  
Expectations of meeting 
  performance criteria 100% 0% 100%   N/A  N/A   
Fair value per option £4.74 £5.69 £0.99   £0.60  £0.78  
 
 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the award being valued. The expected life is 
the average expected period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds with a remaining term 
equal to the expected term of the award being valued.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
73 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
31  shARe-bAsed PAyments continued
deferred bonus scheme 2007
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.25 7 — —
Granted during the period  — — 0.25 7
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.25 7 0.25 7
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.167 years (2008: 2.167) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 1.083 years (2008: 2.083).
 
deferred bonus scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.25 15 0.25 15
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.25 15 0.25 15
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 0.167 years (2008: 1.167 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 0.083 years (2008: 1.083 years).
unapproved executive share option scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5.02 12 5.02 12
Outstanding at the end of the period 5.02 12 5.02 12
Exercisable at the end of the period  5.02 12 — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 6.5 years (2008: 7.5 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 3 years (2008: 4 years).
74 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 31  shARe-bAsed PAyments continued
share save scheme 2006 - 3 year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 6 4.79 6
Forfeited during the period  4.79 (5) — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  4.79 1 4.79 6
Exercisable at the end of the period  4.79 1 — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 0.25 years (2008: 1.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of nil years (2008: 1 year).
share save scheme 2006 - 5 year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
  
 2009 2008
  w eighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 1 4.79 1
Outstanding at the end of the period  4.79 1 4.79 1
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 2.25 years (2008: 3.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 2 years (2008: 3 years).
The total (income)/expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
 
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006   2 4
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Y ear Plan    — 2
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Y ear Plan    1 —
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006   (49) 31
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007   11 9
     (35) 46
The Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006 cumulative charge has reversed in the current period as the performance criteria has not been met.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
75 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
31  shARe-bAsed PAyments continued
Share based payments awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings and recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings in the 
company are as follows:
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006    122 102
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Y ear Plan    9 8
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Y ear Plan    27 18
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006   — 32
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007   5 2
T otal carrying amount of investments   163 162
32  Acquisitions
wälischmiller engineering gmbh
On 1 March 2009 Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH acquired part of the trade and certain assets and liabilities of Hans Wälischmiller GmbH for a total 
cash consideration, including costs, of £4,258,000. Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH was a company incorporated in Germany by the Group for this 
purpose and is 100% owned by Carrs Engineering Limited.
The principal activity of Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH is that of the manufacture of remote handling and robotics equipment.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH has no historical profits or losses prior to 1 March 2009.
Revenue and profit before taxation for the period from acquisition to 29 August 2009 was £5,081,000 and £561,000 respectively.
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH has no recognised gains and losses other than the profit for the financial period shown above.  
The assets and liabilities acquired are set out below:
 book   fair
 value Revaluations other value
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Intangible assets  254   — 263  517 
Property, plant and equipment  2,082  (73) —  2,009 
Inventories  3,491  — (116)  3,375 
Other receivables  149  — —  149 
Other payables (2,105) — — (2,105)
Net assets acquired  3,871  (73) 147  3,945 
Goodwill     313 
Satisfied by cash    4,258
The fair value adjustments relate to the revaluation of the land, buildings and plant acquired. Other fair  value adjustments relate to the recognition of brands and 
inventories being brought in line with Group policy.     
  
 Land and buildings were valued at open market value by independent professional valuers IMMO-HYP GmbH.    
    
Goodwill represents the value of the employees which under IFRS should not be recognised as an asset  on the balance sheet. It also represents opportunities to 
be gained from Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH’s  presence in the European and Far Eastern marketplace.    
    
Pro forma information     
IFRS3 requires disclosure of information as to the impact on the financial statements if the acquisition  had occurred at the beginning of the accounting period. 
Only part of the trade of Hans Wälischmiller GmbH was acquired and as such historical information is not available for this element of the trade in isolation. It is 
therefore not possible to determine information as if the acquisition had occured at the beginning of the accounting period.   
    
impact on cash flows     
The acquisition contributed £617,000 to the Group’s net cash generated from operating activities and  utilised £56,000 in respect of net cash used in investing 
activities.     
  
76 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC  group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the period  5,206 8,253 7,954 3,216
Adjustments for:
Tax   1,829 4,605 (344) (183)
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — (8,853) (3,340)
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 3,411 3,318 — —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment — (43) — —
Depreciation on investment property 19 19 — —
Intangible asset amortisation  77 159 — —
Impairment of trade investment — 200 — 200
Net fair value losses/(gains) on derivative financial instruments 
   in operating profit 889 (915) 31 (31)
Net fair value (gain)/loss on share based payments  (36) 123 (35) 46
Net foreign exchange differences  (721) 363 480 358
Finance costs:
  Interest income (211) (454) (350) (580)
  Interest expense and borrowing costs  1,536 2,069 610 781
Share of profit from associate and joint ventures  (1,051) (1,590) — —
IAS19 income statement credit in respect of employer 
  contributions (note 28) (2,539) (2,517) (2,539) (2,517)
IAS19 income statement charge (note 28) 1,605 1,060 1,605 1,060
Actuarial provisions in respect of deferred pension members — (1,325) — (1,325)
Payment to director in lieu of pension — (1,532) — (1,532)
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of acquisitions):
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 10,529 (15,959) — —
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 7,809 (15,140) 86 (150)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (18,535) 24,539 (1,485) 1,242
Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 9,817 5,233 (2,840) (2,755)
34  AnAlysis of net debt
33  cAsh geneRAted fRom/(used in) oPeRAtions 
  At  Other  At
  31 August  non-cash Exchange 29 August
  2008 Cash flow changes movements 2009
group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   3,896 6,408 — — 10,304
Bank overdrafts  (3,830) 2,486 — 161 (1,183)
  66 8,894 — 161 9,121
Loans and other borrowings:  
 - current  (10,421) 1,030 1,216 79 (8,096)
 - non-current  (5,408) (11,414) (1,215) (4) (18,041)
 
Finance leases:   
 - current  (753) 1,025 (1,219) — (947)
 - non-current  (917) — (445) — (1,362)
  (17,433) (465) (1,663) 236 (19,325)
 Other non-cash changes relate to finance leases and transfers between categories of borrowings. It also includes the release of deferred borrowing costs to 
the income statement. 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
77 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
34  AnAlysis of net debt continued
  At  Other  At
  31 August  non-cash Exchange 29 August
  2008 Cash flow changes movements 2009
company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   — 16,212 — (174) 16,038 
Bank overdrafts  (120) 120 — — —
  (120) 16,332 — (174) 16,038
Loans and other borrowings:  
- current  (5,369) (972) 2,909 (316) (3,748)
- non-current  (5,371) (9,048) 9 — (14,410)
  (10,860) 6,312 2,918 (490) (2,120)
 
Other non-cash changes relate to the release of deferred borrowing costs to the income statement and a non-cash dividend from a subsidiary company.
35  cAP it Al c ommitments
 2009 2008
group £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment that has been contracted 
  for but has not been provided for in the accounts    8 474
The Company has no capital commitments (2008: nil).
36  otheR finAnciAl commitments 
group
At 29 August 2009 the Group had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  362 354
Within two and five years inclusive  740 545
After five years  10 16
 1,112 915
company
 At 29 August 2009 the Company had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2009 2008
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  1 1
Within two and five years inclusive  3 4
 4 5
37  finAnciAl gu ARAntees
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Clydesdale Bank PLC in respect of the Group loans and 
overdraft with that bank, which at 29 August 2009 amounted to £8,474,000 (2008: £2,179,000).
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has a s625,000 (2008: s875,000) letter of credit by Clydesdale Bank PLC in favour of 
Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture arrangement.
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank of Scotland PLC in respect of an overdraft 
with that bank, which at 29 August 2009 amounted to £792,000 (2008: £978,000).
The Company has entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank of Scotland PLC in respect of an overdraft and loan facility with that bank, which at  
29 August 2009 amounted to £3,100,000 (2008: £nil). 
One of the Group’s bankers in the normal course of business, enters into certain specific guarantees with some of a subsidiary’s customers. All these 
guarantees allow the bank to have recourse to the Company if a guarantee is enforced. The total outstanding of such guarantees entered into by the 
bank at 29 August 2009 was £1,572,000 (2008: £2,185,000).
78 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 37  finAnciAl gu ARAntees continued
The Company has provided specific guarantees to certain customers of a subsidiary. These are in place to guarantee the completion of 
the contract in any event. At 29 August 2009 the contracts under guarantee that have still to be completed have a total contract value of 
£2,269,000.
A subsidiary undertaking of the Company, together with an associated undertaking of the Company, has entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank of 
Scotland PLC in respect of a loan with that bank. The Group’s exposure to this liability at 29 August 2009 amounts to £500,000 (2008: £1,000,000).
 The Company has entered into a guarantee with the Trustees of the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme in respect of the punctual payment 
of obligations due to the pension scheme by the participating employers of the scheme. The Company’s total liability shall not exceed £1,500,000 
(2008: £1,500,000).
 The Company has provided guarantees to certain suppliers of the Group’s Fertiliser business. The maximum exposure under these guarantees is the 
amount owed at any one time to these suppliers. At the period end amounts owed under these guarantees was £4,695,000 (2008: £12,709,000).  
This is included within trade payables in the balance sheet.
 The Group and Company does not expect any of the above guarantees to be called in.
38  RelAted PARties 
group and company
identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures and with its directors. The balances and transactions shown 
below were all undertaken on an arms’ length basis.
transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from key management personnel 
  (in a trading capacity):  
Trade receivables 101 141 — —
  101 141 — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  628 577 — —
Purchases (15) (11) — —
t ransactions with subsidiaries
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings:
Loans   — — 14,418 16,230
Other receivables — — 417 154
  — — 14,835 16,384
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings:
Loans   — — (3,294) (4,378)
Other payables  — — (129) (48)
  — — (3,423) (4,426)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Management charges receivable — — 1,410 2,122
Dividends received  — — 8,853 3,340
Interest receivable  — — 289 453
Interest payable  — — (145) (256)
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
79 Notes to the Financial Statements continued
38  RelAted PARties continued
transactions with associate
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from associate:
Trade and other receivables  56 91 — —
    56 91 — —
Amounts due to associate:
Trade payables (7,597) (9,336) — —
Current tax liabilities (consortium relief) — (262) — —
  (7,597) (9,598) — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  490 1,466 — —
Rental income  18 18 — —
Net management charges receivable 14 14 14 14
Purchases (81,426) (81,611) — —
transactions with joint ventures
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from joint ventures:
Non-current loans 50 50 — —
Trade and other receivables 450 393 411 374
  500 443 411 374
Included within Group and Company trade and other receivables is £370,000 (2008: £370,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures.
 group company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
 
Revenue 179 272 — —
Management charges receivable 56 55 — —
t ransactions with other related parties
Other loans of £1,225,000 (2008: £1,225,000) included within non-current borrowings (2008: current borrowings) is in respect of a loan from Edward 
Billington and Son Limited to Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. This loan is interest free, unsecured, and has no set repayment date. Included 
within current tax liabilities is £nil (2008: £77,000) due to Edward Billington and Son Limited in respect of consortium tax relief. Edward Billington and 
Son Limited has a 49% shareholding in Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited.
Other loans, within non-current borrowings, also includes loans from the minority shareholders in Quinphos (Ireland) Limited, which is a dormant 
subsidiary of the Group.  These loans are denominated in Euros and the sterling equivalent at 29 August 2009 was £39,587 (2008: £36,602).
80 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Five Year Statement
  2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Revenue and Results  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue   192,124 242,576 252,753 372,307 350,023
g roup operating profit   12,264 7,116 5,785 12,875 7,295
Analysed as:
o perating profit before non-recurring items
and amortisation   7,975  7,987  6,192 12,814 7,295
Non-recurring items and amortisation    4,289 (871)  (407) 61 —
g roup operating profit   12,264  7,116 5,785 12,875 7,295
Interest income  93 521 487 454 211
Interest expense  (1,291) (1,532) (1,484) (2,061) (1,522)
Share of post-tax (loss)/profit in associate 
  and joint ventures  (697) 218 738 1,590 1,051
Profit before taxation   10,369  6,323 5,526 12,858 7,035
T axation  (2,557) (1,989) (1,225) (4,605) (1,829)
Profit for the period   7,812  4,334 4,301 8,253 5,206
Ratios
Operating margin (excluding 
  non-recurring items and amortisation)  4.2% 3.3% 2.4% 3.4% 2.1%
Return on net assets (excluding 
  non-recurring items and amortisation)     27.8% 32.9% 21.0% 46.4% 21.1%
Earnings per share - basic  92.1p 51.0p  50.7p 92.7p 50.4p 
 - adjusted  50.9p 59.7p 56.0p 108.6p 50.4p
Dividends per ordinary share  16.0p 18.0p 19.0p 23.0p 23.0p
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
81 Five Year Statement continued
  2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
net assets employed  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
n on-current assets
Goodwill   400  235 1,016 1,381 1,654
Other intangible assets   1,738  802 444 294 764
Property, plant and equipment   28,838  29,172 28,481 28,596 31,764
Investment property  822  794 756 737 718
Investments   872  1,940 3,642 4,530 4,626
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments   —  37 132 — —
- Non-current receivables   223  208 100 50 53
Deferred tax assets   3,962   5,162 3,228 5,318 5,015
  36,855  38,350 37,799 40,906 44,594
c urrent assets
Inventories   12,947  11,944 14,853 31,014 23,860
Trade and other receivables   35,197  33,546 35,481 50,754 43,059
Current tax assets   87  1 82 65 119
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments  — — — 927 16
- Cash at bank and in hand  3,149   2,292 1,315 3,896 10,304
  51,380 47,783 51,731 86,656 77,358
total assets   88,235  86,133 89,530 127,562 121,952
c urrent liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings  (10,666) (9,682) (10,717) (15,004) (10,226)
- Derivative financial instruments  —  (27) (10) (22) (43)
Trade and other payables  (29,318) (25,387) (28,478) (52,977) (35,928)
Current tax liabilities  (1,581) (1,324) (570) (2,054) (708)
  (41,565) (36,420) (39,775) (70,057) (46,905)
n on-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings  (7,399) (6,512) (5,971) (6,325) (19,403)
- Derivative financial instruments  (106) —  — (14) —
Retirement benefit obligation   (12,119) (15,796) (9,807) (16,558) (14,673)
Deferred tax liabilities  (3,854) (3,600) (3,418) (4,775) (4,840)
Other non-current liabilities  (1,287) (1,524) (1,705) (2,237) (2,834)
  (24,765) (27,432) (20,901) (29,909) (41,750)
total liabilities  (66,330) (63,852) (60,676) (99,966) (88,655)
n et assets     21,905 22,281 28,854 27,596 33,297
82 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Company Number: 98221
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and first annual general 
meeting of the Company will be held at the Crown Hotel, Wetheral, 
Carlisle on Tuesday 5 January, 2010 at 11.30 a.m. for the following 
purposes:
oRdinAR y business
1. T o receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year 
ended 29 August 2009 together with the directors’ report and the 
auditor’s report on those accounts.
2. T o declare a final dividend of 17.0p per share for the year ended  
29 August 2009.
3. T o re-elect Lord Inglewood who retires by rotation pursuant to the 
articles of association of the Company.
4. T o re-elect Alistair Wannop who retires by rotation pursuant to the 
articles of association of the Company.
5. T o re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditors of the 
Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix their 
remuneration.
6. T o approve the directors’ remuneration report for the financial year 
ended 29 August 2009.
sPeciAl business
7. T o consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will 
be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
 “thA t , in substitution for all existing and unexercised authorities 
and powers, the directors of the company be and they are hereby 
generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of section 
551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the”Act”) to exercise all or any 
of the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities to such 
persons at such times and generally on such terms and conditions 
as the directors may determine (subject always to the articles of 
association of the Company) provided that:
(a) the maximum nominal amount of such securities which may be 
allotted	under	this	author ity	is	£724,704; 	and
(b) this authority shall, unless previously renewed, varied or revoked 
by the Company in general meeting, expire at the conclusion 
of the next annual general meeting or on the date which is 
6 months after the next accounting reference date of the 
Company (if earlier) save that the directors of the Company 
may, before the expiry of such period, make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require relevant securities to 
be allotted after the expiry of such period and the directors of 
the Company may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such 
offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not 
expired.”
8. T o consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will 
be proposed as a special resolution:
 “thA t, subject to and conditional upon the passing of the resolution 
numbered 7 in the notice convening the meeting at which this 
resolution was proposed and in substitution for all existing and 
unexercised authorities and powers, the directors of the Company 
be and are hereby empowered pursuant to sections 570 - 573 of 
the Act to allot equity securities pursuant to the authority conferred 
upon them by resolution 7 as if section 561 of the Act did not apply 
to any such allotment provided that this authority and power shall be 
limited to:
(a) the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights 
issue or similar offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where 
the equity securities respectively attributable to the interest 
of all other shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as may 
be) to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them 
subject only to such exclusion or other arrangements as the 
directors of the Company may consider appropriate to deal 
with fractional entitlements or legal and practical difficulties 
under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised 
regulator y	body	in	an y , 	ter r itor y; 	and
(b) The allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) 
above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £219,607 representing approximately 10% of the current 
issued share capital of the Company, and shall expire on the 
date of the next annual general meeting of the Company or  
(if earlier) the date which is 6 months after the next accounting 
reference date of the Company, save that the Company may 
before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would  
or might require equity securities to be allotted after such 
expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance 
of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby 
had not expired.”
9. T o consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will 
be proposed as a special resolution:
 “thA t , the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally 
authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of section 
693 of the Act) or Ordinary Shares provided that:
(a) the maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be 
purchased is 878,429 (representing 10% of the Company’s 
issued	share	capital);
(b) the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share 
is	25p;
(c) the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary 
Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle 
market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from 
the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the 
5 business days immediately preceding the day on which the 
Ordinar y	Share	in	question	is	purchased;
(d) unless previously revoked or varied, the authority hereby 
conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual 
general meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 or, if earlier, 
on the date which is 12 months after the date of the passing  
of	this	resolution; 	and
(e) the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase 
Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior 
to the expiry of such authority which contract or contracts will 
or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such 
authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares  
in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.”
by oRdeR of the bo ARd
Ronald Wood Old Croft
Company Secretary Stanwix
17 November 2009  Carlisle
 CA3 9BA
T o be valid any Proxy form or other instrument appointing a Proxy must 
be received by post (during normal business hours only) or by hand at 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, CA3 9BA no later than 2.00pm on Monday  
4 January 2010.
The following documents are available for inspection at an agreed time 
(during normal business hours on any weekday) at the Company’s 
registered office, Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, CA3 9BA. They will also be 
available for inspection at the Crown Hotel, Wetheral, Carlisle, CA4 8ES 
from 11.00am until the conclusion of the AGM:
(i)	 copies	of	the	ex ecutiv e	director s’ 	ser vice	contr acts;
(ii)	 copies	of	the	non-ex ecutiv e	director s’ 	letter s	of	appointment;
(iii) a copy of the current Memorandum and Articles of Association 
of the Company.  
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
83 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
c arr’s milling industries Plc 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, Cumbria 
CA3 9BA 
Tel: 01228 554600   
Fax: 01228 554601 
Website: www.carrs-milling.com
Animal f eed supplement, inc 
East Highway 212,  
PO Box 188, Belle Fourche,  
South Dakota 57717 USA 
Tel: 00 1 605 892 3421  
Fax: 00 1 605 892 3473
Animal f eed supplement, inc 
PO Box 105,  
101 Roanoke Avenue, Poteau, 
Oklahoma 74953 USA 
Tel: 00 1 918 647 8133  
Fax: 00 1 918 647 7318
c altech 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 32592   
Fax: 016973 32339 
c rystalyx Products g mbh ** 
Am Stau 199-203, 26122, Oldenburg, 
Germany 
Tel: 00 49 441 2188 92142  
Fax: 00 49 441 2188 92177
c arrs billington Agriculture 
(o perations)*
Parkhill Road,  
Kingstown Industrial Estate, Carlisle 
CA3 0EX 
Tel: 01228 529 021   
Fax: 01228 554 397
c arrs billington Agriculture 
(o perations)*
Lansil Way, Lancaster LA1 3QY 
Tel: 01524 597 200 
Fax: 01524 597 229
c arrs billington Agriculture 
(o perations)*
High Mill, Langwathby, Penrith,  
Cumbria CA10 1NB 
Tel: 01768 889 800 
Fax: 01768 889 807
c arrs billington Agriculture 
(o perations)*
Cold Meece, Stone,  
Staffordshire ST15 0QW 
Tel: 01785 760 535   
Fax: 01785 760 888
c arrs billington Agriculture 
(o perations)*
Powhill, Kirkbride,  
Cumbria CA7 5AJ
Tel: 01697 352 229   
Fax: 01697 352 248
c arrs billington Agriculture 
(o perations)* 
Uredale Mill, Askrigg, Leyburn,  
North Yorkshire DL8 7HZ 
Tel: 01969 650 908   
Fax: 01969 650 770 
c arrs f ertilisers, invergordon
Inverbreakie Industrial Estate, 
Invergordon, Ross-shire IV18 0QN 
Tel: 01349 853 745   
Fax: 01349 854 066  
c arrs f ertilisers, montrose 
River Street, Montrose,  
Angus DD10 9RT   
Tel: 01674 678 400   
Fax: 01674 671 318
c arrs f ertilisers, silloth 
The Wath, Silloth, Wigton, Cumbria 
CA7 4PH 
Tel: 016973 32333   
Fax: 016973 32279
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
Annan
25 High Street, Annan, Dumfriesshire 
DG12 6AE 
Tel: 01461 202 772   
Fax: 01461 202 712 
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
Appleby
Crosscroft Industrial Estate, Appleby,
Cumbria CA16 6HX
Tel: 01768 352 999
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
barnard c astle
Montalbo Road, Barnard Castle, Co 
Durham DL12 8ED 
Tel: 01833 637 537   
Fax: 01833 638 010
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
brock
Brockholes Way,  
Claughton Trading Estate, Lancaster 
Old Road, 
Claughton on Brock,  
Preston PR3 0PZ 
Tel: 01995 643 200   
Fax: 01995 643 220  
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
c arlisle
Montgomery Way, Rosehill Estate, 
Carlisle CA1 2UY 
Tel: 01228 520 212   
Fax: 01228 512 572
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
c ockermouth
Unit 5, Lakeland Agricultural Centre, 
Cockermouth CA13 0QQ  
Tel: 01900 824 105   
Fax: 01900 826 860
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
g isburn
Pendle Mill, Mill Lane, Gisburn, 
Clitheroe, Lancashire BB7 4ES 
Tel: 01200 445 491
Fax: 01200 445 305
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
h awes
Burtersett Road, Hawes,  
North Yorkshire DL8 3NP 
Tel: 01969 667 334   
Fax: 01969 667 335 
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
h exham
Tyne Mills Industrial Estate, Hexham,  
Northumberland NE46 1XL 
Tel: 01434 605 371   
Fax: 01434 608 938 
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
l eek
Macclesfield Road, Leek, Staffordshire 
ST13 8NR 
Tel: 01538 383 277
Fax: 01538 385 731
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
milnathort
Stirling Road, Milnathort,  
Kinross KY13 9UZ   
Tel: 01577 862 381   
Fax: 01577 863 057
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
morpeth
20c Coopies Lane Industrial Estate, 
Morpeth, Northumberland NE61 6JN 
Tel: 01670 503 930   
Fax: 01670 504 404 
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
Penrith
Haweswater Road, 
Penrith Industrial Estate, Penrith
Cumbria CA11 9EH
Tel: 01768 862 160
Fax: 01768 899 345 
c arrs billington Agriculture (sales), 
Perth
Highland House,  
St Catherine’s Road,  
Perth PH1 5YA 
Tel & Fax: 01738 643 022
c arrs billington Agriculture
(sales), spennymoor
Southend Works, Byers Green, 
Spennymoor, Co. Durham,
DL16 7NL
Tel: 01388 662266
Fax: 01388 603743
w allace o ils, c arlisle
Stephenson Industrial Estate, 
Willowholme, Carlisle, 
Cumbria CA2 5RN 
Tel: 01228 534 342 
Fax: 01228 590 820
johnstone w allace f uels, d umfries 
Heathhall, Dumfries, 
Dumfriesshire DG1 3NX 
Tel:  01387 250 525 
Fax: 01387 250 656
johnstone w allace f uels,
Dargavel Stores,
Lockerbie Road, Dumfries,
Dumfriesshire DG1 3PG
Tel & fax: 01387 750 747
johnstone w allace f uels,
Abercromby Industrial Park,
Castle Douglas, Dumfriesshire
DG7 1BA
johnstone w allace f uels,
Holmpark Industrial Estate,
Newton Stewart, Dumfriesshire
DG8 6AW
Tel: 01671 404 150
johnstone w allace f uels, stranraer 
Droughduil, Dunragit, 
Stranraer DG9 8QA 
Tel & fax: 01581 400 356
Afgritech** 
Old Croft 
Stanwix, Carlisle  
Tel: 01228 554 600   
Fax: 01228 554 601 
bibby Agriculture** 
Drive House, St. David’s Park,  
Job’s Well Road, Carmarthen,
SA31 3HB 
Tel: 01267 232 041  
Fax: 01267 232 374 
bibby Agriculture** 
1A Network House 
Badgers Way 
Oxon Business Park 
Shrewsbury, Shropshire 
SY3 5AB 
Tel: 01743 237 890  
Fax: 01743 351 552 
bendalls   
Brunthill Road, 
Kingstown Industrial Estate, 
Carlisle CA3 0EH 
Tel: 01228 526 246   
Fax: 01228 525 634 
R h ind    
Kingstown Broadway,  
Kingstown Industrial Estate, Carlisle 
CA3 0HA 
Tel: 01228 523 647   
Fax: 01228 512 712 
c arrs msm   
Unit 1 Spitfire Way, 
Hunts Rise, 
South Marston Park, 
Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 4TX 
Tel: 01793 824 891 
Fax: 01793 824 894
w älischmiller engineering g mbh
Schießstattweg 16
88677 Markdorf
Germany
T el: 0049 7544 95140
Fax: 0049 7544 951499
c arrs f lour 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, Cumbria 
CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 31661   
Fax: 016973 32543 
g reens f lour 
Station Road, Maldon,  
Essex CM9 4LQ 
Tel: 01621 852 696   
Fax: 01621 854 525
h utchisons f lour 
East Bridge, Kirkcaldy,  
Fife KY1 2SR 
Tel: 01592 267 191   
Fax: 01592 641 805
john stronach 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, Cumbria 
CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 31456   
Fax: 016973 32808 
silloth storage c ompany**
Station Road, Silloth,
Wigton, Cumbria
CA7 4JQ
* associate company
** joint venture company
Directory of Operations 01 Financial and 
Commercial Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
05 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Financial Review
15 Board of Directors
16 Registered Ofﬁ ce and Advisers
17 Report of the Directors 
20 Corporate Governance
23 Directors’ Remuneration Report
27 Independent Auditors’ Report
28 Consolidated Income Statement
29 Consolidated and Company 
Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
30 Consolidated and 
Company Balance Sheet
31 Consolidated and Company 
Cash Flow Statement
32 Principal Accounting Policies
37 Notes to the Financial 
Statements
81 Five Year Statement
83 Notice of Annual General 
Meeting
84 Directory of Operations
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC is focussed on the principal 
activities of agriculture, food and engineering. The Company’s 
agriculture business comprises fertiliser blending, retailing of 
farm machinery/supplies and animal feed manufacture in the 
UK, US and Germany. Carr’s principal food businesses are all 
ﬂ our millers based in three UK locations. Engineering comprises 
Bendalls, R Hind, Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller based in 
Southern Germany which was acquired in 2009.
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix 
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com
