 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix 
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com
staying
on track
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC (“Carr’s”) is focussed 
on the principal activities of agriculture, food and 
engineering. 
The Company’s agriculture business comprises fertiliser blending, 
retailing of farm machinery/supplies and animal feed manufacture 
in the UK, US and Germany. 
Carr’s principal food businesses are all flour millers based in 
three UK locations. Engineering comprises Bendalls, R Hind, 
Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller based in Southern Germany  
which was acquired in 2009.
1 Financial and Commercial Highlights
2 Chairman’s Statement
5 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Financial Review
15 Board of Directors
15 Registered Office and Advisers
16 Location of Operations
17 Report of the Directors 
20 Corporate Governance
23 Directors’ Remuneration Report
27 Independent Auditors’ Report
28 Consolidated Income Statement
29 Consolidated and Company Statements  
 of Comprehensive Income
30 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
31 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
32 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
33 Consolidated and Company Statements  
 of Cash Flows
34 Principal Accounting Policies
39 Notes to the Financial Statements
84 Five Year Statement
86 Notice of Annual General Meeting
87 Directory of Operations Financial Highlights
➜ Acquisition of agricultural businesses to extend 
geographical cover
➜ Expansion of agriculture retail branches
➜ Expansion of fuel oil distribution business
➜ Crystalyx brand range successfully launched into 
New Zealand
➜ Carr’s awarded “The Scottish Livestock Supplier 
of the Year”
Commercial Highlights
Revenue
£345.0m
(2009: £350.0m) 
Earnings per share
64.1p
(2009: 50.4p) 
Profit before tax
£9.0m
(2009: £7.0m) 
Dividend per share
24.0p
(2009: 23.0p) 
1
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report to Shareholders that Carr’s achieved a strong 
financial performance for the past year whilst continuing to build the 
Group’s market presence both in the UK and overseas.
The result for the 52 weeks ended 28 August 2010 
reflects positive trading across both Agricultural 
businesses with our Engineering business benefiting from 
the first full-year contribution from Wälischmiller, which 
was acquired in March 2009. Over-capacity in the milling 
industry had an adverse impact on our food business 
where management continue to focus on reducing costs 
and developing higher-margin speciality products.
In March and June 2010, we strengthened our 
Agricultural businesses in Scotland and the North of 
England through the acquisitions of Ag Chem (UK), 
Scotmin Nutrition Limited and A C Burn Limited for  
a total consideration of £6.0 million. The integration of 
these businesses is progressing well and will be earnings 
enhancing in the current financial period. 
Overall, the growth in profit and improvement in 
margins, combined with tight control over working 
capital, resulted in strong cash flow with net debt, after 
capital expenditure and acquisition costs, being £3.8 
million lower at the end of the period compared to  
the previous year.
We believe that the Group’s sound financial position  
and the investment made in developing the business  
has laid the foundation for a period of sustained growth, 
particularly in Agriculture.
Financial Review
Revenue for the period was £345.0 million (2009: £350.0 
million) and operating profit was up 25.4% to £9.1 
million (2009: £7.3 million). The growth in profit reflects 
increased sales of animal feed, feed blocks and fuel and 
the recovery in fertiliser after the very substantial fall 
in sales last year. Revenue and profit from the Food and 
Engineering divisions were lower than 2009.
After a reduced retirement benefit charge, which offset 
a lower share of profit from associate and joint ventures, 
pre-tax profit increased by 27.4% to £9.0 million (2009: 
£7.0 million). Fully diluted earnings per share were 27.4% 
higher at 64.1p (2009: 50.3p).
The Group generated net cash from operating activities 
of £15.3 million (2009: £5.6 million). This included a net 
cash inflow of £6.5 million (2009: outflow £0.2 million) 
from reduced working capital, of which £3.2 million 
was from payments on account received from our 
engineering customers.
Capital expenditure was £3.7 million (2009: £4.7 
million) as the Group continued to invest in necessary 
replacement of equipment, and the three acquisitions 
during the year cost a total of £6.0 million. After capital 
expenditure and acquisitions, net debt at 28 August 2010 
was reduced to £15.5 million (29 August 2009: £19.3 
million) representing gearing of 44.7% (2009: 64.7%).
Dividend
The Board paid two interim dividends of 6.0 pence per 
share in May 2010 and October 2010 to smooth the 
2
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010
 Richard Inglewood Chairman 2010  Acquisition of the trade of Ag Chem fertiliser. Acquisition of 
A C Burn (animal feed and farming supplier). Acquisition of 
Scotmin Nutrition (animal feed supplements)
2009  Acquisition of the trade and assets of Hans Wälischmiller 
(a remote-handling technology, robotics and radiation protection 
equipment business in Southern Germany)
2008  Acquisition of J M Raine (ground care equipment distributor) 
2007 Acquisition of Johnstone Fuels and Lubricants 
2006  Formation of Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture 
company with Agravis (low moisture feed blocks) in Germany. 
Formation by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) of Bibby 
Agriculture joint venture animal feed and farming supplies  
in Wales. Formation of Afgritech, a joint venture company  
in Langwathby with Afgri Operations based in South Africa 
2005  Acquisition of Wallace Oils. Acquisition by Carrs Billington 
Agriculture (Operations) of W&J Pye animal feed producing 
assets 
2004 Sale of Bendalls site in Carlisle and new site commissioned. 
Acquisition of Meneba UK flour milling business (2 mills) 
2002  Reorganisation of Carrs Billington Agriculture, Sales and 
Operations. Acquisition of assets of engineering business  
Master Slave Manipulators 
2001  Foot and Mouth Disease affects UK and in particular Cumbria 
and SW England 
2000  Acquisition of AF PLC (2 animal feed mills and 4 retail outlets) 
1999  Formation of Joint Venture, Carrs Billington Agriculture, to 
supply animal feed from two mills. Sale of remaining 50% holding 
in Robertsons (plant baker). Commission of Animal Feed 
Supplement’s second plant, in South Dakota, USA 
1997  Acquisition of Animal Feed Supplement, Oklahoma, USA 
1996  Acquisition of Bendalls, Carlisle 
1982  Re-registration as a PLC 
1972  Listing on the London Stock Exchange 
1950  Changed name from Carrs Flour Mills Limited to Carrs Milling 
Industries Limited 
1908  Carrs Flour Mills Limited incorporated. De-merge from Carr & 
Co. Limited when Carrs Flour Mills Limited acquired the flour 
milling assets 
1831  Company Founded by Jonathan Dodgson Carr
A history of Carr’s Milling
3
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010
cash flow for our Shareholders. At the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 11 January 2011, the Board will 
be proposing a final dividend of 12.0 pence per share. 
This makes a total for the year of 24.0 pence per share, 
an increase of 4.3% on the total for last year of 23.0 
pence. The final dividend, if approved by Shareholders, 
will be paid on 21 January 2011 to Shareholders on the 
register at close of business on 24 December 2010. 
Shares will go ex-dividend on 22 December 2010.
Colonel Alexander Matthew
It is with sadness that I report to Shareholders the 
death during the year of Sandy Matthew. Sandy was 
appointed to the Board in 1964 and made an enormous 
contribution to the continuing success of the Company 
over the following 19 years. On behalf of all at Carr’s  
we extend our sympathy to Sandy’s family.
Outlook
The positive momentum of the second half of the 
year ended 28 August 2010 has continued into the 
new financial year. We anticipate farmers will continue 
to invest in response to favourable prospects in beef, 
lamb and cereals. As a result of higher input prices the 
farmgate milk price must only improve from its current 
unsustainably low levels.
We are well positioned to service increasing demand. 
Our businesses have developed significant expertise 
in the supply chain, building on their long association 
in flour and feed milling and extending this into the 
procurement of fertiliser and animal feed ingredients. 
These factors, together with the spread and diversity 
of our customer base, encourage us to believe that 
the two Agriculture Divisions will continue to develop 
and deliver consistent performance, even in challenging 
times.
Our financial performance will further benefit from 
having strengthened our market presence through 
acquisition and we continue to look for further 
opportunities. 
While Food is likely to remain a difficult environment, 
Engineering is trading well and remains a focused niche 
business. 
Overall, therefore, we believe we have laid a solid 
foundation for sustained growth and are confident  
in the outlook for the Group. 
Richard Inglewood 
Chairman     
17 November 2010 Operating profit by sector
50% Agriculture - Trading
24% Agriculture - Manufacturing
11% Engineering
15% Food
4
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chief Executive’s Review
 Chris Holmes Chief Executive
Across Carr’s the benefits of broadening our 
product range, together with the investment 
in improved operating efficiency and our cost 
reduction programmes have produced a significant 
increase in the Group’s performance in the year 
to August 2010. The improvement is reflected in 
margins, profitability and cash generation and was 
achieved against the continuing subdued global 
economic backdrop. We believe that the foundation 
has been laid for a period of sustained growth, 
particularly in Agriculture.
5
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chief Executive’s Review - continued
Against this background, sales of both animal feeds and low moisture feed blocks rose 
steadily during the year, with profitability enhanced. This was the result of our focus on 
added value products such as Aminomax, a bypass protein developed in the U.S., the 
benefits of investment in efficient facilities and our focus on customer service.
Looking forward, as both animal feed compound and block markets are relatively 
mature, the keys to growth will be product innovation, efficiency and selective 
acquisitions such as Scotmin Nutrition in June 2010. 
Scotmin’s supplement ranges complement the feed 
block products produced and marketed by Caltech. 
We successfully launched the Crystalyx brand range 
into New Zealand, potentially a very large market for 
our products, and we expect this initiative to start 
contributing to revenues in the current financial year.
The demand for Crystalyx products in Germany 
continues to grow and new export markets have been 
opened, notably in France.
The performance of our branch network which retails farm inputs, rural supplies and 
agricultural machinery, has been very satisfactory. Despite price deflation across the 
product range, like-for-like sales increased by 2% for the year. Bolt-on acquisitions such 
as A C Burn, acquired last June, and Forsyths of Wooler, announced after the year-end, 
augment the growth prospects of this part of our business. The network of branches 
has risen to 19 across Northern England and Scotland.
Our farm machinery activities also performed well throughout the year, winning in 
September 2010 the Kuhn distribution agency for agricultural machinery. The Kuhn 
product range expands our existing range of machinery and should enable us to enter 
new markets.
Our fuel oil business provides natural synergies between the retailing of agricultural 
and rural supplies. This has led us to expand our fuel oil business by opening depots  
at our feed mills which are located near to our retail branches. Market share continues 
to grow and the business benefited strongly from last winter’s severe weather.
Agriculture - Trading
The demand for animal feed and other agricultural products 
remains good. Farmgate prices, with the notable exception of 
milk, have generally been strong. During the year, the regions we 
serve endured severe winter weather. The excellent service we 
were able to give our customers during this difficult period was 
recognised by Carr’s being presented with The Scottish Livestock 
Supplier of the Year award at the Royal Highland show in June of 
this year. 
6
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Agriculture - Manufacturing
Following the sharp fall experienced last year, demand 
for fertiliser has been steadily improving, with prices 
rising; and we have seen a sharp recovery in profitability. 
This followed a period of two years of high sales, and 
then a period of low sales, but we now foresee a more 
orderly market.
We have reduced our reliance on commodity products 
and seen the benefits of investment in new value added 
products such as AVAIL, our unique phosphorus fertiliser 
enhancer, as well as environmentally oriented products. 
This enabled us to continue to grow our market share. 
Margins remain satisfactory, despite the pressure from 
phosphate and nitrogen input prices, and the immediate 
outlook is positive.
This segment of our operations includes our low 
moisture animal feed business operating from two 
plants in the US. Our market share in feed blocks is 
increasing as the result of our continuing focus on new 
product development for the cattle feed market, which 
is benefiting from a recovery in beef prices. ➜
7
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chief Executive’s Review - continued
8
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Markets continue to be extremely challenging as we 
contend with significantly higher raw material prices  
and industry over-capacity. We are responding by 
reducing operating costs, while at the same time 
focusing on developing speciality products. We have 
recently secured a contract to supply a leading UK food 
retailer with a new range of speciality flours for its own 
premium brand.
The rise in wheat prices over the last two months  
of the financial year has been extreme. Following  
drastic reductions in wheat output from Eastern  
Europe, exacerbated by wet weather downgrading 
harvest quality in Northern Europe, and further fuelled 
by commodity speculation on both sides of the Atlantic,  
the market price of wheat has moved up by over 60%.
These volatile and fast moving markets present 
challenges and opportunities. We have taken appropriate 
steps to manage the risks presented by greater volatility 
and continue to explore new wheat supply sources.  
In the past year we have received cargoes of wheat  
from Latvia, and also, for the first time in almost  
50 years, direct shipments of Canadian wheat into  
our Cumbrian Silloth mill.
➜
 
Our food division comprises 
three flour mills, in Fife, 
Cumbria and Essex. We 
supply most sectors of the 
market, including industrial 
bakers, craft bakers, food 
manufacturers and multiple 
retailers. 
Food
9
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Carr’s is operated on a decentralised basis with a number of business sectors each 
with its own management team. The continued successful growth of the Company is 
a reflection of their expertise and commitment and on behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank them and their colleagues for their contribution in driving the business 
forward.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
17 November 2010
Staff
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
Following a decline in the first half, the order book at Bendalls, the Group’s specialist 
steel fabrication business recovered in the second half and there is evidence of scope 
to improve margins. 
Wälischmiller has performed very well since acquisition in 2009 and continues to see 
sales volumes increase. The order book for 2011 and 2012 is strong with good demand 
from Japan, France and Germany. In addition we have received our first orders from 
China. 
Key determinants of the trading performance of this division include 
demand from the nuclear and oil/petrochemical industries. The order 
book for the nuclear market is particularly strong with high activity 
in Europe and the Far East. The emphasis on niche high-skill contract-
focused work will remain.
Engineering
The engineering division broadly maintained revenue but saw 
profits fall. This principally reflects lower demand at Carrs MSM 
as the result of more stringent stock control management by its 
major customer. 
The Group completed three acquisitions, all agriculture related businesses, in the 
second half of the year. Both Ag Chem and A C Burn are small businesses and have 
been successfully integrated. Scotmin Nutrition, a producer and distributor of animal 
feed supplements, complements our existing range of feed block products and will 
create one of the UK’s leading feed and mineral block producers and suppliers.
Since the year-end a small agricultural business engaged in the sale of animal feed and 
proprietary health products was acquired.
Acquisitions
10
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial review 
The Group’s business
The Group’s operations are organised into four business divisions, 
agriculture trading, agriculture manufacturing, food and engineering,  
and the performance of these four divisions in the year is discussed in 
the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 5 to 10. The agriculture businesses 
operates predominantly in the North of England, Wales and Scotland, in 
addition there are two animal feed plants in the US and a plant in Germany. 
The flour business operates entirely within the UK and the engineering 
business operates in the UK and Germany.
The markets in which all four businesses operate 
are competitive both in terms of pricing from other 
suppliers and the retail environment in general which 
has a direct impact on many of our customers. Despite 
this, Carr’s businesses have a long record of increasing 
sales and profits through a combination of investing in 
modern efficient factories, developing a range of quality 
products and making sound acquisitions. The businesses 
are under the control of stable, experienced and 
talented operational management teams supported by  
a skilled workforce. 
Business objectives
There are five key elements to the Group’s strategy 
for meeting its objectives of continuing growth and 
profitability:
• Deliver quality, innovative and cost-effective 
products and services to our customers
• Organic growth
• Seek acquisitions to complement our existing 
businesses
• Maximise operational efficiency
• Securing employee health and safety
We monitor our performance against the strategy  
by means of key performance indicators (‘KPIs’).
• Organic sales growth – year on year increase in 
sales revenue excluding the impact of acquisitions 
and disposals
• Gross return on revenue – gross profit as a 
percentage of revenue
• Net return on revenue – operating profit as a 
percentage of revenue
• Adjusted earnings per share – profit attributed to 
equity shareholders before amortisation and related 
tax relief divided by the weighted average of shares 
in issue during the period
• Return on net assets – profit before tax and before 
amortisation as a percentage of net assets
• Free cash flow – cash generated from operations 
less tax and interest paid
Business strategies
The Group’s market strategy is to focus on growing 
the quality end of the markets in which we operate, 
to establish meaningful and long lasting relationships 
with our customers, by a combination of product 
development and high service levels, and to invest in 
quality facilities. Each business within the Group is given 
the responsibility for developing its own plans to deliver 
the objectives of the Group with particular emphasis 
on growing sales through the supply of quality products, 
service and product innovation, improving operational 
efficiency and securing employee health and safety. The 
role of the Board in achieving Group objectives has 
been to support operational management and to identify 
suitable acquisitions that will bring new customers to 
the Group or will secure existing market positions.
 Ronald Wood Finance Director
Performance against KPIs 2010  2009 
Organic sales growth -2.1% -7.3% 
Gross return on revenue 13.1% 11.7%
Net return on revenue 2.7% 2.1% 
Adjusted earnings per share 65.7p 51.0p
Return on net assets 23.3% 21.4%
Free cash flow £15.3m £5.6m
12
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial Review Overview
Group revenue during the period was £345.0 million 
(2009: £350.0 million). 
Profit before taxation increased to £9.0 million (2009: 
£7.0 million). 
Net finance costs were £1.0 million (2009: £1.3 million) 
and were covered 9.3 times (2009: 5.6 times) by Group 
operating profit.
T axation
The Group’s effective tax charge on profit from  
activities after net finance costs was 26.1% (2009: 
30.6%). A reconciliation of the actual total tax charge  
to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 
28% is set out in note 8 to the financial statements.  
The lower than the standard rate of tax in the current 
year primarily relates to a prior year adjustment.
Earnings per share
The profit attributable to the equity holders of the 
Company amounted to £5.6 million (2009: £4.4 million), 
and basic earnings per share was 64.1p (2009: 50.4p),  
an increase of 27.2%. Adjusted earnings per share of 
65.7p (2009: 51.0p) is calculated by dividing the profit 
attributable to equity shareholders for the period, 
before amortisation of intangible assets net of related 
tax relief, by the weighted average number of shares in 
issue during the period.
Cash flow
The Group has generated strong operational cash flow. 
Cash generated from operating activities was £15.3 
million (2009: £5.6 million) arising from higher Group 
profit, lower tax payments and a decrease in working 
capital; a significant part of which was attributable to 
the receipt of payments on account by our engineering 
businesses in quarter four of the year. The net cash 
outflow from investing activities of £9.0 million reflects 
capital additions of £3.3 million, and the net outflow 
from acquisitions of £5.6 million. The previous year’s 
outflow was £6.6 million and comprised capital additions 
of £2.6 million and acquisition costs of £4.3 million. 
The £2.1 million of net cash used in financing activities 
in 2010 reflects dividends paid of £2.0 million, finance 
leases paid £1.1 million offset by an increase in other 
borrowings of £1.6 million. The prior year cash inflow 
from financing of £9.9 million reflected dividends paid 
of £2.0 million, finance leases paid of £1.0 million and 
proceeds from the issue of ordinary share capital of  
£2.6 million part funded by the net proceeds of new 
bank loans of £11.6 million. The overall result is a net 
increase in cash and cash equivalents of £4.1 million 
(2009: £9.1 million).
Net debt
Net debt reduced by £3.8 million to £15.5 million  
(2009: £19.3 million) at the period end resulting from 
strong operating cash flows offset by the net cash 
outflow from acquisitions.
Pensions
The Group operates its current pension arrangements 
on a defined benefit and defined contribution basis.  
The defined benefit section is closed to new members 
and has 85 active members, 97 deferred members 
and 187 current pensioners, and the scheme receives 
additional contributions from the Group in accordance 
with the latest actuarial valuation as agreed between  
the Company and the Trustees.
The valuation under the IAS19 accounting basis 
showed a deficit before the related deferred tax asset 
in the scheme of £10.7 million (2009: £14.7 million). 
Actuarial gains of £2.3 million (2009: gain £1.0 million) 
have been reported in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income. 
A Group subsidiary undertaking is a participating 
employer in a defined benefit pension scheme. This 
scheme is closed to future service accrual. The IAS19 
accounting basis showed a deficit, for that scheme, 
before the related deferred tax asset in the scheme 
of £5.6 million (2009: £5.0 million). The details of both 
pension schemes are given in note 27 to the financial 
statements.
Treasury policies
The Group’s policy is structured to ensure adequate 
financial resources are available for the development 
of its business while managing its currency and interest 
rate risks. The Group’s strategy, policy and controls 
are developed centrally and approved by the Board. 
The Group contracts to purchase raw materials for its 
fertiliser blending and flour milling activities in advance 
of sales contracts.
The main elements of treasury activity are outlined 
below.
Foreign currency risk
The major foreign currency risk facing the Group is in 
the purchasing of raw materials in the fertiliser and flour 
milling operations. The major currencies involved are 
the euro and the US dollar. The policy of the Group is 
to hedge using forward foreign exchange contracts with 
UK banks as soon as commitment has been given to the 
underlying transaction. 
 
The results of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries are 
translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange 
for the period concerned. As this translation has no 
impact on cash flow, the Group chooses not to hedge  
its foreign subsidiaries’ earnings.
➜
13
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The balance sheets of the foreign subsidiaries are 
translated into sterling at the closing US dollar and euro 
exchange rates. Any gains or losses on the translation 
of the balance sheet into sterling are recorded in 
reserves. Currency translation risks of net assets in the 
subsidiaries are not hedged.
Interest rate risk
Historically the policy of the Group has been to hedge 
around 40% to 60% of the core borrowings. After the 
cessation of the interest rate swaps in October and 
December 2009 there are no new interest rate hedging 
instruments in place to protect the Group against 
significant increases in interest rates. The Board will 
continue to review the appropriateness of the interest 
rate policy and the hedging policy during the financial 
year.
Credit risk
Practically all sales are made on credit terms to an 
extensive range of customers, which include UK food 
producers, agricultural merchants, farmers and the 
nuclear industry. Overdue accounts are reviewed 
monthly at divisional management meetings. Historically, 
the incidence of bad debts is low. The current financial 
climate requires the Group’s credit control functions to 
be particularly vigilant.
Funding
The Group has historically been cash generative.  
The bank position for each operation is monitored on a 
daily basis and capital expenditure above a certain level 
is approved at the monthly Group board meeting. Each 
operation has access to the Group’s overdraft facility or 
has facilities specific to that operation and all term debt 
is arranged centrally. Bank facilities for approximately half 
the Group’s funding requirements is agreed for the two 
years to August 2012. The balance of the Group’s funding 
is negotiated annually.
Resources, risks and uncertainties
The Group aims to safeguard the assets that give 
it competitive advantage, being its product quality, 
product innovation and service levels, its operational 
management, skilled workforce and its modern well-
equipped factories.
Reputation
It is the responsibility of local operational management 
assisted by the Group Risk Manager to maintain and 
where possible enhance the Group’s reputation for 
product quality, product innovation, service levels and a 
culture of safe working.
Manufacturing facilities
The Group has continued to invest in its production 
facilities in all four businesses and it intends to continue 
investing to ensure that it maintains a competitive edge. 
Employees
While the Group continues to invest in facilities and 
equipment we also continue to invest in our people. 
The Group offers training programmes where additional 
skills are required to undertake their responsibilities.  
The businesses have strategies for retaining staff, 
including the provision of competitive terms and 
conditions, and a contributory occupational pension 
scheme. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Each year the Group carries out a formal exercise to 
identify and assess the impact of risks on its business 
and this year the exercise was carried out in August 
2010.
The Board has identified six vulnerabilities specific to 
the Group’s activities, whose converse gives rise to 
potential upside:
• A decline in the size and prosperity of the dairy 
farming industry in north west England and south 
west Scotland, in particular through a reduction in 
the farm-gate milk price. 
• A decline in the size and prosperity of other parts of 
the farming industry, in particular the beef and sheep 
farming industry, in northern England and Scotland.
• A decline in the size and prosperity of the beef 
farming industry in the USA. 
• For fertiliser, a sharp decline in the Sterling price of 
raw materials, leading to inventory devaluation and 
sale deferment, and unsettled markets.
• For flour, market turbulence, in the face of 
overcapacity and the impact of the recession on 
consumers of bread, biscuits and confectionery, and 
a sharp increase in the milling wheat price.
• For engineering, funding problems for large capital 
projects and a recession driven-increase in contract 
deferral and variation. 
On behalf of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Finance Director
17 November 2010
Financial Review - continued
14
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Board of Directors
1. Lord Inglewood
Non-Executive Chairman
2. Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
3. Ronald Wood
Finance Director
4. Alistair Wannop
Non-Executive Director
5. Robert Heygate
Non-Executive Director
1.
4.
2.
5.
3.
Registered Office and Advisers
Registered Office
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix
Carlisle CA3 9BA
Registered No. 98221
Chartered Accountants 
and Statutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
89 Sandyford Road
Newcastle upon Tyne 
NE1 8HW
Bankers
Clydesdale Bank PLC
82 English Street
Carlisle CA3 8HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
37 Lowther Street
Carlisle CA3 8EL
Financial Adviser and 
Broker
Investec Bank (UK) Limited 
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Solicitors
Hill Dickinson LLP
1 St Paul’s Square
Liverpool L3 9SJ
Atkinson Ritson
15 Fisher Street
Carlisle CA3 8RW
Registrars
Capita Registrars 
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0LA
15
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Location of Operations
Agriculture
Animal Feed Supplement Inc. USA
02 Belle Fourche, South Dakota
03 Poteau, Oklahoma
Caltech
04 Silloth
Scotmin Nutrition
05 Ayr
Crystalyx Products GmbH
06 Oldenberg
Carrs Fertilisers
07 Invergordon
08 Montrose
09 Silloth
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales)
10 Annan
11 Appleby
12 Barnard Castle
13 Berwick upon T weed
14 Brock
15 Carlisle
16 Cockermouth
17 Gisburn
18 Hawes
19 Hexham
20 Jedburgh
21 Leek
22 Milnathort
23 Morpeth
24 Penrith
25 Perth
26 Selkirk
27 Spennymoor
28 Wooler
Wallace Oils
29 Carlisle 
Johnstone Wallace Fuels
30 Castle Douglas
31 Dargavel Stores, Dumfries
32 Stranraer
33 Heathhall, Dumfries
34 Newton Stewart
Afgritech
35 Carlisle 
Bibby Agriculture
36 Carmarthen
37 Shrewsbury
Silloth Storage
38 Silloth
The United Kingdom
and Ireland
North America
Germany
07
08
25 22
45
02
03
42
06
44
41
36
37
21
14
17
04
09
38
43
46
01
15
29
35
39
40
31
33
32
34
30
10
05
13
16
18
12
24
19
27
23
26
20
28
11
Head Office
01 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC, Carlisle
Food
43 Carrs Flour, Silloth
44 Greens Flour, Maldon
45 Hutchisons Flour, Kirkcaldy
46 John Stronach, Silloth
Engineering
39 Bendalls, Carlisle
40 R Hind, Carlisle 
41 Carrs MSM, Swindon
42 Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH,  
 Markdorf
16
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors
The Directors submit their report and the audited financial statements of 
the Group and Company for the period ended 28 August 2010.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Old Croft, Stanwix, 
Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
Principal activities, business review and future developments
The Group’s activities are Agriculture Trading, Agriculture Manufacturing, 
Food and Engineering. A review of the business is presented in the  
Chief Executive’s Review on pages 5 to 10, future developments of the 
Group are presented in the Chairman’s Statement on pages 2 to 3 and  
a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group  
is presented in the Financial Review on pages 12 to 14.
Results and dividends
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation, was £9.0 million  
(2009: £7.0 million). After taxation charge of £2.1 million (2009:  
£1.8 million), the profit for the year is £6.8 million (2009: £5.2 million).  
An interim dividend of 6.0p (2009: 6.0p) per ordinary share was paid on 
14 May 2010. A second interim dividend of 6.0p per ordinary share was 
paid on 7 October 2010. The Directors recommend the payment of a 
final dividend for the period, which is not reflected in these accounts, of 
12.0p (2009: 17.0p) per ordinary share which, together with the interim 
dividends, represents 24.0p per ordinary share, totalling £2.1 million  
(2009: 23.0p per ordinary share, totalling £2.0 million).
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend  
will be paid on 21 January 2011 to members on the register at the  
close of business on 24 December 2010. Shares will be ex-dividend on  
22 December 2010.
Key performance indicators are presented in the Group Financial Review 
on page 12.
During the year a number of acquisitions were made. Carrs Agriculture 
acquired Scotmin Nutrition, a manufacturer and supplier of animal feed 
supplements based in Ayr, Scotland. Scotmin has established a strong 
reputation for its supplement range which will complement our existing 
range of feed block products. Also, Carrs Agriculture acquired Ag Chem 
(UK), a small supplier of fertiliser products based in Y orkshire, and 
increases our range of fertiliser products. Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales) acquired A C Burn, trading as borthwickburn, a supplier of animal 
feed and proprietary animal feed products based in the Scottish borders. 
This business extends the number of retail branches operating in northern 
England and Scotland from 15 to 18. The total consideration, including 
acquisition expenses and net debt acquired, for the above acquisitions  
was £5.7 million. There is no deferred consideration payable.
Post balance sheet event
On 14 September 2010 the Group completed the acquisition of Forsyths 
of (Wooler) Limited, an agricultural merchant. Details of this acquisition 
are in note 37.
Financial instruments
The Group’s risk management objectives and policy are discussed in the 
Treasury policies section of the Financial Review on page 13 and note 26  
in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Pensions
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding obligations for the 
Group’s pension plans are based on various assumptions including, among 
other things, the actual and projected market performance of the pension 
plan assets, future long-term corporate bond yields, longevity of members 
and statutory requirements. In the last period, the relative improvement 
in equity markets, cash funding from the Company, together with lower 
inflation has decreased the deficit. The Group continually reviews this risk 
and takes action to mitigate where possible. In addition, while the Group is 
consulted by the trustees on the investment strategies of its pension plans, 
the Group has no direct control over these matters as the trustees are 
directly responsible for the strategy.
Details of the Group’s pension plans are in note 27 in the Notes to the 
Financial Statements.
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company who served during the period and up to 
the date of signing the financial statements are stated on page 15. Each of 
the current Directors served for the whole of the period under review. 
R C Wood and A R Heygate retire in accordance with the Articles of 
Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the Directors are shown below:
Non-executive Directors
Lord Inglewood (59) was a Conservative member of the European 
Parliament for ten years until his retirement in 2004, was a Government 
Minister from 1995 to 1997 and has been a member of the House of 
Lords since 1989. He brings to the Board wide experience, in particular  
of EU and Westminster politics, allied with a knowledge of farming in 
Carr’s north-west England heartland. He is also Chairman of CN Group 
Limited, the Carlisle based regional media company.
Mr A R Heygate (65) is an executive Director of Heygate & Sons Limited, 
the UK’s largest independent flour miller, and is also engaged in animal 
feed compounding and other agricultural activities.
Mr A G M Wannop (48) is a Director of English Food and Farming 
Partnership and of Cumbria Vision. He has actively farmed in Cumbria  
for many years.
Lord Inglewood, Mr A R Heygate and Mr A G Wannop have two year 
fixed term contracts which expire on 31 August 2011.
Executive Directors
Mr C N C Holmes (59) was appointed to the Board in January 1992, 
and as CEO in September 1994. Previously he held senior management 
positions in the agricultural division of J Bibby & Sons.
Mr R C Wood (63) was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 
January 1988 and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants. Mr R C Wood is also Company Secretary. He is also non-
executive Director of Cumbria Partnership NHS Trust. All fees receivable 
are paid to the Company.
The two executive Directors have service contracts which provide for a 
rolling one year notice period.
The Company has maintained a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
policy throughout the period and up to signing the financial statements, 
which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purpose  
of the Companies Act 2006. Neither the Company’s indemnity nor 
insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proved to have 
acted fraudulently or dishonestly. No claims have been made either under  
the indemnity or the insurance policy.
17
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors - continued
Employment policies
The Company’s policy on employee involvement is to adopt an open 
management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels 
about aspects of the Company’s operations. 
Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities 
irrespective of colour, ethnic or natural origin, nationality, sex, religion, 
marital or disabled status. Full consideration is given to applications for 
employment by and the continuing employment, training and career 
development of disabled people.
Charitable donations
During the period ended 28 August 2010 the Group contributed  
£9,927 (2009: £10,111) in the UK for charitable purposes. 
Payment of suppliers
Payment terms are agreed with each supplier and every endeavour is 
made to adhere to the agreed terms. The average credit terms for the 
Group as a whole, based on the year-end trade payables figure and  
a 365 day year, is 42 days (2009: 45 days). The Company has no 
outstanding trade payables at the end of the financial period.
Share Capital
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into Ordinary Shares of £0.25 each.
The movement in the share capital during the year is detailed in note 28 to the financial statements.
The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Company’s 
Memorandum of Association, the Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
The interests of the Directors, as defined by the Companies Act 2006, in the ordinary shares of the Company, other than in respect of options to acquire 
ordinary shares (which are detailed in the analysis of options included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26), are as follows:
 on 28 August 2010 on 29 August 2009
 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares
C N C Holmes 114,915 106,415
R C Wood 92,077 92,077
A R Heygate 37,225 37,225
W R Inglewood 4,410 4,410
A G M Wannop 2,261 2,261
All the above interests are beneficial. There have been no other changes to the above interests in the period from 28 August 2010 to 8 November 2010.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to 
any class of shares in the Company (of which they are none), the holders of the Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote in a poll for every Ordinary Share 
held. No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held if any call or other sum then payable in 
respect of that share remains unpaid. Currently all issued shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on  
11 January 2011 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but no 
dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial 
position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts 
paid up on the shares.
Major shareholders
The Company has been informed of the following interests at 8 November 2010 in the 8,791,286 ordinary shares of the Company, as required by the 
Companies Act 2006:
  Percentage of 
 Number of shares Issued share capital 
Heygate & Sons Limited* 1,265,287 14.4%
T W G Charlton 575,000 6.5%
Rathbone Nominees Limited 498,350 5.7%
Europe Nominees Limited 369,300 4.2%
HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited 350,000 4.0%
BNY GIL Client Account (Nominees) 315,000 3.6%
Barclayshare Nominees Limited 308,644 3.5%
 
* A R Heygate is a director of Heygate & Sons Limited.
Change of control
There are no agreements that the Company considers significant and to which the Company is party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon change 
of control of the Company following a takeover bid other than the following:
• 	 T h e 	 C o m p a n y 	 i s 	 p a r t y 	 t o 	 a 	 n u m b e r 	 o f 	 b a n k i n g 	 a g r e e m e n t s 	 w h i c h 	 u p o n 	 a 	 c h a n g e 	 o f 	 c o n t r o l 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n y 	 a r e 	 t e r m i n a b l e 	 b y 	 t h e 	 b a n k 	 i m m e d i a t e l y .
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the Shareholders.
18
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving 
the Directors’ Report are listed on page 15. Having made enquiries of 
fellow Directors each of these Directors, at the date of this report, confirms 
that:
• 	 t o 	 t h e 	 b e s t 	 o f 	 e a c h 	 D i r e c t o r ’ s 	 k n o w l e d g e 	 a n d 	 b e l i e f , 	 t h e r e 	 i s 	 n o 	 r e l e v a n t	
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
• 	 e a c h 	 D i r e c t o r 	 h a s 	 t a k e n 	 a l l 	 t h e 	 s t e p s 	 a 	 D i r e c t o r 	 m i g h t 	 r e a s o n a b l y 	 b e	
expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Corporate Governance
The Company’s statement on Corporate Governance is included in 
the Corporate Governance report on pages 20 to 22 of these financial 
statements.
Annual General Meeting and Special Business to be transacted 
at the Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting appears on page 86 
and includes the following items of Special Business:
(i) Resolution 7: Directors power to allot securities
 Under section 551 of the Companies Act (“Act”), relevant shares 
may only be issued with the consent of the shareholders, unless the 
shareholders pass a resolution generally authorising the Directors 
to issue shares without further reference to the shareholders. This 
resolution authorises the issue of shares up to an aggregate nominal 
value of £725,281, which is equal to 33% of the nominal value of the 
current issued ordinary share capital of the Company, for the period 
commencing with the passing of the resolution until the conclusion of 
the next annual general meeting of the Company or 6 months from 
the next accounting reference date of the Company (whichever is the 
earlier).
(ii) Resolution 8: Disapplication of pre-emption rights on equity issues for 
cash
 Sections 570 - 573 of the Act requires that a Company issuing shares 
for cash must first offer them to existing shareholders following a 
statutory procedure which, in the case of a rights issue, may prove 
to be both costly and cumbersome. This resolution excludes that 
statutory procedure as far as rights issues are concerned. It also 
enables the Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal 
value of £219,782, which is equal to 10% of the nominal value of 
the current issued ordinary share capital of the Company, subject 
to resolution 7 being passed. The Directors believe that the limited 
powers provided by this resolution will maintain a desirable degree  
of flexibility. Unless previously revoked or varied, the disapplication  
will expire on the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of 
the Company or 6 months from the next accounting reference date 
of the Company (whichever is the earlier).
(iii) Resolution 9: Authority for the market purchase by the Company  
of its own shares
 Section 693 of the Act requires the Company to obtain the 
shareholders’ consent prior to making any market purchase of the 
Company’s own shares. Resolution 9 sets out the conditions of the 
authority as required by section 166 of the Act and the resolution is 
proposed as a special resolution as required by the Listing Rules of 
the UK Listing Authority. The Directors have no current intentions 
relating to this authority but believe that the limited nature of the 
resolution will provide a desirable degree of flexibility. The Directors 
intend that any shares so purchased will be cancelled. The total 
number of share options in issue at the date of this document is 
192,276 which, if exercised, would represent 2.2% of the issued 
share capital of the Company as at the date hereof and would, if the 
authority under this resolution were to be exercised in full, represent 
2.4% of the issued share capital of the Company following completion 
of the purchase of the Company’s own shares.
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial period. Under that law the Directors have prepared the 
Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company law the Directors must not approve 
the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select	suitab le	accounting	policies	and	then	appl y	them	consistentl y;
•	 mak e	judgements	and	accounting	estimates	that	are	reasonab le	and	
prudent;
•	 state	whether	applicab le	IFRSs	as	adopted	b y	the	European	Union	
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements;
•	 prepare	the	financial	statements	on	the	going	concer n	basis, 	unless	
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 15 
confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 the	Group	financial	statements, 	which	ha v e	been	prepared	in	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
•	 the	Chief	Ex ecutiv e’ s	Review	includes	a	fair	review	of	the	
development and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group and the Financial Review includes a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By Order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Secretary
17 November 2010
19
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions 
of the Combined Code
Principles of good governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.  
The adoption and maintenance of good governance is the responsibility 
of the Board as a whole. This report, together with the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26, describes how the Board 
applies the principles of good governance and best practice as set out in 
Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 (the 
“Combined Code 2008”). A statement of compliance can be found at the 
end of this report. A copy of the Combined Code 2008 is publicly available 
from www.frc.org.
T akeover Directive requirements
The required information is disclosed in full in the Report of the 
Directors.
The Board
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, two executive Directors 
and two other non-executives. Lord Inglewood is considered independent 
and his independence was assessed when he was appointed as non-
executive Chairman. A R Heygate is a non-executive Director and the 
Board considers him to be independent although the Combined Code 
2008 would not deem him independent due to his long association with 
the Company and he represents a significant shareholder. The Board 
believes that he acts in the best interests of the Company and that his 
holding of shares in the Company aligns his interests with that of the 
shareholders. A G M Wannop is the senior independent non-executive 
Director. The Combined Code 2008 recommends that the Board of 
Directors of a UK public company should include a balance of executive 
and non-executive Directors (including independent non-executives) such 
that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s 
decision-making. The Board is confident that it meets the requirements of 
the Combined Code 2008 with the exception of A R Heygate as outlined 
above.
The Board meets ten times throughout the year to determine the 
strategic direction of the Group and to review operating, financial and 
risk performance. T o enable them to carry out these responsibilities all 
Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information. There  
is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board, which includes:
•	 appro val	of	the	Group’ s	ann ual	Business	Plan;
•	 the	Group’ s	str ategy;
•	 acquisitions, 	disposals	and	capital	expenditure	projects	abo v e	cer tain	
thresholds;
•	 all	guar antees;
•	 treasur y	policies;
•	 the	financial	statements;
•	 the	Compan y’ s	dividend	policy;
•	 tr ansactions	in v olving	the	issue	or	purchase	of	Compan y	shares;
•	 bor ro wing	po w er s;
•	 appointments	to	the	Board;
•	 alter ations	to	the	Memor andum	and	 Ar ticles	of	 Association;
•	 legal	actions	brought	b y	or	against	the	Group	abo v e	cer tain	
thresholds; and
•	 the	scope	of	delegations	to	Board	committees, 	subsidiar y	boards	and	
executive management of the Group.
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one third of the 
Directors retire by rotation each year at the Annual General Meeting 
which is in compliance with the Combined Code 2008. All new Directors 
are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity following 
their appointment.
Directors’ biographies are shown on page 17. The formal terms of 
reference for the main Board Committees together with the terms and 
conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are reviewed 
annually and are available for inspection at the Company’s Registered 
Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Board Meeting Agenda
In advance of all Board meetings the Directors are supplied with 
detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Group’s operating 
functions. Members of the executive management team attend and make 
presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board. The Company 
Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of 
information.
Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in performance of their duties as Directors. None of the 
Directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under 
review. All Directors have access to the advice and the services of the 
Company Secretary. In addition to these formal roles, the Non-executive 
Directors have access to senior management of the business either by 
telephone or via involvement at informal meetings.
Board Committees
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises the three non-executives,  
W R Inglewood, A R Heygate and A G M Wannop. The Committee is 
chaired by A R Heygate. The Board considers that the Company meets 
the main requirements of the Combined Code 2008 other than those 
provisions listed on page 22.
The Board are responsible for assessing the Group’s internal financial 
controls and meeting with the external auditors as appropriate. 
The external auditors have the opportunity for direct access to the 
Committee without the executive Directors being present.
The Committee reviews the Group’s accounting policies, the annual and 
consolidated accounts, and internal reports on accounting and internal 
financial control matters, together with reports from the external auditors. 
The Audit Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring the integrity 
of financial statements and related announcements and for all aspects of 
internal control. The Committee meets at least two times a year and such 
meetings involve a review of the Group’s interim and full year statements. 
The Audit Committee is also responsible for recommendations for the 
appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors and for 
reviewing their effectiveness. It also approves the terms of engagement and 
remuneration and monitors their independence, as well as monitoring the 
statutory audit of the Financial Statements. The Audit Committee carries 
out each year a full evaluation of the external auditor as to its complete 
independence from the Group and that it is adequately resourced and 
technically capable to deliver an objective audit to shareholders. Based  
on this review the Audit Committee recommends to the Board each  
year the continuation, or removal and replacement, of the external auditor.  
The Audit Committee continuously reviews any potential non-audit 
services to ensure the auditors do not compromise their independence. 
Auditors do not undertake internal accounting or other financial services, 
internal audit services or remuneration consultancy; all of which could 
compromise the auditors’ independence. Recommendations by the auditors 
on internal control procedures are considered by the Audit Committee and 
implemented where appropriate. There is also a whistle blowing policy in 
place which includes arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise 
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and 
other matters.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual 
General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be 
raised on the Committee’s activities.
20
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010   Audit Remuneration
 Board Committee Committee
No. of meetings 10 2 2
W R Inglewood 10 2 2
C N C Holmes 10 — —
R C Wood 10 — —
A R Heygate 10 2 2
A G M Wannop 10 2 2
 
Meetings attendance
Details of the number of meetings of, and members’ attendance at, the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees during the period are set out in the 
table below.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises A G M Wannop 
(Chairman), W R Inglewood and A R Heygate. It is a requirement of 
the Combined Code 2008 that the Remuneration Committee should, 
in the case of smaller companies, consist of at least two members 
who are considered by the Combined Code 2008 to be independent. 
The Company has complied with this. The Board is confident that the 
Company complies with the requirements of the Combined Code 
2008 in terms of the required number of independent Directors for a 
Company of Carr’s size. C N C Holmes, Chief Executive, attends meetings 
of the Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity. No Director 
attends any part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed. 
The Chairman and the executive Directors determine the remuneration 
of the other non-executive Directors. The remuneration of the Chairman 
is determined by the Board.
The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive 
remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other terms 
and conditions of service for each executive Director. It determines 
appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and 
deferred bonus scheme and approves awards and the issue of options 
in accordance with the terms of those schemes. The executive Directors’ 
contract periods are one year. The Remuneration Committee also 
monitors the level and structure of remuneration of senior management 
below that of main board Director. The Committee has access to advice 
from the Company Secretary and to detailed analysis of executive 
remuneration in comparable companies. Details of the Committee’s 
current remuneration policies are given in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 23 to 26. 
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the Annual 
General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might  
be raised on the Committee’s activities.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of good communications with all 
shareholders. The Group maintains dialogue with institutional shareholders 
and analysts, and general presentations are made when financial results 
are announced. Shareholders have access to the Company’s website at 
www.carrs-milling.com.
The Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for all the Directors 
to engage in dialogue with private investors. All shareholders are given the 
opportunity to raise questions at the meeting. The Group aims to send 
notices of Annual General Meetings to shareholders at least 20 working 
days before the meeting, as required by the Combined Code 2008, and 
it is the Company’s practice to indicate the proxy voting results on all 
resolutions at the meetings.
Going concern
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis, 
having satisfied themselves from a review of internal budgets and forecasts 
and current bank facilities that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s systems 
of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management, which safeguards the shareholders’ investment 
and the Group’s assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
A review of internal inventory controls at one of the divisions highlighted 
weaknesses in inventory control management. Management have 
investigated the weakness and implemented more robust controls.
21
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance - continued
The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure  
with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the 
Board. The organisational structure has been designed in order to plan, 
execute, monitor and control the Group’s objectives effectively and to 
ensure that internal control becomes embedded in the operations.  
The Board confirms that the key on-going processes and features of  
the Group’s internal risk based control system, which accord with the 
Turnbull guidance, have been fully operative throughout the year and  
up to the date of the Annual Report being approved. These include: 
a process to identify and evaluate business risk; a strong control 
environment; an information and communication process; a monitoring 
system and a regular Board review for effectiveness. The Finance Director 
and Group Financial Accountant are responsible for overseeing the 
Group’s internal controls. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function as the Board consider 
that the Group has not yet reached a size where a separate internal audit 
function would be an appropriate or cost effective method of ensuring 
compliance with Group policies, and therefore does not currently 
propose to introduce a Group internal audit function. This area will be 
kept under review as part of the Board’s assessment of the Group’s 
systems of internal control.
The management of the Group’s businesses identified the key business 
risks within their operations, considered the financial implications and 
assessed the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate 
these risks. The Board reviewed a summary of the findings and this, along 
with direct involvement in the strategies of the businesses, investment 
appraisal and budgeting process, enabled the Board to report on 
the effectiveness of internal control. Following its review, the Board 
determined that it was not aware of any significant deficiency or material 
weakness in the system of internal control.
Auditors independence
The Board is satisfied that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has adequate 
policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity 
and independence is maintained. The Group meets its obligations for 
maintaining the appropriate relationship with the external auditors 
through the Audit Committee whose terms of reference include an 
obligation to consider and keep under review the degree of work 
undertaken by the external auditors, other than the statutory audit, to 
ensure such objectivity and independence is safeguarded. There is  
a continuous review of what work auditors can and cannot do so as not 
to compromise their independence. In assessing the auditors’ objectivity, 
the Audit Committee considers: the auditors’ policy to ensure that their 
staff have no personal relationships with the Group, the auditors’ policy 
on rotation of the lead partner, and adherence by the auditors and the 
Group to the policy on procurement of non-audit services.
Compliance with the Revised Combined Code
The Directors consider that the Company has, during the period ended 
28 August 2010, complied with the requirements of the Combined Code 
2008 other than as set out below.
•	 the	non-ex ecutiv e	Director , 	 A	R	Heygate , 	is	not	deemed	to	be	
independent under the requirements of the Combined Code 2008 
although the Board considers him to be independent (A.3.1)
•	 the	member s	of	the	 Audit	Committee	are	deemed	not	to	ha v e	
recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with the 
Combined Code 2008 (A.3.1). However, the Board believes their 
business knowledge and experience is sufficient to satisfy the 
Committee’s obligations
•	 there	are	no	specific	pro visions	f or	compensation	on	ear l y	
termination of the executive Directors (B.1.5)
•	 the	Board	did	not	ha v e	in	place	dur ing	the	per iod	a	f or mal	and	
rigorous process of evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
committees (A.6.1). Rigorous but informal evaluation has historically 
been carried out by the Chairman and Chief Executive, an evaluation 
of the performance of the individual Directors has also been carried 
out by the Remuneration Committee
•	 there	is	no	separ ate	Nominations	Committee	(A.4.1)	to	assess	and	
recommend new Directors. Instead the Board as a whole considers 
these areas following initial scrutiny and recommendations by the 
Chief Executive and Chairman
By order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Secretary
Carlisle
CA3 9BA
17 November 2010
22
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Information not subject to audit
Remuneration Committee
All matters relating to executive remuneration are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Board of Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises A G M Wannop (Chairman), 
A R Heygate and Lord Inglewood. As appropriate, the Committee 
may invite the Chief Executive Officer to participate in some of its 
discussions. The Committee is responsible for determining the terms and 
conditions of employment of executive Directors. It is also responsible 
for considering management recommendations for remuneration and 
employment terms of the Company’s senior staff, including incentive 
arrangements for bonus payments and grant of share options.
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is determined by 
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and reflects the time, 
commitment and responsibility of their roles.
The Remuneration Committee’s decisions are made on the basis of 
rewarding individuals for the nature of jobs they undertake and their 
performance therein. Proper regard is given to the need to attract 
and retain high quality, well-motivated staff at all levels and to the 
remuneration being paid by similar companies. 
Details of Remuneration
The remuneration of Directors is set out in detail on page 24. The 
Company’s Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration policy 
that applies to executive Directors and the Group’s other senior 
management.
Each of the executive Directors has a one-year rolling contract. The 
most recent executed contracts for the executive Directors were dated 
10 June 2002 and as amended on 2 September 2010. In the event of 
termination C N C Holmes would be entitled to loss of salary, benefits 
and pensionable service for the notice period. R C Wood receives 
a pension from the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 
and he would be entitled to loss of salary and benefits in the event 
of termination of employment. Contracts do not provide additional 
compensation for severance as a result of a change of control.  
The contracts of non-executive Directors of the Company are fixed for 
two years and the most recent executed contracts for W R Inglewood,  
A R Heygate and A G M Wannop were 1 September 2009.
The Company’s policy for the current and subsequent periods is that a 
proportion of the remuneration of the executive Directors should be 
performance related. As described below, executive Directors may earn 
annual incentive payments together with the benefits of participation in 
Share Option Schemes.
When setting the remuneration policy for the executive Directors for the 
current financial period, the Remuneration Committee considered pay 
and employment conditions elsewhere within the Group.
Constituent Elements of Remuneration Package
In applying the above principles to the determination of executive 
Director remuneration, the Remuneration Committee gives consideration 
to several components which together comprise the total remuneration 
package; these consist of the following:
Basic Salary is determined by the Committee at the beginning of 
each year. In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers the 
position in the Group, personal and Company performance and relies 
on information on a comparable group of companies. Basic salaries 
were last reviewed in September 2010, with increases taking effect 
from 1 September 2010. The next review will take place in August 
2011. Executive Directors’ contracts of service, which include details 
of remuneration, will be available for inspection at the Annual General 
Meeting.
Annual Bonus is paid up to a maximum of 100% of Basic Salary on 
exceeding profit targets. Annual bonus payments are not pensionable  
and conform to best practice as set out in the Combined Code 2008.
Benefits in Kind comprise car benefit and private healthcare which is not 
pensionable, critical illness and death in service cover. 
Pension Contribution. The Company’s defined benefit pension scheme 
aims at producing a pension of two-thirds final pensionable salary at 
normal retirement age of 60. C N C Holmes is a member of the pension 
scheme and his final pension is based on the notional earnings cap and 
can retire early without actuarial reduction to his pension.
C N C Holmes’ pension information is given in the section subject to 
audit.
R C Wood receives a pension from the pension scheme.
The normal retirement age is 60 with a two-thirds surviving spouse’s 
pension. On death in service a lump sum equal to four times basic salary 
is payable together with a surviving spouse’s pension of two-thirds of 
the director’s prospective pension. For death after retirement a spouse’s 
pension of two-thirds of the member’s pension is payable plus the 
balance of a five year guarantee if applicable.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in the pension scheme. 
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to be increased annually by 5%  
or the increase in the Retail Price Index (RPI) if less.
Share Options. Salary and a bonus scheme are intended as the most 
significant part of Directors’ remuneration; in addition, executive share 
options can be proposed by the Remuneration Committee and are 
granted periodically to promote the involvement of senior management 
in the longer term success of the Company. Options can only be 
exercised if certain performance criteria are achieved by the Company. 
These criteria are based on the growth in the Company’s adjusted 
earnings per share in excess of the growth in the retail price index over 
the performance period by an average 2% per annum for each of the 
three years in the performance period.
Deferred Bonus Scheme
In February 2006, the Group established an HMRC Approved Deferred 
Bonus Scheme. In the year ended 28 August 2010, the Remuneration 
Committee declined to offer the two executive Directors deferred bonus 
shares (2009: Nil).
Non-Executive Remuneration
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is agreed by the 
Group Board taking into account a number of factors pertinent to 
their position and role as non-executive Directors. The non-executive 
Directors do not participate in share option awards, bonus plans or 
pension arrangements.
23
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors’ Remuneration Report - continued
Performance Graph
The following graph illustrates the 
Company’s total shareholder return 
performance since 31 August 2005 
relative to the FTSE All-share index.  
The Company considers that the 
FTSE All-share index to be the most 
appropriate comparator group as it is a 
broad index and reflects the Company’s 
broad range of activities.
Carr’s Milling Industries
FTSE All-Share Price Index
Source: Thomson Datastream
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
140
120
100
80
60
Information subject to audit
Directors’ Remuneration
         
          2010 2009
          Gain on Gain on
   Fees &   Total Total 2010 2009 Exercise Exercise 
   Basic Annual  Emoluments Emoluments Pension Pension of Share of Share
   Salary Bonus Benefits 2010 2009 Contributions Contributions Options Options
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Executive Directors
C N C Holmes  500 192  8   700 407  30   20 —  — 
R C Wood  233 163  3  399 187  —   —  —  —
Non-executive Directors
W R Inglewood   51  —  —  51  50  —  — —  —
A R Heygate   25  —  —  25  25  —  — —  —
A G M Wannop   25  —  —  25  25  —  —  —  —
    834 355  11 1,200 694  30  20  —  — 
 
The basic salary of C N C Holmes includes an additional sum representing 93% of his gross basic salary to normal retirement age at 5 September 2011,  
or earlier retirement from the Company. This additional sum represents compensation for the reduction in pension entitlement.
24
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Executive Directors’ Pension Information
  C N C Holmes
Age at 28 August 2010  58
  
  £’000
Directors’ contributions during the period  —  
Increase in accrued pension entitlement for the period 
At 28 August 2010    
 excluding inflation  2
 including inflation  3 
Total accrued pension entitlement
 At 28 August 2010  82  
 At 29 August 2009  79  
Transfer value of pension
 At 28 August 2010  1,619  
 At 29 August 2009  1,627    
(Decrease)/increase in transfer value less contributions made by Directors    
 At 28 August 2010  (8)
 At 29 August 2009   293
Transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits less contributions made by Directors  
 At 28 August 2010  78
  
 The accrued pension entitlement and transfer value of pension at 28 August 2010 for C N C Holmes have been determined using the maximum of the 
earnings cap applicable for 2009/10. 
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the Director would receive if he retired at the end of the period.
The decrease in the accrued entitlement is the difference between the accrued benefit at the period end and that at the previous period end.
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The transfer values of the  
accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the scheme’s 
liability in respect of the Director’s pension benefits. They do not represent sums payable to the Director and, therefore cannot be added meaningfully to 
annual remuneration.
 
Directors’ Share Options
The Company operates an HMRC approved and an unapproved share option scheme to reward employees’ performance and to incentivise at senior levels. 
Exercise is subject to performance conditions. For all options granted the exercise criterion has been that earnings should achieve growth which exceeds the 
percentage growth in the Retail Price Index by 2% or more. The rules of the schemes conform to institutional investor guidelines.
The performance criterion, which applies to the executive Directors to whom options have been granted under the Schemes, was chosen as it requires 
significant improvement in financial performance. No options have been granted at a discount to the market price at the date of their grant.
Options to acquire shares in the Company, granted to Directors under the Scheme but not exercised, as at 28 August 2010 are:
 At 29 Exercised Granted At    Earliest date 
 August during during 28 August Exercise Date of from which  Expiry
 2009 period period 2010 price grant exercisable  date
C N C Holmes 6,000 — — 6,000 502.3p 20 Feb 2006 Feb 2009  Feb 2016
R C Wood 6,000 — — 6,000 502.3p 20 Feb 2006 Feb 2009  Feb 2016
  
The two executive Directors did not exercise executive share options during the year:
The middle market closing price of the shares at 27 August 2010 was 570.0p (28 August 2009: 445.0p) and the range throughout the year was 577.5p to 
420.0p.
 
25
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors’ Remuneration Report - continued
Deferred Bonus Scheme
The Group operates an approved HMRC deferred bonus scheme to reward employees’ performance and to incentivise at senior levels. In the year ended 
1 September 2007 the two executive Directors elected to defer 50% of the bonus paid in November 2007 in the form of a Bonus Share Award. The 
Remuneration Committee granted a Matching Share Award and on meeting in full the performance conditions, the two Directors will receive matching shares. 
The matching shares equal the gross amount of deferred bonus divided by the average price per share at date of deferral. 
To qualify for the Maximum Award Multiple of 1 the growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share over the 3 years ended 31 August 2010 must 
equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) over the 3 years by an average of 4% per annum. The Award Multiple will be reduced to 0.5 
should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the 3 years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Company’s adjusted 
earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to above, the Award Multiple will be measured on a straight line basis between 0.5 and 1.
    Maximum
   Maximum  no. of
 No. of Bonus Base no. of  award matching Exercise 
 award shares shares multiple  shares date
C N C Holmes 2,131 3,612 1 3,612 30 November 2010
R C Wood 1,860 3,153 1 3,153 30 November 2010
 
On behalf of the Board
A G M Wannop
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
17 November 2010
26
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
We have audited the financial statements of Carr’s Milling Industries PLC for 
the period ended 28 August 2010 which comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated and company statements of comprehensive 
income, the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity, the company statement of changes in 
equity, the consolidated and company statements of cash flows, principal 
accounting policies and the related notes. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 19, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• 	 t h e 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 g i v e 	 a 	 t r u e 	 a n d 	 f a i r 	 v i e w 	 o f 	 t h e 	 s t a t e 	 o f 	 t h e	
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 28 August 2010 and 
of the group’s profit and group’s and parent company’s cash flows for 
the period then ended;
• 	 t h e 	 g r o u p 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d	
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; 
and
• 	 t h e 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 t h e	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006 
In our opinion: 
• 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 r e p o r t 	 t o 	 b e 	 a u d i t e d 	 h a s 	 b e e n	
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006;
• 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 g i v e n 	 i n 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e p o r t 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 y e a r	
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and
• 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 g i v e n 	 i n 	 t h e 	 C o r p o r a t e 	 G o v e r n a n c e 	 S t a t e m e n t 	 s e t	
out on pages 20 to 22 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent 
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion: 
• 	 a d e q u a t e 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 r e c o r d s 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 b e e n 	 k e p t 	 b y 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t	
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’	
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
• 	 c e r t a i n 	 d i s c l o s u r e s 	 o f 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 s p e c i f i e d 	 b y 	 l a w 	 a r e 	 n o t	
made; or 
• 	 w e 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 r e c e i v e d 	 a l l 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 a n d 	 e x p l a n a t i o n s 	 w e 	 r e q u i r e	
for our audit; or
• 	 a 	 c o r p o r a t e 	 g o v e r n a n c e 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 h a s 	 n o t 	 b e e n 	 p r e p a r e d 	 b y 	 t h e	
parent company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 s t a t e m e n t , 	 s e t 	 o u t 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 2 1 , 	 i n 	 r e l a t i o n 	 t o 	 g o i n g	
concern; and
• 	 t h e 	 p a r t s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o r p o r a t e 	 G o v e r n a n c e 	 S t a t e m e n t 	 r e l a t i n g 	 t o 	 t h e	
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review.
Mark Webster (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne
17 November 2010
27
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Consolidated Income Statement
for the period ended 28 August 2010
  52 week 52 week
  period period
  2010 2009
 Notes £’000 £’000
Revenue 2,3 344,953 350,023
Cost of sales 3 (299,898) (309,016)
Gross profit 3 45,055 41,007
Net operating expenses 3 (35,906) (33,712)
Group operating profit 3,4 9,149 7,295
Finance income 7 410 211
Finance costs 7 (1,392) (1,522)
Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures 5 799 1,051
Profit before taxation 2 8,966 7,035
Taxation 8 (2,131) (1,829)
Profit for the period  6,835 5,206
Profit attributable to:
Equity shareholders  5,632 4,421
Minority interests   1,203 785
  6,835 5,206 
Earnings per share (pence) 
Basic 10 64.1 50.4
Diluted 10 64.1 50.3
All of the above are derived from continuing operations. The results from acquisitions during the period were not material and have not been presented 
separately.
28
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Consolidated and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the period ended 28 August 2010
 Group Company
   52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2010 2009 2010 2009
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the period  6,835 5,206 1,271 7,954
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation (losses)/gains arising on  
 translation of overseas subsidiaries  (82) 276 (148) —
Actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefit obligation:
- Group 27 2,294 951 2,294 951
- Share of associate 27 (512) (1,386) — —
Taxation (charge)/credit on actuarial movement 
 on retirement benefit obligation:
- Group 18 (642) (266) (642) (266)
- Share of associate  143 388 — —
Other comprehensive income/(expense)  
 for the period, net of tax  1,201 (37) 1,504 685
T otal comprehensive income for the period  8,036 5,169 2,775 8,639
T otal comprehensive income attributable to:
Equity shareholders  6,830 4,387 2,775 8,639
Minority interests  1,206 782 — —
   8,036 5,169 2,775 8,639
29
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
As at 28 August 2010
 Group Company
   52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2010 2009 2010 2009
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 11 4,336 1,654 — —
Other intangible assets 11 1,362 764 — —
Property, plant and equipment 12 32,588 31,764 — —
Investment property 13 699 718 — —
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 14,17 — — 13,000 13,002
Investment in associate 14,15 2,811 2,735 1,470 1,470
Interest in joint ventures 14,16 2,138 1,840 320 320
Other investments 14 69 51 — —
Financial assets
- Non-current receivables 20 5 53 1,775 2,275
Deferred tax assets 18 3,924 5,015 2,903 4,111
   47,932 44,594 19,468 21,178
Current assets
Inventories  19 27,015 23,860 — —
Trade and other receivables  20 48,810 43,059 18,386 13,213
Current tax assets 21 303 119 1,619 959
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments 26 — 16 — —
- Cash at bank and in hand  22 13,695 10,304 9,559 16,038
 
   89,823 77,358 29,564 30,210
T otal assets   137,755 121,952 49,032 51,388
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings 25 (11,478) (10,226) (4,958) (3,748)
- Derivative financial instruments 26 (127) (43) — (43)
Trade and other payables 23 (49,468) (35,928) (932) (833)
Current tax liabilities 24 (1,129) (708) — —
    (62,202) (46,905) (5,890) (4,624)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings 25 (17,732) (19,403) (13,955) (14,410)
Retirement benefit obligation  27 (10,745) (14,673) (10,745) (14,673)
Deferred tax liabilities 18 (4,960) (4,840) — —
Other non-current liabilities 23 (2,797) (2,834) — —
   (36,234) (41,750) (24,700) (29,083)
T otal liabilities  (98,436) (88,655) (30,590) (33,707)
 
Net assets   39,319 33,297 18,442 17,681
Shareholders’ equity
Called-up share capital  28 2,196 2,196 2,196 2,196
Share premium   7,738 7,738 7,738 7,738
Treasury share reserve  (101) (101) — —
Equity compensation reserve  170 164 205 199
Foreign exchange reserve  301 386 (148) —
Other reserve   1,477 1,508 — —
Retained earnings   22,925 17,999 8,451 7,548
T otal shareholders’ equity  34,706 29,890 18,442 17,681
Minority interests in equity  4,613 3,407 — —
T otal equity   39,319 33,297 18,442 17,681
The financial statements set out on pages 28 to 83 were approved by the Board on 17 November 2010 and signed on its behalf by:
Christopher N C Holmes Ronald C Wood
30
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the period ended 28 August 2010
  Called-up Share Treasury Equity Foreign   T otal 
  Share Premium Share Compensation Exchange Other  Retained Shareholders’ Minority  
  Capital Account Reserve Reserve  Reserve Reserves Earnings Equity Interest T otal
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 August 2008  2,094 5,252 (101) 206 107 1,539 15,880 24,977 2,619 27,596
Profit for the period — — — — — — 4,421 4,421 785 5,206
Other comprehensive income — — — — 279 — (313) (34) (3) (37)
T otal comprehensive income — — — — 279 — 4,108 4,387 782 5,169
Dividends paid — — — — — — (2,020) (2,020) — (2,020)
Equity settled share-  
 based payment  
 transactions, net of tax — — — (42) — — — (42) 6 (36)
Allotment of shares 102 2,486 — — — — — 2,588 — 2,588
Transfer — — — — — (31) 31 — — —
At 29 August 2009 2,196 7,738 (101) 164 386 1,508 17,999 29,890 3,407 33,297
At 30 August 2009  2,196 7,738 (101) 164 386 1,508 17,999 29,890 3,407 33,297
Profit for the period — — — — — — 5,632 5,632 1,203 6,835
Other comprehensive income — — — — (85) — 1,283 1,198 3 1,201
T otal comprehensive income — — — — (85) — 6,915 6,830 1,206 8,036
Dividends paid — — — — — — (2,020) (2,020) — (2,020)
Equity settled share-  
 based payment  
 transactions, net of tax — — — 6 — — — 6 — 6
Transfer — — — — — (31) 31 — — —
At 28 August 2010 2,196 7,738 (101) 170 301 1,477 22,925 34,706 4,613 39,319
The treasury share reserve includes the purchase of own shares in the Company, which are held in trust. These shares were acquired by the trust in the open 
market place and are to be held to meet the Group’s obligations under the share based award schemes. However at the balance sheet date they have not yet 
been allocated to the various schemes.
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative spreading, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share option, share save and deferred 
bonus schemes over the vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement. 
The amount recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of foreign exchange translation (losses)/gains arising on translation of overseas 
subsidiaries includes £3,000 (2009: £3,000) in respect of translation differences attributable to minority interest.
 
The Group has opted to use previous revaluations of property made under UK GAAP as deemed cost. On adoption of IFRS the revaluation reserve was 
reclassified to other reserves.
31
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010   Called-up Share Equity Foreign   
  Share Premium Compensation Exchange Retained T otal
  Capital Account Reserve  Reserve Earnings Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 August 2008  2,094 5,252 233 — 929 8,508
Profit for the period — — — — 7,954 7,954
Other comprehensive income — — — — 685 685
T otal comprehensive income — — — — 8,639 8,639
Dividends paid — — — — (2,020) (2,020)
Equity settled share-based payment transactions, net of tax — — (34) — — (34)
Allotment of shares 102 2,486 — — — 2,588
At 29 August 2009 2,196 7,738 199 — 7,548 17,681
At 30 August 2009 2,196 7,738 199 — 7,548 17,681
Profit for the period — — — — 1,271 1,271
Other comprehensive income — — — (148) 1,652 1,504
T otal comprehensive income — — — (148) 2,923 2,775
Dividends paid — — — — (2,020) (2,020)
Equity settled share-based payment transactions, net of tax — — 6 — — 6
At 28 August 2010 2,196 7,738 205 (148) 8,451 18,442
 
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the period ended 28 August 2010 
32
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows
For the period ended 28 August 2010
 Group Company
   52 week 52 week 52 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2010 2009 2010 2009
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 31 18,002 9,817 (3,302) (2,840)
Interest received  395 204 475 342
Interest paid  (1,422) (1,456) (560) (588)
Tax (paid)/recovered  (1,698) (2,985) 372 924
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities   15,277 5,580 (3,015) (2,162)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) 30 (5,604) (4,258) — —
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — 2,984 6,100
Net (payment)/receipt of loans to subsidiaries  — — (4,875) 1,806
Purchase of intangible assets  (260) (25) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   187 282 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (3,315) (2,612) — —
Purchase of investments  (17) — — —
Receipt of non-current receivables  50 — — —
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities  (8,959) (6,613) (1,891) 7,906
 
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital   — 2,588 — 2,588
Net proceeds from loans from subsidiaries  — — 507 1,517
Net (costs)/proceeds from issue of new bank loans  (20) 18,029 (20) 14,878
Finance lease principal repayments  (1,065) (1,025) — —
Repayment of borrowings  (634) (6,450) — (6,375)
Increase/(decrease) in other borrowings  1,626 (1,195) — —
Dividends paid to shareholders 9 (2,020) (2,020) (2,020) (2,020)
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities  (2,113) 9,927 (1,533) 10,588
Effects of exchange rate changes  (58) 161 (40) (174)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   4,147 9,055 (6,479) 16,158
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 22 9,121 66 16,038 (120)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period  22 13,268 9,121 9,559 16,038
33
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Principal Accounting Policies
Basis of accounting
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and 
IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union (EU) and with those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under 
IFRS.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in 
England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Old Croft, Stanwix, 
Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the 
date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based 
on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual 
results ultimately may differ materially from those estimates.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently, other than where new 
policies have been adopted.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historic cost 
convention as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments 
and share based payments at fair value through profit or loss.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 
and all its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the results of its 
associate and joint ventures. The financial statements of the subsidiaries, 
associate and joint ventures are prepared as of the same reporting date 
and consolidated using consistent accounting policies. Group inter-company 
balances and transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from 
Group inter-company transactions, are eliminated in full. Profits and losses 
on transactions with the associate and joint ventures are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the current financial 
period were included in the financial statements from the effective date 
of control. The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of the 
acquired subsidiary undertakings were incorporated into the financial 
statements on the basis of the fair value as at the effective date of the 
Group acquiring control.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of more 
than 50% of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the 
date on which the Group ceases to control them. Associates are entities 
over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally 
accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.  
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control, 
established by contractual agreement. Investments in associates and joint 
ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The Group’s share of 
its associate and joint ventures’ post-tax profits or losses are recognised in 
the income statement, and its share of movement in reserves is recognised 
in reserves. The cumulative movements are adjusted against the carrying 
amount of the investment. The Group’s investment in associate and joint 
ventures includes any goodwill arising on acquisition. If the Group’s share  
of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment  
in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further 
losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of  
the associate or joint venture.
All subsidiaries are accounted for by applying the purchase method. The 
cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair 
values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or 
assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group. The identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at 
fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority 
interest. The excess of the cost of the business combination over the 
Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Acquisition related costs are expensed to the income statement in the 
period they are incurred.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests  
as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Employee share trust
Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) 12 requires that the Group 
consolidate a special purpose entity where the substance of the relationship 
between the parties indicates that the Group controls the entity. The 
employee share trust sponsored by the Group falls within this category of 
special purpose entity and has been accounted for as if it were, in substance, 
a subsidiary.
Shares acquired by the trust have been recognised in the treasury share 
reserve and have been excluded from the calculation of earnings per share 
in the current period, as the shares have not been allocated to a share 
scheme. When such an allocation occurs the shares will be included in the 
diluted earnings per share calculation.
Currency translation
The financial statements for the Group’s subsidiaries, associate and joint 
ventures are prepared using their functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
an entity operates. The presentation currency of the Group and functional 
currency of the Group is Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Exchange 
differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the 
translation, at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using 
the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements 
are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the period. 
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative 
effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, the exchange rate 
on the transaction date is used. Exchange differences arising are recognised 
as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. On disposal of a foreign 
operation any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholders’ equity 
are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods or services is measured at the fair value of 
the consideration, net of rebates and excluding value added tax. Revenue 
from the sale of goods or services is recognised when the Group has 
transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the 
buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and when it is 
probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow 
to the Group. Inter segmental revenue is on an arm’s length basis. 
In respect of construction contracts, revenue is calculated on the basis of 
the stage of completion and the total sales value of each contract.
34
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s 
Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme. The Group also offers various defined contribution 
schemes to its employees.
The assets of the above named schemes are held separately from those  
of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
consolidated income statement in the period to which they relate.
The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the period end 
in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of 
scheme assets. Independent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obligation 
annually using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the 
defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future 
cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are 
denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that 
have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension 
liability.
The current service costs, past service costs and gains and losses on 
settlements and curtailments are included in operating profit in the 
consolidated income statement.
A charge is made within operating costs which represents the expected 
increase in the liabilities of the pension schemes during the period. This 
arises from the liabilities of the schemes being one year closer to payment.
A credit representing the expected return on the assets of the pension 
schemes during the period is netted against the above charge within 
operating costs. This is based on the market value of the assets of the 
schemes at the start of the financial period. Actuarial gains and losses 
arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions 
are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
The pension schemes’ deficits or surpluses, to the extent that they are 
considered recoverable, are recognised in full on the consolidated balance 
sheet.
The Group’s share of the deficit in the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension 
Scheme is recognised through its investment in associate.
Share based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value 
at the date of the grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the 
equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will 
eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a valuation model. The expected life used 
in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, 
for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate of the number of 
options that are expected to vest. Changes to the fair value recognised as a 
result of this are charged or credited to the consolidated income statement 
with a corresponding adjustment to the equity compensation reserve.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the consolidated income statement on an accruals 
basis using the effective interest method. 
Operating segments
The Group has adopted the requirements of IFRS8 ‘Operating segments’. 
The standard requires operating segments to be identified on the basis 
of internal financial information about components of the Group that are 
regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) to 
allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. The 
CODM has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board considers the business from a product/services perspective. 
Operating segments have been identified as Agriculture Trading, Agriculture 
Manufacturing, Food and Engineering.
Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items that are material by size and/or by nature are presented 
within their relevant income statement category. Items that management 
consider fall into this category are disclosed within a note to the financial 
statements. The separate disclosure of non-recurring items helps provide 
a better indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Events 
which may give rise to non-recurring items include, but are not limited to, 
gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, the restructuring of businesses, 
the integration of new businesses and asset impairments.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition. 
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units  
for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset, which is carried at cost less impairment, 
and assessed for impairment annually. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Once recognised, an impairment of 
goodwill is not reversed under any circumstance.
Where a business combination results in an excess of the acquirer’s 
interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities over cost, the excess is credited to the consolidated 
income statement in the period of acquisition.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 31 August 1998 
has not been reinstated and would not form part of the gain or loss on the 
disposal of a business.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation. 
Amortisation commences when assets are available for use. The expected 
useful lives, over which the assets are amortised, are generally as follows:
Customer relationships 1 - 5 years
Brands 15 - 20 years
Know-how 5 years
Patents and trademarks contractual life
Software 3 - 10 years
Customer relationships and brands are amortised in line with the profit 
and income streams they are respectively expected to generate over their 
expected useful life.
Know-how, patents, trademarks and software are amortised on a straight-
line basis.
35
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Principal Accounting Policies - continued
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired 
intangible assets comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable 
costs of preparing the assets for use.
Research and development costs
All research costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as 
incurred. Development costs are recognised as an asset only to the extent 
that specific recognition criteria, as set out in IAS38 ‘Intangible assets’, 
relevant to the proposed application are met and the amount recognised  
is recoverable through future economic benefits.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises purchase 
price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For 
all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated on a 
straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over  
their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each financial period-end.
Assets not fully constructed at the balance sheet date are classified as 
assets in the course of construction. When construction is complete these 
assets are reclassified to the appropriate heading within property, plant and 
equipment. Depreciation commences when the asset is ready for use.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged to 
the income statement as incurred; the cost of major renovations and 
improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds 
with the carrying amount and are recognised within the income statement.
Investment property
Investment properties are properties held for long-term rental yields. 
Investment properties are carried in the balance sheet at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all other 
investment property, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to 
allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their estimated useful 
lives as follows:
Freehold buildings  up to 50 years
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged to 
the income statement as incurred; the cost of major renovations and 
improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds 
with the carrying amount and are recognised within the income statement.
Impairment of assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication 
that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of impairment exists, 
the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount. Where the carrying 
amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written 
down to its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair 
value less costs to sell and value in use and is deemed for an individual 
asset. If the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent 
of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of 
the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. Discount 
rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used 
for the value in use calculation.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and 
those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their 
present location and condition. Where appropriate, cost is calculated on a 
specific identification basis. Otherwise inventories are valued using the first-in 
first-out method.
Contract work in progress is measured at the selling price of the work 
performed at the balance sheet date. The selling price is measured by 
reference to the stage of completion at the balance sheet date and total 
expected income from the contract work. 
The stage of completion is determined as the proportion that contract 
costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the total estimated total 
contract costs. Amounts invoiced for work completed are deducted from 
the selling price, while amounts invoiced in excess of work completed are 
recognised as current liabilities.
Where it is probable that contract costs will exceed total contract revenue 
the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense in the income 
statement.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated 
costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and 
distribution.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated statement 
of cash flows comprise cash at bank and in hand, money market deposits 
and other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 
three months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are presented in 
borrowings within current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Grants
Grants received on capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income 
and taken to the consolidated income statement in equal annual instalments 
over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. 
Revenue grants and contributions are taken to the consolidated income 
statement in the period to which they apply.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases at inception where substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group. Assets 
classified as finance leases are capitalised on the consolidated balance sheet 
and are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the 
term of the lease. The interest element of the rental obligations is charged 
to the consolidated income statement over the period of the lease using 
the actuarial method.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the consolidated income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Leasehold 
land is normally classified as an operating lease. Payments made to acquire 
leasehold land are included in prepayments at cost and are amortised  
over the life of the lease. Any incentives to enter into operating leases  
are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on  
a straight-line basis.
36
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Tax
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents an estimate of the amounts payable to 
tax authorities in respect of the Group’s taxable profits.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax 
arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other 
than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised. Deferred tax 
is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments  
in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group is able 
to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax 
relates to items recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, in which case  
the tax is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity through the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Dividends
Final equity dividends to the shareholders of the Company are recognised 
in the period that they are approved by the shareholders. Interim equity 
dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised in the period in which they are 
received.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s consolidated 
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables 
is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not 
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the 
receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that 
the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or 
delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable 
is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash 
flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount 
of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the 
amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement. When a trade 
receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for 
trade receivables. 
Investments
Investments are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs. They 
are classified as ‘held to maturity’ and are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method.
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active 
market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured by other means 
are held at cost. 
Financial liability and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the 
substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the 
assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair value net 
of direct issue costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost. Finance 
charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and 
direct issue costs, are accounted for on an effective interest method and are 
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are 
not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group primarily uses interest rate swaps, caps and collars and forward 
foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuating interest 
and foreign exchange rates. These instruments are initially recognised at fair 
value and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance 
sheet date. 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its international assets and it has designated 
foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against net investment in foreign 
operations. The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge 
a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined as an effective 
hedge is recognised directly in equity. The gain or loss on any ineffective 
portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair valuation
Fair values are based on market values, where available. Where market 
values are not readily available, the Group establishes fair valuation 
techniques; these include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, 
reference to other similar instruments and discounted cash flow analysis.
37
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Principal Accounting Policies - continued
New standards and interpretations
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations, which are in issue at the balance sheet date but not yet effective, have not been applied in 
these financial statements:
  
  Effective for periods 
  commencing on or after
IFRS9: ‘Financial instruments’ 1 January 2013
IAS24 Revised: ‘Related party disclosures’ 1 January 2011
Amendment to IFRS7: ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’ 1 July 2011
Amendment to IFRIC14: ‘Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’ 1 January 2011
IFRIC18: ‘Transfer of Assets from Customers’ 30 October 2009
IFRIC19: ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ 1 July 2010
Annual improvements 2010 1 January 2011 
It is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group but will 
increase the level of disclosure to be made in the financial statements.  
From 30 August 2009, the following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group:
IFRS8: ‘Operating segments’
IAS1 Revised: ‘Presentation of financial statements’
IAS23 Revised: ‘Borrowing costs’
IAS27 Revised: ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’
IFRS1 Revised: ‘First time adoption of IFRS’
IFRS3 Revised: ‘Business combinations’
IFRIC13: ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’
IFRIC14: ‘The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset’
IFRIC15: ‘Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate’
IFRIC16: ‘Hedges of a Net Investment Including Foreign Operations’
Amendment to IAS39: ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement’, and IFRS7: ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’ on the reclassification of financial assets
Amendment to IFRIC9 and IAS39 regarding embedded derivatives
Amendment to IFRS1: ‘First time adoption of IFRS’ and IAS27: ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’ on the cost of an investment in a subsidiary, 
jointly controlled entity or associate
Annual improvements to IFRSs (2008)
Amendment to IAS32: ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’ and IAS1: ‘Presentation of financial statements on puttable financial instruments and obligations 
arising on liquidation’
Amendment to IFRS2, ‘Share-based payments’ on vesting conditions and cancellations
Annual improvements 2009
Amendment to IFRS2: ‘Share-based payments - Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions’
Amendments to IFRS1: for additional exemptions
Amendments to IAS32: ‘Financial instruments: Presentation on classification of rights issues’
Amendment to IAS39: ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement’ on eligible hedged items
IFRIC17: ‘Distribution of Non Cash Assets to Owners’
The adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations has not had a significant impact on the Group’s profit for the year or equity. The impact 
of adopting IFRS8 has increased the level of disclosure in the financial statements. Under IAS1: Revised, the Group has decided to present two separate 
performance statements.
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates
Application of certain Group accounting policies requires management 
to make judgements, assumptions and estimates concerning the future as 
detailed below.
Valuation of pension obligations
The valuation of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is determined 
each period following advice from the Group’s actuary and can fluctuate 
based on a number of external factors. Such factors include the major 
assumptions as shown in the table in note 27 and actual returns on scheme 
assets compared to those predicted in the previous scheme valuation.
Valuation of share-based payments
The fair value of share-based payments is determined using valuation 
models and is charged to the income statement over the vesting period.
The valuation models require certain assumptions to be made as shown in 
the tables in note 29. Estimations of vesting and satisfaction of performance 
criteria are required to determine fair value.
Impairment of goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill must be assessed for impairment annually. 
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units 
to which goodwill is allocated. Value in use is dependent on estimations 
of future cash flows from the cash generating unit and the use of an 
appropriate discount rate to discount those cash flows to their present 
value.
No impairment has been identified in the period (note 11).
Provision for impairment of trade receivables
The financial statements include a provision for impairment of trade 
receivables (note 20) that is based on management’s estimation of 
recoverability. There is a risk that the provision will not match the trade 
receivables that ultimately prove to be irrecoverable.
Valuation of derivative financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments (note 26) is determined 
using market factors at the period end over which management have no 
control. Such factors include the estimation of future currency exchange 
rates and interest rates. In addition the fair value of such instruments is 
affected by the global economic environment and financial institution  
pricing structures. 
38
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements
1 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, from presenting its own income statement. 
The profit after tax for the period dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £1,271,000 (2009: £7,954,000).
2 Segmental information
The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments with effect from 30 August 2009. IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis 
of internal financial information about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) to allocate 
resources to the segments and to assess their performance.        
        
The CODM has been identified as the Board of Directors. Management has identified the operating segments based on internal financial information 
reviewed by the Board. The Board considers the business from a product/services perspective. Operating segments have been identified as Agriculture 
Trading, Agriculture Manufacturing, Food and Engineering. Operating segments have not been aggregated for the purpose of determining reportable 
segments. 
Agriculture Trading aims to provide for all farming requirements. It derives its revenue from the sale of animal feed and feed blocks together with retail sales 
of farm equipment, fuels and farm consumables.
Agriculture Manufacturing derives its sales through the manufacture of feed blocks and the blending of fertiliser raw materials into finished product. It sells its 
finished goods to merchants, including Agriculture Trading, agents and direct to the farming community. 
Food derives its revenues from the milling of wheat into flour. Customers range from the larger companies, bread & biscuit manufacturers and supermarkets, 
to smaller owner managed bakeries. 
Engineering derives its revenues from the design and manufacture of remote handling equipment for use in research and nuclear industries. In addition the 
UK business is involved in the design and manufacture of pressure vessels for the oil, petrochemical and gas industry. 
        
Performance is assessed using profit before taxation. For internal purposes profit before taxation is measured in a manner consistent with that in the financial 
statements, with the exception of material non-recurring items, which are excluded.        
Inter-segmental transactions are all undertaken on an arm’s length basis.
Adjustments to segmental information represents non-reportable segments and consolidation adjustments.
Segment assets represent inventories and trade receivables as reported to the CODM.        
      
As segment liabilities are not reviewed by the CODM they are not required to be disclosed under IFRS 8.      
  
The Group has operations in the UK and overseas. In accordance with IFRS 8, entity wide disclosures based on the geography of operations is also presented 
below. The geographical analysis of revenue is presented by revenue origin.        
The segmental information for the period ended 28 August 2010 is as follows:
  Agriculture Agriculture
  T rading  Manufacturing  Food  Engineering  Group 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenues from external customers  203,003 59,005 67,087 15,820 344,915
Other adjustments      38
      344,953
Revenues from other operating segments  191 12,408 6 269 12,874
Elimination of inter segment revenues      (12,874)
      —
Profit before taxation  5,228 2,536 1,508 982 10,254
Head office net expense      (935)
Retirement benefit charge      (1,187)
Other adjustments      35
Share of post-tax profit of associate      445
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures      354
Profit before taxation per consolidated income statement      8,966
39
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
2 Segmental information continued
  Agriculture Agriculture
  T rading  Manufacturing  Food  Engineering  Group 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The following are included in segmental profit before taxation:     
Finance income 67 68 27 8 170 
Adjustments     240
      410
Finance costs (493) (173) (193) (224) (1,083)
Adjustments     (309)
      (1,392)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (1,087) (677) (1,395) (400) (3,559)
Adjustments     (139)
      (3,698)
Depreciation of investment property — — (4) — (4)
Adjustments     (15)
      (19)
Profit/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment 31 (4) (3) 1 25
Adjustments     (2)
      23
Amortisation of intangible assets — (12) (24) (104) (140)
Adjustments     (57)
      (197)
    
Assets
  Agriculture Agriculture
  T rading  Manufacturing  Food  Engineering  Group 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets  35,309 14,329 14,060 9,409 73,107
Adjustments      (1,794)
Other current assets:
 Other receivables      4,512
 Current tax assets      303
 Cash at bank and in hand      13,695
Non-current assets      47,932
T otal Assets      137,755
  
40
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010   Agriculture Agriculture
  Trading  Manufacturing  Food  Engineering  Group 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenues from external customers   197,402   57,591   78,953   15,921   349,867
Other adjustments       156 
       350,023
Revenues from other operating segments   152   13,261   3   71   13,487 
Elimination of inter segment revenues      (13,487)
       — 
     
Profit/(loss) before taxation   5,178  (104)  2,056   1,136   8,266 
Head office net expense      (591)
Retirement benefit charge      (1,605)
Other adjustments      (86)
Share of post-tax profit of associate       863 
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures       188 
Profit before taxation per consolidated income statement       7,035
The following are included in segmental profit before taxation:     
Finance income   97   139   32   9   277 
Adjustments      (66)
       211 
Finance costs  (654) (305) (264) (122) (1,345)
Adjustments      (177)
      (1,522)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  (973) (622) (1,356) (337) (3,288)
Adjustments      (123)
      (3,411)
Depreciation of investment property   —  —  (4) — (4)
Adjustments      (15)
      (19)
(Loss)/profit on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  (14)  6  —  6  (2)
Adjustments       2
       — 
Amortisation of intangible assets  —  (11) (26) (40) (77)
2 Segmental information continued
The segmental information for the period ended 29 August 2009 (restated) is as follows: 
41
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2 Segmental information continued
Assets
  Agriculture Agriculture
  Trading  Manufacturing  Food  Engineering  Group 
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets  30,621 10,989 16,292 6,511 64,413
Adjustments      (1,785)
Other current assets:
 Other receivables      4,291
 Current tax assets      119
 Derivative financial instruments      16
 Cash at bank and in hand      10,304
Non-current assets      44,594
T otal assets      121,952
Entity wide disclosures
Revenues from external customers are derived from the sale of products by individual business segment. The breakdown of revenue by business 
segment is provided above.
Revenues from external customers:
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
UK    327,392 330,512 
Other   17,561  19,511 
     344,953 350,023 
The Company is domiciled in the UK.
Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets:
 2010
   Other Property   Interest
   intangible plant and Investment Investment in in joint Other Non-current
  Goodwill assets equipment property associate ventures investments receivables
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK  4,023 764 28,949 699 2,811 1,276 52 5
Other  313 598 3,639  —   —  862 17  — 
  4,336 1,362 32,588 699 2,811 2,138 69 5
 2009
   Other Property   Interest
   intangible plant and Investment Investment in in joint Other Non-current
  Goodwill assets equipment property associate ventures investments receivables
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK  1,341   208   28,104   718   2,735   1,107   51   53
Other  313   556   3,660   —   —   733  —  —
  1,654   764   31,764   718   2,735   1,840   51   53
Major customers  
There are no revenues from transactions with customers which amount to ten per cent or more of Group revenue.  
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
42
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 3 Revenue, cost of sales and net operating expenses
  2010 2009
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  
- from sale of goods   330,999  336,333
- from contracts   13,954  13,690
    344,953  350,023
Cost of sales     (299,898)  (309,016)
Gross profit    45,055  41,007
Net operating expenses:
 
Distribution costs   (19,246)  (18,985)
Administrative expenses   (16,660)  (14,727)
  
    (35,906)  (33,712)
Group operating profit     9,149  7,295
4 Group operating profit
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Group operating profit is stated after (crediting)/charging:
Amortisation of grants   (8) (10)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment    (23)  —
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   3,698 3,411
Depreciation of owned investment property   19 19
Amortisation of intangible assets    197 77
Foreign exchange gains   (32) (703)
Derivative financial instruments losses   143 889
Operating lease charges   645 619
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services (Company £12,000; 2009: £11,000)   67 65
The auditing of accounts of associates of the Company pursuant to legislation
(including that of countries and territories outside Great Britain)   150 134
Services relating to taxation   46 81
Other services    13  24
Included within Group operating profit is the following in respect of 
investment property leased to, and occupied by, external parties:
Rental income   (43) (43)
Operating expenses   52 53
   9 10
43
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures  
   2010 2009
  £’000 £’000
Share of post-tax profit in associate  445 863
Share of post-tax profit in joint ventures      354 188
T otal share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures   799 1,051
6 Staff costs
   2010 2009
Group   £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries   23,781 21,086
Social security costs   2,611 2,239
Other pension costs   2,490 2,549
Share based payment expense/(income)    6 (36)
    28,888 25,838
 
Included within other pension costs is £1,187,000 (2009: £1,605,000) in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, during the period was made up as follows:
   2010 2009
   Number Number
Sales, office and management   466 469
Manufacture and distribution   373 317
   839 786
 
Key management are considered to be the Directors of the Group.
Full details of the Directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and share options are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 26.
7 Finance income and finance costs 
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest   378 195
Other interest    32 16
T otal finance income    410 211
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank overdrafts   (334) (419)
Interest payable on bank loans and other borrowings   (858) (757)
Interest payable on finance leases   (137) (141)
Other interest   (106) (176)
Movement in fair value of interest related derivative instruments (note 26)   43 (29)
T otal finance costs   (1,392) (1,522)
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
44
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 8  T axation
(a) Analysis of the charge in the period
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 
 Current period    1,518 980 
 Prior period    (401) (38)
Foreign tax   
 Current period    481 729
Group current tax    1,598 1,671
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of timing differences 
 Current period   405 177 
 Prior period   128 (19)
Group deferred tax (note 18)   533 158
Tax on profit on ordinary activities    2,131 1,829
(b) Factors affecting tax charge for the period
The tax assessed for the period is lower (2009: lower) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2009: 28%). The differences are explained below:
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation    8,966 7,035
Tax at 28% (2009: 28%)   2,510 1,970
Effects of:
Tax effect of share of profit in associate and joint ventures   (224) (294)
Tax effect of expenses that are not allowable in determining taxable profit   180 170
Effects of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries    61 76
Effects of changes in tax rates   (65)   —
Over provision in prior years    (273) (57)
Utilisation of unrecognised tax losses   (67) (45)
Other    9 9
T otal tax charge for the period    2,131 1,829
(c) Factors affecting future tax charges
A number of changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in the June 2010 Budget Statement. The Finance (No 2) Act 2010, which was 
substantively enacted on 20 July 2010, includes legislation reducing the main rate of corporation tax from 28 per cent to 27 per cent from 1 April 2011. 
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1 per cent per annum to 24 per cent by 1 April 2014. As the Finance (No2) Act 
2010 was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, UK deferred tax balances at 28 August 2010 have been calculated using a tax rate of 27 per 
cent.
The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1 per cent per year to 24 per cent by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted 
separately each year. The overall effect of the further changes from 27 per cent to 24 per cent, if these applied to the deferred tax balance at 28 August 
2010, would be to reduce the deferred tax net liability by approximately £216,000 (being £72,000 recognised in 2011, £72,000 recognised in 2012 and 
£72,000 recognised in 2013).
45
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010    2010 2009
Equity   £’000 £’000
Final dividend for the period ended 29 August 2009 of 17.0p per 25.0p share (2008: 17.0p)   1,493 1,493
Interim paid of 6.0p per 25.0p share (2009: 6.0p)    527 527
   2,020 2,020
Since the period end a second interim dividend of £527,057, being 6.0p per share, has been paid.
The proposed dividend to be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is £1,054,954, being 12.0p per share, making a total for the period of 
24.0p. The financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
10 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings per share are calculated by reference to a weighted average of 8,784,286 shares (2009: 8,773,022) in issue during the period.
Adjusted earnings per share is stated excluding amortisation of intangible assets and the related tax adjustments as follows:
  2010 2009
    Earnings  Earnings
   Earnings per share Earnings per share
   £’000 pence £’000 pence
Earnings per share - basic    5,632 64.1 4,421 50.4
 
Intangible asset amortisation:
Amortisation of intangible assets    197 2.2 77   0.9
T axation relief on amortisation   (55) (0.6)   (22)   (0.3)
Earnings per share - adjusted   5,774 65.7 4,476 51.0
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary  
shares. The potentially dilutive ordinary shares, where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the  
period, are disclosed in note 29.
  2010   2009
  Weighted   Weighted
  average Earnings  average Earnings
 Earnings number per share Earnings number per share
 £’000 of shares pence £’000 of shares pence
Earnings per share 5,632 8,784,286 64.1 4,421 8,773,022 50.4
 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Deferred bonus scheme — 8,040 —   — 8,038 (0.1)
Diluted earnings per share 5,632 8,792,326 64.1 4,421 8,781,060 50.3
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
9 Dividends
46
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  Customer   Patents and 
 Goodwill relationships Brands Know-how trademarks Software T otal
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 31 August 2008 1,441 2,346 357 160 92 — 4,396
Exchange differences  — — — — 11 — 11
Subsidiaries acquired 313 — 263 — — 254 830
Additions  — — — — 6 19 25
Contingent consideration (40) — — — — — (40)
At 29 August 2009 1,714 2,346 620 160 109 273 5,222
Exchange differences — — (17) — 7 (19) (29)
Subsidiaries acquired 2,682 560 — — — — 3,242
Additions  — — — 80 12 168 260
At 28 August 2010  4,396 2,906 603 240 128 422 8,695
Amortisation
At 31 August 2008 60 2,346 125 144 46 — 2,721
Exchange differences — — — — 6 — 6
Charge for the period — — 35 16 11 15 77
At 29 August 2009 60 2,346 160 160 63 15 2,804
Exchange differences — — (2) — 4 (6) (4)
Charge for the period — 58 41 1 12 85 197
At 28 August 2010 60 2,404 199 161 79 94 2,997
Net book value
At 30 August 2008 1,381 — 232 16 46 — 1,675
At 29 August 2009 1,654 — 460 — 46 258 2,418
At 28 August 2010 4,336 502 404 79 49 328 5,698
During the period goodwill of £2,682,000 arose on acquisitions (note 30).
During the prior period goodwill of £313,000 arose on the acquisition of part of the trade and certain assets and liabilities of Hans Wälischmiller GmbH.  
Goodwill represented the value of the employees which under IFRS should not be recorded as a separately identifiable intangible asset on the balance sheet.  
It also represented opportunities to be gained from Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH’s presence in the European and Far Eastern marketplace.
The prior period adjustment of £40,000 in respect of contingent consideration represented the net amount originally recognised as purchase consideration for  
J M Raine Limited that was no longer payable to the vendor under the terms of the earn out provision of the contract. 
 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the acquisition. 
47
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010    28 August 29 August
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited   195  195 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Johnstone Wallace Oils profit centre   781  781 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Spennymoor profit centre   325  325 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Borders profit centre   264 —
Carrs Agriculture Limited - Fertiliser Montrose profit centre   40  40
Carrs Agriculture Limited - Fertiliser Ag Chem profit centre   350 —
Scotmin Nutrition Limited   2,068 —
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH   313  313 
   4,336  1,654 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill is tested for impairment by  
estimating future cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated and discounting these cash flows to their present value.  
The key assumptions in this calculation are in respect of discount rates used and change in cash flows. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax  
rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating units.
Cash flows are estimated using the most recent budget information for the year to August 2011, which has been approved by the Board and extrapolates  
cash flows based on an estimated growth rate of 1%-3% excluding inflation. The pre-tax discount rate used to discount the forecast cash flows for all cash  
generating units is 8.5% (2009: 8.5%).  
The Directors consider the assumptions adopted in calculating the cash flows to be consistent with historical performance and to be reasonable given current  
market conditions.
No sensitivity is presented as the Directors do not believe that an impairment would occur should the assumptions alter for any reasonably foreseeable events.
No impairment has been identified in the period (2009: nil).
Amortisation is recognised within administrative expenses.
 There is no goodwill or intangible assets in the Company (2009: nil).
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to the following cash generating units: 
48
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 12 Property, plant and equipment
     Assets in
   Land and Plant and course of
   buildings equipment construction T otal
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 31 August 2008    19,196 41,570 225 60,991 
Exchange differences   108 375 — 483
Subsidiaries acquired   1,712 297 — 2,009
Additions   99 4,048 529 4,676
Disposals    — (1,465) — (1,465)
Reclassifications    — 225 (225) —
At 29 August 2009    21,115 45,050 529 66,694 
Exchange differences   (47) 221 2 176
Subsidiaries acquired   506 1,561 — 2,067
Additions   235 2,557 945 3,737
Disposals    (21) (788) — (809)
Reclassifications    182 349 (531) —
At 28 August 2010    21,970 48,950 945 71,865
Accumulated depreciation
At 31 August 2008   4,202 28,193 — 32,395
Exchange differences    37 270 — 307
Charge for the period    544 2,867 — 3,411
Disposals    — (1,183) — (1,183) 
At 29 August 2009   4,783 30,147 — 34,930
Exchange differences    23 185 — 208
Subsidiaries acquired   173 913 — 1,086
Charge for the period    583 3,115 — 3,698
Disposals    (13) (632) — (645)
At 28 August 2010   5,549 33,728 — 39,277
Net book value
At 30 August 2008    14,994 13,377 225 28,596
At 29 August 2009    16,332 14,903 529 31,764
At 28 August 2010   16,421 15,222 945 32,588
Freehold land amounting to £3,123,065 (2009: £3,113,065) has not been depreciated.
The net book value of plant and equipment includes £2,974,091 (2009: £3,598,960) in respect of assets held under finance leases. This consists of cost of  
£5,329,584 (2009: £5,791,439) less accumulated depreciation of £2,355,493 (2009: £2,192,479).
Depreciation is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales   2,556 2,404
Distribution costs   169 164
Administrative expenses   973 843
   3,698 3,411
The Company has no property, plant and equipment (2009: nil).
49
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 Investment property
14 Investments
    Land and
    buildings
Group    £’000
Cost
At 31 August 2008, 29 August 2009 and 28 August 2010    871
Accumulated depreciation
At 31 August 2008     134 
Charge for the period    19
At 29 August 2009     153 
Charge for the period    19
At 28 August 2010     172
Net book value
At 30 August 2008     737
At 29 August 2009    718
At 28 August 2010    699
Included within investment property are properties occupied by life tenants. The net book value of these properties at 28 August 2010 is £218,000  
(2009: £224,000).
The Directors do not consider that the fair value of investment properties differs materially from carrying value. Investment properties have not been valued  
as at 28 August 2010 by an independent professionally qualified valuer.
There is no investment property in the Company (2009: nil).
    Joint Other
   Associate ventures investments T otal
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 31 August 2008    2,870 1,609 260 4,739
Exchange difference   — 43 — 43
Share of post-tax profit   863 188 — 1,051
Share of losses recognised directly in equity   (998) — — (998)
At 29 August 2009   2,735 1,840 260 4,835
Exchange difference   — (56) — (56)
Subsidiaries acquired   — — 1 1
Additions   — — 17 17
Share of post-tax profit   445 354 — 799
Share of losses recognised directly in equity   (369) — — (369)
At 28 August 2010   2,811 2,138 278 5,227
Provision for impairment
At 31 August 2008, 29 August 2009 and 28 August 2010  — — 209 209
Net book value
At 30 August 2008    2,870 1,609 51 4,530
At 29 August 2009    2,735 1,840 51 4,626
At 28 August 2010    2,811 2,138 69 5,018
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for which fair value  
cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost. 
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
50
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 14 Investments continued
  Shares in  Joint Other
  subsidiaries Associate ventures investments T otal
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 31 August 2008   18,087 1,470 303 200 20,060 
Exchange difference  — — 17 — 17
Share based payment expense 
 in respect of employees of 
 subsidiary undertakings  1 — — — 1
At 29 August 2009   18,088 1,470 320 200 20,078 
Share based payment expense 
 in respect of employees of 
 subsidiary undertakings  (2) — — — (2)
At 28 August 2010   18,086 1,470 320 200 20,076
Provision for impairment
At 31 August 2008, 29 August 2009 and 28 August 2010 5,086 — — 200 5,286
Net book value
At 30 August 2008  13,001 1,470 303 — 14,774
At 29 August 2009  13,002 1,470 320 — 14,792
At 28 August 2010  13,000 1,470 320 — 14,790
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for which fair value  
cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost. 
15 Investment in associate
The associated undertaking at 28 August 2010 is:
Group and Company
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited 49 England  UK Manufacture of animal feed
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
No contingent liabilities exist within the associate.
The aggregate amounts relating to the associate, of which the Group recognises 49%, are:
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
T otal assets    22,156 21,140 
T otal liabilities   (18,919) (18,059) 
Revenues    85,290 91,153
Profit after tax   908 1,761
 
Included within the investment in associate is a loan for £1,225,000 (2009: £1,225,000) which is considered to form part of the net investment in associate.
51
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 16 Interest in joint ventures
The joint ventures at 28 August 2010 are:
Group
 Proportion of shares held   
 Ordinary Preference Country of Country of 
Name % % incorporation operation Activity
Crystalyx Products GmbH 50 — Germany  Germany Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
Bibby Agriculture Limited 26 26 England UK Sale of agricultural products
Afgritech Limited 50 — England  UK Producers of ingredients 
      of animal feed
Silloth Storage Company Limited 50 — England UK Storage of cane derived 
     livestock feed supplement
Crystalyx Products GmbH has a 31 December accounting period end.
Silloth Storage Company Limited has a 30 June accounting period end.
Interests in the joint ventures listed above are held directly by the holding Company with the following exceptions: Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited  
holds 50% of the ordinary share capital and 50% of the preference share capital in Bibby Agriculture Limited. Carrs Agriculture Limited holds 50% of the  
ordinary share capital in Silloth Storage Company Limited. The preference shares in Bibby Agriculture Limited are redeemable with three months notice; carry  
no dividend entitlement except at the Directors’ discretion, and no voting rights.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
No contingent liabilities or capital commitments exist within the joint ventures.
The aggregate amounts included in the financial statements relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures are:
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Non-current assets   1,434 1,639
Current assets   2,831 2,079
Current liabilities   (2,884) (2,285)
Non-current liabilities   (130) (480)
Income   12,192 12,102
Expenses   (11,683) (11,824)
Net finance costs   (9) (18)
 
Goodwill of £17,000 arose on the investment in Silloth Storage Company Limited. This is included in the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in joint 
ventures and is not shown as a separate asset.
 
Included within interest in joint ventures is an amount of £870,000 (2009: £870,000) which relates to the Group’s interest in the preference share capital of 
Bibby Agriculture Limited.
52
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Investments in the subsidiaries listed above are held directly by the holding Company with the following exceptions: Carrs Agriculture Limited 
holds 100% of the ordinary share capital in Scotmin Nutrition Limited and Carrs Engineering Limited holds 100% of the ordinary share capital in 
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH.
Dormant subsidiaries are not shown above because disclosure would be excessively lengthy. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the 
Company’s next annual return.
During the period Carrs Agriculture Limited acquired the entire share issued capital of Scotmin Nutrition Limited (note 30).
During the period Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of A C Burn Limited (note 30). By the period 
end the trade and net assets of the company had been hived up into Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited leaving a dormant company. As this 
company is dormant by the period end it has not been included in the list above.
18 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets  Liabilities Net
 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax 
 depreciation  — — (4,009) (3,972) (4,009) (3,972)
Employee benefits  2,901 4,108  — —  2,901 4,108
Other 1,023 907 (951) (868) 72 39
T ax assets/(liabilities)  3,924 5,015 (4,960) (4,840) (1,036) 175
Movement in deferred tax during the period
 At     At
 30 August Exchange In respect of Recognised Recognised 28 August
 2009 differences acquisitions in income in equity 2010
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation (3,972) (6) 16 (47) — (4,009)
Employee benefits  4,108 — — (565) (642) 2,901
Other  39 58 (104) 79 — 72
 175 52 (88) (533) (642) (1,036)
 
Movement in deferred tax during the prior period
 At     At
 31 August Exchange In respect of Recognised Recognised 29 August
 2008 differences acquisitions in income in equity 2009
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation (3,907) — — (65) — (3,972)
Employee benefits  4,636 — — (262) (266) 4,108
Other  (186) 56 — 169 — 39
 543 56 — (158) (266) 175
 
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Agriculture Limited   100  England  UK Manufacture of animal  
     feed blocks and fertiliser
Scotmin Nutrition Limited  100 Scotland UK Manufacture of animal
     feed supplements 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited   51  England UK Agricultural retailers  
Animal Feed Supplement Inc.   100  USA USA Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks  
Carr’s Flour Mills Limited   100   England UK Flour milling  
Carrs Engineering Limited   100  England UK Engineering  
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH  100 Germany Germany Engineering
B.R.B. Trust Limited   100  England UK Financial services  
Carrs Properties Limited   100  England UK Property holding
17 Investment in subsidiary undertakings
53
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010  Assets
   2010 2009
Company   £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   2 3
Employee benefits     2,901 4,108
T ax assets    2,903 4,111
 
Movement in deferred tax during the period
18 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
   At   At
   30 August Recognised Recognised 28 August
   2009 in income in equity 2010
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   3 (1) — 2
Employee benefits    4,108 (565) (642) 2,901
   4,111 (566) (642) 2,903
Movement in deferred tax during the prior period
   At   At
   31 August Recognised Recognised 29 August
   2008 in income in equity 2009
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation — 3 — 3
Employee benefits  4,636 (262) (266)  4,108 
Other 4 (4) — —
 4,640 (263) (266) 4,111
T ax of £207,000 (2009: £285,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Group balance sheet.
T ax of £63,000 (2009: £66,000) in respect of tax losses have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Company balance sheet.
 
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
54
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19 Inventories 
   2010 2009
Group   £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables   10,865 9,337 
Work in progress   3,756 1,526
Finished goods and goods for resale    12,394 12,997
   27,015 23,860
Inventories are stated after a provision for impairment of £597,000 (2009: £799,000).
Cost of sales consists of the following:
Material cost   280,976 291,428 
Processing cost   7,088 6,276 
Other   11,834 11,312
   299,898 309,016
The Company has no inventories (2009: nil).
20 T rade and other receivables
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade receivables 47,521 41,671  — —
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (3,223) (2,903) — —
Trade receivables - net 44,298 38,768 — —
Amounts recoverable on contracts  1,467 1,642 — — 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 36)  — — 17,619 12,560
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 36) 623 607 422 411
Other receivables  1,091 821 132 118
Prepayments and accrued income  1,331 1,221 213 124
  48,810 43,059 18,386 13,213
Non-current:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 36) — — 1,775 2,275
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 36) — 50 — — 
Other receivables 5 3 — —
  5 53 1,775 2,275
The movement in the provision for impaired trade receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and unused 
provision released back to the income statement. Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of 
recovering additional cash.
During the period a charge of £631,000 (2009:  £317,000) has been recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement in respect of  
the provision for impairment of trade receivables.
No impairment of other receivables has been recognised in the current or preceding period.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by Group undertakings carry interest at base rate +1.75%. Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on  
demand.
 
55
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 20 T rade and other receivables continued
 2010 2009
  Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The ageing of trade receivables is as follows:     
   
Not past due 33,414 (418) 29,117 (215)
Past due 0 - 30 days 7,104 (238) 6,100 (225)
Past due 31 - 60 days 2,548 (317) 2,199 (262)
Past due 61 - 90 days 1,455 (401) 1,267 (276)
Past due 91 - 120 days 1,169 (400) 848 (284)
Past 121 days 1,831 (1,449) 2,140 (1,641)
   47,521 (3,223) 41,671 (2,903)
The Company has no trade receivables (2009: nil).
   
The credit quality of customers is assessed at subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other  relevant  
factors. Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.     
  
It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are provided  
for where appropriate.     
  
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the period end is the carrying value, net of provision for impairment, of each receivable. The Group and  
Company do not hold any significant collateral as security (2009: £nil).
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The carrying value of trade receivables are denominated 
in the following currencies:
Sterling 43,511 37,869  — —
US Dollar 73 66 — —
Euro  714 833 — —
   44,298 38,768 — —
21 Current tax assets
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Corporation tax recoverable  303 119 780 342
Group taxation relief  — — 839 617
  303 119 1,619 959
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
56
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 22 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand per the balance sheet  13,695 10,304 9,559 16,038
Bank overdrafts (note 25) (427) (1,183) — —
Cash and cash equivalents per the statement of cash flows  13,268 9,121 9,559 16,038
23 T rade and other payables
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade payables  29,254 20,245 — —
Payments on account  5,129 1,956 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 36) — — 36 129
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 36) 7,401 7,597 — —
Other taxes and social security payable  1,444 1,292 188 207
Other payables  1,639 1,714 116 166
Accruals and deferred income  4,601 3,124 592 331
   49,468 35,928 932 833
Non-current:
Other payables  2,689 2,718 — —
Accruals and deferred income  108 116 — —
   2,797 2,834 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
Included within non-current accruals and deferred income is the following in respect of government grants:
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  116 126 — —
Amortisation in the period (8) (10) — —
At the end of the period  108 116 — —
24 Current tax liabilities
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current tax  1,129 708 — —
57
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Borrowings 
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The net borrowings are:
Borrowings as above  29,210 29,629 18,913 18,158
Cash and cash equivalents (13,695) (10,304) (9,559) (16,038)
Net borrowings  15,515 19,325 9,354 2,120
Bank loans and other borrowings includes an amount of £8,636,000 (2009:  £7,010,000) which is secured on trade receivables. The Company, together  
with certain subsidiaries, act as guarantors on the bank loans. In addition, Royal Bank of Scotland PLC have a legal charge over certain properties.  
Finance lease obligations are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Interest bearing loans from Group undertakings carry interest at base rate or base rate + 1.25%. Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on demand.
Other loans are non-interest bearing and have no fixed date for repayment. The bank loans are repayable by instalments and the overdraft is repayable  
on demand.
Non-current bank loans includes a revolving credit facility of £10 million which is repayable in August 2012. 
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Bank overdrafts  427 1,183 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 10,180 8,096 953 454
Loans from Group undertakings (note 36) — — 4,005 3,294
Finance leases 871 947 — —
   11,478 10,226 4,958 3,748
Non-current:
Bank loans  15,577 16,776 13,955 14,410
Other loans (note 36)  1,262 1,265 — —
Finance leases  893 1,362 — —
   17,732 19,403 13,955 14,410
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year  11,478 10,226 4,958 3,748
In the second year  16,138 1,828 13,955 454
In the third to fifth years inclusive  1,594 17,575 — 13,956
  29,210 29,629 18,913 18,158
Group and Company borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of arrangement fees of £91,645 of which £46,797 is deducted from current  
liabilities (2009: £135,450 of which £45,786 is deducted from current liabilities).
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
58
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 26 Derivatives and other financial instruments  
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing its risk and they are summarised below. 
These policies have remained unchanged throughout the period.
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits with 
banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers. The credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed in note 20.
The majority of Group revenues are made on credit terms. It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management 
meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are provided for where appropriate. The current financial climate requires the Group’s credit control 
function to be particularly vigilant.
Price risk
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk. Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk such as the 
fluctuation in wheat prices and fertiliser commodity prices. This risk is, however, managed primarily through the use of contracts to secure supply at 
agreed prices.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates (currency risk) and interest rates (interest rate risk) will affect income or the value of 
financial assets and liabilities.
Currency risk
The Group publishes its financial statements in Sterling but conducts business in some foreign currencies. As a result it is subject to foreign currency 
exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on the translation of results and the underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group’s subsidiary, Animal Feed Supplement Inc., operates in the US and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in US dollars.
The Group’s subsidiary, Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH, operates in Germany and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in Euros.
Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture of the Group, operates in Germany and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in Euros.  
      
The Group is also exposed to foreign currency risk on its purchases of raw materials for the fertiliser and flour milling operations. The major currencies 
involved are the Euro and the US dollar. The policy of the Group is to hedge using forward foreign exchange contracts with UK banks as soon as  
commitment has been given to the underlying transaction. 
The Group is hedging its international assets and has designated foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against its net investment in foreign operations.
59
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 26 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Financial Instruments by currency
 2010 2009
  US    US    
 Sterling Dollar Euro  T otal Sterling  Dollar Euro T otal
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets         
Other investments 52 17 — 69 51 — — 51
Non-current receivables 5 — — 5 53 — — 53
Current trade and other receivables 47,820 243 747 48,810 41,696 333 1,030 43,059
Current derivatives — — — — — — 16 16
Cash and cash equivalents 12,574 (1,425) 2,546 13,695 8,102 1,989 213 10,304
  60,451 (1,165) 3,293 62,579 49,902 2,322 1,259 53,483
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 10,972 287 219 11,478 9,499 288 439 10,226
Current derivatives — 59 68 127 43 — — 43
Current trade and other payables 37,551 1,954 9,963 49,468 32,940 697 2,291 35,928
Non-current borrowings 16,073 — 1,659 17,732 16,997 — 2,406 19,403
Other non-current liabilities 108 2,689 — 2,797 116 2,718 — 2,834
  64,704 4,989 11,909 81,602 59,595 3,703 5,136 68,434
 2010 2009
  US    US    
 Sterling Dollar Euro  T otal Sterling  Dollar Euro T otal
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Non-current receivables 1,775 — — 1,775 2,275 — — 2,275
Current trade and other receivables 18,386 — — 18,386 13,213 — — 13,213
Cash and cash equivalents 8,883 492 184 9,559 14,128 1,887 23 16,038
  29,044 492 184 29,720 29,616 1,887 23 31,526
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 1,066 3,892 — 4,958 568 3,180 — 3,748
Current derivatives — — — — 43 — — 43
Current trade and other payables 932 — — 932 833 — — 833
Non-current borrowings 13,955 — — 13,955 14,410 — — 14,410
  15,953 3,892 — 19,845 15,854 3,180 — 19,034
The Group and Company has right of offset on certain bank accounts.
Sensitivity analysis         
 The impact of a weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies at the balance sheet date would be as follows:
 2010 2009
  5% weakening 5% strengthening 5% weakening 5% strengthening
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation (119) 107 211 (191)
Impact on total equity (29) 26 199 309
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other variables have 
been held constant.     
 
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
60
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 26 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk   
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and bank borrowings. The Group borrows in the desired currencies at  
fixed and floating rates of interest and then uses interest rate caps and swaps to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations.  
Historically the policy of the Group has been to hedge around 40% to 60% of the core borrowings. Due to the cessation of the interest swaps in 
October and December 2009 there are no interest rate hedging instruments in place to protect the Group against significant increases in interest rates.  
The Directors will continue to review the appropriateness of the Group’s interest rate and hedging policy during the financial year. At the period end 
£1.8 million (2009: £7.6 million) of the Group’s borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest.
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2010 interest rate 2009
Group % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 3.00 427 3.00 1,183
Bank loans and other borrowings 2.96 25,757 2.94 24,872
Other loans — 1,262 — 1,265
Finance lease liabilities 6.02 1,764 8.93 2,309
   29,210  29,629
Fixed rate  1,764  7,559
Floating rate  26,184  20,805
Non-interest bearing  1,262  1,265
   29,210  29,629
The effect of the Group’s interest rate swaps is to classify £nil million (2009: £5.25 million) of floating rate borrowings as fixed rate in the above table.
The Group’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:    
 
Bank overdrafts Base rate + 2.5% margin; Base rate + 2.75%; Currency lending rate +2.75%; US prime rate + 1% margin 
Bank loans and other borrowings Libor + 2.5%; Base rate + 2.25% margin; Euribor +2.5%
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2010 interest rate 2009
Company % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 3.00 — 3.00 —
Bank loans and other borrowings 3.23 14,908 3.19 14,864
Loans from Group undertakings 1.50 4,005 1.51 3,294
    18,913  18,158
 
Fixed rate  —  5,250
Floating rate  18,913  12,908
   18,913  18,158
The effect of the Company’s interest rate swaps is to classify £nil million (2009: £5.25 million) of floating rate borrowings as fixed rate in the above table. 
    
The Company’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
     
Bank overdrafts Base rate + 2.5% margin     
Bank loans and other borrowings  Libor + 2.5%
61
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 26 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis      
The impact of a decrease or increase in interest rates during the period would be as follows:
 2010 2009
  1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 337 (330) 347 (347)
Impact on total equity 337 (330) 347 (347)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other variables have 
been held constant.    
 
Liquidity risk    
The Group’s policy throughout the period has been to maintain a mix of short and medium term borrowings. Short-term flexibility is achieved by 
overdraft facilities. In addition it is the Group’s policy to maintain committed undrawn facilities in order to provide flexibility in the management of the 
Group’s liquidity.    
 
The tables below analyse the Group and Company’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the 
remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash 
flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date. 
 2010  2009
  Within One to Two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 Total year years years Total year years years
Group £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank overdrafts 427 427 — — 1,183 1,183 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 26,873 10,762 16,111 — 26,589 8,704 1,665 16,220
Other loans 1,262 — 37 1,225 1,265 — 40 1,225
Finance lease liabilities 1,935 967 572 396 2,577 1,071 783 723
Derivatives 127 127 — — 43 43   —   —
Trade and other payables 49,468 49,468 — — 35,928 35,928   —   —
Other non-current liabilities 2,797 — — 2,797 2,834 —   — 2,834
  82,889 61,751 16,720 4,418 70,419 46,929 2,488 21,002
 2010  2009
  Within One to Two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 Total year years years Total year years years
Company £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank loans and other borrowings 15,920 1,468 14,452 — 16,388 978 963 14,447
Loans from Group undertakings 4,005 4,005 — — 3,294 3,294 — —
Derivatives — — — — 43 43   —   —
Trade and other payables 932 932 — — 833 833   —   —
 20,857 6,405 14,452 — 20,558 5,148 963 14,447
  
Future minimum lease payments of finance leases
  Repayment profile
  2010 2009 2010 2009
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amount payable: 
Within one year 967 1,071 871 947
In the second year 572 783 523 702
In the third to fifth years inclusive 396 723 370 660
  1,935 2,577 1,764 2,309
Less:  future finance charges (172) (268)
Present value of lease obligations 1,763 2,309
The Company has no finance lease obligations (2009: nil). 
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
62
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010    2010 2009
   Floating rate Floating rate
   £’000 £’000
Expiring in one year or less   19,120 18,427 
The Company’s overdraft is within a Group facility and it is therefore not possible to determine the Company’s undrawn committed facilities at the balance  
sheet date.
Capital risk management        
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.    
    
 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders,  
issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.      
 The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by shareholders’ equity. Net debt is calculated  
as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings) as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash equivalents.  
Shareholders’ equity is as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.     
The gearing ratio at 28 August 2010 was 44.7% (2009: 64.7%).      
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
26 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities        
The Group has various undrawn committed facilities. The undrawn facilities available at 28 August 2010, in respect of which all conditions 
precedent had been met, were as follows:
 Group  Company
 2010 2009 2010 2009
 Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair
 value value value value value value value value
 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Assets
Other investments 69 69 51 51  — — — — 
Non-current receivables 5 5 53 53 1,775 1,775 2,275 2,275 
Current trade and other receivables 48,810 48,810 43,059 43,059 18,386 18,386 13,213 13,213 
Current derivatives — — 16 16  — — — — 
Cash and cash equivalents 13,695 13,695 10,304 10,304 9,559 9,559 16,038 16,038 
  62,579 62,579 53,483 53,483 29,720 29,720 31,526 31,526 
         
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 11,478 11,478 10,226 10,226  4,958 4,958 3,748 3,748 
Current derivatives 127 127 43  43 — —  43  43 
Current trade and other payables 49,468 49,468 35,928 35,928  932 932 833 833 
Non-current borrowings 17,732 17,648 19,403 19,371  13,955 14,051 14,410 14,532 
Other non-current liabilities 2,797 2,797 2,834 2,834  — — — — 
 81,602 81,518 68,434 68,402  19,845 19,941 19,034 19,156 
 
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying 
year end exchange rates.        
 
 Other investments consist of investments in unquoted companies, which are held at cost as fair value cannot be reliably measured.  
 Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.       
     
 The fair value of current assets and current liabilities are assumed to approximate to book value due to the short term maturity of the instrument.  
        
 
63
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 26 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Derivative financial instruments        
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Company has US dollar denominated borrowings totalling $6,000,000 (2009: $5,200,000) which act as a partial hedge against the investment in its 
US subsidiary. The fair value of the US dollar borrowings at 28 August 2010 was £3,892,000 (2009: £3,180,000) and a foreign exchange pre-tax loss of 
£205,000 (2009: £316,000) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of this loan to sterling.
A subsidiary of the Group has Euro denominated net loans payable totalling X548,000 (2009: net loans receivable X104,000) which act as a partial 
hedge against the investment in its European subsidiary. The fair value of the Euro net loans payable at 28 August 2010 was £450,000 (2009: net loans 
receivable £91,000) and a foreign exchange pre-tax gain of £37,000 (2009: £6,000) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of this net 
loan to sterling.
Currency derivatives          
The Group and Company use forward foreign currency contracts to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of 
outstanding forward foreign currency contracts are as below:
 2010 2009
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period 16 819 905 12,999
Losses during the period (143) 5,480 (889) (12,180)
At end of period (127) 6,299 16 819
Included within: 
Current assets  — — 16 819
Current liabilities (127) 6,299 — —
  (127) 6,299 16 819
 2010 2009
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period — — 31 1,920
Losses during the period — — (31) (1,920)
At end of period — — —  —
     
Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent forward foreign currency contracts at the balance sheet date. 
All forward foreign currency contracts have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on currency related  
derivatives are included within administrative expenses.    
 
    
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
64
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 26 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Interest rate derivatives    
The Group and Company use interest rate swaps to manage their interest rate risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of these 
instruments are as below:
   Group Company
     2010 2009 2010 2009
     £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
At beginning of period     (43) (14) (43) (14) 
Gains/(losses) during the period     43 (29)  43 (29) 
At end of period    — (43)  — (43) 
Included within:        
Current liabilities    — (43)  — (43)  
 
 Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. All interest related derivatives have a 
maturity date of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on interest related derivatives are included within interest income/
expense in the income statement.      
 
The interest rate swaps matured during the period.
27 Retirement benefit obligation
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension 
Scheme.
Carr’s Milling Industries
The Company sponsors the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and offers a defined contribution and a defined benefit section. The assets 
of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
The pension expense for the defined contribution section of the scheme for the period was £398,000 (2009: £233,000). Contributions totalling 
£19,000 (2009: £19,000) were payable to the fund at the period end and are included in other creditors.
The defined benefit section of the scheme is funded to cover future pension liabilities (including expected future earnings and pension increases).  
It is subject to an independent valuation on a triennial basis by a qualified actuary who determines the rate of the employer’s contribution. The most 
recent valuation of the scheme was at 1 January 2009 and adopted the Projected Unit Method. It was assumed that the investment returns would be 
6.5% per annum and that the salary increases would average 4.15% per annum. It was also assumed that present and future pensions would increase 
once in payment at the lesser of 5.0% per annum and price inflation subject to a minimum of 0% per annum.
The actuarial valuation as at 1 January 2009 shows a funding shortfall (technical provisions minus value of assets) of £16,084,000.
The pension contribution made by the Group over the period to the defined benefit section was £2,821,000 (2009: £2,539,000).
In addition, the Group offers a Group Personal Pension plan to certain employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Limited. The pension expense for this scheme 
for the period was £309,000 (2009: £270,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit section of the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993. The last full actuarial valuation  
of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 1 January 2009 and updated on an approximate basis to 28 August 2010.  
   
65
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Major assumptions:         
   2010 2009
   % %
Inflation   2.8 3.1
Salary increases   3.8 4.1
Rate of discount   5.1 5.6
Pension in payment increases: 
 Pre 1 September 2001   3.1 3.4
 Post 1 September 2001   2.8 3.1
 Revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for pensions revaluing at 5.0% per annum or RPI if less  2.8 3.1
 
The Government has announced future changes to the revaluation of deferred pensions and increases to pensions in payment from occupational pension 
schemes. The statutory minimum for these calculations will be linked not to retail prices but to the Consumer Price Index from 6 April 2011. Since this is not 
yet endorsed the pension assumptions at 28 August 2010 continue to be based on the Retail Price Index.
The mortality tables used in the valuation have been updated to (130% of qx) PN*A00 (Y ear of Birth) and the Long Cohort improvement factors with a 1% 
underpin. The  mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65:
   At At
   28 August  29 August 
   2010 2009
Males currently age 45   23.6 years 23.5 years
Females currently age 45   26.0 years 26.0 years
Males currently age 65   21.7 years 21.5 years
Females currently age 65   24.2 years 24.1 years
 
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Current service cost    588 568
Interest on pension scheme liabilities    2,592 2,937
Expected return on pension scheme assets   (1,993) (1,900)
   1,187 1,605
 
The expense is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales    108 299 
Distribution costs   — 19
Administrative expenses    1,079 1,287
   1,187 1,605
Actuarial gains of £2,294,000 (2009: gains of £951,000) have been reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The cumulative amounts of actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since adoption of IAS19 is £6,300,000
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
66
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet:  
   2010 2009
   £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations   (48,551) (46,763)
Fair value of scheme assets    37,806 32,090
Deficit in scheme   (10,745) (14,673)
Past service cost not yet recognised in the balance sheet    — —
T otal liability recognised in the balance sheet   (10,745) (14,673)
Amount included in current liabilities    — —
Amount included in non-current liabilities   (10,745) (14,673)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  46,763 48,016
Current service cost  588 568
Interest cost  2,592 2,937
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation  6 (3,041)
Benefits paid (1,398) (1,717)
At the end of the period  48,551 46,763
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  32,090 31,458
Expected return on scheme assets  1,993 1,900
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  2,300 (2,090)
Contributions by employer  2,821 2,539
Benefits paid (1,398) (1,717)
At the end of the period  37,806 32,090
 
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
 Expected return Fair value of assets
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  % % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments  6.96 7.2 18,643 16,311
Debt instruments  4.2 4.6 15,688 12,629
Property  6.76 7.0 3,321 2,676
Other assets  4.2 4.6 154 474 
  5.79 6.1 37,806 32,090 
Actual return on scheme assets    4,293 (190) 
The expected long term return on other assets is determined by reference to bank base rates at the balance sheet date. The expected return on bonds 
is determined by reference to UK long dated government and corporate bond yields at the balance sheet date. The expected rate of return on equities 
and property is based on the rate of return on bonds with an allowance for out-performance.
67
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Retirement benefit obligation continued
History of scheme:         
  2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of the defined benefit  
 obligation  (48,551) (46,763) (48,016) (43,721) (45,794)
Fair value of scheme assets   37,806 32,090 31,458 33,914 29,998 
Deficit  (10,745) (14,673) (16,558) (9,807) (15,796)
Difference between expected and 
 actual returns on scheme assets:
Amount £’000   2,300 (2,090) (3,742) 206 358
Percentage of scheme assets  6.1% 6.5% 11.9% 0.6% 1.2%
Experience gains and losses on scheme 
 liabilities:
Amount £’000  (6) 3,041 (7,323) 4,364 (4,258)
Percentage of scheme liabilities  0% 6.5% 15.3% 10.0% 9.3%
 
 The Group expects to contribute approximately £2,880,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.  The Company expects to 
contribute approximately £2,295,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
 
Carrs Billington Agriculture
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited, one of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings, is a participating employer of the Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme, another funded defined benefit scheme. On 30 November 2007, following consultation with the active members, the Company and 
Trustees agreed to close the scheme to future service accrual. 
 The pension contribution made by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited over the period to the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme was 
£nil (2009: £nil).
 The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2006 shows that the market value of assets relating to the scheme was £19,921,000 and the actuarial value 
of those assets represented 81% of the actuarial value of benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increase in earnings. 
It was assumed that the investment returns would be pre-retirement 6.2% per annum and post-retirement 4.7% per annum. At 31 December 2006, the 
scheme showed a deficit of £4,700,000.
The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2009 has not yet been finalised.
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited offers a Group Personal Pension Plan to its employees and the pension expense for this plan in the period 
was £342,000 (2009: £201,000). 
 During the period contributions were also payable to a defined contribution pension scheme for certain employees of Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales) Limited. The pension expense for this scheme for the period was £5,000 (2009: £5,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit scheme. The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent 
actuary as at 31 December 2006 and updated on an approximate basis to 28 August 2010. 
 It is not possible to identify the underlying share of the pension scheme assets and liabilities that relate to the Group. At inception in June 2000 
approximately 50% of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme related to the Group and under IFRS approximately 50% of the assets and  
liabilities are included in the Group’s financial statements through the investment in associate, which is the sponsoring employer of the scheme.
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
68
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Major assumptions:         
   2010 2009
   % %
Inflation 2.8 3.1
Salary increases N/A N/A
Rate of discount 5.1 5.6
Pension in payment increases:
 LPI max 5% 2.8 3.1
 LPI max 3% 2.5 2.6
 LPI max 2.5% 2.25 2.3
Revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for pensions revaluing at 5.0% per annum or RPI if less 2.8 3.1
 
The Government has announced future changes to the revaluation of deferred pensions and increases to pensions in payment from occupational pension 
schemes. The statutory minimum for these calculations will be linked not to retail prices but to the Consumer Price Index from 6 April 2011. Since this is not 
yet endorsed the pension assumptions at 28 August 2010 continue to be based on the Retail Price Index.
 
Mortality rates used in the valuation are based on the S1NMA and S1NFA tables, projected, medium cohort, allowing for members’  actual year of birth with a 
1.5% underpin for future improvements. The mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65:
 At At
 28 August  29 August 
 2010 2009
Males currently age 45 24.5 years 23.1 years
Females currently age 45 27.5 years 25.9 years
Males currently age 65 21.6 years 22.0 years
Females currently age 65 24.6 years 24.8 years
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement of the associate in respect of defined benefit schemes:
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
Current service cost  — 16
Interest on pension scheme liabilities  1,252 1,323
Expected return on pension scheme assets (1,097) (1,279)
 155 60
 
The Group’s share of the charge is recognised within the Income Statement through the share of post-tax profit in associate.
The Group’s share of the actuarial losses of £1,044,000 (2009: £2,828,000) have been reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group’s share of the cumulative amount of actuarial losses of £7,598,000 have been recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet of the associate:
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (25,143) (22,858)
Fair value of scheme assets  19,564 17,903
Deficit in scheme (5,579) (4,955)
Past service cost not yet recognised in the balance sheet  — —
T otal liability recognised in the balance sheet (5,579) (4,955)
 
The Group’s share of the deficit is recognised within the Balance Sheet through the investment in associate.
69
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  22,858 21,896
Current service cost  — 16
Interest cost  1,252 1,323
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation  2,042 768
Benefits paid (1,009) (1,145)
At the end of the period  25,143 22,858
 
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
 Expected return Fair value of assets
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  % % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments 7.2 7.2  9,978 11,100
Debt instruments  4.6 4.5  9,586 6,624
Other assets  4.6 4.5 — 179
  5.9 6.2 19,564 17,903
Actual return on scheme assets    2,095 (781)
T o develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on risk free 
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is 
invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target 
asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio. This resulted in the selection of the 5.9% 
assumption at 28 August 2010.
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  17,903 19,254
Expected return on scheme assets  1,097 1,279
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  998 (2,060)
Contributions by employer  575 575
Benefits paid (1,009) (1,145)
At the end of the period  19,564 17,903
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
70
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Retirement benefit obligation continued
History of scheme:
  2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of the defined benefit  
 obligation  (25,143) (22,858) (21,896) (22,322) (24,698)
Fair value of scheme assets   19,564 17,903 19,254 20,661 19,008
Deficit  (5,579) (4,955) (2,642) (1,661) (5,690)
Difference between expected and 
 actual returns on scheme assets:
Amount £’000   998 (2,060) (3,005) 192 783
Percentage of scheme assets  5.1% 11.5% 15.6% 1.0% 4.1%
 
Experience gains and losses on  
 scheme liabilities:
Amount £’000  (2,042) (768) 570 2,740 (364)
Percentage of scheme liabilities  8.1% 3.4% 2.6% 12.3% 1.5%
 
It is expected that contributions of approximately £575,000 will be paid to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
28 Called-up share capital
  2010 2010 2009 2009
Group and Company Shares £’000 Shares £’000
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 25p each 14,000,000 3,500 14,000,000 3,500
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each:   
At start of period 8,784,286 2,196 8,374,286 2,094
Allotment of shares — — 410,000 102
At end of period 8,784,286 2,196 8,784,286 2,196
For details of share option, share save and deferred bonus schemes see note 29.
Since the period end there was a further allotment of 7,000 shares with a nominal value of £1,750 due to the exercise of share options.
During the prior period the authorised share capital was increased by 3,500,000 shares of 25p each.
71
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Share-based payments 
Group
The Group operates five share based payment schemes.
In 2008 the Group entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance criteria 
are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted 
earnings per share over the period of three years ended 31 August 2010 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an 
average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal 
the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to 
above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2007 the Group entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance criteria 
are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted 
earnings per share over the period of three years ended 31 August 2009 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an 
average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal 
the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to 
above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2006 the Group entered into three schemes, an HM Revenue and Customs approved discretionary employee share option scheme,  
an unapproved discretionary share option scheme and a share save scheme (comprising a 3-year and a 5-year plan).
Both the approved and unapproved share options were granted to certain senior employees and Directors. Options are exercisable between three 
and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 2008 
exceeding that of the RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts for 
both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
   Approved and 
   Unapproved  
 Deferred Deferred Executive Share  Share Save Share Save
 Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Option Scheme 2006 Scheme 2006
 2007 2006 Scheme 2006 (3-Y ear Plan) (5-Y ear Plan)
Grant date (approved) 6/12/07 7/2/07 24/2/06   1/6/06  1/6/06   
Grant date (unapproved) — — 20/2/06  —  —  
Share price at grant date 
 (weighted average) £5.44 £6.43 £4.78  £4.64  £4.64   
Exercise price (weighted average) £0.25 £0.25 £4.78  £4.79  £4.79  
Number of employees 3 — 29  —  62  
Shares under option (approved) 8,493 — 129,000  —  49,783  
Shares under option (unapproved) — — 12,000  —  — 
Vesting period (years) 2.83 2.67 3   3  5  
Model used for valuation Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial   Black Scholes  Black Scholes  
Expected volatility 22.00% 21.00% 22.44%   20.18%  21.37%  
Option life (years) 2.92 2.75 10   3.5  5.5  
Expected life (years) 2.83 2.67 6.5   3.25  5.25  
Risk-free rate 4.420% 5.451% 4.224%  4.683%   4.623%  
Expected dividends expressed 
 as a dividend yield 3.30% 3.20% 3.36%   3.56%  3.56%  
Expectations of vesting 100% 0% 100%  0%  97%  
Expectations of meeting  
 performance criteria 100% 0% 100%   N/A  N/A  
Fair value per option £4.74 £5.69 £0.99  £0.60  £0.78 
 
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the award being valued. The expected life is 
the average expected period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds with a remaining term 
equal to the expected term of the award being valued.
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
72
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Share-based payments continued
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  0.25 8 0.25 8 
Outstanding at the end of the period  0.25 8 0.25 8
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 0.167 years (2009: 1.167) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 0.083 years (2009: 1.083).
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (‘000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  0.25 24 0.25 24
Forfeited during the period 0.25 (24) — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  — — 0.25 24
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
As the performance criterion under the scheme has not been met, matching shares have not been awarded.
Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (‘000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  4.78 141 4.78 141
Outstanding at the end of the period  4.78 141 4.78 141
Exercisable at the end of the period  4.78 141 4.78 141
 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 5.5 years (2009: 6.5 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 2 years (2009: 3 years).
Since the period end 7,000 (2009: nil) shares were issued under the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006.
73
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Share-based payments continued
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (‘000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  4.79 2 4.79 23
Forfeited during the period 4.79 (2) 4.79 (21)
Outstanding at the end of the period  — — 4.79 2
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — 4.79 2 
No participant in this scheme exercised their right to purchase shares by the end of the exercise period.
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 55 4.79 57
Forfeited during the period 4.79 (5) 4.79 (2)
Outstanding at the end of the period 4.79 50 4.79 55
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.25 years (2009: 2.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 1 year (2009: 2 years).
The total expense/(income) recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006  — 23
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Y ear Plan  (13) 3
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Y ear Plan 5 6
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006 — (82)
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007 14 14
 6 (36)
The Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 year plan cumulative charge has reversed in the current period as none of the participants in the scheme exercised  
their right to purchase shares.
The Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006 cumulative charge reversed in the prior period as the performance criterion had not been met.
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
74
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Share-based payments continued
Company
In 2008 the Company entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance criteria 
are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted 
earnings per share over the period of three years ended 31 August 2010 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an 
average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal  
the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred  
to above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2007 the Company entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance criteria 
are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s adjusted 
earnings per share over the period of three years ended 31 August 2009 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same period by an 
average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the three years equal  
the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred  
to above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
 
In 2006 the Company entered into two schemes, an HM Revenue and Customs unapproved discretionary employee share option scheme and a share 
save scheme (comprising a 3-year and a 5-year plan).
The unapproved share options were granted to certain senior employees and Directors. Options are exercisable between three and ten years from  
the date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 2008 exceeding that of  
the RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts  
for both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
   Unapproved  
 Deferred Deferred Executive Share  Share Save Share Save
 Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Option Scheme 2006 Scheme 2006
 2007 2006 Scheme 2006 (3-Y ear Plan) (5-Y ear Plan)
Grant date 6/12/07 7/2/07 20/2/06   1/6/06  1/6/06  
Share price at grant date  £5.44 £6.43 £5.02   £4.64  £4.64  
Exercise price £0.25 £0.25 £5.02  £4.79  £4.79  
Number of employees 2 — 2   —  1  
Shares under option 6,765 — 12,000   —  1,344  
Vesting period (years) 2.83 2.67 3   3  5  
Model used for valuation Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial   Black Scholes  Black Scholes  
Expected volatility 22.00% 21.00% 22.44%   20.18%  21.37%  
Option life (years) 2.92 2.75 10   3.5  5.5  
Expected life (years) 2.83 2.67 6.5   3.25  5.25  
Risk-free rate 4.420% 5.451% 4.224%  4.683%  4.623%  
Expected dividends expressed 
 as a dividend yield 3.30% 3.20% 3.36%   3.56%  3.56%  
Expectations of vesting 100% 0% 100%  0%  97%  
Expectations of meeting 
 performance criteria 100% 0% 100%   N/A  N/A   
Fair value per option £4.74 £5.69 £0.99  £0.60  £0.78  
 
 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the award being valued. The expected life  
is the average expected period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds with a remaining 
term equal to the expected term of the award being valued.
75
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Share-based payments continued
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.25 7 0.25 7
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.25 7 0.25 7
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 0.167 years (2009: 1.167) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 0.083 years (2009: 1.083).
 
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.25 15 0.25 15
Forfeited during the period 0.25 (15) — —
Outstanding at the end of the period — — 0.25 15
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
As the performance criterion under the scheme has not been met, matching shares have not been awarded.
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5.02 12 5.02 12
Outstanding at the end of the period 5.02 12 5.02 12
Exercisable at the end of the period  5.02 12 5.02 12
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 5.5 years (2009: 6.5 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 2 years (2009: 3 years).
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
76
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Share-based payments continued
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 1 4.79 6
Forfeited during the period  4.79 (1) 4.79 (5)
Outstanding at the end of the period  — — 4.79 1
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — 4.79 1
No participant in this scheme exercised their right to purchase shares by the end of the exercise period.
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:  
 2010 2009
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 1 4.79 1
Outstanding at the end of the period  4.79 1 4.79 1
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.25 years (2009: 2.25 years) with a weighted average remaining 
expected life of 1 year (2009: 2 years).
The total expense/(income) recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
 
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006   — 2
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Y ear Plan    (4) —
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Y ear Plan    1 1
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006   — (49)
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007   11 11
     8 (35)
The Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 year plan cumulative charge has reversed in the current period as none of the participants in the scheme exercised  
their right to purchase shares.
The Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006 cumulative charge reversed in the prior period as the performance criterion had not been met.
77
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Share-based payments continued
Share based payments awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings and recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings in the 
Company are as follows:
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006    122 122
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Y ear Plan    — 9
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Y ear Plan    31 27
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007   8 5
T otal carrying amount of investments   161 163
30 Acquisitions
Scotmin Nutrition Limited
On 22 June 2010 Carrs Agriculture Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Scotmin Nutrition Limited for cash consideration of £4,825,000.
The principal activity of Scotmin Nutrition Limited is that of the manufacture and distribution of animal feed supplements.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
The primary reason for the business combination was the expansion of the Group’s product range and the expansion of the distribution base of 
Scotmin Nutrition Limited via the existing Agriculture Trading distribution network. As an additional benefit the acquisition also provides access to 
alternative raw materials should the price of molasses increase dramatically or availability becomes a constraint due to alternative uses such as ethanol 
production.
A C Burn Limited
On 22 June 2010 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of A C Burn Limited for cash consideration of 
£800,000.
The principal activity of A C Burn Limited is that of an agricultural merchant.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
The primary reason for the business combination was the geographical expansion of the existing Agriculture Trading business into the Borders region 
of Scotland. Synergies are expected following the rationalisation of the procurement and administration functions. 
Ag Chem (UK)
On 31 March 2010 Carrs Agriculture Limited acquired the trade of Ag Chem (UK) for cash consideration of £350,000.
The principal activity of Ag Chem (UK) is that of a wholesaler of fertiliser.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
The primary reason for the business combination was to complement Agriculture Manufacturing. 
Aggregate disclosures
The total goodwill arising from acquisitions in the period amounts to £2,682,000. Goodwill reflects the value of the employees, which under IFRS 
should not be recorded as a separately identifiable intangible asset on the balance sheet, and anticipated synergy benefits arising from the acquisitions. 
Synergy benefits include the rationalisation of the procurement and administration functions and utilising the existing Group distribution network to 
distribute acquired product lines across the UK. 
The following aggregated amounts have been recognised within the consolidated income statement in respect of acquisitions:
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
  £’000
Revenue     1,830
Loss before taxation      (21)
There were no other recognised gains and losses other than the loss shown above.
Related costs of the above acquisitions amounted to £131,000, which have been recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement.
78
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 30 Acquisitions continued
The aggregate assets and liabilities acquired in the period are set out below:
  Fair value
  £’000
Intangible assets     560
Property, plant and equipment      981
Investments     1
Inventories     1,135
Receivables      1,882
Cash at bank and in hand    371
Payables    (1,192)
Taxation     
 - Current    (357)
 - Deferred    (88)
Net assets acquired     3,293
Goodwill     2,682
Satisfied by cash     5,975
The aggregate gross contractual amounts receivable were £2,060,000.
Pro forma full year information
IFRS3 (revised) requires disclosure of information as to the impact on the financial statements if acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the 
accounting period.
The unaudited pro forma summary below presents the Group as if all acquisitions in the period had been acquired on 30 August 2009.
The pro forma amounts include the results of the acquisitions, amortisation of the intangible assets recognised on acquisition, depreciation on fair 
value adjustments to property, plant and equipment and the interest expense on the increase in net debt as a result of the acquisitions. The pro forma 
amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The pro forma information is provided for comparative purposes only and does not 
necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results of operations of the combined businesses.
  £’000
Revenue     354,904
Profit before taxation      9,187
79
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
31 Cash generated from/(used in) operations 
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the period  6,835 5,206 1,271 7,954
Adjustments for:
Tax   2,131 1,829 (409) (344)
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — (2,984) (8,853)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,698 3,411 — —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (23) — — —
Depreciation of investment property 19 19 — —
Intangible asset amortisation  197 77 — —
Net fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 
 in operating profit 143 889 — 31
Net fair value loss/(gain)on share based payments  6 (36) 8 (35)
Net foreign exchange differences  (141) (721) 40 480
Finance costs:
 Interest income (410) (211) (478) (350)
 Interest expense and borrowing costs  1,441 1,536 604 610
Share of profit from associate and joint ventures  (799) (1,051) — —
IAS19 income statement credit in respect of employer 
 contributions (note 27) (2,821) (2,539) (2,821) (2,539)
IAS19 income statement charge (note 27) 1,187 1,605 1,187 1,605
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of acquisitions):
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (2,020) 10,529 — —
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (3,854) 7,809 204 86
Increase/(decrease) in payables 12,413 (18,535) 76 (1,485)
Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 18,002 9,817 (3,302) (2,840)
32 Analysis of net debt
  At  Other  At
  30 August  non-cash Exchange 28 August
  2009 Cash flow changes movements 2010
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   10,304 3,391 — — 13,695 
Bank overdrafts  (1,183) 814 — (58) (427)
  9,121 4,205 — (58) 13,268
Loans and other borrowings: 
 - current  (8,096) (2,236) 1 151 (10,180)
 - non-current  (18,041) 1,264 (65) 3 (16,839)
 
Finance leases: 
 - current  (947) 1,065 (989) — (871)
 - non-current  (1,362) — 469 — (893)
  (19,325) 4,298 (584) 96 (15,515)
 Other non-cash changes relate to finance leases, including finance leases acquired with subsidiaries, and transfers between categories of borrowings. It also 
includes the release of deferred borrowing costs to the income statement. 
80
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 32 Analysis of net debt continued
  At  Other  At
  30 August  non-cash Exchange 28 August
  2009 Cash flow changes movements 2010
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   16,038 (6,439) — (40) 9,559
Loans and other borrowings: 
- current  (3,748) (487) (519) (204) (4,958)
- non-current  (14,410) — 455 — (13,955)
  (2,120) (6,926) (64) (244) (9,354)
 
Other non-cash changes relate to the release of deferred borrowing costs to the income statement and transfers between categories of borrowings.
33 Capital Commitments
 2010 2009
Group £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment that has been contracted 
 for but has not been provided for in the accounts    291 8
The Company has no capital commitments (2009: nil).
34 Other Financial Commitments 
Group
At 28 August 2010 the Group had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  475 362
Within two and five years inclusive  828 740
After five years  6 10
 1,309 1,112
Company
 At 28 August 2010 the Company had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  1 1
Within two and five years inclusive  2 3
 3 4
35 Financial guarantees
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Clydesdale Bank PLC in respect of the Group loans and 
overdraft with that bank, which at 28 August 2010 amounted to £390,000 (2009: £8,474,000).
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has a s375,000 (2009: s625,000) letter of credit by Clydesdale Bank PLC in favour of 
Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture arrangement.
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank of Scotland PLC in respect of an overdraft 
with that bank, which at 28 August 2010 amounted to £259,000 (2009: £792,000).
The Company has entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank of Scotland PLC in respect of an overdraft and loan facility with that bank, which at  
28 August 2010 amounted to £2,093,000 (2009: £3,100,000). 
One of the Group’s bankers in the normal course of business, enters into certain specific guarantees with some of a subsidiary’s customers. All these 
guarantees allow the bank to have recourse to the Company if a guarantee is enforced. The total outstanding of such guarantees entered into by the 
bank at 28 August 2010 was £2,929,000 (2009: £1,572,000).
81
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
35 Financial guarantees continued
The Company has provided specific guarantees to certain customers of a subsidiary. These are in place to guarantee the completion of the contract  
in any event. At 28 August 2010 the contracts under guarantee that have still to be completed have a total contract value of £1,814,000  
(2009: £2,269,000).
A subsidiary undertaking of the Company, together with an associated undertaking of the Company, has entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank  
of Scotland PLC in respect of a loan with that bank. The Group’s exposure to this liability at 28 August 2010 amounts to £nil (2009: £500,000).
 The Company has entered into a guarantee with the Trustees of the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme in respect of the punctual payment  
of obligations due to the pension scheme by the participating employers of the scheme. The Company’s total liability shall not exceed  
£1,500,000 (2009: £1,500,000).
 The Company has provided guarantees to certain suppliers of the Group’s Fertiliser business. The maximum exposure under these guarantees is the 
amount owed at any one time to these suppliers. At the period end amounts owed under these guarantees was £8,982,000 (2009: £4,695,000).  
This is included within trade payables in the balance sheet.
 The Group and Company does not expect any of the above guarantees to be called in.
36 Related parties 
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures and with its Directors. The balances and transactions 
shown below were all undertaken on an arm’s length basis in the normal course of business.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from key management personnel 
 (in a trading capacity):  
Trade receivables 126 101 — —
  126 101 — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  546 628 — —
Purchases (7) (15) — —
Transactions with subsidiaries
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings:
Loans   — — 19,293 14,418
Other receivables — — 101 417
  — — 19,394 14,835
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings:
Loans   — — (4,005) (3,294)
Other payables  — — (36) (129)
  — — (4,041) (3,423)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Management charges receivable — — 1,641 1,410
Dividends received  — — 2,984 8,853
Interest receivable  — — 197 289
Interest payable  — — (59) (145)
82
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 36 Related parties continued
Transactions with associate
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from associate:
Trade and other receivables  56 56 — —
   56 56 — —
Amounts due to associate:
Trade payables (7,401) (7,597) — —
  (7,401) (7,597) — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  402 490 — —
Rental income  18 18 — —
Net management charges receivable 14 14 14 14
Purchases (73,805) (81,426) — —
Transactions with joint ventures
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts due from joint ventures:
Non-current loans — 50 — —
Trade and other receivables 441 450 422 411
  441 500 422 411
Included within Group and Company trade and other receivables is £420,000 (2009: £370,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures.
 Group Company
  2010 2009 2010 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
 
Revenue 87 179 — —
Management charges receivable 107 56 50 —
Transactions with other related parties
Other loans of £1,225,000 (2009: £1,225,000) included within non-current borrowings is in respect of a loan from Edward Billington and Son Limited  
to Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. This loan is interest free, unsecured, and has no set repayment date. Edward Billington and Son Limited  
has a 49% shareholding in Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited.
Other loans, within non-current borrowings, also includes loans from the minority shareholders in Quinphos (Ireland) Limited, which is a dormant 
subsidiary of the Group. These loans are denominated in Euros and the sterling equivalent at 28 August 2010 was £37,044 (2009: £39,587).
37 Post balance sheet event
On 14 September 2010, after the period end, the Group completed the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Forsyths of (Wooler) Limited,  
an agricultural merchant.
The cash consideration paid was £723,000.
The primary reason for the business combination was the geographical expansion of the existing Agriculture Trading business into Northumberland. 
Synergies are expected following the rationalisation of the procurement and administration functions. 
Given that this has been a recent acquisition the assets and liabilities at completion have yet to be finalised.
83
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Five Y ear Statement
  2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Revenue and Results  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue   242,576 252,753 372,307 350,023 344,953
Group operating profit   7,116 5,785 12,875 7,295 9,149
Analysed as:
Operating profit before non-recurring items 7,987  6,192 12,814 7,295 9,149
Non-recurring items   (871)  (407) 61 — —
Group operating profit   7,116 5,785 12,875 7,295 9,149
Finance income  521 487 454 211 410
Finance costs  (1,532) (1,484) (2,061) (1,522) (1,392)
Share of post-tax profit in associate 
 and joint ventures  218 738 1,590 1,051 799
Profit before taxation   6,323 5,526 12,858 7,035 8,966
T axation  (1,989) (1,225) (4,605) (1,829) (2,131)
Profit for the period   4,334 4,301 8,253 5,206 6,835
Ratios
Operating margin (excluding non-recurring items) 3.3% 2.4% 3.4% 2.1% 2.7%
Return on net assets (excluding non-recurring items)  32.9% 21.0% 46.4% 21.1% 22.8%
Earnings per share - basic  51.0p  50.7p 92.7p 50.4p 64.1p 
 - adjusted  59.7p 56.0p 108.6p 51.0p 65.7p
Dividends per ordinary share  18.0p 19.0p 23.0p 23.0p 24.0p
84
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010   2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Net assets employed  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill    235 1,016 1,381 1,654 4,336
Other intangible assets    802 444 294 764 1,362
Property, plant and equipment    29,172 28,481 28,596 31,764 32,588
Investment property   794 756 737 718 699
Investments    1,940 3,642 4,530 4,626 5,018
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments   37 132 — — —
- Non-current receivables    208 100 50 53 5
Deferred tax assets    5,162 3,228 5,318 5,015 3,924
   38,350 37,799 40,906 44,594 47,932
Current assets
Inventories    11,944 14,853 31,014 23,860 27,015
Trade and other receivables    33,546 35,481 50,754 43,059 48,810
Current tax assets    1 82 65 119 303
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments  — — 927 16 —
- Cash at bank and in hand   2,292 1,315 3,896 10,304 13,695
  47,783 51,731 86,656 77,358 89,823
T otal assets    86,133 89,530 127,562 121,952 137,755
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings  (9,682) (10,717) (15,004) (10,226) (11,478)
- Derivative financial instruments  (27) (10) (22) (43) (127)
Trade and other payables  (25,387) (28,478) (52,977) (35,928) (49,468)
Current tax liabilities  (1,324) (570) (2,054) (708) (1,129)
  (36,420) (39,775) (70,057) (46,905) (62,202)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings  (6,512) (5,971) (6,325) (19,403) (17,732)
- Derivative financial instruments  —  — (14) — —
Retirement benefit obligation   (15,796) (9,807) (16,558) (14,673) (10,745)
Deferred tax liabilities  (3,600) (3,418) (4,775) (4,840) (4,960)
Other non-current liabilities  (1,524) (1,705) (2,237) (2,834) (2,797)
  (27,432) (20,901) (29,909) (41,750) (36,234)
T otal liabilities  (63,852) (60,676) (99,966) (88,655) (98,436)
Net assets   22,281 28,854 27,596 33,297 39,319
85
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Company Number: 98221
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and second annual general 
meeting of the Company will be held at the Crown Hotel, Wetheral, 
Carlisle on Tuesday 11 January, 2011 at 11.30 a.m. for the following 
purposes:
Ordinary Business
1. T o receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year 
ended 28 August 2010 together with the Directors’ Report and the 
Auditor’s Report on those accounts.
2. T o declare a final dividend of 12.0p per share for the year ended  
28 August 2010.
3. T o re-elect R C Wood who retires by rotation pursuant to the 
Articles of Association of the Company.
4. T o re-elect A R Heygate who retires by rotation pursuant to the 
Articles of Association of the Company.
5. T o re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditors of the 
Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix their 
remuneration.
6. T o approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the financial year 
ended 28 August 2010.
Special Business
7. T o consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will 
be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
 “THAT, in substitution for all existing and unexercised authorities 
and powers, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby 
generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of section 
551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the”Act”) to exercise all or any 
of the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities to such 
persons at such times and generally on such terms and conditions 
as the Directors may determine (subject always to the Articles of 
Association of the Company) provided that:
(a) the maximum nominal amount of such securities which may be 
allotted under this authority is £725,281; and
(b) this authority shall, unless previously renewed, varied or revoked 
by the Company in general meeting, expire at the conclusion 
of the next annual general meeting or on the date which is 6 
months after the next accounting reference date of the Company 
(if earlier) save that the Directors of the Company may, before 
the expiry of such period, make an offer or agreement which 
would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the 
expiry of such period and the Directors of the Company may 
allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement 
as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.”
8. T o consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will 
be proposed as a special resolution:
 “THAT , subject to and conditional upon the passing of the resolution 
numbered 7 in the notice convening the meeting at which this 
resolution was proposed and in substitution for all existing and 
unexercised authorities and powers, the Directors of the Company 
be and are hereby empowered pursuant to sections 570-573 of the 
Act to allot equity securities pursuant to the authority conferred 
upon them by resolution 7 as if section 561 of the Act did not apply 
to any such allotment provided that this authority and power shall be 
limited to:
(a) the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue 
or similar offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the 
equity securities respectively attributable to the interest of  
all other shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as may be)  
to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them subject 
only to such exclusion or other arrangements as the Directors of 
the Company may consider appropriate to deal with fractional 
entitlements or legal and practical difficulties under the laws of, 
or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body in any, 
territory; and
(b) The allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) 
above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount  
of £219,782 representing approximately 10% of the current 
issued share capital of the Company, and shall expire on the date 
of the next annual general meeting of the Company or (if earlier) 
the date which is 6 months after the next accounting reference 
date of the Company, save that the Company may before such 
expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might 
require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the 
Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or 
agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.”
9. T o consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will 
be proposed as a special resolution:
 “THAT, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally 
authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of section 
693 of the Act) of Ordinary Shares provided that:
(a) the maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be 
purchased is 879,129 (representing 10% of the Company’s issued 
share capital);
(b) the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share  
is 25p;
(c) the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share 
is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market 
quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily 
Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the 5 business days 
immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share in 
question is purchased;
(d) unless previously revoked or varied, the authority hereby 
conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual 
general meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 or, if earlier, 
on the date which is 12 months after the date of the passing of 
this resolution; and
(e) the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase 
Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior 
to the expiry of such authority which contract or contracts will 
or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such 
authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares  
in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.”
By order of the board
Ronald Wood Old Croft
Secretary Stanwix
17 November 2010 Carlisle
 CA3 9BA 
86
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, Cumbria 
CA3 9BA 
Tel: 01228 554600   
Fax: 01228 554601 
Website: www.carrs-milling.com
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
East Highway 212,  
PO Box 188, Belle Fourche,  
South Dakota 57717 USA 
Tel: 00 1 605 892 3421  
Fax: 00 1 605 892 3473
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
PO Box 105,  
101 Roanoke Avenue, Poteau, 
Oklahoma 74953 USA 
Tel: 00 1 918 647 8133  
Fax: 00 1 918 647 7318
Caltech 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 32592   
Fax: 016973 32339
Scotmin Nutrition Ltd
13 Whitfield Drive,  
Heathfield Ind Est, Ayr KA8 9RX
Tel: 01292 280909   
Fax: 01292 280919 
Crystalyx Products GmbH* 
Am Stau 199-203, 26122, Oldenburg, 
Germany 
Tel: 00 49 441 2188 92142  
Fax: 00 49 441 2188 92177
Carrs Fertilisers, Invergordon
Inverbreakie Industrial Estate, 
Invergordon, Ross-shire IV18 0QR
Tel: 01349 853 745   
Fax: 01349 854 066  
Carrs Fertilisers, Montrose 
River Street, Montrose,  
Angus DD10 8DL   
Tel: 01674 678 400   
Fax: 01674 671 318
Carrs Fertilisers, Silloth 
The Wath, Silloth, Wigton, Cumbria 
CA7 4PH 
Tel: 016973 32333   
Fax: 016973 32279
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Annan
25 High Street, Annan, Dumfriesshire 
DG12 6AE 
Tel: 01461 202 772   
Fax: 01461 202 712 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Appleby
Crosscroft Industrial Estate, Appleby,
Cumbria CA16 6HX
Tel: 01768 352 999
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Barnard Castle
Montalbo Road, Barnard Castle, Co 
Durham DL12 8ED 
Tel: 01833 637 537   
Fax: 01833 638 010
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Berwick upon T weed
Highgate Works, T weedmouth,
Berwick upon T weed, Northumberland
TD15 2AP
Tel: 01289 307245   
Fax: 01289 305727
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Brock
Brockholes Way,  
Claughton Trading Estate, Lancaster 
Old Road, 
Claughton on Brock,  
Preston PR3 0PZ 
Tel: 01995 643 200   
Fax: 01995 643 220  
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Carlisle
Montgomery Way, Rosehill Estate, 
Carlisle CA1 2UY 
Tel: 01228 520 212   
Fax: 01228 512 572
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Cockermouth
Unit 5, Lakeland Agricultural Centre, 
Cockermouth CA13 0QQ  
Tel: 01900 824 105   
Fax: 01900 826 860
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Gisburn
Pendle Mill, Mill Lane, Gisburn, 
Clitheroe, Lancashire BB7 4ES 
Tel: 01200 445 491
Fax: 01200 445 305
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Hawes
Burtersett Road, Hawes,  
North Yorkshire DL8 3NP 
Tel: 01969 667 334   
Fax: 01969 667 335 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Hexham
Tyne Mills Industrial Estate, Hexham,  
Northumberland NE46 1XL 
Tel: 01434 605 371   
Fax: 01434 608 938 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Jedburgh
Mounthooly, Crailing,
Jedburgh, TD8 6TJ
Tel: 01835 850250   
Fax: 01835 850748
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Leek
Macclesfield Road, Leek, Staffordshire 
ST13 8NR 
Tel: 01538 383 277
Fax: 01538 385 731
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Milnathort
Stirling Road, Milnathort,  
Kinross KY13 9UZ   
Tel: 01577 862 381   
Fax: 01577 863 057
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Morpeth
20c Coopies Lane Industrial Estate, 
Morpeth, Northumberland NE61 6JN 
Tel: 01670 503 930   
Fax: 01670 504 404 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Penrith
Haweswater Road, 
Penrith Industrial Estate, Penrith
Cumbria CA11 9EH
Tel: 01768 862 160
Fax: 01768 899 345 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Perth
Highland House,  
St Catherine’s Road,  
Perth PH1 5YA 
Tel & Fax: 01738 643 022
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Selkirk
The Old Pump House,  
Dunsdale Road, Selkirk,
Selkirkshire TD7 5EB
Tel: 01750 720 734   
Fax: 01750 722 725
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Spennymoor
Southend Works, Byers Green, 
Spennymoor, Co. Durham,
DL16 7NL
Tel: 01388 662266
Fax: 01388 603743
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Wooler
Bridge End, South Road, Wooler,
Northumberland, NE71 6QE
Tel: 01668 281567   
Fax: 01668 283453
Wallace Oils, Carlisle
Stephenson Industrial Estate, 
Willowholme, Carlisle, 
Cumbria CA2 5RN 
Tel: 01228 534 342 
Fax: 01228 590 820
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, Dumfries 
Heathhall, Dumfries, 
Dumfriesshire DG1 3NX 
Tel: 01387 250 525
Fax: 01387 250 656
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Dargavel Stores,
Lockerbie Road, Dumfries,
Dumfriesshire DG1 3PG
Tel & fax: 01387 750 747
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Abercromby Industrial Park,
Castle Douglas, Dumfriesshire
DG7 1BA
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Holmpark Industrial Estate,
Newton Stewart, Dumfriesshire
DG8 6AW
Tel: 01671 404 150
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, Stranraer 
Droughduil, Dunragit, 
Stranraer DG9 8QA 
Tel & fax: 01581 400 356
Afgritech* 
Old Croft 
Stanwix, Carlisle  
Tel: 01228 554 600   
Fax: 01228 554 601 
Bibby Agriculture* 
Drive House, St. David’s Park,  
Job’s Well Road, Carmarthen,
SA31 3HB 
Tel: 01267 232 041  
Fax: 01267 232 374 
Bibby Agriculture* 
1A Network House 
Badgers Way 
Oxon Business Park 
Shrewsbury, Shropshire 
SY3 5AB 
Tel: 01743 237 890  
Fax: 01743 351 552 
Bendalls   
Brunthill Road, 
Kingstown Industrial Estate, 
Carlisle CA3 0EH 
Tel: 01228 526 246   
Fax: 01228 525 634 
R Hind    
Kingstown Broadway,  
Kingstown Industrial Estate, Carlisle 
CA3 0HA 
Tel: 01228 523 647   
Fax: 01228 512 712 
Carrs MSM   
Unit 1 Spitfire Way, 
Hunts Rise, 
South Marston Park, 
Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 4TX 
Tel: 01793 824 891 
Fax: 01793 824 894
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH
Schießstattweg 16
88677 Markdorf
Germany
T el: 0049 7544 95140
Fax: 0049 7544 951499
Carrs Flour 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, Cumbria 
CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 31661   
Fax: 016973 32543 
Greens Flour 
Station Road, Maldon,  
Essex CM9 4LQ 
Tel: 01621 852 696   
Fax: 01621 854 525
Hutchisons Flour 
East Bridge, Kirkcaldy,  
Fife KY1 2SR 
Tel: 01592 267 191   
Fax: 01592 641 805
John Stronach 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, Cumbria 
CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 31456   
Fax: 016973 32808 
Silloth Storage Company*
Station Road, Silloth,
Wigton, Cumbria
CA7 4JQ
* joint venture company
Directory of Operations
87
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Notes
88
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC (“Carr’s”) is focussed 
on the principal activities of agriculture, food and 
engineering. 
The Company’s agriculture business comprises fertiliser blending, 
retailing of farm machinery/supplies and animal feed manufacture 
in the UK, US and Germany. 
Carr’s principal food businesses are all flour millers based in 
three UK locations. Engineering comprises Bendalls, R Hind, 
Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller based in Southern Germany  
which was acquired in 2009.
1 Financial and Commercial Highlights
2 Chairman’s Statement
5 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Financial Review
15 Board of Directors
15 Registered Office and Advisers
16 Location of Operations
17 Report of the Directors 
20 Corporate Governance
23 Directors’ Remuneration Report
27 Independent Auditors’ Report
28 Consolidated Income Statement
29 Consolidated and Company Statements  
 of Comprehensive Income
30 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
31 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
32 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
33 Consolidated and Company Statements  
 of Cash Flows
34 Principal Accounting Policies
39 Notes to the Financial Statements
84 Five Year Statement
86 Notice of Annual General Meeting
87 Directory of Operations Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix 
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com
staying
on track
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2010
