 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix 
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Extending our reach
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Carr’s Milling Industries PLC (“Carr’s”) is focussed
on the principal activities of agriculture, food and
engineering.
The Group’s agriculture business comprises retailing of farm 
machinery/supplies and animal feed manufacture in the UK, US 
and Germany.
Carr’s principal food businesses are all flour millers based in 
three UK locations. 
Engineering comprises Bendalls, R Hind, Carrs MSM and 
Wälischmiller based in Southern Germany which was acquired 
in 2009.
01 Financial and Commercial Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Financial Review
15 Board of Directors
15 Registered Office and Advisers
16 Risk Management
18 Corporate Responsibility
20 Report of the Directors
24 Corporate Governance
27 Directors’ Remuneration Report
31 Independent Auditors’ Report
32 Consolidated Income Statement
33 Consolidated and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income
34 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
35 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
36 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
37 Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows
38 Principal Accounting Policies
43 Notes to the Financial Statements
92 Five Year Statement
94 Notice of Annual General Meeting
95 Directory of Operations
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk Commercial Highlights
•
 Acquisition of agricultural businesses to extend geographical cover
•
  Megalix branded feed launched throughout UK
•
  Expansion of fuel oil distribution business
•
  Wheat quality secured as Kirkcaldy port opens
•
  Strong order book in Engineering
Financial Highlights
Revenue
£373.3m 
2010: £298.1m
Earnings per share
77.0p 
2010: 51.9p  
Profit before tax
£10.0m 
2010: £7.4m
Dividend per share
26.0p 
2010: 24.0p
Annual Report & Accounts 2011     01 02
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Chairman’s Statement
Carr’s delivered a strong trading 
performance for the 53 weeks ended  
3 September 2011.
Overall, agricultural prices were favourable and our continued focus on service, 
particularly in the UK during the severe winter months, significantly benefited the 
results for the year. Strong demand from the nuclear industry and the completion of 
significant projects during the second half of the period resulted in a very satisfactory 
contribution from the engineering business whose order book continues to grow 
and is now quoting for 2014 and beyond. The food business remains focused on 
cost control to mitigate the negative impact on sales growth and margins from the 
continued excess capacity in the flour milling industry.
In July 2011, we completed the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers to Origin Enterprises 
(UK) Limited for a cash consideration of £19.0 million before expenses. In addition, 
and in accordance with the agreement, Origin discharged the net debt in Carrs 
Fertilisers which was £3.9 million. The disposal will reduce the Group’s exposure to 
fluctuating commodity prices, should reduce the volatility of the Group’s operating 
profit and significantly reduce levels of seasonal working capital. We have always 
recognised the cyclical nature of the fertiliser business and are therefore particularly 
pleased to have been able to dispose of it at a significant book profit.
The continuing agriculture and engineering businesses are well placed to deliver 
sustainable, profitable growth over the next few years. Our strategy is to expand 
in the UK and internationally, both organically and through selected acquisitions in 
growing niche markets, which build on our core strengths. 
In addition, we are expanding our animal feedblock business in Europe and New 
Zealand. We also believe that Wälischmiller Engineering has an opportunity to build 
a leading position in nuclear manipulator markets worldwide. 
Financial Review
Revenue for the period for continuing operations increased by 25.2 per cent to 
£373.3 million (2010: £298.1 million). Profit before taxation, excluding a £16.6 
million profit from discontinued operations, was up 34.8 per cent to £10.0 million 
(2010: £7.4 million). The growth achieved by our core businesses, in a relatively 
stable business environment, is a result of the investment made by the Group in 
selected niche markets both in the UK and overseas.
Excluding discontinued operations, basic earnings per share for the year were up 
by 48.4 per cent to 77.0 pence (2010: 51.9 pence) with fully diluted earnings per 
share of 76.3 pence (2010: 51.9 pence) and adjusted earnings per share of 88.4 
pence (2010: 53.5 pence).
The net cash generated from operating activities in continuing operations was  
£11.4 million (2010: £8.3 million). At the end of the year, the Group had net cash 
of £4.6 million compared to net debt of £15.5 million at 28 August 2010. This 
reflected the disposal of Carrs Fertiliser for a net cash consideration of £22.1 million 
including the discharge of net debt. It also reflected total investment and capital 
expenditure during the year of £5.0 million, a reduction in working capital of £4.0 
million, and an additional £2.0 million paid to the pension scheme. 
As a result of a strong balance sheet, which is underpinned by a strong cash 
generation performance, the Group is well placed to fund its investment activities, 
including potential acquisitions in the UK and overseas. 
Richard Inglewood
Chairman Annual Report & Accounts 2011     03
Dividend
The Board is proposing an 8.3 per cent increase in the final dividend to 13.0 
pence per ordinary share which, together with the two interim dividends of 6.5 
pence per share each, paid in May and October 2011, makes a total of 26.0 
pence per share for the year (2010: 24.0 pence per share). The final dividend,  
if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 20 January 2012 to shareholders  
on the register at the close of business on 23 December 2011 and the shares will 
go ex-dividend on 21 December 2011. 
James Ross Crawford
It is with sadness that I report to Shareholders the death during the year of Ross 
Crawford. Ross was appointed to the board in 1972 and made an enormous 
contribution to the continuing success of the Company over the following 18 years. 
Douglas, one of Ross’ sons, is employed in our agricultural feed milling company, 
and on behalf of all at Carr’s we extend our sympathy to Ross’ family.
Outlook
We anticipate that future financial performance will benefit from the investments 
we have made, in the UK and overseas, to expand in new and existing growth 
markets and to improve operational efficiency.
We also believe that the growth potential of the Group’s core businesses will 
significantly mitigate the dilutive impact of the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers on 
earnings in the short term.
The current year has started well, benefiting from increased sales of low moisture 
feed blocks in the UK, USA, Europe and New Zealand.
We expect further growth in the US from the opening of two new plants in 
Watertown, New York State (producing AminoMax) and Shelbyville, Tennessee 
(producing high moisture feed blocks).
Group financial performance will also benefit from the restructured and recently 
launched new brands in our Scotmin business, a full year’s trading of Safe at 
Work, utilisation of the new port facility at Kirkcaldy and the strong order book  
in Engineering.
In addition to the capital projects in progress, the Board is continuing to explore 
acquisitions and other investment opportunities and, with the Group’s strong 
balance sheet and cash position, we believe that Carr’s is well positioned for 
sustained profitable growth. 
Richard Inglewood
Chairman
17 November 2011 04
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Chief Executive’s Review 
Chris Holmes 
Chief Executive
A year ago I stated that “the foundation 
has been laid for a period of sustained 
growth” and the results this year 
support this statement.
In 2011 we achieved a record profit from our businesses, surpassing the high level 
achieved during the period of exceptionally high raw materials prices in 2008.
We are well positioned to grow our business in the UK and overseas on the 
foundation that has been laid.
In the period, we invested a total of £5.0 million in our core activities and have 
earmarked projects for investment over the next two years. Major investment projects 
completed and proposed include:
• £0.8 million for a grain handling and storage facility at Kirkcaldy
• £1.0 million for an AminoMax plant in Watertown, New York State, scheduled 
to commence production in November 2011
• £2.5 million acquisition of agricultural related businesses
• £0.9 million for fuel oils depots at Hexham (opened in August 2011) and 
Cockermouth (scheduled to open spring 2012)
• £3.5 million to replace Wälischmiller Engineering factory scheduled for 
completion in 2013
• £0.6 million for a feedblock plant in Shelbyville, Tennessee, scheduled to 
commence production in November 2011
• £0.6m for a new robotic packaging facility at Silloth
Of the above £9.9 million investment programme, £5.0 million was incurred in the 
period to 3 September 2011 and £4.0 million is expected to be incurred in the 
current financial year.
Staff
This year’s excellent results have been made possible by the experienced, focussed 
and dedicated staff throughout the company. We have many members of staff with 
over 20 years’ service and it is this loyalty, coupled with their desire to see the 
company succeed, that makes them such an asset.
I welcome our members of staff joining this year through acquisitions. Following the 
sale of Carrs Fertilisers, I would like to record my appreciation to our colleagues in 
that business for their contribution over the years and wish them every success in the 
future.
My thanks, and that of the board, go to all colleagues in the UK, USA and Europe 
for their tremendous commitment to the continued development and growth of the 
company.
Profit before tax  
by sector
Agriculture
£6.4m 
3% up from 2010
Food
£1.3m 
17% down from 2010
Engineering
£1.7m 
69% up from 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2011     05 Carrs Billington Agriculture 
have a wide range of fuel 
products and services for 
domestic, agricultural and 
commercial customers. 
We are committed to providing 
professional customer services and  
we pride ourselves on reliable, efficient 
deliveries, while working hard for our 
customers, to make sure they get the 
most competitive prices from the market.
Agriculture
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
Revenue for the year grew by 26.7 per cent to £272.7 
million (2010: £215.2 million) with profit before tax and  
non-recurring items increasing by 12.1 per cent to £7.0 
million (2010: £6.2 million).  
Profit before tax, including contribution from associate and joint ventures, increased by 16.9 per 
cent to £8.2 million (2010: £7.0 million).
Overall, farmgate prices during 2010/11 were favourable and UK milk prices, whilst remaining 
low during the year, have recently started to increase to more economically viable levels. UK 
feedblock sales benefited from the severe winter, although sales in the US were lower than 
expected in the first half before recovering well in the second half. 
Caltech, the animal feedblock business, has continued to perform well with growing demand  
in existing markets and the successful entry into new markets being reflected in a significant 
increase in sales and profit. 
06
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Profit before tax
£6.4m 
2010: £6.2m
Revenue
£272.7m 
2010: £215.2m
In the UK, the integration of Scotmin Nutrition, the feed supplements business acquired in June 
2010, was completed to plan. This included a reorganisation and investment programme to 
reduce costs, improve production efficiency and support the future growth of the enlarged 
business. During the second half, strong demand for Crystalyx in New Zealand was reflected in a 
substantial increase in exports. The early success, in France and elsewhere in Europe, of our joint 
venture with Crystalyx Products in Germany has continued, resulting in increased sales and profit 
for the year.
The US animal feedblock business performed strongly in the second half following a disappointing 
first half when heavy snow prevented delivery in key areas. For the year overall, revenue 
increased and, whilst profit fell as the result of lower margins in the first half, current demand is 
encouraging.
The new AminoMax plant in Watertown, New York State, will start production in November 
2011. This is later than originally anticipated because of an unexpected delay in the delivery 
of certain equipment, which has now been installed. In the meantime, demand in the US for 
AminoMax, the patented rumen bypass protein which improves the yield and profitability of dairy 
herds, has been encouraging and the new plant is expected to make a positive contribution for 
the current year. 
In the UK the Group gained market share of compound and blended animal feeds against a 
background of rising and volatile wheat prices, which peaked 70.0 per cent higher than in 
2009/10, for much of the year. The impact of forward buying a portion of our raw materials 
requirement, combined with efficiencies, extra volume and better margins, meant we were able  
to record a higher level of profitability. Bibby Agriculture, our joint venture, which sells animal 
feeds mainly in Wales, had a good year with volume and profit growing strongly.
Retail sales at Carrs Billington grew, reflecting a full year’s contribution from Forsyths of (Wooler) 
Limited, acquired in September 2010, and market share gains from the enhanced range of 
products, from animal health products to silage wraps, sold through the enlarged network of 20 
branches. In April 2011, the Group acquired Safe at Work Limited, the specialist supplier of 
protective clothing to the forestry and agricultural markets, which has been successfully integrated 
and made a positive contribution in the period. Overall margins increased as the result of 
improved terms agreed with suppliers and other benefits of scale.
Farm machinery sales increased by 18.0 per cent on last year with profitability being maintained. 
The sales of Massey Ferguson tractors and the enlarged machinery range, including the Kuhn 
franchise established in September 2010, continue to be encouraging.
Fuel oils increased sales by 37.0 per cent on the prior year, reflecting the expansion of the 
customer base, the steep rise in the oil price, the impact of the depot opened at Lancaster in 
September 2010 and strong organic growth. Total sales volume was up approximately 15.4 
per cent on last year with margins improving. As a result of our strong focus on customer service 
and competitive pricing, particularly during the winter months, we increased our market share by 
gaining and retaining new customers. A new depot at Hexham was opened in August 2011 and 
we are planning further investment in this sector, including a depot at Cockermouth scheduled to 
open in the spring of 2012.
Carrs Fertilisers (sold in July 2011)
For the period to disposal, revenue from the fertiliser blending business was £78.4 million on 
which profit before tax was £3.1 million.
As a result of the disposal, the Group is no longer subject to the extreme price and working 
capital volatility associated with the fertiliser business over recent years. As part of the transaction 
we secured a supply agreement to supply fertiliser to our Carrs Billington customers over an initial 
period of five years. 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011     07 08
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Food
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
Revenue for the year from our three flour mills, Kirkcaldy Fife, 
Silloth Cumbria and Maldon Essex was up by 23.1 per cent 
to £82.6 million (2010: £67.1 million) with profit before tax 
falling by 16.6 per cent to £1.3 million (2010: £1.5 million).
Over-capacity in the UK milling industry continues to be an issue and this, combined with 
ongoing price volatility in the wheat market, resulted in a challenging environment for our  
food business. The significant increase in revenue primarily reflects higher wheat prices  
year on year which, as a result of not being able to pass on these increases in full, resulted  
in lower margins.
We continue to reduce costs. Labour and energy represent our highest costs after raw materials 
and we made significant savings in both areas.
Working closely with Forth Ports we re-opened the port of Kirkcaldy to grain ships. We invested 
£0.8m net of a freight facility grant from Transport Directorate of Scotland. The benefits of 
this project are three-fold, a financial benefit for our Kirkcaldy Mill, the benefit of consistently 
available quality wheat, and an environmental benefit of removing 250,000 truck miles and 
4,000 lorry journeys off the road.
Grain from Canada and Germany, which was previously trucked from ports in Liverpool and 
Perth respectively, will now be shipped directly to Kirkcaldy, as will wheat from the south east 
of England, meaning the mill will not be so reliant on wheat grown in the north of England.
Profit before tax
£1.3m 
2010: £1.5m
Revenue
£82.6m 
2010: £67.1m Annual Report & Accounts 2011     09
Kirkcaldy port opens
The port has been upgraded so that it is able 
to receive grain cargo ships in an initiative 
spearheaded by Carr’s after the harbour fell into 
disrepair almost 20 years ago.
Carr’s Flour Managing Director, Duncan Monroe, 
added, “It is very exciting to see ships berthing 
alongside our grain silo once more. As well as the 
obvious environmental benefits, sea freight helps 
ensure an uninterrupted supply of the best quality 
bread wheats. This means that in years such as 
this, when the wheat harvest in Scotland has been 
difficult, we can still supply our customer with the 
consistent quality products they are used to. Our 
business has been in Kirkcaldy for nearly 200 years 
and we believe that this project will bring great 
benefit not only to our business but also to our 
customers and the local people of Kirkcaldy.”
Nik Scott-Gray, Business Development Manager 
of Forth Ports, said, “We are delighted to see 
Kirkcaldy a working harbour once again”. This 
coastal shipping initiative will reduce the lorry 
journeys by around 4,000 per year, and deliver a 
greener transport alternative, with one recent wheat 
shipment from Tilbury to Kirkcaldy over 17 times 
more carbon efficient than using the road.
Peter Devlin of Devlin Photo Ltd Engineering
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
As anticipated, a strong performance in the second half of the 
period and growing order book resulted in profit before tax for 
the year increasing by 68.7 per cent to £1.7 million (2010: 
£1.0 million) on revenue up by 13.8 per cent to £18.0 million 
(2010: £15.8 million) following a fall in the first half.
The profit before tax after adding back £203,000 for impairment of assets was £1.9 million,  
an increase of 89.4 per cent over last year.
 
Wälischmiller Engineering, the remote handling technology and robotics business, has 
experienced very strong demand, particularly in France, Germany, Japan, Korea and Russia.  
The strong level of demand is reflected in the order book which had grown to €38.0 million 
at 31 October 2011 (2010: €17.0 million) and Wälischmiller is now quoting for deliveries 
in 2014 and beyond. In Wälischmiller’s core nuclear market, projects in China, Japan and 
Germany, with a total value of €4.5 million, were completed during the second half as planned, 
including the first of eight TELBOTS
®
 specialist robots. In July 2011, Wälischmiller won a €6.5 
million contract for a nuclear decommissioning project in Russia on which design work has now 
commenced and which is due for completion in early 2013. Outside the nuclear market, wins 
include a contract with LBO in Norway, a main contractor to Shell, for the design and supply of  
a TELBOT
®
 system for cleaning tanks.
In support of future growth, we are investing approximately €4.0 million in a new factory at 
Markdorf, South West Germany, scheduled for completion in 2013 and which will largely replace 
the existing facility.
Bendalls Engineering, the specialist steel fabrication business, made substantial progress in the 
project to supply a major vessel for the Evaporator D project at Sellafield, which is the UK‘s 
largest nuclear project, with delivery expected in early 2012. Financial performance for the year 
also benefited from the project to supply pressure vessels to Bechtel in the US for the nuclear 
decommissioning plant at Hanford, Washington State.
At Carrs MSM, the Swindon-based supplier of remote handling equipment to the UK nuclear 
industry, demand increased in the second half of the period following the completion by its major 
customer of a major reorganisation and operations review.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
17 November 2011
Profit before tax
£1.7m 
2010: £1.0m
Revenue
£18.0m 
2010: £15.8m
10
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011     11
Wälischmiller –  
High Technology 
with Tradition.
Wälischmiller Engineering 
is specialist in remote 
handling, robotics and 
radiation protection for use 
in environments inaccessible 
to humans. The need to ensure 
the highest level of safety in these 
environments means that all our 
products are designed and manufactured 
to the highest levels of quality. Our focus on 
product quality and operational safety marks us out 
as unique in the market. Our company slogan influences 
us everyday and in everything we do.
“Quality for Safety” Financial review
The Group’s business
The Group’s operations are organised into three business 
divisions, agriculture, food and engineering, and the 
performance of these three divisions in the year is discussed 
in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 4 to 11. The 
agriculture business operates predominately in the North 
of England, Wales and Scotland, in addition there are 
two animal feed plants in the US and a plant in Germany. 
The flour business operates entirely within the UK and the 
engineering business operates in the UK and Germany.
The markets in which all three businesses operate are competitive both in terms of 
pricing from other suppliers and the retail environment in general which has a direct 
impact on many of our customers. Despite this, Carr’s businesses have a long record 
of increasing sales and profits through a combination of investing in modern efficient 
factories, developing a range of quality products and making sound acquisitions. 
The businesses are under the control of stable, experienced and talented operational 
management teams supported by a skilled workforce. 
Business objectives 
There are five key elements to the Group’s strategy for meeting its objectives of 
continuing growth and profitability:
• Deliver quality, innovative and cost-effective products and services to our customers
• Organic growth
• Seek acquisitions to complement our existing businesses
• Maximise operational efficiency
• Securing employee health and safety
We monitor our performance against the strategy by means of key performance 
indicators (‘KPIs’):
• Organic sales growth – year on year increase in sales revenue excluding the 
impact of acquisitions and disposals
• Gross return on revenue – gross profit as a percentage of revenue
• Net return on revenue – operating profit before non-recurring items as a 
percentage of revenue
• Adjusted earnings per share – profit attributed to equity shareholders less non-
recurring items and amortisation divided by the weighted average of shares in 
issue during the period
• Return on net assets – profit before tax and before non-recurring items and 
amortisation as a percentage of net assets
• Free cash flow – cash generated from operations less tax and interest paid
Business strategies
The Group’s strategy is to focus on growing the quality end of the markets in which we 
operate, to establish meaningful and long lasting relationships with our customers, by 
a combination of product development and high service levels, and to invest in quality 
facilities. Each business within the Group is given the responsibility for developing its 
own plans to deliver the objectives of the Group with particular emphasis on growing 
sales through the supply of quality products, service and product innovation, improving 
operational efficiency and securing employee health and safety. The role of the Board 
in achieving Group objectives has been to support operational management and to 
identify suitable acquisitions that will bring new customers to the Group or will secure 
existing market positions.
Ronald Wood 
Finance Director
Performance against KPIs
2011 2010
Organic sales growth*
20.8% -2.1%
Gross return on revenue*
11.0% 12.8%
Net return on revenue*
2.7% 2.5%
Adjusted earnings per share*
88.4p 53.5p
Return on net assets*
17.9% 19.4%
Free cash flow*
£11.4m £8.3m
12
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
*continuing operations Overview
Group revenue from continuing activities during the period was £373.3 million  
(2010: £298.1 million). 
Profit before taxation, excluding a £16.6 million profit from discontinued operations increased  
to £10.0 million (2010: £7.4 million).
Net finance costs were £0.9 million (2010: £0.8 million) and were covered 9.9 times  
(2010: 9.1 times) by Group operating profit.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax charge on profit from activities after net finance costs and excluding profits 
from associates and joint ventures was 24.0 per cent (2010: 25.1 per cent). A reconciliation of the 
actual total tax charge to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 27.16 per cent is set out 
in note 9 to the financial statements. 
The substantive enactment of the Finance Act 2011 reduces the corporation tax rate from 28 per 
cent, to 26 per cent in the period to 3 September 2011 with a further reduction to 25 per cent due 
from 1 April 2012.
Earnings per share (continuing operations)
The profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company amounted to £6.8 million (2010: £4.6 
million), and basic earnings per share was 77.0p (2010: 51.9p), an increase of 48.4 per cent. 
Adjusted earnings per share of 88.4p (2010: 53.5p) is calculated by dividing the profit attributable 
to equity shareholders for the period, before non-recurring items and amortisation of intangible 
assets, by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Cash flow
The cash generated from continuing operations was up 25.4 per cent to £14.1 million (2010: 
£11.2 million) arising from higher Group profit and a decrease in working capital; a significant part 
of which was attributable to the receipt of payments on account by our engineering business. Total 
contributions of £4.8 million (2010: £2.8 million) were paid to the defined benefit pension scheme 
and reflects an additional £2.0 million, of the £3.0 million agreed between the Company and the 
Trustees following the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers.
The net cash inflow from the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers was £20.1 million including the £2.0 million 
pension contribution.
Cost of acquisitions acquired in the period was £1.8 million (2010: £5.3 million) and loans to joint 
venture companies for the construction of new production facilities was £1.3 million.
As a result of the strong cash flow, repayment of long term debt amounting to £3.4 million was made.
Dividends paid to shareholders was £2.2 million (2010: £2.0 million).
The overall result is a net increase in cash and cash equivalents of £19.2 million (2010: £4.1 million).
Net debt
At the end of the year, the Group had net cash of £4.6 million compared to net debt of £15.5 
million at 28 August 2010. This results from strong operating cash flows and the net cash 
consideration from the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers amounting to £22.1 million.
Pensions
The Group operates its current pension arrangements on a defined benefit and defined contribution 
basis. The defined benefit section is closed to new members and has 78 active members, 95 
deferred members and 191 current pensioners, and the scheme receives additional contributions 
from the Group in accordance with the latest actuarial valuation as agreed between the Company 
and the Trustees.
The valuation under the IAS19 accounting basis showed a deficit before the related deferred 
tax asset in the scheme at 3 September 2011 of £6.0 million (28 August 2010: £10.7 million). 
Actuarial gains of £0.7 million (2010: £2.3 million) have been reported in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
Following the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers and in agreement with the Scheme Trustees the Company 
injected £2.0 million into the defined benefit section in July 2011 and a further £1.0 million in 
September 2011.
A Group subsidiary undertaking is a participating employer in a defined benefit pension scheme. 
This scheme is closed to future service accrual. The IAS19 accounting basis showed a deficit, for  
that scheme, before the related deferred tax asset in the scheme at 3 September 2011 of £4.5 
million (2010: £5.6 million). The details of both pension schemes are given on note 29 to the 
financial statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011     13
Group Revenue
£373.3m 
2010: £298.1m
Profit before tax
£10.0m 
2010: £7.4m
Net finance costs
£0.9m 
2010: £0.8m Financial Review - continued
Treasury policies
The Group’s policy is structured to ensure adequate financial resources are available for the 
development of its business while managing its currency and interest rate risks. The Group’s strategy, 
policy and controls are developed centrally and approved by the Board. The Group contracts to 
purchase raw materials for its flour milling activities in advance of sales contracts.
The main elements of treasury activity are outlined below.
Foreign currency risk
Since the disposal of our fertiliser blending operations the purchasing of raw materials in foreign 
currencies has significantly reduced. The small foreign currency risk facing the Group is in the 
purchase of raw materials for the flour milling operation.
The currency involved is the euro. The policy of the Group is to hedge using forward foreign 
exchange contracts with UK banks as soon as commitment has been given to the underlying 
transaction. 
 
The results of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the average rates of 
exchange for the period concerned. As this translation has no impact on cash flow, the Group 
chooses not to hedge its foreign subsidiaries’ earnings.
The balance sheets of the foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the closing US dollar  
and euro exchange rates. Any gains or losses on the translation of the balance sheet into sterling  
are recorded in reserves. 
Interest rate risk
With low interest rates and reduced net borrowings the Board decided not to manage its cost 
of borrowing through interest rate hedging instruments. The Board will continue to review the 
appropriateness of the interest rate hedging should the level of net borrowing increase.
Credit risk
Practically all sales are made on credit terms to an extensive range of customers, which include UK 
food producers, agricultural merchants, farmers and the nuclear industry. Overdue accounts are 
reviewed monthly at divisional management meetings. Historically, the incidence of bad debts is low. 
The current financial climate requires the Group’s credit control functions to be particularly vigilant.
Funding
The Group has historically been cash generative. The bank position for each operation is monitored 
on a daily basis and capital expenditure above a certain level is approved at the monthly Group 
board meetings. Each operation has access to the Group’s overdraft facility or has facilities specific 
to that operation and all term debt is arranged centrally. Bank facilities for more than half the 
Group’s funding requirements is agreed for the three years to November 2014. The balance of the 
Group’s funding is negotiated annually.
Resources, risks and uncertainties
The Group aims to safeguard the assets that give it competitive advantage, being its product quality, 
product innovation and service levels, its operational management, skilled workforce and its modern 
well-equipped factories.
Reputation
It is the responsibility of local operational management assisted by the Group Risk Manager to 
maintain and where possible enhance the Group’s reputation for product quality, product innovation, 
service levels and a culture of safe working.
Manufacturing facilities
The Group has continued to invest in its production facilities in all three divisions and it intends to 
continue investing to ensure that it maintains a competitive edge. 
Employees
While the Group continues to invest in facilities and equipment we also continue to invest in our 
people. The Group offers training programmes where additional skills are required to undertake 
their responsibilities. The businesses have strategies for retaining staff, including the provision of 
competitive terms and conditions, and a contributory occupational pension scheme. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
Each year the Group carries out a formal exercise to identify and assess the impact of risks on its 
business and this year the exercise was carried out in August 2011. The main risks are set out on 
page 16 to 17.
On behalf of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Finance Director
17 November 2011
14
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011     15
Board of Directors
Registered Office and Advisers
Registered Office
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix
Carlisle CA3 9BA
Registered No. 98221
Chartered Accountants  
and Statutory Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
89 Sandyford Road
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 8HW
Bankers
Clydesdale Bank PLC
82 English Street
Carlisle CA3 8HP
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
37 Lowther Street
Carlisle CA3 8EL
Financial Adviser and Broker
Investec Bank (UK) Limited
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Solicitors
Hill Dickinson LLP
1 St Paul’s Square
Liverpool L3 9SJ
Atkinson Ritson
15 Fisher Street
Carlisle CA3 8RW
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
1.  Lord Inglewood 
Non-Executive Chairman
2. Chris Holmes 
Chief Executive Officer
3. Ronald Wood 
Finance Director
4. Alistair Wannop 
Non-Executive Director
5. Robert Heygate 
Non-Executive Director
1. 2. 3.
4. 5. 16
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Risk Management
The Group-wide risk management and 
reporting process helps management to 
identify, assess and mitigate risk.
The process involves the identification and prioritisation of key risks, together with associated 
controls and plans for mitigation. The Group could be affected by a number of risks, which 
might have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance. 
The risks identified are collated and reported to the Finance Director. This culminates in the 
identification for the Board of the Group’s key business, financial, operational and compliance 
risks with associated action plans and controls to mitigate them where possible. Further details 
of the risk management process are on page 14 and the key risks and uncertainties identified 
as part of this process, together with some of the mitigating actions that we are taking, are listed 
below.
The Group is exposed to a number of other risks, some of which may have a material impact  
on its results. It is not possible to identify or anticipate every risk that may affect the Group.  
Our overall success depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in different economic, social 
and political environments and to manage and to mitigate these risks.
Key Risks
Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions
Failure to act safely 
and to maintain 
the continued safe 
operation of our 
facilities and quality of 
our products
The safety of our employees, customers, 
contractors, suppliers, and the communities in 
which we operate is fundamentally important. 
We must operate within all laws, regulations 
and rules relating to health, safety and the 
environment. The operation of our sites involves 
many risks, including failure or sub-standard 
performance of equipment and improper 
installation or operation of equipment.
•  Health and safety policies and procedures at 
all facilities
•  Designated staff at all locations to ensure 
policies are followed
•  Product safety and quality policies and 
procedures in place to prevent contamination
•  Regular review of safety/environmental 
performance at group divisional level
•  Monitoring of health and safety/environmental 
performance across the Group by means of an 
established site audit programme
Failure to attract, 
develop and retain key 
personnel
Performance, knowledge and skills of 
employees are central to success. We must 
attract, integrate and retain the talent required 
to fulfil our ambitions. Inability to retain key 
knowledge and adequately plan for succession 
could have a negative impact on the Group’s 
performance.
•  Remuneration policies designed to attract, 
retain and reward employees with ability and 
experience to execute Group strategy
•  Strategies to provide opportunities for 
employees to develop careers
•  Succession planning takes place at 
management and Board level Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions
Non-compliance 
with legislation and 
regulation
The Group operates in diverse markets and 
therefore is exposed to a range of legislation 
and regulation, which we must comply with and 
understand. Any breach could have a financial 
impact and damage our reputation.
•  Legal advisers monitor changes in legislation 
and advise the Directors accordingly
•  Legal advisers maintain compliance policies in 
areas such as antitrust, money laundering and 
anti-corruption laws
Fluctuations in prices, 
offtake and availability 
of raw materials, 
energy, freight and 
other operating inputs
Margins may be affected by fluctuations in 
crop prices due to factors such as harvest and 
weather conditions, crop disease, crop yields, 
alternative crops and by-product values. In 
some cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales 
contracts, or due to competitive markets, we 
may not be able to pass on to customers the 
full amount of raw material price increases or 
higher energy, freight or other operating costs.
• Strategic relationships with suppliers
• Multiple-source suppliers for key ingredient 
supplies
•  Raw material and energy purchasing policies 
to provide security of supply
•  Derivatives used where possible to hedge 
exposure to movements in future prices of 
commodities
Failure to protect 
intellectual property
Our commercial success depends, in part, 
on obtaining and maintaining trademark 
and patent protection on certain products 
and technology. We must successfully defend 
trademarks and patents against third-party 
challenges or infringements.
• The Group legal adviser, supported by expert 
intellectual property lawyers, monitors all 
intellectual property
• Organised and secure process for identifying 
and recording innovations, trade secrets and 
potential patentable ideas
Failure to maintain high 
standards of customer 
service and identify 
important consumer 
trends
Not meeting the required service levels, 
especially where the business is heavily reliant 
on a particular customer, and/or falling behind 
on emerging trends could have a negative 
impact on performance and reputation.
• Management work closely with customers to 
identify emerging trends
• Area account managers in place for major 
customers
Failure to maintain 
an effective system 
of internal financial 
controls
Without effective internal financial controls, we 
could be exposed to financial irregularities and 
losses from acts which could have a significant 
impact on the ability of the business to operate. 
We must safeguard business assets and ensure 
accuracy and reliability of records and financial 
reporting.
• Authorisation policies ensure that key tasks are 
segregated to safeguard assets
• Detailed internal finance and capital 
expenditure manuals set out procedure
• Group financial performance monitored with 
monthly Board reports and regular forecasting
• Chief Executive and Finance Director 
undertake detailed business and financial 
reviews
Managing procurement 
costs
The flour division purchases a significant 
quantity of raw materials each year and incurs 
many other input costs such as utilities. The 
Group’s cost base can be affected by fluctuating 
raw material and energy prices. An inability 
to pass on increases in costs quickly to the 
customer could adversely affect the results of the 
Group.
• Through the division’s wheat director, we have 
strong relationships with suppliers, enabling 
optimal negotiated prices
• Forward prices are agreed and locked in 
where appropriate and available
• The Group seeks to pass on cost increases 
wherever possible to its customers through 
price rises, however, competitive constraints in 
achieving this can affect the Group’s results
Annual Report & Accounts 2011     17 Safety
Safety is a high priority for the Group, it is believed that it is paramount to the running of 
a successful business. This means that we have to provide safe and healthy conditions for 
employees, contractors and visitors at all our locations. Our continuous improvement of our 
safety record is essential to our operation as a successful business.
Overview 
Whilst our safety performance at several of our locations improved in 2011, and our 
Engineering division performance compares favourably against the industry standard, the 
Group’s overall safety performance of minor accidents deteriorated in 2011. Part of the 
reason for this deterioration is that more accurate reporting of accidents has been encouraged. 
Additionally, the acquisition of new companies has adversely affected the accident rate, and 
action has been taken to ensure that these companies are integrated into the Group’s health and 
safety protocols.
Several of the Group companies equalled or improved on their 2010 safety performance, 
including two companies that reported no recordable injuries. Overall, we were pleased 
with our results, however, there is still room for improvement and actions are being taken to 
reduce the accident rate through revised policies and guidance, improvement of the auditing 
programme, and continuous reviews of physical conditions at each site.
Environment
It is important that we all manage our impact on the environment, and that equally applies 
to companies as well as individuals. As a consequence we are committed to conducting our 
business in a manner that is sensitive to the environmental needs of the communities within which 
we operate. This aim will be achieved by upholding defined, key environmental standards in all 
of our operations. 
Overview
Project 250 was established at the end of the last financial year with the target of reducing 
our energy usage by 2.5 per cent year on year, with 2011 being the first year. Project 250 
is managed by a team of individuals representing the entire Group. The team has created an 
Energy Efficiency Policy for the Group and has engaged all personnel in the benefits, both 
business and environmental, of reducing energy usage. The team has introduced more detailed 
measurement and reporting systems, which enable us to provide preliminary results for this first 
year. 
Managing our impact on the environment is good 
for the environment and also brings economic 
benefits to the Group, with a 2.5 per cent saving 
equating to approximately £250,000. We have 
reviewed and reduced our energy usage with 
a view to reducing our carbon footprint, an 
increasingly important global measure of overall 
environmental performance across the Group:
•  Energy use per unit of production reduced by 
2 per cent, due to energy efficiency projects 
and improvements in plant utilisation.
 •  Primary carbon footprint from manufacturing 
energy use reduced by 2.9 per cent per unit of 
production, resulting largely from these energy 
efficiency initiatives.
Corporate Responsibility
18
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
“At Carr’s, the  
performance of the  
Group is not just  
determined by financial  
and operational achievements, 
it is influenced by social and 
environmental issues. All these 
factors are inter-linked and create 
the value of the business.”  
Chris Holmes Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2011     19
Carbon footprint 
This is a measure of the impact that a person, organisation or product has on the environment 
in terms of the amount of carbon dioxide produced during a given period or product cycle. 
Calculating our total carbon footprint helps us to manage our overall environmental impact and 
benchmark our performance year on year. 
Outlook
The Project 250 team is working to further improve environmental performance and to provide 
action plans that will build on our progress to date. These plans include:
•   Reducing energy usage per unit of production, through a constant focus on efficient 
operation, supported where appropriate by capital investment; 
•  Continuing to evaluate our carbon footprint; 
•   Improving engagement with colleagues and external stakeholders on our environmental 
performance and other sustainability matters; and
•  Investigating renewable energy source options.
Community
We want to play a positive role in the communities in which we operate. We chiefly do this 
through charitable donations and by supporting our employees’ participation in community 
activities.
Overview
Each year we support a significant number of organisations, ranging from long-established 
charities to fledgling community organisations. Community support takes many forms, depending 
on the needs of the organisation. It includes funding, employee volunteering, consultancy, and 
providing mentoring and business skills.
On-going
This year we undertook a special relationship with the Lake District Calvert Trust, a charity 
which enables people of all ages with disabilities, together with their families and friends, to 
achieve their potential through the challenge of outdoor adventure in the countryside. We have 
pledged to annually donate 10 per cent of the total energy savings from Project 250 for three 
years, with a guaranteed amount of £25,000 this year. In addition, several of our employees 
have participated in volunteering to complete necessary works at the Trust. Such community 
involvement benefits our employees by enhancing the facilities at the Trust, and offers personal 
development opportunities.
In addition to the work we do with the Trust we also support a variety of charities and 
organisations such as:
•  The Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution which supports members of the farming community 
facing need, hardship or distress. Fundraising events held by the Group in the period raised 
£25,000 including a £3,146 contribution by the Group.
•  Carlisle Youth Zone which serves the social, recreational and emotional needs of young 
people of the area. The Group donated £5,666 during the period.
•  The Border Concert Band which is a 30 piece community band based in Carlisle, serving the 
musical needs of the local area.
• A variety of schools and nurseries and the local hospice.
We believe that the projects we sponsor target local needs and deliver the most positive impact, 
and ensures that our community work reflects our broader responsibilities as a Company.  20
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Report of the Directors
The Directors submit their report and the audited accounts of the 
Company and the Group for the period ended 3 September 2011.  
The Company registered number is 98221.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Old Croft, Stanwix, 
Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
Principal activities, business review and future developments
The Group’s activities are Agriculture, Food and Engineering. A review 
of the business and future development of the Group is presented in the 
Chief Executive’s Review on pages 4 to 11 and in the Financial Review 
on pages 12 to 14.
Results and dividends
The Group profit from continuing activities before taxation, was  
£10.0 million (2010: £7.4 million). After taxation charge of £2.0 million 
(2010: £1.7 million), the profit for the year is £8.0 million (2010: £5.8 
million). The profit from discontinued activities after taxation was £16.6 
million (2010: £1.1 million). An interim dividend of 6.5p (2010: 6.0p) 
per ordinary share was paid on 26 April 2011. A second interim 
dividend of 6.5p per ordinary share was paid on 7 October 2011.  
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the period, 
which is not reflected in these accounts, of 13.0p (2010: 12.0p) per 
ordinary share which, together with the interim dividends, represents 
26.0p per ordinary share, totalling £2.3 million (2010: 24.0p per 
ordinary share, totalling £2.1 million).
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend 
will be paid on 20 January 2012 to members on the register at the  
close of business on 23 December 2011. Shares will be ex-dividend  
on 21 December 2011.
Key performance indicators are presented in the Financial Review on 
page 12.
Principal risk identification and management
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties have been reviewed by the 
Board, and are shown in the Risk management review section on pages 
16 to 17. The Risk management review also provides information on the 
how the Board envisages the Group managing those risks.
Pensions
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding obligations for  
the Group’s pension plans are based on various assumptions including, 
among other things, the actual and projected market performance of the 
pension plan assets, future long-term corporate bond yields, longevity 
of members and statutory requirements. Immediately following the sale 
of the Group’s fertiliser business on 13 July 2011, £2.0 million of the 
sale proceeds was used to reduce the Group’s pension fund deficit, and 
a further £1.0 million was paid into the fund on 5 September 2011. 
The total of £3.0 million is approximately £1.0 million in excess of the 
statutory payment requirement.
In the last quarter of the financial period, the equity markets have 
fallen due to global issues, this together with the reduced bond yields, 
increased the deficit which was partially offset by the cash funding 
from the Company. In the period the deficit reduced by £4.8 million to 
£6.0 million. The Group continually reviews this risk and takes action to 
mitigate where possible. In addition, while the Group is consulted by the 
Trustees on the investment strategies of its pension plans, the Group has 
no direct control over these matters as the Trustees are directly responsible 
for the strategy.
Details of the Group’s pension plans are in note 29 in the Notes to the 
Financial Statements.
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company who served during the period and up to 
the date of signing the financial statements are stated on page 15. Each 
of the current Directors served for the whole of the period under review. 
C N C Holmes retires in accordance with the Articles of Association 
and A R Heygate retires in accordance with best practice under the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2010, and both directors being eligible, 
offer themselves for re-election. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, the 
Board confirm that it believes that C N C Holmes should be re-elected. 
As a direct result of C N C Holmes’ leadership and vision the Company 
has gone from strength to strength, and obviously it is in the best interests 
of the Company and the shareholders that this continues. A R Heygate 
is an asset to the Board as a result of his great depth of knowledge and 
expertise in the agriculture and the UK flour milling industry, which the 
Board view as invaluable. 
Biographical details of the directors are shown below:
Non-executive directors
Lord Inglewood was appointed as Chairman to the Board in 2005.  
He was a Conservative member of the European Parliament for ten years 
until his retirement in 2004, and a Government Minister from 1995 
to 1997 and has been a member of the House of Lords since 1989. 
He is currently the Chair of the House of Lords Select Committee on 
Communications. He is also Chairman of CN Group Limited, the Carlisle 
based regional media company. Age 60.
Mr A R Heygate was appointed to the Board in 1991. He is the 
joint Managing Director of Heygate & Sons Limited, the UK’s largest 
independent flour milling company. He is the longest standing non-
executive Director and is Chairman of the Audit Committee. He is also a 
member of the executive of Camden BRI association and sits as Chairman 
on its Audit Committee. For almost 30 years he has been a member of the 
executive of the National Association of British & Irish Millers. Age 66.
Mr A G M Wannop was appointed to the Board in September 2005.  
He is the Senior Independent Director of the Board and the Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee. He has been the Chairman of both the 
County NFU and the MAFF northern regional advisory panel. He has 
served as a director of The English Farming and Food Partnership, Rural 
Regeneration Cumbria, and Cumbria Vision. He is a fellow of the Royal 
Agricultural Society of England. Age 49.
Lord Inglewood, Mr A R Heygate and Mr A G Wannop have one year 
fixed term contracts which expire on 31 August 2012.
Executive directors
Mr C N C Holmes was appointed to the Board in January 1992, 
and as Chief Executive in September 1994. Previously he held senior 
management positions in the agricultural division of J Bibby & Sons. Age 
60.
Mr R C Wood was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 
January 1988 and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants. Mr R C Wood is also the Company Secretary. Age 64.
The two executive directors have service contracts which provide for a 
one year notice period.
The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the extent 
permitted by law and in the Company’s Articles of Association, in respect 
of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their 
powers, duties and responsibilities. The Company has executed deeds 
of indemnity for the benefit of each Director in respect of liabilities which 
may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company. The 
Company purchased and maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     21
insurance throughout 2010/11, which has been renewed for 2011/12. 
Neither the indemnities nor the insurance provide cover in the event the 
Director is proved to have acted fraudulently. 
Employment policies and employees
The Group takes its responsibilities for its employees seriously. It also 
recognises that the commitment of the employees is vital to all areas of 
the business. The Group values diversity and is fully committed to treating 
its employees and customers with dignity and respect. The Group is 
committed to:
• 	 E n s u r i n g 	 t h e r e 	 i s 	 e q u a l i t y 	 o f 	 o p p o r t u n i t y 	 f o r 	 a l l 	 e x i s t i n g 	 a n d 	 p o t e n t i a l	
employees;
• 	 T h e 	 f a i r 	 t r e a t m e n t 	 o f 	 p e o p l e 	 w i t h 	 d i s a b i l i t i e s 	 r e g a r d i n g 	 a p p l i c a t i o n s ,	
training, promotion and career development. An employee who 
becomes disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining;
• 	 P r o v i d i n g 	 e m p l o y e e s 	 w i t h 	 c l e a r 	 a n d 	 f a i r 	 t e r m s 	 o f 	 e m p l o y m e n t 	 a n d	
competitive remuneration packages; and
• 	 E n a b l i n g 	 e m p l o y e e s 	 t o 	 h a v e 	 a c c e s s 	 t o 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 a l l o w i n g 	 t h e m 	 t o	
be able to contribute and participate fully in the Group’s objectives 
and achievements.
Across the Group women accounted for 21% of the total number of 
employees employed during the period.
The Group’s policy on employee involvement is to adopt an open 
management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels 
about aspects of the Group’s operations. 
Acquisitions
On 14 September 2010 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited 
acquired the entire issued share capital of Forsyths of (Wooler) Limited, 
an agricultural merchant. The cash consideration paid was £722,000. 
The Forsyths business extends our existing agriculture branch network in 
Northumberland.
On 28 April 2011 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired 
the entire issued share capital of Safe at Work Limited, a specialist 
supplier of protective clothing to the forestry and agricultural markets. 
The cash consideration paid was £1,760,000. The acquired business 
extends the product range sold through our existing branch network.
Disposal
On 13 July 2011 the Group successfully completed the sale of the 
Group’s fertiliser business to Origin Enterprises (UK) Limited (“Origin”). 
The disposal was for a cash consideration of £19.0 million and realised 
an attractive valuation for this business.
The sale removes the Group’s large exposure to commodity price 
fluctuations, and in turn will help to reduce volatility in the Group’s profits 
and significantly reduces the level of seasonal working capital. The 
disposal has strengthened the Group’s balance sheet and produced low 
gearing levels leaving the Group in a strong position for the forthcoming 
financial year, ready to make further investment within the Group and 
capitalise on any potential acquisitions. Our subsidiary agricultural 
trading company, Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited (“CBAS”) 
entered into a supply agreement with Origin, under which Origin agree 
to supply CBAS with fertiliser for an initial period of 5 years. 
Political and charitable donations
During the period ended 3 September 2011 the Group contributed 
£38,088 (2010: £9,927) in the UK for charitable purposes. Further 
details have been included within the Corporate Responsibility statement 
on page 19. There were no political donations during the year (2010: 
Nil).
Investment properties
The market value of the Group’s investment properties at 3 September 
2011 exceeded their net book amount  by approximately £406,000.
Payment of suppliers
Payment terms are agreed with each supplier and every endeavour is 
made to adhere to the agreed terms. The average credit terms for the 
Group as a whole, based on the year-end trade payables figure and 
a 371 day period, is 38 days (2010: 42 days). The Company has no 
outstanding trade payables at the end of the financial period (2010: 
£nil). 
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 
Ordinary Shares of £0.25 each.
The movement in the share capital during the year is detailed in note 30 
to the financial statements.
At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors received authority from 
the shareholders to:
Allot Shares – this gives Directors the authority to allot authorised but 
unissued shares and maintains the flexibility in respect of the Company’s 
financing arrangements. The nominal value of ordinary shares which 
the Directors may allot in the period up to the next Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 10 January 2012, is limited to £725,281 which 
was equal to 33% of the nominal value of the issued share capital on 
17 November 2010. The directors do not have any present intention 
of exercising this authority other than in connection with the issue of 
ordinary shares in respect of the Company’s share option plans. This 
authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be  
held on 10 January 2012.
Disapplication of rights of pre-emption – this disapplies rights of pre-
emption on the allotment of shares by the Company and the sale by 
the Company of treasury shares. The authority will allow the Directors 
to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority to allot 
shares mentioned above, and to sell treasury shares for cash, on a 
pro rata basis to existing shareholders (but subject to any exclusion or 
arrangements as the Directors consider necessary or expedient in relation 
to fractional entitlements, any legal, regulatory or practical problems 
or costs under the laws or regulations of any overseas territory or the 
requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange) and otherwise 
on a pro rata basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of £219,782, 
representing 10% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 17 
November 2010. This authority will expire at the end of the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 10 January 2012.
To buy own shares – this authority allows the Company to buy its own 
shares in the market, as permitted under the Articles of Association of the 
Company, up to a limit of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital. 
The price to be paid for any share must not be less than 25p, being the 
nominal value of a share, and must not exceed 105% of the average 
middle market quotations for the ordinary shares of the Company as 
derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 
business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary 
shares are purchased. The Directors have no immediate plans to exercise 
the powers of the Company to purchase its own shares and undertake 
that the authority would only be exercised if the Directors were satisfied 
that a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings per 
share and was in the best interests of the Company at the time. This 
authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 10 January 2012. The Directors would consider holding any of its 
own shares that it purchases pursuant to this authority as treasury shares.
The interests of the Directors, as defined by the Companies Act 2006, 
in the ordinary shares of the Company, other than in respect of options 
to acquire ordinary shares (which are detailed in the analysis of options 
included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 30), are 
as follows: 22
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Report of the Directors - continued
 on 3 September 2011 on 28 August 2010
 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares
C N C Holmes 127,500 114,915
R C Wood 98,230 92,077
A R Heygate 37,225 37,225
W R Inglewood 4,410 4,410
A G M Wannop 2,261 2,261
All the above interests are beneficial. There have been no other changes to the above interests in the period from 3 September 2011 to 10 November 
2011.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting 
attached to any class of shares in the Company (of which there are none), the holders of the Ordinary Shares are entitled to one vote in a poll for 
every Ordinary Share held. No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held if any call or 
other sum then payable in respect of that share remains unpaid. Currently all issued shares are fully paid.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on  
10 January 2012 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but 
no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever 
the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata 
according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Major shareholders
The Company has been informed of the following interests at 10 November 2011 in the 8,863,459 ordinary shares of the Company, as required by 
the Companies Act 2006:
  Percentage of 
 Number of shares Issued share capital 
Heygate & Sons Limited* 1,265,287 14.3%
T W G Charlton 575,000 6.5%
Rathbone Nominees Limited 470,600 5.3%
Europe Nominees Limited 378,779 4.3%
HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited 350,000 3.9%
Barclayshare Nominees Limited 292,934 3.3%
  
* A R Heygate is a director of Heygate & Sons Limited. 
Change of control
There are no agreements that the Company considers significant and to which the Company is party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon 
change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, other than the following:
• 	 T h e 	 C o m p a n y 	 i s 	 p a r t y 	 t o 	 a 	 n u m b e r 	 o f 	 b a n k i n g 	 a g r e e m e n t s 	 w h i c h 	 u p o n 	 a 	 c h a n g e 	 o f 	 c o n t r o l 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o m p a n y 	 a r e 	 t e r m i n a b l e 	 b y 	 t h e 	 b a n k	
immediately.
  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     23
Annual General Meeting and Special Business to be 
transacted at the Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting appears on  
page 94 and includes the following items of Special Business:
(i) Resolution 7 : Directors power to allot securities
 Under section 551 of the Act, relevant shares may only be issued 
with the consent of the shareholders, unless the shareholders pass a 
resolution generally authorising the Directors to issue shares without 
further reference to the shareholders. This resolution authorises the 
issue of shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £731,235, 
which is equal to 33% of the nominal value of the current issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company, for the period commencing 
with the passing of the resolution until the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting of the Company or 6 months from the 
next accounting reference date of the Company (whichever is the 
earlier).
(ii) Resolution 8 : Disapplication of pre-emption rights on equity issues for 
cash
 Sections 570 - 573 of the Act requires that a company issuing 
shares for cash must first offer them to existing shareholders 
following a statutory procedure which, in the case of a rights 
issue, may prove to be both costly and cumbersome. This 
resolution excludes that statutory procedure as far as rights issues 
are concerned. It also enables the Directors to allot shares up 
to an aggregate nominal value of £221,586, which is equal to 
10% of the nominal value of the current issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company, subject to resolution 7 being passed. 
The Directors believe that the limited powers provided by this 
resolution will maintain a desirable degree of flexibility. Unless 
previously revoked or varied, the disapplication will expire on the 
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 
6 months from the next accounting reference date of the Company 
(whichever is the earlier).
(iii) Resolution 9 : Authority for the market purchase by the Company of its 
own shares
 Section 693 of the Act requires the Company to obtain the 
shareholders’ consent prior to making any market purchase of 
the Company’s own shares. Resolution 9 sets out the conditions 
of the authority as required by section 166 of the Act and the 
resolution is proposed as a special resolution as required by the 
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority. The Directors have no 
current intentions relating to this authority but believe that the 
limited nature of the resolution will provide a desirable degree of 
flexibility. The Directors intend that any shares so purchased will 
be cancelled. The total number of share options in issue at the date 
of this document is 245,973 which, if exercised, would represent 
2.8% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date 
hereof and would, if the authority under this resolution were to be 
exercised in full, represent 3.1% of the issued share capital of the 
Company following completion of the purchase of the Company’s 
own shares.
(iv) Resolution 10: Notice period for general meetings other than annual 
general meetings
 A general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be 
called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Responsibility for preparing financial statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial period. Under that law the Directors have prepared the 
Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. Under company law the Directors must not approve 
the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and 
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 select	suitable	accounting	policies	and	then	apply	them	
consistently;
•	 make	judgements	and	accounting	estimates	that	are	reasonable	
and prudent;
•	 state	whether	applicable	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	European	Union	
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements;
•	 prepare	the	financial	statements	on	the	going	concer n	basis,	unless	
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to 
auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving 
the Directors’ Report are listed on page 15. Having made enquiries 
of fellow Directors each of these Directors, at the date of this report, 
confirms that:
•	 so	far	as	the	Director	is	aware,	there	is	no	relevant	audit	
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
•	 he	has	taken	all	the	steps	that	he	ought	to	have	taken	as	a	Director	
in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information.
Responsibility statement
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on  
page 15 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 the	Group	financial	statements,	which	have	been	prepared	in	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group; 
•	 the	Chief	Executive’ s	Review	includes	a	fair	review	of	the	
development and performance of the business and the position of 
the Group; and
•	 the	Risk	management	review	provides	a	description	of	the	principal	
risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
By Order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Company Secretary
17 November 2011 24
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Corporate Governance
Statement by the Directors on compliance with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010
Principles of good governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance. 
The adoption and maintenance of good governance is the 
responsibility of the Board as a whole. This report, together with the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 30, describes how the 
Board applies the principles of good governance and best practice as 
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 (the “New Code 
2010”). A statement of compliance can be found at the end of this 
report.
The Board
The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership, 
whilst working within a prudent and effective framework of control, 
which balances and manages risk. The Board establishes the 
Company’s values and standards and ensures that its obligations 
to shareholders and stakeholders are met. It sets the Company’s 
objectives and ensures that the Company has the necessary personnel 
and finances available to meet those objectives. 
The Board meets ten times throughout the year. To enable the Directors 
of the Board to carry out their responsibilities all the Directors have full 
and timely access to all relevant information. The Board has a schedule 
of matters for discussion. The schedule is reviewed periodically and 
includes, but is not limited, to the following:
•	 approval	of	the	Group’ s	annual	Business	Plan;
•	 the	Group’ s	strategy;
•	 acquisitions,	disposals	and	capital	expenditure	projects	above	
certain thresholds;
•	 all	guarantees;
•	 treasur y	policies;
•	 the	financial	statements;
•	 the	Company’ s	dividend	policy;
•	 transactions	involving	the	issue	or	purchase	of	Company	shares;
•	 borrowing	powers;
•	 appointments	to	the	Board;
•	 alterations	to	the	Memorandum	and	Ar ticles	of	Association;
•	 legal	actions	brought	by	or	against	the	Group	above	cer tain	
thresholds; and
•	 the	scope	of	delegations	to	Board	committees,	subsidiar y	boards	
and executive management of the Group.
A schedule of matters is available on the Company’s website. 
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees to carry out certain tasks as defined in their written terms 
of reference approved by the Board; these are also available on the 
Company website.
Members
The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, two executive 
Directors and two other non-executive Directors. Lord Inglewood is 
considered independent and his independence was assessed when  
he was appointed as non-executive Chairman. A R Heygate is a  
non-executive Director and the Board considers him to be independent 
although the New Code 2010 questions his independence due to his 
long association with the Company and the fact that he represents 
a significant shareholder. The Board believes that he acts in the best 
interests of the Company and that his knowledge and experience are 
an asset to the Company. In addition, it is felt that his holding of shares 
in the Company aligns his interests with those of the shareholders.  
A G M Wannop is the Senior Independent non-executive Director. 
The New Code 2010 recommends that the Board of Directors of a 
UK public company should include a balance of executive and non-
executive Directors (including independent non-executives) such that 
no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s 
decision-making. The Board is confident that it meets the requirements 
of the New Code 2010.
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that one third of the 
Directors retire by rotation each year at the Annual General Meeting 
which is in compliance with the New Code 2010. All new directors 
are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity following 
their appointment. As a result of A R Heygate’s long association with 
the Company the Board have decided that it would be prudent to 
require him to retire annually to ensure that the shareholders are able 
to review his continued membership of the Board.
Directors’ biographies are shown on page 20. The formal terms of 
reference for the main Board Committees together with the terms and 
conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are reviewed 
annually and are available for inspection at the Company’s Registered 
Office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Attendance and agenda
In advance of all Board meetings the Directors are supplied with 
detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Group’s operating 
functions. Members of the executive management team attend and 
make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board. The 
Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and 
quality of information.
Details of the number of meetings of, and members’ attendance at, the 
Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees during the period are set 
out in the table below.
  Audit Remuneration
 Board Committee Committee
Number of meetings 10 2 2
   
W R Inglewood 10 2 2
C N C Holmes 10 —  —
R C Wood 10 — —
A R Heygate 10 2 2
A G M Wannop 10 2 2
  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     25
The chart below shows the approximate time the Board has spent 
discussing agenda items during the year, separated into broad 
categories.
Governance  7%
Strategy  45%
Finance/risk  20%
Capex  8%
Operations  20%
In addition to the regular scheduled meetings throughout the year, 
unscheduled supplementary meetings may also take place as and 
when necessary, although during this financial year there had been 
no reason to hold an unscheduled meeting. The Board meetings are 
structured to allow open discussion and all directors participate in 
discussing strategy, financial performance and risk management.
Directors who are unable to attend a particular meeting receive 
relevant briefing papers and are given the opportunity to discuss any 
issues with the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Group Finance 
Director.
Support 
Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in performance of their duties as Directors. None of the 
Directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under 
review. All Directors have access to the advice and the services of the 
Company Secretary. In addition to these formal roles, the non-executive 
Directors have access to senior management of the business either by 
telephone or via involvement at informal meetings.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separated and their 
responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed 
by the Board. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and 
workings of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, while the Chief 
Executive is responsible for running the business and implementing 
strategy and policy.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s Articles 
of Association permit directors to authorise conflicts of interest and 
the Board has a policy and procedures for managing and, where 
appropriate, authorising actual or potential conflicts of interest. Under 
those procedures, directors are required to declare all directorships or 
other appointments to organisations that are not part of the Group and 
which could result in actual or potential conflicts of interest, as well as 
other situations which could result in a potential conflict of interest. 
The Board is required to review the Directors’ actual or potential 
conflicts of interest at least annually. Directors are required to disclose 
proposed new appointments to the Chairman before taking them 
on, to ensure that any potential conflicts of interest can be identified 
and addressed appropriately. Any potential conflicts of interest in 
relation to proposed directors are considered by the Board prior to 
their appointment. In this financial year there have been no declared 
conflicts of interest.
Board Committees
Audit Committee
The Committee currently comprises the three non-executive Directors, 
A R Heygate (Chairman), W R Inglewood and A G M Wannop. The 
Board considers that the Company meets the main requirements of the 
New Code 2010 for a company of Carr’s size.
The Board is responsible for assessing the Group’s internal financial 
controls and meeting with the external auditors as appropriate. 
The external auditors have the opportunity for direct access to 
the Committee without the executive Directors being present. The 
Committee meets at least two times a year and such meetings involve  
a review of the Group’s interim and full year financial statements. 
Under its terms of reference, the Committee is required, amongst other 
things to:
•	 monitor	the	integrity	of	the	financial	statements	of	the	Company;	
•	 review ,	understand	and	evaluate	the	Company’ s	inter nal	financial	
risk, and other internal controls and their associated systems; 
•	 oversee	the	relationship	with	the	exter nal	auditors,	making	
recommendations to the Board in relation to their appointment, 
remuneration and terms of engagement; and 
•	 monitor	and	review	the	exter nal	auditor’ s	independence,	objectivity	
and effectiveness and to approve the policy on the engagement of 
the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
During the year and up to the date of this Annual Report the Committee 
has:
•	 reviewed	the	Committee’ s	ter ms	of	reference	and	its	effectiveness.	
New terms of reference were drafted and adopted in the period 
bringing the terms of reference up to date; 
•	 agreed	the	ter ms	of	engagement,	the	fees,	areas	of	responsibility	
and scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external 
auditors; 
•	 reviewed	the	annual	and	interim	financial	statements.	In	doing	so	
the Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial 
reporting issues and judgements, together with the reports received 
from the external auditors on their audits; 
•	 reviewed	and	approved	the	scope	of	non-audit	ser vices	provided	
by the auditors to ensure that there was no impairment of 
independence and objectivity, and subsequently monitored the 
non-audit work performed to ensure it was within policy guidelines; 
and 
•	 reviewed	the	policy	and	processes	enabling	employees	within	
the Group to make disclosures about suspected financial and 
operational improprieties.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be re-appointed as the Company’s 
auditor.
As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has concluded 
that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has 
ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual 
General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be 
raised on the Committee’s activities.
Remuneration Committee
The Committee currently comprises A G M Wannop (Chairman), W R 
Inglewood and A R Heygate. It is a requirement of the New Code 2010 
that the Committee should, in the case of smaller companies, consist of 
at least two members who are considered by the New Code 2010 to 
be independent. The Company has complied with this. C N C Holmes, 
Chief Executive, attends meetings of the Committee by invitation and 
in an advisory capacity. No Director attends any part of a meeting  26
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
at which his own remuneration is discussed. The Chairman and the 
executive Directors determine the remuneration of the other non-executive 
Directors. The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Board.
The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive 
remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other terms 
and conditions of service for each executive Director. It determines 
appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and 
deferred bonus scheme and approves awards and the issue of options 
in accordance with the terms of those schemes. The executive Directors’ 
contract periods are one year. The Committee has access to advice 
from the Company Secretary and to detailed analysis of executive 
remuneration in comparable companies. Details of the Committee’s 
current remuneration policies are given in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 27 to 30. 
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting 
to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the 
Committee’s activities.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board recognises the importance of good communications with 
all shareholders. The Group maintains dialogue with institutional 
shareholders and analysts, and general presentations are made when 
financial results are announced. Shareholders have access to the 
Company’s website at www.carrs-milling.com.
The Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for all the Directors 
to engage in dialogue with private investors. All shareholders are given 
the opportunity to raise questions at the meeting. The Group aims to 
send notices of Annual General Meetings to shareholders at least 20 
working days before the meeting, as required by the New Code 2010, 
and it is the Company’s practice to indicate the proxy voting results on 
all resolutions at the meetings.
Going concern
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis, 
having satisfied themselves from a review of internal budgets and 
forecasts and current bank facilities that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s 
systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, including: 
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, 
which safeguards the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets. 
Such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board of Directors is not aware of any significant losses caused by 
breaches of internal control in the period.
The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure 
with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the 
Board. The organisational structure has been designed in order to 
plan, execute, monitor and control the Group’s objectives effectively 
and to ensure that internal control becomes embedded in the 
operations. The Board confirms that the key on-going processes and 
features of the Group’s internal risk based control system, which accord 
with the Turnbull guidance, have been fully operative and up to the 
date of the Annual Report being approved. These include: a process 
to identify and evaluate business risks; a strong control environment; 
an information and communication process; a monitoring system and 
a regular Board review for effectiveness. The Finance Director and 
Group Financial Accountant are responsible for overseeing the Group’s 
internal controls. 
The Group does not have an internal audit function as the Board 
consider that the Group has not yet reached a size where a separate 
internal audit function would be an appropriate or cost effective 
method of ensuring compliance with Group policies, and therefore 
does not currently propose to introduce a Group internal audit function. 
This area will be kept under review as part of the Board’s assessment 
of the Group’s systems of internal control.
The management of the Group’s businesses identified the key business 
risks within their operations, considered the financial implications and 
assessed the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate 
these risks. The Board reviewed a summary of the findings and this, 
along with direct involvement in the strategies of the businesses, 
investment appraisal and budgeting process, enabled the Board to 
report on the effectiveness of internal control.
Compliance with the New Code 2010
The Directors consider that the Company has, during the period ended 
3 September 2011, complied with the requirements of the New Code 
2010 other than as set out below.
•	 the	non-executive	Director ,	A	R	Heygate,	is	deemed	to	be	
independent notwithstanding his long association with the 
Company and the fact that he represents a significant shareholder 
(B.1.1);
•	 the	members	of	the	Audit	Committee	are	deemed	not	to	have	
recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with the 
New Code 2010 (C.3.1). However, the Board believes their 
business knowledge and experience is sufficient to satisfy the 
Committee’s obligations;
•	 the	Board	did	not	have	in	place	during	the	period	a	for mal	and	
rigorous process of evaluation of its own performance and that 
of its committees (B.6.). Rigorous but informal evaluation has 
historically been carried out by the Chairman and Chief Executive, 
an evaluation of the performance of the individual directors has 
also been carried out by the Remuneration Committee;
•	 The	non-executive	Directors	do	not	meet	without	the	Chair man	to	
evaluate his performance, (A.4.2) as his performance is reviewed 
by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director;
•	 there	is	no	separate	Nominations	Committee	(B.2.1)	to	assess	and	
recommend new directors. Instead the Board as a whole considers 
these areas following initial scrutiny and recommendations by the 
Chief Executive and Chairman;
•	 The	Chair man	does	not	discuss	gover nance	or	strategy	with	major	
shareholders (E.1.1); and
•	 The	Senior	Independent	Director	(A	G	M	W annop)	does	not	meet	
with major shareholders to discuss their issues/concerns, other than 
at the Annual General Meeting (E.1.1). The Chief Executive and 
the Group Finance Director have contact with major shareholders 
and are able to answer any of their concerns and present any 
issues to the Board for it to consider. 
By order of the Board
Ronald C Wood
Company Secretary
Carlisle
CA3 9BA
17 November 2011
Corporate Governance  - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     27
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Information not subject to audit
Remuneration Committee
All matters relating to executive remuneration are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Board of Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises A G M Wannop (Chairman), 
A R Heygate and Lord Inglewood. The Committee may invite the Chief 
Executive to participate in some of its discussions when necessary. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available from the Company’s 
website. The Committee’s main responsibility is determining the 
terms and conditions of employment of executive Directors. It is 
also responsible for considering management recommendations for 
remuneration and employment terms of the Company’s senior staff, 
including incentive arrangements for bonus payments and the grant  
of share options.
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is determined by 
the Chairman and the executive Directors and reflects the time, 
commitment and responsibility of their roles. No Director attends any 
part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed.
The Remuneration Committee’s decisions are made on the basis of 
rewarding individuals for the nature of jobs they undertake and their 
performance therein. Proper regard is given to the need to attract 
and retain high quality, well-motivated staff at all levels and to the 
remuneration being paid by similar companies. In setting remuneration 
levels for the executive Directors, the Committee takes account of 
the remuneration policy and practice applicable to other Group 
employees.
Details of remuneration
The remuneration of Directors is set out in detail on page 28. The 
Company’s Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration policy 
that applies to executive Directors and the Group’s other senior 
management.
Each of the executive Directors has a permanent contract with a 
one year notice period. The most recent executed contracts for the 
executive Directors were dated 10 June 2002 and amended on 8 
September 2011. In the event of termination C N C Holmes would be 
entitled to loss of salary and benefits for the notice period. R C Wood 
receives a pension from the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 
1993 and he would be entitled to loss of salary and benefits in the 
event of termination of employment. Contracts provide for one year’s 
additional pay for severance as a result of a change of control. The 
contracts of non-executive Directors of the Company are fixed for one 
year and the most recent executed contracts for W R Inglewood, A R 
Heygate and A G M Wannop were 8 September 2011.
The Company’s policy is that a proportion of the remuneration of 
the executive Directors should be performance related. As described 
below, executive Directors may earn annual incentive payments 
together with the benefits of participation in share option schemes.
Constituent elements of remuneration package
In applying the above principles to the determination of executive 
Director remuneration, the Remuneration Committee gives 
consideration to several components which together comprise the total 
remuneration package; these consist of the following:
Basic salary is determined by the Committee at the beginning of 
each year. In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers 
the personal and Company performance and relies on information 
from comparable companies. Basic salaries were last reviewed in 
September 2011, with increases taking effect from 1 September 
2011. The next review will take place in August 2012. Executive 
Directors’ contracts of service, which include details of remuneration, 
will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual bonus is paid up to a maximum of 100% of basic salary on 
exceeding profit targets. Annual bonus payments are not pensionable 
and conform to best practice as set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2010.
Benefits in kind comprise car benefit and private healthcare which is 
not pensionable, critical illness and death in service cover. 
Pension contribution. The Company’s defined benefit pension scheme 
aims at producing a pension of two-thirds final pensionable salary 
at normal retirement age of 60. C N C Holmes is a member of 
the pension scheme and his final pension is based on the notional 
earnings cap. C N C Holmes has attained the age of 60 and has 
postponed the receipt of a pension.
C N C Holmes’ pension information is given in the section subject to 
audit.
R C Wood receives a pension from the pension scheme.
On death in service a lump sum equal to four times basic salary is 
payable together with a surviving spouse’s pension of two-thirds of the 
Director’s pension. For death after retirement a spouse’s pension of 
two-thirds of the member’s pension is payable plus the balance of a 
five year guarantee if applicable.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in the pension scheme. 
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to be increased annually by  
5 per cent or the increase in the Retail Price Index (RPI) if less.
Share options. Basic salary and a bonus scheme are intended as the 
most significant part of Directors’ remuneration; in addition, executive 
share options can be proposed by the Remuneration Committee 
and are granted periodically to promote the involvement of senior 
management in the longer term success of the Company. Options can 
only be exercised if certain performance criteria are achieved by the 
Company. There are no unexercised executive share options held by 
the executive Directors at the period end.
Deferred bonus scheme
In February 2006, the Group established an HMRC Approved 
Deferred Bonus Scheme. In the period ended 3 September 2011,  
the Remuneration Committee declined to offer the two executive 
Directors deferred bonus shares (2010: nil).
Non-executive remuneration
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is agreed by the 
Group Board taking into account a number of factors pertinent to 
their position and role as non-executive Directors. The non-executive 
Directors do not participate in share option awards, bonus plans or 
pension arrangements. 28
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Directors’ Remuneration Report - continued
Performance Graph
The following graph illustrates the 
Company’s total shareholder return 
performance since 31 August 2006 
relative to the FTSE All-share index. 
The Company considers that the 
FTSE All-share index to be the most 
appropriate comparator group as 
it is a broad index and reflects the 
Company’s broad range of activities.
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
FTSE All-Share Price Index
Source: Thomson Datastream
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
200
150
100
50
0
Information subject to audit
Directors’ Remuneration
         
          2011 2010
          Gain on Gain on
   Fees and   2011 2010 2011 2010 Exercise Exercise 
   Basic Annual  Total Total Pension Pension of Share of Share
   Salary Bonus Benefits Emoluments Emoluments Contributions Contributions Options Options
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 
Executive Directors
C N C Holmes  511 270   18     799      700  30           30 16 — 
R C Wood  238 238     8    484    399 —            — 16 — 
            
Non-executive Directors
W R Inglewood    58     — —      58      51 —         — —  —
A R Heygate    33     —    —      33      25   —         —  — —
A G M Wannop    33    —    —      33      25 —        — —  —
   873 508   26 1,407 1,200  30         30 32    —
 
The basic salary of C N C Holmes includes an additional sum representing 93% of his gross basic salary to normal retirement age at 5 September 
2011. This additional sum represents compensation for the reduction in pension entitlement.
Before the annual bonus award, C N C Holmes and R C Wood each sacrificed part of their cash bonus entitlement. Pension contributions equal to the 
amounts sacrificed are paid for the benefit of their dependents. The amount shown in the Annual Bonus column reflects the full bonus earned.  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     29
Executive Directors’ Pension Information
  C N C Holmes
                           
Age at 3 September 2011       59 
     
                                          £’000 
   
Directors’ contributions during the period  —                  
  
Increase in accrued pension entitlement for the period 
At 3 September 2011           
  excluding inflation  3
  including inflation       4
Total accrued pension entitlement
At 3 September 2011  86             
At 28 August 2010  82    
   
Transfer value of pension
At 3 September 2011  1,988             
At 28 August 2010  1,619
     
Increase/(decrease) in transfer value less contributions made by Directors   
At 3 September 2011  92          
At 28 August 2010  (8)
Transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits less contributions made by Directors  
At 3 September 2011  369             
  
The accrued pension entitlement and transfer value of pension at 3 September 2011 for C N C Holmes have been determined using the maximum of 
the earnings cap applicable for 2010/11. 
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the Director would receive if he retired at the end of the period.
The increase in the accrued entitlement is the difference between the accrued benefit at the period end and that at the previous period end.
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The transfer values of 
the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the 
scheme’s liability in respect of the Director’s pension benefits. They do not represent sums payable to the Director and, therefore cannot be added 
meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Directors’ share options
The Company operates an HMRC approved and an unapproved share option scheme to reward employees’ performance and to incentivise at senior 
levels. Exercise is subject to performance conditions. For all options granted the exercise criterion has been that earnings should achieve growth which 
exceeds the percentage growth in the RPI by 2 per cent or more. The rules of the schemes conform to institutional investor guidelines.
The performance criterion, which applies to the executive Directors to whom options have been granted under the Schemes, was chosen as it requires 
significant improvement in financial performance. No options have been granted at a discount to the market price at the date of their grant.
Options to acquire shares in the Company, granted to Directors under the Scheme but not exercised, as at 3 September 2011 are:
     At 28 Exercised Granted  At 3
     August during during  September
     2010 period period  2011
C N C Holmes     6,000 6,000 —  —
R C Wood     6,000 6,000 —  —
  
The market price when the two executive Directors exercised their share options was 775p.
The middle market closing price of the shares at 3 September 2011 was 745.5p (28 August 2010: 570.0p) and the range throughout the year was 
562.5p to 875.0p.
  30
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Directors’ Remuneration Report - continued
Deferred bonus scheme
The Group operates an approved HMRC deferred bonus scheme to reward employees’ performance and to incentivise at senior levels. In the year 
ended 1 September 2007 the two executive Directors elected to defer 50% of the bonus paid in November 2007 in the form of a Bonus Share Award. 
The Remuneration Committee granted a Matching Share Award and on meeting in full the performance conditions, the two Directors will receive 
matching shares. The matching shares equal the gross amount of deferred bonus divided by the average price per share at date of deferral. 
To qualify for the Maximum Award Multiple of 1 the growth in the Company’s adjusted earnings per share over the 3 years ending 31 August 2010 
must equal or exceed the growth in the RPI over the 3 years by an average of 4% per annum. The Award Multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the 
growth in adjusted earnings per share over the 3 years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Company’s adjusted 
earnings per share fall between the two threshold levels, referred to above, the Award Multiple will be measured on a straight line basis between 0.5 
and 1. The two executive Directors qualified for the Maximum Award Multiple and the matching shares were allotted in November 2010.
     Number of
    Base matching
   Number of Bonus number of  shares 
   award shares shares awarded
C N C Holmes   2,131 3,612 3,612
R C Wood   1,860 3,153 3,153
The market price when the two executive Directors received their matching shares was 629p.
On behalf of the Board
A G M Wannop
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
17 November 2011 Annual Report & Accounts 2011     31
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
We have audited the financial statements of Carr’s Milling Industries 
PLC for the period ended 3 September 2011 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated and Company 
statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and Company 
balance sheets, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, 
the Company statement of changes in equity, the consolidated and 
Company statement of cash flows, the principal accounting policies 
and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, 
as regards the parent Company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set 
out on page 23, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our 
report.
 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• 	 t h e 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 g i v e 	 a 	 t r u e 	 a n d 	 f a i r 	 v i e w 	 o f 	 t h e 	 s t a t e 	 o f 	 t h e	
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 3 September 
2011 and of the Group’s profit and Group’s and parent Company’s 
cash flows for the period then ended;
• 	 t h e 	 G r o u p 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
• 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 C o m p a n y 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y	
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• 	 t h e 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 t h e	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 R e m u n e r a t i o n 	 R e p o r t 	 t o 	 b e 	 a u d i t e d 	 h a s	
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006;
• 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 g i v e n 	 i n 	 t h e 	 R e p o r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 f i n a n c i a l	
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and
• 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 g i v e n 	 i n 	 t h e 	 C o r p o r a t e 	 G o v e r n a n c e 	 S t a t e m e n t 	 s e t	
out on pages 24 to 26 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is consistent 
with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion: 
• 	 a d e q u a t e 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 r e c o r d s 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 b e e n 	 k e p t 	 b y 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t	
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
• 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 C o m p a n y 	 f i n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e	
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
• 	 c e r t a i n 	 d i s c l o s u r e s 	 o f 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 s p e c i f i e d 	 b y 	 l a w 	 a r e	
not made; or 
• 	 w e 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 r e c e i v e d 	 a l l 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 a n d 	 e x p l a n a t i o n s 	 w e	
require for our audit; or
• 	 a 	 c o r p o r a t e 	 g o v e r n a n c e 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 h a s 	 n o t 	 b e e n 	 p r e p a r e d 	 b y 	 t h e	
parent Company. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 s t a t e m e n t , 	 s e t 	 o u t 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 2 6 , 	 i n 	 r e l a t i o n 	 t o 	 g o i n g	
concern;
• 	 t h e 	 p a r t s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o r p o r a t e 	 G o v e r n a n c e 	 S t a t e m e n t 	 r e l a t i n g 	 t o 	 t h e	
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our review; and
• 	 c e r t a i n 	 e l e m e n t s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 r e p o r t 	 t o 	 s h a r e h o l d e r s 	 b y 	 t h e 	 B o a r d 	 o n	
Directors’ remuneration.
Mark Webster (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne
17 November 2011 32
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Consolidated Income Statement
for the period ended 3 September 2011
  53 week 52 week
  period period
  2011 2010
 Notes £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 2,3 373,318 298,110
Cost of sales 3 (332,202) (259,871)
Gross profit 3 41,116 38,239
Net operating expenses 3 (31,960) (30,794)
Group operating profit 3,4 9,156 7,445
Finance income 8 410 404
Finance costs 8 (1,332) (1,224)
Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures 5 1,776 799
Profit before taxation 2 10,010 7,424
Taxation 9 (1,973) (1,663)
Profit for the period from continuing operations  8,037 5,761
Discontinued operations
Profit for the period from discontinued operations 10 16,598 1,074
Profit for the period  24,635 6,835
Profit attributable to:
Equity shareholders  23,381 5,632
Minority interests   1,254 1,203
  24,635 6,835 
Basic earnings per ordinary share (pence) 
Profit from continuing operations  77.0 51.9
Profit from discontinued operations  188.4 12.2
 12 265.4 64.1
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 
Profit from continuing operations  76.3 51.9
Profit from discontinued operations  186.6 12.2
 12 262.9 64.1 Annual Report & Accounts 2011     33
Consolidated and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the period ended 3 September 2011
 Group Company
   53 week 52 week 53 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2011 2010 2011 2010
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the period  24,635 6,835 21,149 1,271
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation gains/(losses) arising  
 on translation of overseas subsidiaries  57 (82) 171 (148)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefit obligation:
- Group 29 726 2,294 726 2,294
- Share of associate 29 (27) (512) — —
Taxation (charge)/credit on actuarial movement 
 on retirement benefit obligation:
- Group 20 (182) (642) (182) (642)
- Share of associate  7 143 — —
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax  581 1,201 715 1,504
Total comprehensive income for the period  25,216 8,036 21,864 2,775
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Equity shareholders  23,964 6,830 21,864 2,775
Minority interests  1,252 1,206 — —
   25,216 8,036 21,864 2,775 34
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
As at 3 September 2011
 Group Company
   53 week 52 week 53 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2011 2010 2011 2010
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 13 4,558 4,336 — —
Other intangible assets 13 1,029 1,362 — —
Property, plant and equipment 14 31,519 32,588 — —
Investment property 15 764 699 — —
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 16,19 — — 12,945 13,000
Investment in associate 16,17 4,246 2,811 1,470 1,470
Interest in joint ventures 16,18 2,519 2,138 320 320
Other investments 16 67 69 — —
Financial assets
- Non-current receivables 22 2 5 1,275 1,775
Deferred tax assets 20 2,519 3,924 1,492 2,903
   47,223 47,932 17,502 19,468
Current assets
Inventories  21 22,793 27,015 — —
Trade and other receivables  22 56,988 48,810 17,274 18,386
Current tax assets 23 9 303 2,016 1,619
Financial assets
- Cash and cash equivalents  24 33,282 13,695 28,284 9,559
 
   113,072 89,823 47,574 29,564
Total assets   160,295 137,755 65,076 49,032
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings 27 (26,436) (11,478) (18,520) (4,958)
- Derivative financial instruments 28 — (127) — —
Trade and other payables 25 (53,469) (49,468) (2,155) (932)
Current tax liabilities 26 (1,688) (1,129) — —
    (81,593) (62,202) (20,675) (5,890)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings 27 (2,274) (17,732) — (13,955)
Retirement benefit obligation  29 (5,960) (10,745) (5,960) (10,745)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (4,007) (4,960) — —
Other non-current liabilities 25 (3,617) (2,797) — —
   (15,858) (36,234) (5,960) (24,700)
Total liabilities  (97,451) (98,436) (26,635) (30,590)
 
Net assets   62,844 39,319 38,441 18,442
Shareholders’ equity
Called-up share capital  30 2,216 2,196 2,216 2,196
Share premium   8,059 7,738 8,059 7,738
Treasury share reserve  — (101) — —
Equity compensation reserve  84 170 107 205
Foreign exchange reserve  360 301 23 (148)
Other reserve   913 1,477 — —
Retained earnings   45,343 22,925 28,036 8,451
Total shareholders’ equity  56,975 34,706 38,441 18,442
Minority interests in equity  5,869 4,613 — —
Total equity   62,844 39,319 38,441 18,442
The financial statements set out on pages 32 to 91 were approved by the Board on 17 November 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
Christopher N C Holmes Ronald C Wood Annual Report & Accounts 2011     35
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the period ended 3 September 2011
  Called-up Share Treasury Equity Foreign   Total 
  Share Premium Share Compensation Exchange Other  Retained Shareholders’ Minority  Total
  Capital Account Reserve Reserve  Reserve Reserves Earnings Equity Interest Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 August 2009  2,196 7,738 (101) 164 386 1,508 17,999 29,890 3,407 33,297
Profit for the period — — — — — — 5,632 5,632 1,203 6,835
Other comprehensive income — — — — (85) — 1,283 1,198 3 1,201
Total comprehensive income — — — — (85) — 6,915 6,830 1,206 8,036
Dividends paid — — — — — — (2,020) (2,020) — (2,020)
Equity settled share-  
 based payment  
 transactions, net of tax — — — 6 — — — 6 — 6
Transfer — — — — — (31) 31 — — —
At 28 August 2010 2,196 7,738 (101) 170 301 1,477 22,925 34,706 4,613 39,319
At 29 August 2010  2,196 7,738 (101) 170 301 1,477 22,925 34,706 4,613 39,319
Profit for the period — — — — — — 23,381 23,381 1,254 24,635
Other comprehensive income — — — — 59 — 524 583 (2) 581
Total comprehensive income — — — — 59 — 23,905 23,964 1,252 25,216
Dividends paid — — — — — — (2,155) (2,155) — (2,155)
Equity settled share-  
 based payment  
 transactions, net of tax — — — (86) — — 104 18 4 22
Allotment of shares 20 321 — — — — — 341 — 341
Utilisation of shares — — 101 — — — — 101 — 101
Transfer — — — — — (564) 564 — — —
At 3 September 2011 2,216 8,059 — 84 360 913 45,343 56,975 5,869 62,844
The treasury share reserve included the purchase of own shares in the Company, which were held in trust. These shares were acquired by the trust in 
the open market place and were held to meet the Group’s obligations under the share based award schemes. At the balance sheet date the shares were 
utilised against options exercised under the Share Save Scheme 2006 (5 year plan).
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative spreading, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share option, share save and 
deferred bonus schemes over the vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement. During the 
period £104,000 (2010: £nil) was transferred from the equity compensation reserve to retained earnings in respect of the cumulative spreading on 
options exercised in the period.
The amount recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of foreign exchange translation gains/(losses) arising on translation of 
overseas subsidiaries includes losses of £2,000 (2010: gains of £3,000) in respect of translation differences attributable to minority interest.
 
The Group has opted to use previous revaluations of property made under UK GAAP as deemed cost. On adoption of IFRS the revaluation reserve was 
reclassified to other reserves. The increased transfer from other reserves to retained earnings reflects the accelerated transfer of previous revaluations of 
property owned by the fertiliser blending business which was disposed of during the period. 36
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
  Called-up Share Equity Foreign   
  Share Premium Compensation Exchange Retained Total
  Capital Account Reserve  Reserve Earnings Equity
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 30 August 2009 2,196 7,738 199 — 7,548 17,681
Profit for the period — — — — 1,271 1,271
Other comprehensive income — — — (148) 1,652 1,504
Total comprehensive income — — — (148) 2,923 2,775
Dividends paid — — — — (2,020) (2,020)
Equity settled share-based payment transactions, net of tax — — 6 — — 6
At 28 August 2010 2,196 7,738 205 (148) 8,451 18,442
At 29 August 2010 2,196 7,738 205 (148) 8,451 18,442
Profit for the period — — — — 21,149 21,149
Other comprehensive income — — — 171 544 715
Total comprehensive income — — — 171 21,693 21,864
Dividends paid — — — — (2,155) (2,155)
Equity settled share-based payment transactions, net of tax — — (98) — 47 (51)
Allotment of shares 20 321 — — — 341
At 3 September 2011 2,216 8,059 107 23 28,036 38,441
The equity compensation reserve reflects the cumulative spreading, at the balance sheet date, of the fair value of the share option, share save 
and deferred bonus schemes over the vesting periods. The movement on the equity compensation reserve is taken through the income statement 
where it relates to employees of the Company and to investment in subsidiaries where it relates to employees of the subsidiaries. During the 
period £47,000 (2010: £nil) was transferred from the equity compensation reserve to retained earnings and £73,000 (2010: £nil) was 
transferred from the equity compensation reserve to investment in subsidiaries in respect of the cumulative spreading on options exercised in the 
period.
 
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
For the period ended 3 September 2011  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     37
Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows
For the period ended 3 September 2011
 Group Company
   53 week 52 week 53 week 52 week
   period period period period
   2011 2010 2011 2010
  Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 33 14,097 11,245 (3,632) (3,302)
Interest received  403 389 514 475
Interest paid  (1,378) (1,253) (615) (560)
Tax (paid)/recovered  (1,711) (2,085) 741 372
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities
  in continuing operations   11,411 8,296 (2,992) (3,015)
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities
  in discontinued operations  (3,202) 6,981 — —
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities  8,209 15,277 (2,992) (3,015)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) 32 (1,833) (5,254) — —
Disposal of subsidiary (including overdraft disposed)  22,074 — — —
Disposal of trade  160 — — —
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — 22,377 2,984
Net receipt/(payment) of loans to subsidiaries  — — 2,350 (4,875)
Loan to joint ventures  (1,286) — (911) —
Loan repaid by share trust  83 — 83 —
Purchase of intangible assets  (45) (260) — —
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   287 172 — —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (5,025) (2,854) — —
Purchase of investments  (1) (17) — —
Disposal of investments  3 — — —
Receipt of non-current receivables  — 50 — —
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities
  in continuing operations  14,417 (8,163) 23,899 (1,891)
Net cash used in investing activities in 
  discontinued operations  (397) (796) — —
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities  14,020 (8,959) 23,899 (1,891)
 
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital   341 — 341 —
Net proceeds from loans from subsidiaries  — — 686 507
Costs from issue of new bank loans  — (20) — (20)
Finance lease principal repayments  (868) (848) — —
Repayment of borrowings  (3,355) (634) (1,000) —
Increase in other borrowings  2,295 1,626 — —
Dividends paid to shareholders 11 (2,155) (2,020) (2,155) (2,020)
Receipt of grant income  830 — — —
Net cash used in financing activities in continuing operations  (2,912) (1,896) (2,128) (1,533)
Net cash used in financing activities in 
  discontinued operations  (207) (217) — —
Net cash used in financing activities  (3,119) (2,113) (2,128) (1,533)
Effects of exchange rate changes  71 (58) (54) (40)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   19,181 4,147 18,725 (6,479)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 24 13,268 9,121 9,559 16,038
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the period  24 32,449 13,268 28,284 9,559 38
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Principal Accounting Policies
Basis of accounting
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern 
basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union 
(EU) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled 
in England and Wales whose shares are listed and traded on the 
London Stock Exchange. The address of its registered office is Old Croft, 
Stanwix, Carlisle, CA3 9BA.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at 
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues 
and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are 
based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, 
actual results ultimately may differ materially from the estimates.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently, other than where 
new policies have been adopted.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historic 
cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and 
financial liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) at fair value 
through profit or loss.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise Carr’s Milling Industries 
PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the 
results of its associate and joint ventures. The financial information of 
the subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures is prepared as of the 
same reporting date and consolidated using consistent accounting 
policies. Group inter-company balances and transactions, including any 
unrealised profits arising from Group inter-company transactions, are 
eliminated in full. Profits and losses on transactions with the associate 
and joint ventures are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of during the 
current financial period were included in the financial statements from  
the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal,  
as appropriate. The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, 
of the acquired subsidiary undertakings were incorporated into the 
financial statements on the basis of the fair value as at the effective date 
of the Group acquiring control.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of 
more than 50% of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are consolidated from 
the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included 
until the date on which the Group ceases to control them. Associates are 
entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, 
generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the 
voting rights.
  
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control, 
established by contractual agreement. Investments in associates and 
joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The Group’s 
share of its associate and joint ventures’ post-tax profits or losses are 
recognised in the income statement, and its share of movement in 
reserves is recognised in reserves. The cumulative movements are 
adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment. The Group’s 
investment in associate and joint ventures includes any goodwill arising 
on acquisition. If the Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint 
venture equals or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, 
the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred 
obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
All subsidiaries are accounted for by applying the purchase method.  
The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of the 
fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred 
or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group. The identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured 
initially at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of 
any minority interest. The excess of the cost of the business combination 
over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Acquisition related costs are expensed to the income statement in the 
period they are incurred.
The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests  
as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Employee share trust
Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC) 12 requires that the Group 
consolidate a special purpose entity where the substance of the 
relationship between the parties indicates that the Group controls the 
entity. The employee share trust sponsored by the Group falls within this 
category of special purpose entity and has been accounted for as if it 
were, in substance, a subsidiary.
Currency translation
The financial statements for the Group’s subsidiaries, associate and joint 
ventures are prepared using their functional currency. The functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
an entity operates. The presentation currency of the Group is Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions 
and from the translation, at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet 
date, of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other 
than the functional currency are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling 
using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income 
statements are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate 
for the period. Where this average is not a reasonable approximation 
of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, 
the exchange rate on the transaction date is used. Exchange differences 
arising are recognised as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. 
On disposal of a foreign operation any cumulative exchange differences 
held in shareholders’ equity are transferred to the consolidated income 
statement.
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods or services is measured at the fair 
value of the consideration, net of rebates and excluding value added 
tax. Revenue from the sale of goods or services is recognised when the 
Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of 
the goods to the buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured 
reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated 
with the transaction will flow to the Group. Inter segmental revenue is on 
an arm’s length basis. 
In respect of construction contracts, revenue is calculated on the basis of 
the stage of completion and the total sales value of each contract. Annual Report & Accounts 2011     39
The stage of completion is determined as the proportion that contract 
costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the total estimated total 
contract costs. No profit is recognised until a contract is at least 30 per 
cent complete. Amounts invoiced for work completed are deducted from 
the selling price, while amounts invoiced in excess of work completed 
are recognised as current liabilities.
Where it is probable that contract costs will exceed total contract 
revenue the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense in 
the income statement.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s 
Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme. The Group also offers various defined contribution 
schemes to its employees.
The assets of the above named schemes are held separately from those  
of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the 
consolidated income statement in the period to which they relate.
The liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the period 
end in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the present value 
of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair 
value of scheme assets. Independent actuaries calculate the defined 
benefit obligation annually using the projected unit credit method. 
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-
quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which 
the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating 
to the terms of the related pension liability.
The current service costs are included in operating profit in the 
consolidated income statement.
A charge is made within net operating expenses which represents the 
expected increase in the liabilities of the pension schemes during the 
period. This arises from the liabilities of the schemes being one year 
closer to payment.
A credit representing the expected return on the assets of the pension 
schemes during the period is netted against the above charge within 
net operating expenses. This is based on the market value of the 
assets of the schemes at the start of the financial period. Actuarial 
gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. The pension schemes’ deficits or surpluses, to the 
extent that they are considered recoverable, are recognised in full on the 
consolidated balance sheet.
The Group’s share of the deficit in the Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme is recognised through its investment in associate.
Share based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of the grant. The fair value determined at the grant date 
of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares 
that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a valuation model. The expected life 
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best 
estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations.
At each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate of the number 
of options that are expected to vest. Changes to the fair value recognised 
as a result of this are charged or credited to the consolidated income 
statement with a corresponding adjustment to the equity compensation 
reserve.
Interest
Interest is recognised in the consolidated income statement on an 
accruals basis using the effective interest method. 
Operating segments
The Group has adopted the requirements of IFRS8 ‘Operating segments’. 
The standard requires operating segments to be identified on the basis 
of internal financial information about components of the Group that are 
regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) to 
allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. The 
CODM has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board considers the business from a product/services perspective. 
Operating segments have been identified as Agriculture, Food and 
Engineering.
Non-recurring items
Non-recurring items that are material by size and/or by nature are 
presented within their relevant income statement category. Items that 
management consider fall into this category are disclosed within a note 
to the financial statements. The separate disclosure of non-recurring items 
helps provide a better indication of the Group’s underlying business 
performance. Events which may give rise to non-recurring items include, 
but are not limited to, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, the 
restructuring of businesses, the integration of new businesses and asset 
impairments.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition. 
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units  
for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset, which is carried at cost less 
impairment, and assessed for impairment annually. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately in the income statement. Once recognised, an 
impairment of goodwill is not reversed under any circumstance.
Where a business combination results in an excess of the acquirer’s 
interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost, the excess is credited to the 
consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 31 August 
1998 has not been reinstated and would not form part of the gain or 
loss on the disposal of a business.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation commences when 
assets are available for use. The expected useful lives, over which the 
assets are amortised, are generally as follows:
Customer relationships 1 - 5 years
Brands 15 - 20 years
Know-how 5 years
Patents and trademarks contractual life
Software 3 - 10 years 40
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Principal Accounting Policies - continued
Customer relationships and brands are amortised in line with the profit 
and income streams they are respectively expected to generate over their 
expected useful life.
Know-how, patents, trademarks and software are amortised on a 
straight-line basis.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination  
is the fair value at the acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired 
intangible assets comprises the purchase price and any directly 
attributable costs of preparing the assets for use.
Research and development costs
All research costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement 
as incurred. Development costs are recognised as an asset only to the 
extent that specific recognition criteria, as set out in IAS38 ‘Intangible 
assets’, relevant to the proposed application are met and the amount 
recognised is recoverable through future economic benefits.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises 
purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For 
all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated on a 
straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over  
their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings up to 50 years
Leasehold buildings shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each financial period-
end.
Assets not fully constructed at the balance sheet date are classified as 
assets in the course of construction. When construction is complete these 
assets are reclassified to the appropriate heading within property, plant 
and equipment. Depreciation commences when the asset is ready for 
use.
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged to the 
consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major renovations 
and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
consolidated income statement.
Investment property
Investment properties are properties held for long-term rental yields. 
Investment properties are carried in the balance sheet at cost less 
accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all other 
investment property, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to 
allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their estimated useful 
lives as follows:
Freehold buildings  up to 50 years
The cost of maintenance, repairs and minor equipment is charged to the 
consolidated income statement as incurred; the cost of major renovations 
and improvements is capitalised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the 
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within the 
consolidated income statement.
Impairment of assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount. 
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount 
the asset is written down to its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount 
is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is 
deemed for an individual asset. If the asset does not generate cash 
flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups 
of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which 
the asset belongs is determined. Discount rates reflecting the asset 
specific risks and the time value of money are used for the value in use 
calculation.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs 
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition. Where appropriate, cost is 
calculated on a specific identification basis. Otherwise inventories are 
valued using the first-in first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all 
estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution.
Contract work in progress is measured at the selling price of the work 
performed at the balance sheet date. The selling price is measured by 
reference to the stage of completion at the balance sheet date and total 
expected income from the contract work. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated statement 
of cash flows comprise cash at bank and in hand, money market 
deposits and other short term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts 
are presented in borrowings within current liabilities in the consolidated 
balance sheet.
Grants
Grants received on capital expenditure are recorded as deferred 
income and taken to the consolidated income statement in equal annual 
instalments over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. 
Revenue grants and contributions are taken to the consolidated income 
statement in the period to which they apply.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases at inception where substantially 
all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group. 
Assets classified as finance leases are capitalised on the consolidated 
balance sheet and are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of 
the asset and the term of the lease. The interest element of the rental 
obligations is charged to the consolidated income statement over the 
period of the lease using the actuarial method.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the consolidated 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Leasehold land is normally classified as an operating lease. Payments 
made to acquire leasehold land are included in prepayments at cost  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     41
and are amortised over the life of the lease. Any incentives to enter into 
operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over 
the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Tax
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents an estimate of the amounts payable to 
tax authorities in respect of the Group’s taxable profits.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their 
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax 
arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, 
other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised. 
Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to 
apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments  
in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group 
is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax 
relates to items recognised directly in shareholders’ equity, in which case  
the tax is recognised directly in shareholders’ equity through the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Dividends
Final equity dividends to the shareholders of the Company are 
recognised in the period that they are approved by the shareholders. 
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised in the period in which they are 
received.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s 
consolidated balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables  
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables 
is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not 
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the 
receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that 
the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default 
or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade 
receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The 
carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance 
account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written 
off against the allowance account for trade receivables. 
Investments
Investments are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs. 
They are classified as ‘held to maturity’ and are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active 
market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured by other 
means are held at cost. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the 
substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.  
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in 
the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recognised initially at fair 
value net of direct issue costs and are subsequently stated at amortised 
cost. Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or 
redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an effective 
interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument 
to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group primarily uses interest rate swaps, caps and collars and 
forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuating 
interest and foreign exchange rates. These instruments are initially 
recognised at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at their fair 
value at each balance sheet date. 
The Group’s policy is to hedge its international assets and it has 
designated foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against net 
investment in foreign operations. The portion of the gain or loss on an 
instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that 
is determined as an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity. 
The gain or loss on any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised 
immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Fair valuation
Fair values are based on market values, where available. Where market 
values are not readily available, the Group establishes fair valuation 
techniques; these include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, 
reference to other similar instruments and discounted cash flow analysis. 42
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Principal Accounting Policies - continued
New standards and interpretations
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations, which are in issue at the balance sheet date but not yet effective, have not been 
applied in these financial statements:
  
  Effective for periods 
  commencing on or after
IFRS 9: ‘Financial instruments’                                                             1 January 2015 
IFRS 10: ‘Consolidated financial statements’                                                1 January 2013 
IFRS 11: ‘Joint arrangements’                                                             1 January 2013 
IFRS 12: ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’                                        1 January 2013 
IFRS 13: ‘Fair value measurement’                                                      1 January 2013 
IAS 24 (revised): ‘Related party disclosures’                                               1 January 2011 
IAS 27 (revised 2011): ‘Separate financial statements’                                        1 January 2013 
IAS 28 (revised 2011): ‘Associates and joint ventures’                                        1 January 2013 
Amendment to IFRS 1: ‘Hyperinflation and fixes dates’                                       1 July 2011 
Amendment to IFRS 7: ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’                               1 July 2011 
Amendment to IAS 1: ’Presentation of financial statements’ on OCI                         1 July 2012 
Amendment to IAS 12: ‘Income taxes’ on deferred tax                                       1 January 2012 
Amendment to IAS 19: (revised 2011) ‘Employee benefits’                                1 January 2013 
Amendment to IFRIC 14: ‘Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’                1 January 2011 
Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010                                                     1 January 2011 
It is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group but 
will increase the level of disclosure to be made in the financial statements.  
From 29 August 2010 the following interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group: 
IFRIC 18: ‘Transfer of assets to customers’ 
IFRIC 19: ‘Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments’ 
The adoption of these interpretations has had no impact on the Group’s profit for the year or equity.
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates
Application of certain Group accounting policies requires management 
to make judgements, assumptions and estimates concerning the future as 
detailed below.
Valuation of pension obligations
The valuation of the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme is 
determined each period following advice from the Group’s actuary and 
can fluctuate based on a number of external factors. Such factors include 
the major assumptions as shown in the table in note 29 and actual 
returns on scheme assets compared to those predicted in the previous 
scheme valuation.
Valuation of share-based payments
The fair value of share-based payments is determined using valuation 
models and is charged to the consolidated income statement over the 
vesting period.
The valuation models require certain assumptions to be made as shown 
in the tables in note 31. Estimations of vesting and satisfaction of 
performance criteria are required to determine fair value.
Impairment of goodwill
The carrying value of goodwill must be assessed for impairment 
annually. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash 
generating units to which goodwill is allocated. Value in use is 
dependent on estimations of future cash flows from the cash generating 
unit and the use of an appropriate discount rate to discount those cash 
flows to their present value.
Goodwill impairment in the period is shown in note 13.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
The financial statements include an impairment of property, plant and 
equipment as shown in note 14. The calculation of the impairment 
requires an estimation of recoverable amount.
Revenue recognition on construction contracts
Under long term contracts, the Group recognises revenue and profits 
based on the percentage completion method. This requires management 
to make an assessment of the overall profitability of the entire contract in 
order to determine the level of revenue and profit to recognise.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables
The financial statements include a provision for impairment of trade 
receivables (note 22) that is based on management’s estimation of 
recoverability. There is a risk that the provision will not match the trade 
receivables that ultimately prove to be irrecoverable.
Valuation of derivative financial instruments
The fair value of derivative financial instruments (note 28) is determined 
using market factors at the period end over which management have no 
control. Such factors include the estimation of future currency exchange 
rates and interest rates. In addition the fair value of such instruments is 
affected by the global economic environment and financial institution 
pricing structures.  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     43
Notes to the Financial Statements
1 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, from presenting its own income statement. 
The profit after tax for the period dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £21,149,000 (2010: £1,271,000).
2 Segmental information        
The chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) has been identified as the Board of Directors. Management has identified the operating segments 
based on internal financial information reviewed by the Board. The Board considers the business from a product/services perspective. Operating 
segments have been identified as Agriculture, Food and Engineering. After the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers, the remaining businesses in what was 
our Agriculture Manufacturing segment do not have the scale to be reported as a separate segment. We have therefore combined Agriculture 
Manufacturing and Agriculture Trading businesses into a single segment for reporting continuing operations. Operating segments have not been 
aggregated for the purpose of determining reportable segments. 
Agriculture aims to provide for all farming requirements. It derives its revenue from the sale of animal feed and feed blocks together with retail sales of 
farm equipment, fuels and farm consumables.
Food derives its revenues from the milling of wheat into flour. Customers range from the larger companies, bread and biscuit manufacturers and 
supermarkets, to smaller owner managed bakeries. 
Engineering derives its revenues from the design and manufacture of remote handling equipment for use in research and nuclear industries. In addition 
the UK business is involved in the design and manufacture of pressure vessels for the oil, petrochemical and gas industry. 
        
Performance is assessed using profit before taxation. For internal purposes profit before taxation is measured in a manner consistent with that in the 
financial statements, with the exception of material non-recurring items, which are excluded.       
 
Inter-segmental transactions are all undertaken on an arm’s length basis.
Adjustments to segmental information represents non-reportable segments and consolidation adjustments.
Segment assets represent inventories and trade receivables as reported to the CODM.       
       
As segment liabilities are not reviewed by the CODM they are not required to be disclosed under IFRS 8.      
  
The Group has operations in the UK and overseas. In accordance with IFRS 8, entity wide disclosures based on the geography of operations is also 
presented. The geographical analysis of revenue is presented by revenue origin.        
The segmental information for the period ended 3 September 2011 is as follows:
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenues from external customers   272,678 82,602 18,000 373,280
Other adjustments      38
      373,318
Revenues from other operating segments   108 5 72 185
Elimination of inter segment revenues      (185)
      —
Profit before taxation   6,429 1,258 1,657 9,344
Head office net expense      (394)
Retirement benefit charge      (742)
Other adjustments      26
Share of post-tax profit of associate      1,455
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures      321
Profit before taxation from continuing operations      10,010 44
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
2 Segmental information continued
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The following are included in segmental profit before taxation:     
Finance income  195 1 22 218
Adjustments     192
Discontinued operations     3
      413
Finance costs  (731) (160) (187) (1,078)
Adjustments     (254)
Discontinued operations     (203)
      (1,535)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  (1,964) (1,308) (494) (3,766)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  (121) — (203) (324)
Adjustments     (157)
Discontinued operations     (352)
      (4,599)
Depreciation of investment property  — (4) — (4)
Adjustments     (16)
      (20)
Profit/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  2 (2) 7 7
Adjustments     3
Discontinued operations     (4)
      6
Amortisation of intangible assets  (250) (22) (106) (378)
Impairment of intangible assets  (325) — — (325)
Adjustments     (102)
      (805)
    
Assets
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets   44,402 18,578 7,690 70,670
Adjustments      (64)
Other current assets:
 Other receivables      9,175
 Current tax assets      9
 Cash and cash equivalents      33,282
Non-current assets      47,223
Total Assets      160,295
   Annual Report & Accounts 2011     45
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenues from external customers   215,165 67,087 15,820 298,072
Other adjustments      38
      298,110
Revenues from other operating segments   191 6 269 466
Elimination of inter segment revenues      (466)
      —
Profit before taxation   6,222 1,508 982 8,712
Head office net expense      (935)
Retirement benefit charge      (1,187)
Other adjustments      35
Share of post-tax profit of associate      445
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures      354
Profit before taxation from continuing operations      7,424
The following are included in segmental profit before taxation:     
Finance income  129 27 8 164 
Adjustments     240
Discontinued operations     6
      410
Finance costs  (498) (193) (224) (915)
Adjustments     (309)
Discontinued operations     (168)
      (1,392)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  (1,385) (1,395) (400) (3,180)
Adjustments     (139)
Discontinued operations     (379)
      (3,698)
Depreciation of investment property  — (4) — (4)
Adjustments     (15)
      (19)
Profit/(loss) on the disposal of property, plant and equipment  31 (3) 1 29
Adjustments     (2)
Discontinued operations     (4)
      23
Amortisation of intangible assets  (12) (24) (104) (140)
Adjustments     (57)
      (197)
2 Segmental information continued
The segmental information for the period ended 28 August 2010 (restated) is as follows:  46
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
2 Segmental information continued
Assets
    Agriculture  Food  Engineering  Group 
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets   49,638 14,060 9,409 73,107
Adjustments      (1,794)
Other current assets:
 Other receivables      4,512
 Current tax assets      303
 Cash and cash equivalents      13,695
Non-current assets      47,932
Total Assets      137,755
Entity wide disclosures
Revenues from external customers are derived from the sale of products by individual business segment. The breakdown of revenue by business 
segment is provided above.
Revenues from external customers:
   2011 2010
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
UK    350,350 280,549 
Other   22,968 17,561
     373,318 298,110 
Non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets:
 2011
   Other Property,   Interest
   intangible plant and Investment Investment in in joint Other Non-current
  Goodwill assets equipment property associate ventures investments receivables
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK  4,245 455 27,970 764 4,246 1,488 51 2
Other   313 574 3,549 — — 1,031 16 —
  4,558 1,029 31,519 764 4,246 2,519 67 2
 2010
   Other Property,   Interest
   intangible plant and Investment Investment in in joint Other Non-current
  Goodwill assets equipment property associate ventures investments receivables
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK  4,023 764 28,949 699 2,811 1,276 52 5
Other 313 598 3,639  —   —  862 17  — 
  4,336 1,362 32,588 699 2,811 2,138 69 5
Major customers  
There are no revenues from transactions with customers which amount to ten per cent or more of Group revenue.  
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     47
3 Revenue, cost of sales and net operating expenses
  2011 2010
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  
- from sale of goods   357,220  284,156 
- from contracts   16,098  13,954 
    373,318  298,110
Cost of sales     (332,202)  (259,871)
Gross profit    41,116  38,239
Net operating expenses:
 
Distribution costs   (17,962)  (17,496)
Administrative expenses   (13,998)  (13,298)
  
    (31,960)  (30,794)
Group operating profit     9,156  7,445
The results from acquisitions during the period were not material and have not been presented separately.
4 Group operating profit
 2011 2010
   Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations operations operations
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group operating profit is stated after (crediting)/charging:
Amortisation of grants   (8) — (8) —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (10) 4 (27) 4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  3,923 352 3,319 379
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  324 — — —
Depreciation of owned investment property  20 — 19 —
Amortisation of intangible assets    480 — 197 —
Impairment of intangible assets   325 — — —
Profit on disposal of trade   190 — — —
Profit on disposal of investment   (2) — — —
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses   (49) (3) 86 (118)
Derivative financial instruments (gains)/losses  — (211) — 143
Operating lease charges   644 29 609 36
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit services (Company £13,000; 2010: £12,000)  69 — 67 —
The auditing of accounts of subsidiaries of the Company 
  pursuant to legislation
(including that of countries and territories outside Great Britain) 129 10 140 10
Services relating to taxation   47 — 46 —
Other services   17 103 13  —
Included within Group operating profit is the following in 
  respect of investment property leased to, and occupied 
  by, external parties:
Rental income   (44) — (43) —
Operating expenses   60 — 52 —
   16 — 9 —
5 Share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures  
   2011 2010
Continuing operations  £’000 £’000
Share of post-tax profit in associate  1,455 445
Share of post-tax profit in joint ventures      321 354
Total share of post-tax profit in associate and joint ventures   1,776 799 48
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
6 Non-recurring items
 2011 2010
   Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations operations operations
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries   25,882 1,450 22,523 1,258
Social security costs   2,781 157 2,477 134
Other pension costs   2,067 92 2,391 99
Share based payments   20 2 2 4
   30,750 1,701 27,393 1,495
Included within other pension costs in continuing operations is £742,000 (2010: £1,187,000) in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, during the period was made up as follows:
 2011 2010
    Tax credit/  Tax credit/
   Amount (charge) Amount (charge)
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group operating profit:       
Impairment of goodwill   (325) —  —  —
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  (324)  81  —  — 
Reorganisation costs of acquired business   (292) 77 — —
Profit on disposal of trade    190  (52) —  — 
Non-recurring items   (751)  106  —  — 
  
Profit before taxation and non-recurring items   10,761   7,424  
Non-recurring items   (751)  —  
Profit before taxation   10,010   7,424  
       
Group operating profit before non-recurring items  9,907   7,445  
Non-recurring items   (751)  —  
Group operating profit   9,156    7,445  
7 Staff costs
 2011 2010
   Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
   operations operations operations operations
   Number Number Number Number
Sales, office and management   482 20 442 24
Manufacture and distribution   364 19 354 19
   846 39 796 43
Key management are considered to be the Directors of the Group.
Full details of the Directors’ emoluments, pension benefits and share options are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 30. Annual Report & Accounts 2011     49
   2011 2010
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest   350 373
Other interest    60 31
Total finance income    410 404
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank overdrafts   (157) (190)
Interest payable on bank loans and other borrowings   (900) (858)
Interest payable on finance leases   (101) (113)
Interest payable to joint ventures   (15) —
Other interest   (159) (106)
Movement in fair value of interest related derivative instruments (note 28)   — 43
Total finance costs   (1,332) (1,224)
9  Taxation
(a) Analysis of the charge in the period
8 Finance income and finance costs 
   2011 2010
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 
 Current period    1,016 1,086
Prior period    (15) (437)
Foreign tax   
 Current period    782 481
Group current tax    1,783 1,130
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of timing differences 
 Current period   513 405 
Prior period   (323) 128
Group deferred tax (note 20)   190 533
Tax on profit on ordinary activities    1,973 1,663 50
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
9 Taxation continued
(b) Factors affecting tax charge for the period
The tax assessed for the period is lower (2010: lower) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 27.16% (2010: 28%). The differences are  
explained below:
   2011 2010
Continuing operations   £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation    10,010 7,424
Tax at 27.16% (2010: 28%)   2,719 2,079
Effects of:
Tax effect of share of profit in associate and joint ventures   (482) (224)
Tax effect of expenses that are not allowable in determining taxable profit   108 179
Non taxable income    (3) —
Effects of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries    68 61
Effects of changes in tax rates   (201) (65)
Over provision in prior years    (338) (309)
Utilisation of unrecognised tax losses   (1) (67)
Unrecognised deferred tax on losses   97 —
Other    6 9
Total tax charge for the period    1,973 1,663
(c) Factors affecting future tax charges
The Finance Act 2011, which was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, includes legislation reducing the main rate of corporation tax to 25% 
from 1 April 2012. As the Finance Act 2011 was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, deferred tax balances at 3 September 2011 
have been calculated using a tax rate of 25%. 
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014. These proposed reductions in the 
main rate of corporation tax are expected to be enacted separately each year. The overall effect of the further changes from 25% to 23%, if these 
were applied to the deferred tax balance at 3 September 2011, would be to reduce the deferred tax liability by approximately £196,000 (being 
£98,000 recognised in 2012 and £98,000 in 2013).
10 Discontinued operations
On 20 June 2011 Carrs Agriculture Limited hived down its fertiliser trade, assets and liabilities (save for certain assets and  liabilities) to Origin 
Fertilisers 2011 Limited (formerly CM Fertilisers Limited), a newly incorporated, wholly  owned subsidiary of Carrs Agriculture Limited. 
 
Subsequently, on 13 July 2011 Carrs Agriculture Limited disposed of its entire shareholding in Origin Fertilisers 2011 Limited for a cash 
consideration of £19m, less costs to sell. 
An analysis of the result of discontinued operations, and the gain recognised on the re-measurement to fair value less costs to sell, is as follows:
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
   2011 2010
   £’000 £’000
Revenue   78,416  59,251 
Expenses   (75,355) (57,709)
Profit before taxation of discontinued operations   3,061   1,542 
Taxation   (1,363) (468)
Profit after taxation of discontinued operations   1,698   1,074 
Pre-taxation gain recognised on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell   14,900  — 
Taxation   —  —
After taxation gain recognised on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell    14,900   —
Profit for the period from discontinued operations    16,598  1,074  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     51
11 Dividends
  2011 2010
    Earnings  Earnings
   Earnings per share Earnings per share
   £’000 pence £’000 pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per share - basic    6,783 77.0 4,558 51.9
 
Amortisation and non-recurring items:
Amortisation of intangible assets    480 5.5 197 2.2
Taxation relief on amortisation   (124) (1.4) (55) (0.6)
Impairment of goodwill   325 3.7 — —
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  324 3.7 — —
Taxation relief on impairment   (81) (0.9) — —
Reorganisation costs of acquired business   292 3.3 — —
Taxation relief on reorganisation costs   (77) (0.9) — —
Profit on disposal of trade   (190) (2.2) — —
Taxation on disposal of trade   52 0.6 — —
Earnings per share - adjusted   7,784 88.4 4,700 53.5
Discontinued operations
Earnings per share - basic and adjusted   16,598 188.4 1,074 12.2
   24,382 276.8 5,774 65.7
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. The potentially dilutive ordinary shares, where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary 
shares during the period, are disclosed in note 31.
   2011 2010
Equity   £’000 £’000
Second interim paid for the period ended 28 August 2010 of 6.0p per 25.0p share (2010: nil)  527 —
Final dividend for the period ended 28 August 2010 of 12.0p per 25.0p share (2009: 17.0p)   1,056 1,493
First interim paid for the period ended 3 September 2011 of 6.5p per 25.0p share (2010: 6.0p)   572 527
   2,155 2,020
Since the period end a second interim dividend of £576,099, being 6.5p per share, has been paid. The financial statements do not reflect this dividend 
payable.
The proposed dividend to be considered by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting is £1,152,250, being 13.0p per share, making a total for the 
period of 26.0p. The financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
12 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings per share are calculated by reference to a weighted average of 8,808,156 shares (2010: 8,784,286) in issue during the period.
Non-recurring items and amortisation that are charged or credited to profit do not relate to the profitability of the Group on an ongoing basis. 
Therefore an adjusted earnings per share is presented as follows: 52
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
  2011   2010
  Weighted   Weighted
  average Earnings  average Earnings
 Earnings number per share Earnings number per share
 £’000 of shares pence £’000 of shares pence
Continuing operations
Earnings per share 6,783 8,808,156 77.0 4,558 8,784,286 51.9
 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share option scheme — 60,579 (0.5) — — —
Share save scheme — 23,973 (0.2) — — —
Deferred bonus scheme — 2,175 — — 8,040 —
Diluted earnings per share 6,783 8,894,883 76.3 4,558 8,792,326 51.9
Discontinued operations
Earnings per share 16,598 8,808,156 188.4 1,074 8,784,286 12.2
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share option scheme — 60,579 (1.3) — — —
Share save scheme — 23,973 (0.5) — — —
Deferred bonus scheme — 2,175 — — 8,040 —
Diluted earnings per share 16,598 8,894,883 186.6 1,074 8,792,326 12.2
 23,381 8,894,883 262.9 5,632 8,792,326 64.1
12 Earnings per ordinary share continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     53
13 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  Customer   Patents and 
 Goodwill relationships Brands Know-how trademarks Software Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 29 August 2009 1,714 2,346 620 160 109 273 5,222
Exchange differences — — (17) — 7 (19) (29)
Subsidiaries acquired 2,682 560 — — — — 3,242
Additions  — — — 80 12 168 260
At 28 August 2010  4,396 2,906 603 240 128 422 8,695
Exchange differences — — 17 — (6) 25 36
Subsidiaries acquired 937 68 — — — — 1,005
Subsidiary disposed (450) — — — — — (450)
Additions  — — — — 13 32 45
At 3 September 2011  4,883 2,974 620 240 135 479 9,331
Accumulated amortisation
At 29 August 2009 60 2,346 160 160 63 15 2,804
Exchange differences — — (2) — 4 (6) (4)
Charge for the period — 58 41 1 12 85 197
At 28 August 2010 60 2,404 199 161 79 94 2,997
Exchange differences — — 2 — (2) 2 2
Subsidiary disposed (60) — — — — — (60)
Charge for the period — 339 39 16 13 73 480 
Impairment in the period 325 — — — — — 325
At 3 September 2011 325 2,743 240 177 90 169 3,744
Net book amount
At 29 August 2009 1,654 — 460 — 46 258 2,418
At 28 August 2010 4,336 502 404 79 49 328 5,698
At 3 September 2011 4,558 231 380 63 45 310 5,587
During the period goodwill of £937,000 arose on acquisitions (note 32).
During the prior period goodwill totalling £2,682,000 arose on the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Scotmin Nutrition Limited and  
A C Burn Limited and the trade of Ag Chem (UK). Goodwill reflected the value of the employees, which under IFRS should not be recorded as a 
separately identifiable intangible asset on the balance sheet, and anticipated synergy benefits arising from the acquisitions. Synergy benefits included 
the rationalisation of the procurement and administration functions and utilisation of the existing Group distribution network to distribute acquired 
product lines across the UK.
 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the acquisition.  54
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
   3 September 28 August
   2011 2010
   £’000 £’000
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited   195 195  
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Johnstone Wallace Oils profit centre   781 781
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Spennymoor profit centre   — 325
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Borders profit centre   264 264
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Wooler profit centre   369  —
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited - Safe at Work profit centre   568 — 
Carrs Agriculture Limited - Fertiliser Montrose profit centre   — 40
Carrs Agriculture Limited - Fertiliser Ag Chem profit centre   — 350
Scotmin Nutrition Limited   2,068 2,068
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH   313 313
   4,558 4,336  
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment by estimating future cash flows from the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated and discounting these cash flows to 
their present value. The key assumptions in this calculation are in respect of discount rates used and the change in cash flows. Management estimates 
discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating units.
Cash flows are estimated using the most recent budget information for the year to August 2012, which has been approved by the Board and 
extrapolates cash flows based on an estimated growth rate of 1-3% excluding inflation. The pre-tax discount rate used to discount the forecast cash 
flows for all cash generating units is 8.5% (2010: 8.5%).  
The Directors consider the assumptions adopted in calculating the cash flows to be consistent with historical performance and to be reasonable given 
current market conditions.
With the exception of the Spennymoor profit centre, which has been impaired in full in the period, significant headroom exists in each of the cash 
generating units and, based on the sensitivity analysis performed, reasonable possible changes in the assumptions would not cause the carrying amount 
of the cash generating units to equal or to exceed their recoverable amount.
Amortisation and impairment charges are recognised within administrative expenses.
 There is no goodwill or intangible assets in the Company (2010: nil).
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
13 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to the following cash generating units:  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     55
14 Property, plant and equipment
     Assets in
   Land and Plant and course of
   buildings equipment construction Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 29 August 2009    21,115 45,050 529 66,694 
Exchange differences   (47) 221 2 176
Subsidiaries acquired   506 1,561 — 2,067
Additions   235 2,557 945 3,737
Disposals    (21) (788) — (809)
Reclassifications    182 349 (531) —
At 28 August 2010    21,970 48,950 945 71,865 
Exchange differences   60 (172) — (112)
Subsidiaries acquired   24 233 — 257
Additions   673 4,720 1,445 6,838
Subsidiary disposed   (2,437) (3,319) — (5,756)
Disposals    — (1,124) — (1,124)
Reclassifications    221 783 (917) 87
Transfer to investment property   (113) — — (113)
Amounts written off   — (485) (28) (513)
At 3 September 2011   20,398 49,586 1,445 71,429
Accumulated depreciation
At 29 August 2009   4,783 30,147 — 34,930
Exchange differences    23 185 — 208
Subsidiaries acquired   173 913 — 1,086
Charge for the period    583 3,115 — 3,698
Disposals    (13) (632) — (645)
At 28 August 2010   5,549 33,728 — 39,277
Exchange differences    (16) (151) — (167)
Subsidiaries acquired   10 119 — 129
Charge for the period    782 3,493 — 4,275
Impairment in the period   77 247 — 324
Subsidiary disposed   (590) (2,104) — (2,694)
Disposals    — (808) — (808)
Reclassifications   (15) 102 — 87
Transfer to investment property   (28) — — (28)
Amounts written off   — (485) — (485)
At 3 September 2011   5,769 34,141 — 39,910
Net book amount
At 29 August 2009    16,332 14,903 529 31,764
At 28 August 2010   16,421 15,222 945 32,588
At 3 September 2011   14,629 15,445 1,445 31,519
Freehold land amounting to £2,981,221 (2010: £3,123,065) has not been depreciated.
The net book amount of plant and equipment includes £2,519,246 (2010: £2,974,091) in respect of assets held under finance leases. This consists of  
cost of £4,956,821 (2010: £5,329,584) less accumulated depreciation of £2,437,575 (2010: £2,355,493).
Depreciation is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2011 2010
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales   2,913 2,556
Distribution costs   107 169
Administrative expenses   1,255 973
   4,275 3,698
The Company has no property, plant and equipment (2010: nil). 56
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
15 Investment property
    Total
Group    £’000
Cost
At 29 August 2009 and 28 August 2010    871
Transfer from property, plant and equipment    113
At 3 September 2011    984
Accumulated depreciation
At 29 August 2009     153 
Charge for the period    19
At 28 August 2010     172 
Charge for the period    20
Transfer from property, plant and equipment    28
At 3 September 2011    220
Net book amount
At 29 August 2009    718
At 28 August 2010    699
At 3 September 2011    764
Included within investment property are properties occupied by life tenants. The net book amount of these properties at 3 September 2011 is £163,000  
(2010: £218,000).
The fair value of these properties at 3 September 2011 is £1,170,000. Investment properties have been valued by independent professionally qualified 
valuers.
There is no investment property in the Company (2010: nil).
16 Investments
    Joint Other
   Associate ventures investments Total
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 29 August 2009   2,735 1,840 260 4,835
Exchange difference   — (56) — (56)
Subsidiaries acquired   — — 1 1
Additions   — — 17 17
Share of post-tax profit   445 354 — 799
Share of losses recognised directly in equity  (369) — — (369)
At 28 August 2010   2,811 2,138 278 5,227
Exchange difference   — 60 (2) 58
Additions   — — 1 1
Disposals   — — (1) (1)
Share of post-tax profit   1,455 321 — 1,776
Share of losses recognised directly in equity  (20) — — (20)
At 3 September 2011   4,246 2,519 276 7,041
Accumulated provision for impairment
At 29 August 2009, 28 August 2010, 3 September 2011  — — 209 209
Net book amount
At 29 August 2009    2,735 1,840 51 4,626
At 28 August 2010    2,811 2,138 69 5,018
At 3 September 2011    4,246 2,519 67 6,832
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for which fair  
value cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost less accumulated impairment. 
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     57
16 Investments continued
  Shares in  Joint Other
  subsidiaries Associate ventures investments Total
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 29 August 2009   18,088 1,470 320 200 20,078 
Share based payment expense 
 in respect of employees of 
 subsidiary undertakings  (2) — — — (2)
At 28 August 2010   18,086 1,470 320 200 20,076 
Share based payment expense 
 in respect of employees of 
 subsidiary undertakings  (55) — — — (55)
At 3 September 2011   18,031 1,470 320 200 20,021
Accumulated provision for impairment
At 29 August 2009, 28 August 2010 
  and 3 September 2011  5,086 — — 200 5,286
Net book amount
At 29 August 2009  13,002 1,470 320 — 14,792
At 28 August 2010  13,000 1,470 320 — 14,790
At 3 September 2011  12,945 1,470 320 — 14,735
Other investments comprise shares in several private limited companies. These investments have been classified as unquoted investments for which fair 
value cannot be reliably measured and are held at cost less accumulated impairment. 
17 Investment in associate
The associated undertaking at 3 September 2011 is:
Group and Company
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Operations) Limited 49 England  UK Manufacture of animal feed
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
No contingent liabilities exist within the associate.
The aggregate amounts relating to the associate, of which the Group recognises 49%, are:
   2011 2010
   £’000 £’000
Total assets    26,237 22,156 
Total liabilities   (20,071) (18,919) 
Revenues    98,758 85,290
Profit after tax   2,969 908
 
Included within the investment in associate is a loan for £1,225,000 (2010: £1,225,000) which is considered to form part of the net investment in 
associate. 58
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
18 Interest in joint ventures
The joint ventures at 3 September 2011 are:
Group
 Proportion of shares held   
 Ordinary Preference Country of Country of 
Name % % incorporation operation Activity
Crystalyx Products GmbH 50 — Germany  Germany Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
Bibby Agriculture Limited 26 26 England UK Sale of agricultural products
Afgritech Limited 50 — England  UK Producers of ingredients 
      of animal feed
Afgritech LLC — — USA USA Producers of ingredients 
     of animal feed
Afgritech Properties LLC — — USA USA Property holding
Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC — — USA USA Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks
Silloth Storage Company Limited 50 — England UK Storage of cane derived 
     livestock feed supplement
Crystalyx Products GmbH has a 31 December accounting period end.
Silloth Storage Company Limited has a 30 June accounting period end.
Interests in the joint ventures listed above are held directly by the holding Company with the following exceptions: Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales)  
Limited holds 50% of the ordinary share capital and 50% of the preference share capital in Bibby Agriculture Limited. Carrs Agriculture Limited holds 
50% of the ordinary share capital in Silloth Storage Company Limited. Animal Feed Supplement Inc. holds the interest in Gold-Bar Feed Supplements 
LLC. Afgritech Limited has 100% control of Afgritech LLC and Afgritech Properties LLC. The preference shares in Bibby Agriculture Limited are 
redeemable with three months notice, carry no dividend entitlement except at the Directors’ discretion, and no voting rights.
Afgritech LLC, Afgritech Properties LLC and Gold-Bar Supplements LLC have no issued share capital.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
At the period end Gold-Bar Supplements LLC had capital commitments of £259,000. No contingent liabilities exist within the joint ventures.
The aggregate amounts included in the financial statements relating to the Group’s share of joint ventures are:
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
   2011 2010
   £’000 £’000
Non-current assets   2,475 1,434
Current assets   4,206 2,831
Current liabilities   (5,028) (2,884)
Non-current liabilities   (21) (130)
Income   14,300 12,192
Expenses   (13,822) (11,683)
Net finance costs   10 (9)
 
Goodwill of £17,000 arose on the investment in Silloth Storage Company Limited. This is included in the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in joint 
ventures and is not shown as a separate asset.
 
Included within interest in joint ventures is an amount of £870,000 (2010: £870,000) which relates to the Group’s interest in the preference share 
capital of Bibby Agriculture Limited. Annual Report & Accounts 2011     59
Investments in the subsidiaries listed above are held directly by the holding Company with the following exception: Carrs Engineering Limited holds 
100% of the ordinary share capital in Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH.
Dormant subsidiaries are not shown above because disclosure would be excessively lengthy. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the 
Company’s next annual return.
During the period Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Forsyths of (Wooler) Limited and Safe at Work 
Limited (note 32). By the period end the trade and net assets of both companies had been hived up into Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited 
leaving dormant companies. As these companies are dormant by the period end they have not been included in the list above.
During the period the trade and net assets of Scotmin Nutrition Limited were hived up into Carrs Agriculture Limited leaving a dormant company. As this 
company is dormant by the period end it has not been included in the list above.
20 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets  Liabilities Net
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax 
 depreciation  — — (3,195) (4,009) (3,195) (4,009)
Employee benefits  1,490 2,901  — — 1,490 2,901
Other 1,029 1,023 (812) (951) 217 72
Tax assets/(liabilities)  2,519 3,924 (4,007) (4,960) (1,488) (1,036)
Movement in deferred tax during the period
 At  In respect of   At
 29 August Exchange acquisitions Recognised Recognised 3 September
 2010 differences and disposals in income in equity 2011
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Employee benefits  2,901 — — (1,229) (182) 1,490
Other  1,023 (45) — 51 — 1,029
 3,924 (45) — (1,178) (182) 2,519
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation (4,009) 5 299 510 — (3,195)
Other (951) — (18) 157 — (812)
 (4,960) 5 281 667 — (4,007)
Net liabilities (1,036) (40) 281 (511) (182) (1,488)
 
Other deferred tax assets and liabilities includes deferred tax on short term timing differences, rolled over capital gains, capital losses, business 
combinations and overseas deferred tax.
Movements in deferred tax recognised in income during the period includes £321,000 in respect of discontinued operations.
  Proportion
  of shares held   
  Ordinary Country of Country of 
Name  % incorporation operation Activity
Carrs Agriculture Limited   100  England  UK Manufacture of animal  
     feed blocks and fertiliser
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited   51  England UK Agricultural retailers  
Animal Feed Supplement Inc.   100  USA USA Manufacture of animal 
     feed blocks  
Carr’s Flour Mills Limited   100   England UK Flour milling  
Carrs Engineering Limited   100  England UK Engineering  
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH  100 Germany Germany Engineering
B.R.B. Trust Limited   100  England UK Financial services  
Carrs Properties Limited   100  England UK Property holding
19 Investment in subsidiary undertakings 60
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
20 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Movement in deferred tax during the prior period
 Assets
   2011 2010
Company   £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   2 2
Employee benefits     1,490 2,901
Tax assets    1,492 2,903
 
Movement in deferred tax assets during the period
   At   At
   29 August Recognised Recognised 3 September
   2010 in income in equity 2011
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   2 — — 2
Employee benefits    2,901 (1,229) (182) 1,490
   2,903 (1,229) (182) 1,492
Movement in deferred tax assets during the prior period
   At   At
   30 August Recognised Recognised 28 August
   2009 in income in equity 2010
   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Accelerated tax depreciation   3 (1) — 2
Employee benefits    4,108 (565) (642) 2,901
   4,111 (566) (642) 2,903
Tax of £191,000 (2010: £207,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Group balance sheet.
Tax of £59,000 (2010: £63,000) in respect of tax losses has not been recognised as a deferred tax asset in the Company balance sheet.
 
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
 At  In respect of   At
 30 August Exchange acquisitions Recognised Recognised 28 August
 2009 differences and disposals in income in equity 2010
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets:
Employee benefits  4,108 — — (565) (642) 2,901
Other  876 59 — 88 — 1,023
 4,984 59 — (477) (642) 3,924
Liabilities:
Accelerated tax depreciation (3,972) (6) 16 (47) — (4,009)
Other (837) (1) (104) (9) — (951)
 (4,809) (7) (88) (56) — (4,960)
Net assets/(liabilities) 175 52 (88) (533) (642) (1,036)
  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     61
21 Inventories 
   2011 2010
Group   £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables   8,478 10,865 
Work in progress   904 3,756
Finished goods and goods for resale    13,411 12,394
   22,793 27,015
Inventories are stated after a provision for impairment of £255,000 (2010: £597,000).
Cost of sales consists of the following:
Material cost   307,432 241,782 
Processing cost   10,356 7,088 
Other   14,414 11,001
   332,202 259,871
The Company has no inventories (2010: nil).
22 Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade receivables 51,762 47,521  — —
Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables (3,949) (3,223) — —
Trade receivables - net 47,813 44,298 — —
Amounts recoverable on contracts  3,856 1,467 — —
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 38)  — — 15,706 17,619
Amounts owed by other related parties (note 38) 1,945 623 1,353 422
Other receivables  1,943 1,091 135 132
Prepayments and accrued income  1,431 1,331 80 213
  56,988 48,810 17,274 18,386
Non-current:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings (note 38) — — 1,275 1,775
Other receivables 2 5 — —
  2 5 1,275 1,775
The movement in the provision for impaired trade receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and 
unused provision released back to the consolidated income statement. Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when 
there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
During the period a charge of £1,187,000 (2010: £631,000) has been recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated income 
statement in respect of the provision for impairment of trade receivables.
No impairment of other receivables has been recognised in the current or preceding period.
Interest bearing, non-trading amounts owed by Group undertakings carry interest at base rate +1.75%. Such amounts are unsecured and 
repayable on demand.
  62
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
22 Trade and other receivables continued
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The carrying value of trade receivables are denominated 
in the following currencies:
Sterling 45,079 43,511  — —
US Dollar 602 73 — —
Euro  2,132 714 — —
   47,813 44,298 — —
23 Current tax assets
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Corporation tax recoverable  9 303 873 780
Group taxation relief  — — 1,143 839
  9 303 2,016 1,619
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
 2011 2010
    Past due but   Past due but
  Gross Impairment not impaired Gross Impairment not impaired
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The ageing of trade 
  receivables is as follows:       
 
Not past due 34,519 (489) N/A 33,414 (418) N/A
Past due 0 - 30 days 8,011 (427) 7,584 7,104 (238) 6,866
Past due 31 - 60 days 3,582 (479) 3,103 2,548 (317) 2,231
Past due 61 - 90 days 1,903 (486) 1,417 1,455 (401) 1,054
Past due 91 - 120 days 1,001 (371) 630 1,169 (400) 769
Past 121 days 2,746 (1,697) 1,049 1,831 (1,449) 382
   51,762 (3,949) 13,783 47,521 (3,223) 11,302
The Company has no trade receivables (2010: nil).
   
The credit quality of customers is assessed at subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other  
relevant factors. Individual customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors.    
   
It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional management meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are 
provided for where appropriate.     
  
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the period end is the carrying value, net of provision for impairment, of each receivable. The Group and  
Company do not hold any significant collateral as security (2010: £nil). Annual Report & Accounts 2011     63
24 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet  33,282 13,695 28,284 9,559
Bank overdrafts (note 27) (833) (427) — —
Cash and cash equivalents per the statement of cash flows  32,449 13,268 28,284 9,559
25 Trade and other payables
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Trade payables  23,249 29,254 — —
Payments on account  10,816 5,129 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (note 38) — — 379 36
Amounts owed to other related parties (note 38) 10,790 7,401 16 —
Other taxes and social security payable  1,095 1,444 418 188
Other payables  2,476 1,639 136 116
Accruals and deferred income  5,043 4,601 1,206 592
   53,469 49,468 2,155 932
Non-current:
Other payables  2,687 2,689 — —
Accruals and deferred income  930 108 — —
   3,617 2,797 — —
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are interest free, unsecured and repayable on demand.
Included within non-current accruals and deferred income is the following in respect of government grants:
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  108 116 — —
Received in the period 830 — — —
Amortisation in the period (8) (8) — —
At the end of the period  930 108 — —
26 Current tax liabilities
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current tax  1,688 1,129 — — 64
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
27 Borrowings 
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The net borrowings are:
Borrowings as above  28,710 29,210 18,520 18,913
Cash and cash equivalents (33,282) (13,695) (28,284) (9,559)
Net (cash)/borrowings  (4,572) 15,515 (9,764) 9,354
Bank loans and other borrowings includes an amount of £10,931,000 (2010: £8,636,000) which is secured on trade receivables. The Company, 
together with certain subsidiaries, act as guarantors on the bank loans. In addition, Royal Bank of Scotland PLC have a legal charge over certain 
properties. Finance lease obligations are secured on the assets to which they relate.
Interest bearing loans from Group undertakings carry interest at base rate or base rate + 1.25%. Such amounts are unsecured and repayable on 
demand.
Other loans are non-interest bearing and have no fixed date for repayment. The bank loans are repayable by instalments and the overdraft is 
repayable on demand.
Current bank loans (2010: non-current bank loans) includes a revolving credit facility of £10 million which is subject to renewal in August 2012. 
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current:
Bank overdrafts  833 427 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 24,931 10,180 14,000 953
Loans from Group undertakings (note 38) — — 4,520 4,005
Finance leases 672 871 — —
   26,436 11,478 18,520 4,958
Non-current:
Bank loans  — 15,577 — 13,955
Other loans (note 38)  1,225 1,262 — —
Finance leases  1,049 893 — —
 
   2,274 17,732 — 13,955
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year  26,436 11,478 18,520 4,958
In the second year  538 16,138 — 13,955
In the third to fifth years inclusive  1,736 1,594 — —
  28,710 29,210 18,520 18,913
Group and Company borrowings are shown in the balance sheet net of arrangement fees of £nil of which £nil is deducted from current  
liabilities (2010: £91,645 of which £46,797 is deducted from current liabilities).
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     65
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments  
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing its risk and they are 
summarised below. These policies have remained unchanged throughout the period.
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, 
deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers. The credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed 
in note 22.
The majority of Group revenues are made on credit terms. It is Group policy that overdue accounts are reviewed monthly at divisional 
management meetings to mitigate exposure to credit risk and are provided for where appropriate. The current financial climate requires the 
Group’s credit control function to be particularly vigilant.
Price risk
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk. Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk such as the 
fluctuation in wheat prices. This risk is, however, managed primarily through the use of contracts to secure supply at agreed prices.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates (currency risk) and interest rates (interest rate risk) will affect income or the value of 
financial assets and liabilities.
Currency risk
The Group publishes its financial statements in Sterling but conducts business in some foreign currencies. As a result it is subject to foreign currency 
exchange risk due to the effects that exchange rate movements have on the translation of results and the underlying net assets of its foreign 
subsidiaries.
The Group’s subsidiary, Animal Feed Supplement Inc., operates in the US and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in US 
dollars.
Afgritech LLC, Afgritech Properties LLC and Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC, joint ventures of the Group, operate in the US and their revenues and 
expenses are denominated exclusively in US dollars.
The Group’s subsidiary, Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH, operates in Germany and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in 
Euros.
Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture of the Group, operates in Germany and its revenues and expenses are denominated exclusively in Euros.
Since the disposal of our fertiliser blending operations the purchasing of raw materials in foreign currencies has significantly reduced. The small 
foreign currency risk facing the Group is in the purchase of raw materials for the flour milling operation. The currency involved is the Euro. The 
policy of the Group is to hedge using forward foreign exchange contracts with the UK banks as soon as commitment has been given to the 
underlying transaction. 
    
The Group is hedging its international assets and has designated foreign currency borrowings as a hedge against its net investment in foreign 
operations. 66
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Financial Instruments by currency
 2011 2010
  US    US    
 Sterling Dollar Euro  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Total
Group £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets         
Other investments 51 16 — 67 52 17 — 69
Non-current receivables 2 — — 2 5 — — 5
Current trade and other receivables 52,539 2,105 2,344 56,988 47,820 243 747 48,810
Cash and cash equivalents 28,910 114 4,258 33,282 12,574 (1,425) 2,546 13,695
  81,502 2,235 6,602 90,339 60,451 (1,165) 3,293 62,579
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 25,178 200 1,058 26,436 10,972 287 219 11,478
Current derivatives — — — — — 59 68 127
Current trade and other payables 43,271 1,110 9,088 53,469 37,551 1,954 9,963 49,468
Non-current borrowings 2,274 — — 2,274 16,073 — 1,659 17,732
Other non-current liabilities 929 2,688 — 3,617 108 2,689 — 2,797
  71,652 3,998 10,146 85,796 64,704 4,989 11,909 81,602
 2011 2010
  US    US    
 Sterling Dollar Euro  Total Sterling  Dollar Euro Total
Company £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Assets        
Non-current receivables 1,275 — — 1,275 1,775 — — 1,775
Current trade and other receivables 16,325 949 — 17,274 18,386 — — 18,386
Cash and cash equivalents 28,124 111 49 28,284 8,883 492 184 9,559
  45,724 1,060 49 46,833 29,044 492 184 29,720
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 14,179 4,341 — 18,520 1,066 3,892 — 4,958
Current trade and other payables 2,155 — — 2,155 932 — — 932
Non-current borrowings — — — — 13,955 — — 13,955
  16,334 4,341 — 20,675 15,953 3,892 — 19,845
The Group and Company have right of offset on certain bank accounts.
Sensitivity analysis         
The impact of a weakening or strengthening in Sterling against other currencies at the balance sheet date is shown in the table below. The Directors 
consider that a 5% weakening or strengthening in Sterling represents reasonable possible changes.
 2011 2010
  5% weakening 5% strengthening 5% weakening 5% strengthening
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 185 (168) (119) 107
Impact on total equity 224 (202) (29) 26
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other 
variables have been held constant.     
 
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     67
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk   
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and bank borrowings. The Group borrows in the desired currencies  
at fixed and floating rates of interest and then uses interest rate caps and swaps to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations.  
Historically the policy of the Group has been to hedge around 40% to 60% of the core borrowings. With low interest rates and reducing net 
borrowings the Directors decided not to manage the Group’s cost of borrowing through interest rate hedging instruments. The Directors will 
continue to review the appropriateness of the Group’s interest rate and hedging policy should the level of net borrowing increase during the 
financial year. At the period end £1.7 million (2010: £1.8 million) of the Group’s borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest.
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2011 interest rate 2010
Group  % £’000 % £’000
Bank overdrafts 3.00 833 3.00 427
Bank loans and other borrowings 2.95 24,931 2.96 25,757
Other loans — 1,225 — 1,262
Finance lease liabilities 6.46 1,721 6.02 1,764
   28,710  29,210
Fixed rate  1,721  1,764
Floating rate  25,764  26,184
Non-interest bearing  1,225  1,262
   28,710  29,210
The Group’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:    
 
Bank overdrafts Base rate + 2.5%; Currency lending rate + 2.5%; US prime rate + 1% margin 
Bank loans and other borrowings Libor + 2.5%; Base rate + 1.9% margin
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average
  effective  effective 
  interest rate 2011 interest rate 2010
Company % £’000 % £’000
Bank loans 3.38 14,000 3.23 14,908
Loans from Group undertakings 1.50 4,520 1.50 4,005
    18,520  18,913
 
Floating rate  18,520  18,913
The Company’s floating rate financial liabilities bear interest determined as follows:     
     
Bank loans  Libor + 2.5% 68
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Sensitivity analysis      
The impact of a decrease or increase in interest rates during the period is shown in the table below. The Directors consider that a 1% 
movement in interest rates represents reasonable possible changes.
 2011 2010
  1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Impact on profit after taxation 365 (362) 337 (330)
Impact on total equity 365 (362) 337 (330)
This sensitivity analysis is not an indication of actual results, which may materially differ. For the purposes of this sensitivity analysis all other 
variables have been held constant.    
 
Liquidity risk    
The Group’s policy throughout the period has been to maintain a mix of short and medium term borrowings. Short-term flexibility is achieved by 
overdraft facilities. In addition it is the Group’s policy to maintain committed undrawn facilities in order to provide flexibility in the management of 
the Group’s liquidity.    
 
The tables below analyse the Group and Company’s financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings 
based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date. 
 2011  2010
  Within One to Two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 Total year years years Total year years years
Group £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank overdrafts 833 833 — — 427 427 — —
Bank loans and other borrowings 24,931 24,931 — — 26,873 10,762 16,111 —
Other loans 1,225 — — 1,225 1,262 — 37 1,225
Finance lease liabilities 1,884 757 585 542 1,935 967 572 396
Derivatives — — — — 127 127 — —
Trade and other payables 53,469 53,469 — — 49,468 49,468 — —
Other non-current liabilities 3,617 — — 3,617 2,797 — — 2,797
  85,959 79,990 585 5,384 82,889 61,751 16,720 4,418
 2011  2010
  Within One to Two to  Within One to Two to
  one two five  one two five
 Total year years years Total year years years
Company £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Bank loans 14,000 14,000 — — 15,920 1,468 14,452 —
Loans from Group undertakings 4,520 4,520 — — 4,005 4,005 — —
Trade and other payables 2,155 2,155 — — 932 932 — —
 20,675 20,675 — — 20,857 6,405 14,452 —
  
Future minimum lease payments of finance leases
  Repayment profile
  2011 2010 2011 2010
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Amount payable: 
Within one year 757 967 672 871
In the second year 585 572 538 523
In the third to fifth years inclusive 542 396 511 370
  1,884 1,935 1,721 1,764
Less:  future finance charges (163) (172)
Present value of lease obligations 1,721 1,763
The Company has no finance lease obligations (2010: nil). 
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     69
   2011 2010
   Floating rate Floating rate
   £’000 £’000
Expiring in one year or less   17,842 19,120 
The Company’s overdraft is within a Group facility and it is therefore not possible to determine the Company’s undrawn committed facilities at the 
balance sheet date.
Capital risk management        
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns 
for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.    
    
 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.      
 The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by shareholders’ equity. Net debt is 
calculated as total borrowings (including current and non-current borrowings) as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash 
equivalents. Shareholders’ equity is as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.     
At 3 September 2011 the Group had net cash of £4.6m compared to net debt of £15.5m at the prior period end.   
 
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities        
The Group has various undrawn committed facilities. The undrawn facilities available at 3 September 2011, in respect of which all 
conditions precedent had been met, were as follows:
 Group  Company
 2011 2010 2011 2010
 Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair
 value value value value value value value value
 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
Assets
Other investments 67 67 69 69  — — — —
Non-current receivables 2 2 5 5 1,275 1,275 1,775 1,775 
Current trade and other receivables 56,988 56,988 48,810 48,810 17,274 17,274 18,386 18,386 
Cash and cash equivalents 33,282 33,282 13,695 13,695 28,284 28,284 9,559 9,559 
  90,339 90,339 62,579 62,579 46,833 46,833 29,720 29,720 
         
Liabilities         
Current borrowings 26,436 26,436 11,478 11,478  18,520 18,520 4,958 4,958 
Current derivatives — — 127 127 — — — — 
Current trade and other payables 53,469 53,469 49,468 49,468  2,155 2,155 932 932 
Non-current borrowings 2,274 2,207 17,732 17,648  — — 13,955 14,051 
Other non-current liabilities 3,617 3,617 2,797 2,797  — — — — 
 85,796 85,729 81,602 81,518  20,675 20,675 19,845 19,941 
 
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by 
applying year end exchange rates.        
 
 Other investments consist of investments in unquoted companies, which are held at cost as fair value cannot be reliably measured.  
 Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.       
     
 The fair value of current assets and current liabilities are assumed to approximate to book value due to the short term maturity of the instrument.  
        
  70
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Derivative financial instruments        
Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries
The Company has US dollar denominated borrowings totalling $7,000,000 (2010: $6,000,000) which act as a partial hedge against the 
investment in its US subsidiary. The fair value of the US dollar borrowings at 3 September 2011 was £4,341,000 (2010: £3,892,000) and a 
foreign exchange pre-tax gain of £171,000 (2010: pre-tax loss of £205,000) was recognised in equity during the year on translation of this 
loan to sterling.
A subsidiary of the Group has Euro denominated net loans payable totalling X2,008,000 (2010: X548,000) which act as a partial hedge 
against the investment in its European subsidiary. The fair value of the Euro net loans payable at 3 September 2011 was £1,760,000 (2010: 
£450,000) and a foreign exchange pre-tax loss of £84,000 (2010: pre-tax gain of £37,000) was recognised in equity during the year on 
translation of this net loan to sterling.
Currency derivatives          
The Group and Company use forward foreign currency contracts to manage exchange risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of 
outstanding forward foreign currency contracts are as below:
 2011 2010
   Contractual  Contractual
  Fair or notional Fair or notional
  value amount value amount
Group   £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of period (127) 6,299 16 819
Gains/(losses) during the period 211 7,743 (143) 5,480
Disposal of subsidiary (84) (14,042) — —
At end of period — — (127) 6,299
Included within: 
Current liabilities — — (127) 6,299
  — — (127) 6,299
Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent forward foreign currency contracts at the balance sheet date. 
All forward foreign currency contracts have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on currency related  
derivatives are included within administrative expenses.
The Company has no forward foreign currency contracts (2010: £nil).
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     71
28 Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
Interest rate derivatives    
The Group and Company have used interest rate swaps to manage their interest rate risk exposure. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of 
these instruments are as below:
   Group Company
     2011 2010 2011 2010
     £’000 £’000 £’000  £’000
At beginning of period    —  (43) — (43) 
Gains during the period    —  43  — 43 
At end of period    — —  — — 
 
 Fair value has been determined by reference to the value of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. Gains and losses on interest related 
derivatives are included within interest income/expense in the income statement.     
 
The interest rate swaps matured during the prior period. No interest related derivatives are held at the balance sheet date.
29 Retirement benefit obligation
The Group participates in two defined benefit pension schemes, Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and Carrs Billington Agriculture 
Pension Scheme.
Carr’s Milling Industries
The Company sponsors the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993 and offers a defined contribution and a defined benefit section.  
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with independent investment managers.
The pension expense for the defined contribution section of the scheme for the period was £409,000 (2010: £398,000). Contributions totalling 
£21,000 (2010: £19,000) were payable to the fund at the period end and are included in other payables.
The defined benefit section of the scheme is funded to cover future pension liabilities (including expected future earnings and pension increases).  
It is subject to an independent valuation on a triennial basis by a qualified actuary who determines the rate of the employer’s contribution. The 
most recent valuation of the scheme was at 1 January 2009 and adopted the Projected Unit Method. It was assumed that the investment returns 
would be 6.5% per annum and that the salary increases would average 4.15% per annum. It was also assumed that present and future pensions 
would increase once in payment at the lesser of 5.0% per annum and price inflation subject to a minimum of 0% per annum.
The actuarial valuation as at 1 January 2009 shows a funding shortfall (technical provisions minus value of assets) of £16,084,000.
The pension contribution made by the Group over the period to the defined benefit section was £4,801,000 (2010: £2,821,000).
In addition, the Group offers a Group Personal Pension plan to certain employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Limited. The pension expense for this 
scheme for the period was £298,000 (2010: £309,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit section of the Carr’s Milling Industries Pension Scheme 1993. The last full actuarial 
valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 1 January 2009 and updated on an approximate basis to  
3 September 2011.      72
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
29 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Major assumptions:         
   2011 2010
   % %
Inflation (2011: CPI; 2010: RPI)   2.3 2.8
Salary increases   4.0 3.8
Rate of discount   5.4 5.1
Pension in payment increases: 
 Pre 1 September 2001   3.3 3.1
 Post 1 September 2001   3.0 2.8
 Revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for pensions revaluing at 5.0% per annum or CPI (2010: RPI) if less  2.3 2.8
 
The UK Government announced on 8 July 2010 that statutory pension increases or revaluations would be based on the Consumer Prices Index 
measure of price inflation from 2011, rather than the Retail Prices Index measure of price inflation. The Trustees have received legal advice which 
states that pension increases in the Scheme will continue to be linked to RPI and deferred increases will in the future be based on the statutory CPI 
increases.
The mortality tables used in the valuation are 130% of PNxA00 (Year of Birth) with an allowance for mortality improvements in line with Long Cohort 
improvement factors with a 1% underpin. The  mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65:
   At At
   3 September  28 August 
   2011 2010
Males currently age 45   23.7 years 23.6 years
Females currently age 45   26.1 years 26.0 years
Males currently age 65   21.8 years 21.7 years
Females currently age 65   24.3 years 24.2 years
 
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
   2011 2010
   £’000 £’000
Current service cost    644 588
Interest on pension scheme liabilities    2,496 2,592
Expected return on pension scheme assets   (2,398) (1,993)
   742 1,187
 
The expense is recognised within the Income Statement as shown below:
   2011 2010
   £’000 £’000
Cost of sales    299 108 
Administrative expenses    443 1,079
   742 1,187
Actuarial gains of £726,000 (2010: £2,294,000) have been reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The cumulative amounts of actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since adoption of IAS19 is £5,574,000 (2010: 
£6,300,000).
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     73
29 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet:  
   2011 2010
   £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations   (48,918) (48,551)
Fair value of scheme assets    42,958 37,806
Deficit in scheme   (5,960) (10,745)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  48,551 46,763
Current service cost  644 588
Interest cost  2,496 2,592
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation  (1,296) 6
Benefits paid (1,477) (1,398)
At the end of the period  48,918 48,551
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  37,806 32,090
Expected return on scheme assets  2,398 1,993
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  (570) 2,300
Contributions by employer  4,801 2,821
Benefits paid (1,477) (1,398)
At the end of the period  42,958 37,806
 
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
 Expected return Fair value of assets
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  % % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments  6.65 6.96 21,975 18,643
Debt instruments  5.1 4.2 16,841 15,688
Property  6.45 6.76 3,758 3,321
Other assets  5.1 4.2 384 154 
  6.01 5.79 42,958 37,806 
Actual return on scheme assets    1,828 4,293 
The expected long term return on other assets is based on the rate of return on bonds. The expected return on bonds is determined by reference to 
corporate bond yields at the balance sheet date. The expected rate of return on equities and property is based on the rate of return on bonds with 
an allowance for out-performance. 74
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
29 Retirement benefit obligation continued
History of scheme:         
  2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of the defined benefit  
 obligation  (48,918) (48,551) (46,763) (48,016) (43,721)
Fair value of scheme assets   42,958 37,806 32,090 31,458 33,914 
Deficit  (5,960) (10,745) (14,673) (16,558) (9,807)
Difference between expected and 
 actual returns on scheme assets:
Amount £’000   (570) 2,300 (2,090) (3,742) 206
Percentage of scheme assets  1.3% 6.1% 6.5% 11.9% 0.6%
Experience gains and losses on scheme 
 liabilities:
Amount £’000  1,296 (6) 3,041 (7,323) 4,364
Percentage of scheme liabilities  2.6% 0% 6.5% 15.3% 10.0%
 
 The Group expects to contribute approximately £3,881,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.  The Company expects to 
contribute approximately £3,304,000 to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
 
Carrs Billington Agriculture
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited, one of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings, is a participating employer of the Carrs Billington 
Agriculture Pension Scheme, another funded defined benefit scheme. On 30 November 2007, following consultation with the active members, the 
Company and Trustees agreed to close the scheme to future service accrual. 
 The pension contribution made by Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited over the period to the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme 
was £nil (2010: £nil).
 The actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2009 shows that the market value of assets relating to the scheme was £21,000,000 and the actuarial 
value of those assets represented 76% of the actuarial value of benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increase 
in earnings. It was assumed that the investment returns would be pre-retirement 6.1% per annum and post-retirement 4.9% per annum. At 31 
December 2009, the scheme showed a deficit of £6,700,000.
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited offers a Group Personal Pension Plan to its employees and the pension expense for this plan in the 
period was £388,000 (2010: £342,000). 
 During the period contributions were also payable to a defined contribution pension scheme for certain employees of Carrs Billington Agriculture 
(Sales) Limited. The pension expense for this scheme for the period was £14,000 (2010: £5,000).
 The following disclosures relate to the defined benefit scheme. The last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified 
independent actuary as at 31 December 2009 and updated on an approximate basis to 3 September 2011. 
 It is not possible to identify the underlying share of the pension scheme assets and liabilities that relate to the Group. At inception in June 2000 
approximately 50% of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme related to the Group and under IFRS approximately 50% of the assets and  
liabilities are included in the Group’s financial statements through the investment in associate, which is the sponsoring employer of the scheme.
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     75
29 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Major assumptions:         
   2011 2010
   % %
Inflation (RPI) 3.2 2.8
Inflation (CPI) 2.5 N/A
Salary increases N/A N/A
Rate of discount 5.4 5.1
Pension in payment increases:
 LPI max 5% 3.1 2.8
 LPI max 3% 2.7 2.5
 LPI max 2.5% 2.25 2.25
Revaluation rate for deferred pensioners for pensions revaluing at 5.0% per annum or CPI (2010: RPI) if less 2.5 2.8
 
The UK Government announced on 8 July 2010 that statutory pension increases or revaluations would be based on the Consumer Prices Index 
measure of inflation from 2011, rather than the Retail Prices Index measure of price inflation. The Trustees have received legal advice which states  
that pension increases in the Scheme will continue to be linked to RPI and deferred increases will in the future based be on the statutory CPI increases.
 
Mortality rates used in the valuation are based on the S1NMA and S1NFA tables, projected, medium cohort, allowing for members’  actual year of birth 
with a 1.5% underpin for future improvements. The mortality assumptions adopted imply the following life expectancies at age 65:
 At At
 3 September  28 August 
 2011 2010
Males currently age 45 24.7 years 24.5 years
Females currently age 45 27.7 years 27.5 years
Males currently age 65 21.8 years 21.6 years
Females currently age 65 24.7 years 24.6 years
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement of the associate in respect of defined benefit schemes:
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
Interest on pension scheme liabilities  1,256 1,252
Expected return on pension scheme assets (1,161) (1,097)
 95 155
 
The Group’s share of the charge is recognised within the Income Statement through the share of post-tax profit in associate.
The Group’s share of the actuarial losses of £55,000 (2010: £1,044,000) have been reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group’s share of the cumulative amount of actuarial losses of £7,653,000 (2010: £7,598,000) have been recognised in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
Amounts included in the Balance Sheet of the associate:
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligations (24,570) (25,143)
Fair value of scheme assets  20,091 19,564
Deficit in scheme (4,479) (5,579)
 
The Group’s share of the deficit is recognised within the Balance Sheet through the investment in associate. 76
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
29 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations:
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  25,143 22,858
Interest cost  1,256 1,252
Changes in assumptions underlying the defined benefit obligation  (796) 2,042
Benefits paid (1,033) (1,009)
At the end of the period  24,570 25,143
 
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets:
 Expected return Fair value of assets
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  % % £’000 £’000
Equity instruments 7.0 7.2  10,046 9,978
Debt instruments  4.8 4.6  10,045 9,586
  5.9 5.9 20,091 19,564
Actual return on scheme assets    310 2,095
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on risk free 
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is 
invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target 
asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio. This resulted in the selection of the 5.9% 
assumption at 3 September 2011.
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
At the beginning of the period  19,564 17,903
Expected return on scheme assets  1,161 1,097
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  (851) 998
Contributions by employer  1,250 575
Benefits paid (1,033) (1,009)
At the end of the period  20,091 19,564
Analysis of the scheme assets, expected rate of return and actual return:
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     77
29 Retirement benefit obligation continued
History of scheme:
  2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of the defined benefit  
 obligation  (24,570) (25,143) (22,858) (21,896) (22,322)
Fair value of scheme assets   20,091 19,564 17,903 19,254 20,661
Deficit  (4,479) (5,579) (4,955) (2,642) (1,661)
Difference between expected and 
 actual returns on scheme assets:
Amount £’000   (851) 998 (2,060) (3,005) 192
Percentage of scheme assets  4.2% 5.1% 11.5% 15.6% 1.0%
 
Experience gains and losses on  
 scheme liabilities:
Amount £’000  796 (2,042) (768) 570 2,740
Percentage of scheme liabilities  3.2% 8.1% 3.4% 2.6% 12.3%
 
It is expected that contributions of approximately £800,000 will be paid to the defined benefit scheme in the next financial period.
30 Called-up share capital
  2011 2011 2010 2010
Group and Company Shares £’000 Shares £’000
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 25p each 14,000,000 3,500 14,000,000 3,500
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each:   
At start of period 8,784,286 2,196 8,784,286 2,196
Allotment of shares 78,770 20 — —
At end of period 8,863,056 2,216 8,784,286 2,196
The consideration received on the allotment of shares during the period was £340,646.
For details of share option, share save and deferred bonus schemes see note 31.
Since the period end there was a further allotment of 403 shares with a nominal value of £101 due to the exercise of share options. 78
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
31 Share-based payments 
Group
The Group operates three active share based payment schemes at 3 September 2011.
In 2011 the Group entered into a new 3-year and 5-year plan under the existing 2006 approved discretionary employee Share Save Scheme.
In 2008 the Group entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance 
criteria are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s 
adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ended 31 August 2010 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same 
period by an average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the 
three years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two 
threshold levels, referred to above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2007 the Group entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance 
criteria are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s 
adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ended 31 August 2009 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same 
period by an average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the 
three years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two 
threshold levels, referred to above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2006 the Group entered into three schemes, an HM Revenue and Customs approved discretionary employee share option scheme,  
an unapproved discretionary share option scheme and a share save scheme (comprising a 3-year and a 5-year plan).
Both the approved and unapproved share options were granted to certain senior employees and Directors. Options are exercisable between 
three and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 
2008 exceeding that of the RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts 
for both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
     Approved and 
     Unapproved  
 Share Save Share Save Deferred Deferred Executive Share  Share Save Share Save
 Scheme 2011 Scheme 2011 Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Option Scheme 2006 Scheme 2006
 (3-Year Plan) (5-Year Plan) 2007 2006 Scheme 2006 (3-Year Plan) (5-Year Plan)
Grant date (approved) 10/5/11 10/5/11  6/12/07 7/2/07 24/2/06 1/6/06 1/6/06
Grant date (unapproved) —  — — — 20/2/06 — —
Share price at grant date 
 (weighted average) £7.20  £7.20 £5.44 £6.43 £4.78 £4.64 £4.64
Exercise price 
 (weighted average)  £5.72 £5.72 £0.25 £0.25 £4.78 £4.79 £4.79
Number of employees 91 85 — — 21 — 4
Shares under option
 (approved)  55,564 90,134 — — 99,000 — 1,678
Shares under option 
 (unapproved) — — — — — — —
Vesting period (years)  3 5 2.83 2.67 3 3 5
Model used for valuation  Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial Black Scholes Black Scholes
Expected volatility  25.00% 24.00% 22.00% 21.00% 22.44% 20.18% 21.37%
Option life (years)  3.5 5.5 2.92 2.75 10 3.5 5.5
Expected life (years)  3.25 5.25 2.83 2.67 6.5 3.25 5.25
Risk-free rate 1.620% 2.450% 4.420% 5.451% 4.224% 4.683% 4.623%
Expected dividends expressed 
 as a dividend yield  3.90% 3.90% 3.30% 3.20% 3.36% 3.56% 3.56%
Expectations of vesting 95% 95% 100% 0% 100% 0% 100%
Expectations of meeting  
 performance criteria  N/A N/A 100% 0% 100% N/A N/A
Fair value per option £1.49 £1.56 £4.74 £5.69 £0.99 £0.60 £0.78
 
The expected volatility has been calculated using historical daily data over a term commensurate with the expected life of each option. The 
expected life is the midpoint of the exercise period. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds with a 
remaining term equal to the expected term of the award being valued.
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     79
31 Share-based payments continued
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Granted during the period 5.72 56 — — 
Outstanding at the end of the period  5.72 56 — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 3.25 years with a weighted average remaining expected life of 
3 years.
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (‘000) £ (’000)
Granted during the period  5.72 90 — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  5.72 90 — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 5.25 years with a weighted average remaining expected life of 
5 years.
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  0.25 8 0.25 8
Exercised during the period 0.25 (8)  — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  — — 0.25 8
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
As the performance criterion under this Scheme was met, matching shares were awarded in the period. 80
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
31 Share-based payments continued
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (‘000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  — — 0.25 24
Forfeited during the period — — 0.25 (24)
Outstanding at the end of the period  — — — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
As the performance criterion under the scheme was not met, matching shares were not awarded.
Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (‘000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  4.78 141 4.78 141
Exercised during the period 4.78 (42) — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  4.78 99 4.78 141
Exercisable at the end of the period  4.78 99 4.78 141
 
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 4.5 years (2010: 5.5 years) with a weighted average 
remaining expected life of 1 year (2010: 2 years).
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (‘000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period  — — 4.79 2
Forfeited during the period — — 4.79 (2)
Outstanding at the end of the period  — — — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — — 
No participant in this scheme exercised their right to purchase shares by the end of the exercise period. Annual Report & Accounts 2011     81
31 Share-based payments continued
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 50 4.79 55
Exercised during the period 4.79 (48) — —
Forfeited during the period 4.79 — 4.79 (5)
Outstanding at the end of the period 4.79 2 4.79 50
Exercisable at the end of the period  4.79 2 — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 0.25 years (2010: 1.25 years) with a weighted average 
remaining expected life of nil years (2010: 1 year).
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows:
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan 7 —
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan 7 —
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan  — (13)
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan 7 5
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007 1 14
 22 6
The Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 year plan cumulative charge has reversed in the prior period as none of the participants in the scheme 
exercised their right to purchase shares. 82
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
31 Share-based payments continued
Company
In 2011 the Company entered into a new 3-year and 5-year plan under the existing 2006 approved discretionary employee Share Save Scheme.
In 2008 the Company entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance 
criteria are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s 
adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ended 31 August 2010 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same 
period by an average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the 
three years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two 
threshold levels, referred to above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
In 2007 the Company entered into a deferred bonus scheme (Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006). As part of this deferred bonus scheme the eligible 
individuals invest a proportion of their bonus into shares. Matching shares may be awarded after a period of three years if certain performance 
criteria are met. Individuals in the scheme may receive a maximum of one matching share for every share that they bought subject to the Group’s 
adjusted earnings per share over the period of three years ended 31 August 2009 equalling or exceeding the growth in the RPI over the same 
period by an average of 4% per annum. The award multiple will be reduced to 0.5 should the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the 
three years equal the growth in RPI by an average of 2% per annum. Should the Group’s adjusted earnings per share fall between the two 
threshold levels, referred to above, the award multiple will be measured on a straight-line basis between 0.5 and 1.
 
In 2006 the Company entered into two schemes, an HM Revenue and Customs unapproved discretionary employee share option scheme and a 
share save scheme (comprising a 3-year and a 5-year plan).
The unapproved share options were granted to certain senior employees and Directors. Options are exercisable between three and ten years 
from the date of grant, subject to the movement of the Group’s adjusted earnings per share over the three years to 31 August 2008 exceeding 
that of the RPI by an average of 2% per annum.
All employees, subject to eligibility criteria, may participate in the share save scheme. Under this scheme employees are offered savings contracts  
for both 3 year and 5 year vesting period plans. The exercise period is 6 months from the vesting date.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of fair values are as follows:
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
     Approved and 
     Unapproved  
 Share Save Share Save Deferred Deferred Executive Share  Share Save Share Save
 Scheme 2011 Scheme 2011 Bonus Scheme Bonus Scheme Option Scheme 2006 Scheme 2006
 (3-Year Plan) (5-Year Plan) 2007 2006 Scheme 2006 (3-Year Plan) (5-Year Plan)
Grant date 10/5/11 10/5/11  6/12/07 7/2/07 20/2/06 1/6/06 1/6/06
Share price at grant date  £7.20  £7.20 £5.44 £6.43 £5.02 £4.64 £4.64
Exercise price   £5.72 £5.72 £0.25 £0.25 £5.02 £4.79 £4.79
Number of employees 9 4 — — — — —
Shares under option  10,724 4,313 — — — — —
Vesting period (years)  3 5 2.83 2.67 3 3 5
Model used for valuation  Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Binomial Black Scholes Black Scholes
Expected volatility  25.00% 24.00% 22.00% 21.00% 22.44% 20.18% 21.37%
Option life (years)  3.5 5.5 2.92 2.75 10 3.5 5.5
Expected life (years)  3.25 5.25 2.83 2.67 6.5 3.25 5.25
Risk-free rate 1.620% 2.450% 4.420% 5.451% 4.224% 4.683% 4.623%
Expected dividends expressed 
 as a dividend yield  3.90% 3.90% 3.30% 3.20% 3.36% 3.56% 3.56%
Expectations of vesting 95% 95% 100% 0% 100% 0% 100%
Expectations of meeting  
 performance criteria  N/A N/A 100% 0% 100% N/A N/A
Fair value per option £1.49 £1.56 £4.74 £5.69 £0.99 £0.60 £0.78
 
The expected volatility has been calculated using historical daily data over a term commensurate with the expected life of each option. The 
expected life is the midpoint of the exercise period. The risk-free rate of return is the implied yield of zero-coupon UK Government bonds with  
a remaining term equal to the expected term of the award being valued. Annual Report & Accounts 2011     83
31 Share-based payments continued
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Granted during the period 5.72 11 — — 
Outstanding at the end of the period  5.72 11 — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 3.25 years with a weighted average remaining expected life of 
3 years.
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (‘000) £ (’000)
Granted during the period  5.72 4 — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  5.72 4 — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
At the period end the weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 5.25 years with a weighted average remaining expected life of 
5 years.
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.25 7 0.25 7
Exercised during the period 0.25 (7) — —
Outstanding at the end of the period — — 0.25 7
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
 
As the performance criterion under this Scheme was met, matching shares were awarded in the period.
  84
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
31 Share-based payments continued
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period — — 0.25 15
Forfeited during the period — — 0.25 (15)
Outstanding at the end of the period — — — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
As the performance criterion under the scheme was not met, matching shares were not awarded.
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5.02 12 5.02 12
Exercised during the period 5.02 (12) — —
Outstanding at the end of the period — — 5.02 12
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — 5.02 12
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period — — 4.79 1
Forfeited during the period  — — 4.79 (1)
Outstanding at the end of the period  — — — —
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
No participant in this scheme exercised their right to purchase shares by the end of the exercise period.
  
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued Annual Report & Accounts 2011     85
31 Share-based payments continued
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan
The number and weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
 2011 2010
  Weighted  Weighted
  average  average 
  exercise Number of exercise Number of
  price options price options
  £ (’000) £ (’000)
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.79 1 4.79 1
Exercised during the period 4.79 (1) — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  — — 4.79 1
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share based payments are as follows: 
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan   1 —
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan   1 —
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 Year Plan    — (4)
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan    — 1
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007   1 11
     3 8
The Share Save Scheme 2006 - 3 year plan cumulative charge has reversed in the prior period as none of the participants in the scheme 
exercised their right to purchase shares.
Share based payments awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings and recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings in the 
Company are as follows:
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2006    92 122
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 3 Year Plan   6 —
Share Save Scheme 2011 - 5 Year Plan   7 —
Share Save Scheme 2006 - 5 Year Plan    1 31
Deferred Bonus Scheme 2007   — 8
Total carrying amount of investments   106 161 86
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
32 Acquisitions
Safe at Work Limited
On 28 April 2011 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Safe at Work Limited for cash 
consideration of £1,760,000.
The principal activity of Safe at Work Limited is that of importer and wholesale supplier of protective clothing, footware and tools.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
The primary reason for the business combination was the expansion of the Group’s product range sold through our existing branch network.
Forsyths of (Wooler) Limited
On 14 September 2010 Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Forsyths of (Wooler) Limited for 
cash consideration of £722,000.
The principal activity of Forsyths of (Wooler) Limited is that of an agricultural merchant.
This purchase has been accounted for as an acquisition.
The primary reason for the business combination was the geographical expansion of the existing Agriculture business into Northumberland. 
Synergies are expected following the rationalisation of the procurement and administration functions. 
Aggregate disclosures
The total goodwill arising from acquisitions in the period amounts to £937,000. Goodwill reflects the value of the employees, which under IFRS 
should not be recorded as a separately identifiable intangible asset on the balance sheet, and anticipated synergy benefits arising from the 
acquisitions. Synergy benefits include the rationalisation of the procurement and administration functions. 
The following aggregated amounts have been recognised within the consolidated income statement in respect of acquisitions:
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
  £’000
Revenue     4,320
Profit before taxation     421
There were no other recognised gains and losses other than the profit shown above.
Related costs of the above acquisitions amounted to £49,000, which have been recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated 
income statement.
The aggregate assets and liabilities acquired in the period are set out below:
  Fair value
  £’000
Intangible assets     68
Property, plant and equipment     128 
Inventories    563
Receivables     615 
Cash and cash equivalents    747
Bank overdraft    (98)
Payables    (276)
Taxation     
 - Current    (162)
 - Deferred    (40)
Net assets acquired    1,545
Goodwill    937 
Satisfied by cash     2,482
The aggregate gross contractual amounts receivable were £593,000. Annual Report & Accounts 2011     87
32 Acquisitions continued
Pro forma full year information
IFRS3 (revised) requires disclosure of information as to the impact on the financial statements if acquisitions had occurred at the beginning 
of the accounting period.
The unaudited pro forma summary below presents the Group as if all acquisitions in the period had been acquired on 29 August 2010.
The pro forma amounts include the results of the acquisitions and the interest expense on the increase in net debt as a result of the 
acquisitions. The pro forma amounts do not include any possible synergies from the acquisition. The pro forma information is provided for 
comparative purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the actual results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of 
future results of operations of the combined businesses.
Continuing operations  £’000
Revenue     374,754
Profit before taxation     10,251
33 Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Profit for the period from continuing operations 8,037 5,761 21,149 1,271
Adjustments for:
Tax   1,973 1,663 92 (409)
Dividends received from subsidiaries  — — (22,377) (2,984)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,923 3,319 — —
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 324 — — —
Amounts written off property, plant and equipment 28 — — —
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (10) (27) — —
Depreciation of investment property 20 19 — —
Intangible asset amortisation  480 197 — —
Intangible asset impairment 325 — — —
Profit on disposal of investment (2) — — —
Profit on disposal of trade (190) — — —
Loan forgiven in the period (note 38) (40) — — —
Net fair value loss on share based payments  20 2 3 8
Net foreign exchange differences  18 (22) 35 40
Finance costs:
 Interest income (410) (404) (516) (478)
 Interest expense and borrowing costs  1,424 1,273 674 604
Share of profit from associate and joint ventures  (1,776) (799) — —
IAS19 income statement credit in respect of employer 
 contributions (note 29) (4,801) (2,821) (4,801) (2,821)
IAS19 income statement charge (note 29) 742 1,187 742 1,187
Changes in working capital (excluding the effects of acquisitions 
  and disposal):
Increase in inventories (205) (2,160) — —
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (14,591) (540) 110 204
Increase in payables 18,808 4,597 1,257 76
Cash generated from/(used in) continuing operations 14,097 11,245 3,632 (3,302) 88
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
  At  Other  At
  29 August  non-cash Exchange 3 September
  2010 Cash flow changes movements 2011
Company  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   9,559 18,779 — (54) 28,284
Loans and other borrowings: 
- current  (4,958) 314 (14,047) 171 (18,520)
- non-current  (13,955) — 13,955 — —
  (9,354) 19,093 (92) 117 9,764
 
Other non-cash changes relate to the release of deferred borrowing costs to the consolidated income statement and transfers between categories of 
borrowings.
35 Capital Commitments
 2011 2010
Group £’000 £’000
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment that has been contracted 
 for but has not been provided for in the accounts    — 291
The Company has no capital commitments (2010: nil).
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
34 Analysis of net debt
  At  Other  At
  29 August  non-cash Exchange 3 September
  2010 Cash flow changes movements 2011
Group  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents   13,695 19,587 — — 33,282
Bank overdrafts  (427) (477) — 71 (833)
  13,268 19,110 — 71 32,449
Loans and other borrowings: 
 - current  (10,180) (683) (14,047) (21) (24,931)
 - non-current  (16,839) 1,743 13,995 (124) (1,225)
 
Finance leases: 
 - current  (871) 1,075 (876) — (672)
 - non-current  (893) — (156) — (1,049)
  (15,515) 21,245 (1,084) (74) 4,572
 Other non-cash changes relate to finance leases, including finance leases acquired and disposed with subsidiaries, and transfers between categories 
of borrowings. It also includes the release of deferred borrowing costs to the consolidated income statement.  Annual Report & Accounts 2011     89
36 Other Financial Commitments 
Group
At 3 September 2011 the Group had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  409 475
Within two and five years inclusive  753 828
After five years  1 6
 
 1,163 1,309
Company
 At 3 September 2011 the Company had commitments, other than land and buildings, under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2011 2010
 £’000 £’000
Within one year  — 1
Within two and five years inclusive  — 2
 — 3
37 Financial guarantees
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Clydesdale Bank PLC in respect of the Group 
loans and overdraft with that bank, which at 3 September 2011 amounted to £3,996,000 (2010: £390,000).
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has a s125,000 (2010: s375,000) letter of credit by Clydesdale Bank PLC in 
favour of Crystalyx Products GmbH, a joint venture arrangement.
 The Company, together with certain subsidiary undertakings, has entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank of Scotland PLC in respect of an 
overdraft with that bank, which at 3 September 2011 amounted to £641,000 (2010: £259,000).
The Company has entered into a guarantee with Royal Bank of Scotland PLC in respect of an overdraft and loan facility with that bank, which  
at 3 September 2011 amounted to £nil (2010: £2,093,000). The loan facility was repaid in the period. 
Certain subsidiary undertakings utilise guarantee facilities with financial institutions which include their own bankers. These financial institutions 
in the normal course of business enter into certain specific guarantees with some of the subsidiaries’ customers. All these guarantees allow the 
financial institutions to have recourse to the subsidiaries if a guarantee is enforced. The total outstanding of such guarantees at 3 September 
2011 was £6,563,000 (2010: £2,929,000).
The Company has provided specific guarantees to certain customers of a subsidiary. These are in place to guarantee the completion of the 
contract in any event. At 3 September 2011 the contracts under guarantee that have still to be completed have a total contract value of 
£1,814,000 (2010: £1,814,000).
 The Company has entered into a guarantee with the Trustees of the Carrs Billington Agriculture Pension Scheme in respect of the punctual 
payment of obligations due to the pension scheme by the participating employers of the scheme. The Company’s total liability shall not exceed  
£1,500,000 (2010: £1,500,000).
 The Group and Company does not expect any of the above guarantees to be called in. 90
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
  Company
    2011 2010
    £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings:
Loans     16,943 19,293
Other receivables   38 101
    16,981 19,394
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings:
Loans     (4,520) (4,005)
Other payables    (379) (36)
    (4,899) (4,041)
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Management charges receivable   2,669 1,641
Dividends received    22,377 2,984
Interest receivable    295 197
Interest payable    (68) (59)
38 Related parties 
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, associate and joint ventures and with its Directors. The balances and transactions 
shown below were all undertaken on an arm’s length basis in the normal course of business.
Transactions with key management personnel
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by key management personnel 
 (in a trading capacity):  
Trade receivables 137 126 — —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  772 546 — —
Purchases (8) (7) — —
Transactions with subsidiaries Annual Report & Accounts 2011     91
38 Related parties continued
Transactions with associate
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by associate:
Trade and other receivables  43 56 — —
Amounts owed to associate:
Trade and other payables (10,777) (7,401) (3) —
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
Revenue  461 402 — —
Rental income  18 18 — —
Management charges receivable 57 56 15 14
Management charges payable (64) (58) — —
Purchases (85,789) (73,805) — —
Transactions with joint ventures
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Balances reported in the Balance Sheet
Amounts owed by joint ventures:
Trade and other receivables 1,765 441 1,353 422
Amounts owed to joint ventures:
Trade and other payables (13) — (13) —
Included within Group trade and other receivables is £1,725,000 (2010: £420,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures.
Included within Company trade and other receivables is £1,350,000 (2010: £420,000) in respect of loans owed by joint ventures.
 Group Company
  2011 2010 2011 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Transactions reported in the Income Statement
 
Revenue 91 87 — —
Management charges receivable 58 107 — 50
Transactions with other related parties
Other loans of £1,225,000 (2010: £1,225,000) included within non-current borrowings is in respect of a loan from Edward Billington and Son 
Limited to Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited. This loan is interest free, unsecured, and has no set repayment date. Edward Billington and 
Son Limited has a 49% shareholding in Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited.
In the prior period other loans, within non-current borrowings, included loans from the minority shareholders in Quinphos (Ireland) Limited, which is 
a dormant subsidiary of the Group. These loans were denominated in Euros and were forgiven during the current period. The sterling equivalent of 
the loans forgiven in the period was £39,515 and at 3 September 2011 was £nil (2010: £37,044). 92
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Five Year Statement
Continuing operations  2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Revenue and Results  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue   252,753 372,307 350,023 298,110 373,318
Group operating profit   5,785 12,875 7,295 7,445 9,156
Analysed as:
Operating profit before non-recurring items  6,192 12,814 7,295 7,445 9,907
Non-recurring items  (407) 61 — — (751)
Group operating profit   5,785 12,875 7,295 7,445 9,156
Finance income  487 454 211 404 410
Finance costs  (1,484) (2,061) (1,522) (1,224) (1,332)
Share of post-tax profit in associate 
 and joint ventures  738 1,590 1,051 799 1,776
Profit before taxation   5,526 12,858 7,035 7,424 10,010
Taxation  (1,225) (4,605) (1,829) (1,663) (1,973)
Profit for the period from continuing operations 4,301 8,253 5,206 5,761 8,037
Profit for the period from discontinued operations — — — 1,074 16,598
Profit for the period  4,301 8,253 5,206 6,835 24,635
Ratios (continuing operations)
Operating margin (excluding non-recurring items) 2.4% 3.4% 2.1% 2.5% 2.7%
Return on net assets (excluding non-recurring items)  21.0% 46.4% 21.1% 18.9% 17.1%
Earnings per share - basic  50.7p 92.7p 50.4p 51.9p 77.0p 
 - adjusted  56.0p 108.6p 51.0p 53.5p 88.4p
Dividends per ordinary share  19.0p 23.0p 23.0p 24.0p 26.0p
Revenue and results for years ended 2007, 2008 and 2009 include the revenue and results from the fertiliser blending operations which were disposed 
of in the current period. Annual Report & Accounts 2011     93
  2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Net assets employed  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill    1,016 1,381 1,654 4,336 4,558
Other intangible assets    444 294 764 1,362 1,029
Property, plant and equipment    28,481 28,596 31,764 32,588 31,519
Investment property   756 737 718 699 764
Investments    3,642 4,530 4,626 5,018 6,832
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments   132 — — — —
- Non-current receivables    100 50 53 5 2
Deferred tax assets    3,228 5,318 5,015 3,924 2,519
   37,799 40,906 44,594 47,932 47,223
Current assets
Inventories    14,853 31,014 23,860 27,015 22,793
Trade and other receivables    35,481 50,754 43,059 48,810 56,988
Current tax assets    82 65 119 303 9
Financial assets
- Derivative financial instruments  — 927 16 — —
- Cash and cash equivalents   1,315 3,896 10,304 13,695 33,282
  51,731 86,656 77,358 89,823 113,072
Total assets    89,530 127,562 121,952 137,755 160,295
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings  (10,717) (15,004) (10,226) (11,478) (26,436)
- Derivative financial instruments  (10) (22) (43) (127) —
Trade and other payables  (28,478) (52,977) (35,928) (49,468) (53,469)
Current tax liabilities  (570) (2,054) (708) (1,129) (1,688)
  (39,775) (70,057) (46,905) (62,202) (81,593)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
- Borrowings  (5,971) (6,325) (19,403) (17,732) (2,274)
- Derivative financial instruments  — (14) — — —
Retirement benefit obligation   (9,807) (16,558) (14,673) (10,745) (5,960)
Deferred tax liabilities  (3,418) (4,775) (4,840) (4,960) (4,007)
Other non-current liabilities  (1,705) (2,237) (2,834) (2,797) (3,617)
  (20,901) (29,909) (41,750) (36,234) (15,858)
Total liabilities  (60,676) (99,966) (88,655) (98,436) (97,451)
Net assets   28,854 27,596 33,297 39,319 62,844 94
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Company Number: 98221
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and third annual general 
meeting of the Company will be held at the Crown Hotel, Wetheral, 
Carlisle on Tuesday 10 January, 2012 at 11.30 a.m. for the following 
purposes:
Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year 
ended 3 September 2011 together with the Directors’ Report and 
the Auditor’s Report on those accounts.
2. To declare a final dividend of 13.0p per share for the year ended 
3 September 2011.
3. To re-elect C N C Holmes who retires by rotation pursuant to the 
Articles of Association of the Company.
4. To re-elect A R Heygate who retires in accordance with best 
practice under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010. 
5. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Auditors of the 
Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix their 
remuneration.
6. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the financial 
year ended 3 September 2011.
Special Business
7. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which 
will be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
 “THAT, in substitution for all existing and unexercised authorities 
and powers, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby 
generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of section 
551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the”Act”) to exercise all or any 
of the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities to such 
persons at such times and generally on such terms and conditions 
as the Directors may determine (subject always to the Articles of 
Association of the Company) provided that:
a. the maximum nominal amount of such securities which may be 
allotted under this authority is £731,235 ; and
b. this authority shall, unless previously renewed, varied or 
revoked by the Company in general meeting, expire at the 
conclusion of the next annual general meeting or on the date 
which is 6 months after the next accounting reference date of 
the Company (if earlier) save that the Directors of the Company 
may, before the expiry of such period, make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require relevant securities to 
be allotted after the expiry of such period and the Directors of 
the Company may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such 
offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not 
expired.”
8. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which 
will be proposed as a special resolution:
 “THAT, subject to and conditional upon the passing of the 
resolution numbered 7 in the notice convening the meeting at 
which this resolution was proposed and in substitution for all 
existing and unexercised authorities and powers, the Directors 
of the Company be and are hereby empowered pursuant to 
section 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities pursuant to the 
authority conferred upon them by resolution 7 as if section 561 
of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this 
authority and power shall be limited to:
a. the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights 
issue or similar offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where 
the equity securities respectively attributable to the interest of 
all other shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as may 
be) to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them 
subject only to such exclusion or other arrangements as the 
Directors of the Company may consider appropriate to deal 
with fractional entitlements or legal and practical difficulties 
under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised 
regulatory body in any, territory; and
b. The allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) 
above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £221,586 representing approximately 10% of the current 
issued share capital of the Company, and shall expire on the 
date of the next annual general meeting of the Company or (if 
earlier) the date which is 6 months after the next accounting 
reference date of the Company, save that the Company may 
before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or 
might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry 
and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of 
such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had 
not expired.”
9. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which 
will be proposed as a special resolution:
 “THAT, the Company be and is hereby generally and 
unconditionally authorised to make market purchases (within the 
meaning of section 693 of the Act) of Ordinary Shares provided 
that:
a. the maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be 
purchased is 886,346 (representing 10% of the Company’s 
issued share capital);
b. the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary 
Share is 25p;
c. the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary 
Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the 
middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived 
from the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for 
the 5 business days immediately preceding the day on which 
the Ordinary Share in question is purchased;
d. unless previously revoked or varied, the authority hereby 
conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual 
general meeting of the Company to be held in 2013 or, if 
earlier, on the date which is 12 months after the date of the 
passing of this resolution; and
e. the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase 
Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior 
to the expiry of such authority which contract or contracts will 
or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such 
authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in 
pursuance of any such contract or contracts.”
10. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which 
will be proposed as a special resolution:
 “THAT, a general meeting other than an annual general meeting 
may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.”
By order of the board
Ronald Wood Old Croft
Company Secretary Stanwix
17 November 2011 Carlisle
 CA3 9BA Annual Report & Accounts 2011     95
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC 
Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle, 
Cumbria CA3 9BA 
Tel: 01228 554600   
Fax: 01228 554601 
Website: www.carrs-milling.com
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
East Highway 212,  
PO Box 188, Belle Fourche,  
South Dakota 57717 USA 
Tel: 00 1 605 892 3421  
Fax: 00 1 605 892 3473
Animal Feed Supplement, Inc 
PO Box 105,  
101 Roanoke Avenue, Poteau, 
Oklahoma 74953 USA 
Tel: 00 1 918 647 8133  
Fax: 00 1 918 647 7318
Caltech 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 32592   
Fax: 016973 32339
Scotmin Nutrition Ltd
13 Whitfield Drive,  
Heathfield Ind Est, Ayr KA8 9RX 
Tel: 01292 280909   
Fax: 01292 280919 
Gold-Bar Feed Supplements LLC*
783 Eagle Boulevard, Shelbyville,
TN 37160, USA
Tel: 00 1 877 618 6455
Fax: 00 1 877 618 6489 
Crystalyx Products GmbH* 
Am Stau 199-203, 26122, 
Oldenburg, Germany 
Tel: 00 49 441 2188 92142  
Fax: 00 49 441 2188 92177
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Annan
25 High Street, Annan, 
Dumfriesshire DG12 6AE 
Tel: 01461 202 772  
Fax: 01461 202 712 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Appleby
Crosscroft Industrial Estate, 
Appleby,
Cumbria CA16 6HX
Tel: 01768 352 999
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Barnard Castle
Montalbo Road, Barnard Castle, 
Co Durham DL12 8ED 
Tel: 01833 637 537  
Fax: 01833 638 010
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Berwick upon Tweed
Highgate Works, Tweedmouth,
Berwick upon Tweed, 
Northumberland
TD15 2AP 
Tel: 01289 307245   
Fax: 01289 305727
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Brock
Brockholes Way,  
Claughton Trading Estate, 
Lancaster Old Road, 
Claughton on Brock,  
Preston PR3 0PZ 
Tel: 01995 643 200  
Fax: 01995 643 220
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Carlisle
Montgomery Way, Rosehill Estate, 
Carlisle CA1 2UY 
Tel: 01228 520 212  
Fax: 01228 512 572
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Cockermouth
Unit 5, Lakeland Agricultural 
Centre, Cockermouth CA13 0QQ 
 
Tel: 01900 824 105  
Fax: 01900 826 860
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Gisburn
Pendle Mill, Mill Lane, Gisburn, 
Clitheroe, Lancashire BB7 4ES 
Tel: 01200 445 491
Fax: 01200 445 305
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Hawes
Burtersett Road, Hawes,  
North Yorkshire DL8 3NP 
Tel: 01969 667 334  
Fax: 01969 667 335 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Hexham
Tyne Mills Industrial Estate, 
Hexham,  
Northumberland NE46 1XL 
Tel: 01434 605 371  
Fax: 01434 608 938 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Jedburgh
Mounthooly, Crailing,
Jedburgh, TD8 6TJ 
Tel: 01835 850250   
Fax: 01835 850748
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Leek
Macclesfield Road, Leek, 
Staffordshire ST13 8NR 
Tel: 01538 383 277
Fax: 01538 385 731
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Milnathort
Stirling Road, Milnathort,  
Kinross KY13 9UZ   
Tel: 01577 862 381  
Fax: 01577 863 057
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Morpeth
20c Coopies Lane Industrial Estate, 
Morpeth, Northumberland NE61 
6JN 
Tel: 01670 503 930  
Fax: 01670 504 404 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Penrith
Haweswater Road, 
Penrith Industrial Estate, Penrith
Cumbria CA11 9EH
Tel: 01768 862 160
Fax: 01768 899 345 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Perth
Highland House,  
St Catherine’s Road,  
Perth PH1 5YA 
Tel & Fax: 01738 643 022
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Selkirk
The Old Pump House,  
Dunsdale Road, Selkirk,
Selkirkshire TD7 5EB 
Tel: 01750 720 734  
Fax: 01750 722 725
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Spennymoor
Southend Works, Byers Green, 
Spennymoor, Co. Durham,
DL16 7NL
Tel: 01388 662266
Fax: 01388 603743
Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Sales), Stirling
Stirling Agricultural Centre, 
Stirling FK9 4RN
Tel: 01786 474826
Fax: 01786 472933
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales), 
Wooler
Bridge End, South Road, Wooler,
Northumberland, NE71 6QE 
Tel: 01668 281567   
Fax: 01668 283453
Safe at Work Limited
Unit 21, Petteril Side,
Harraby Green Business Park,
Carlisle CA1 2SQ
Tel: 01228 591091
Fax: 01228 590026
Wallace Oils, Carlisle
Stephenson Industrial Estate, 
Willowholme, Carlisle, 
Cumbria CA2 5RN 
Tel: 01228 534 342 
Fax: 01228 590 820
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, Dumfries 
Heathhall, Dumfries, 
Dumfriesshire DG1 3NX 
Tel: 01387 250 525 
Fax: 01387 250 656
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Dargavel Stores,
Lockerbie Road, Dumfries,
Dumfriesshire DG1 3PG
Tel & fax: 01387 750 747
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Abercromby Industrial Park,
Castle Douglas, Dumfriesshire
DG7 1BA
Johnstone Wallace Fuels,
Holmpark Industrial Estate,
Newton Stewart, Dumfriesshire
DG8 6AW
Tel: 01671 404 150
Johnstone Wallace Fuels, Stranraer 
Droughduil, Dunragit, 
Stranraer DG9 8QA 
Tel & fax: 01581 400 356
Afgritech* 
Old Croft 
Stanwix, Carlisle  
Tel: 01228 554 600  
Fax: 01228 554 601
Afgritech LLC*
200 Willow Street, Watertown,
New York 13601, USA
Tel: 00 1 315 785 3625
Fax: 00 1 315 785 3627
Afgritech Properties LLC*
200 Willow Street, Watertown,
New York 13601, USA
Tel: 00 1 315 785 3625
Fax: 00 1 315 785 3627
Bibby Agriculture* 
Drive House, St. David’s Park,  
Job’s Well Road, Carmarthen,
SA31 3HB 
Tel: 01267 232 041  
Fax: 01267 232 374 
Bibby Agriculture* 
1A Network House 
Badgers Way 
Oxon Business Park 
Shrewsbury, Shropshire 
SY3 5AB 
Tel: 01743 237 890  
Fax: 01743 351 552 
Bendalls   
Brunthill Road, 
Kingstown Industrial Estate, 
Carlisle CA3 0EH 
Tel: 01228 526 246  
Fax: 01228 525 634 
R Hind    
Kingstown Broadway,  
Kingstown Industrial Estate, 
Carlisle CA3 0HA 
Tel: 01228 523 647  
Fax: 01228 512 712 
Carrs MSM   
Unit 1 Spitfire Way, 
Hunts Rise, 
South Marston Park, 
Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 4TX 
Tel: 01793 824 891 
Fax: 01793 824 894
Wälischmiller Engineering GmbH
Schießstattweg 16
88677 Markdorf
Germany
Tel: 0049 7544 95140
Fax: 0049 7544 951499
Carrs Flour 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 31661   
Fax: 016973 32543 
Greens Flour 
Station Road, Maldon,  
Essex CM9 4LQ 
Tel: 01621 852 696  
Fax: 01621 854 525
Hutchisons Flour 
East Bridge, Kirkcaldy,  
Fife KY1 2SR 
Tel: 01592 267 191  
Fax: 01592 641 805
John Stronach 
Solway Mills, Silloth, Wigton, 
Cumbria CA7 4AJ 
Tel: 016973 31456   
Fax: 016973 32808 
Silloth Storage Company*
Station Road, Silloth,
Wigton, Cumbria
CA7 4JQ
* joint venture company
Directory of Operations 96
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Notes Carr’s Milling Industries PLC (“Carr’s”) is focussed
on the principal activities of agriculture, food and
engineering.
The Group’s agriculture business comprises retailing of farm 
machinery/supplies and animal feed manufacture in the UK, US 
and Germany.
Carr’s principal food businesses are all flour millers based in 
three UK locations. 
Engineering comprises Bendalls, R Hind, Carrs MSM and 
Wälischmiller based in Southern Germany which was acquired 
in 2009.
01 Financial and Commercial Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Financial Review
15 Board of Directors
15 Registered Office and Advisers
16 Risk Management
18 Corporate Responsibility
20 Report of the Directors
24 Corporate Governance
27 Directors’ Remuneration Report
31 Independent Auditors’ Report
32 Consolidated Income Statement
33 Consolidated and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income
34 Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
35 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
36 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
37 Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows
38 Principal Accounting Policies
43 Notes to the Financial Statements
92 Five Year Statement
94 Notice of Annual General Meeting
95 Directory of Operations
Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.  www.corporateprm.co.uk Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Old Croft, Stanwix 
Carlisle CA3 9BA
www.carrs-milling.com
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Extending our reach
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
